The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and turn to the book of Acts? The book of Acts. We're actually going to be in Acts chapter 5. Uh as you know, next week we'll be celebrating twelve years as a congregation, twelve years as a church, and I look forward to celebrating that anniversary with you, but next week I won't be preaching. We'll have a missionary uh with us from Italy, uh Jordan Stanridge will be uh with us next week and I've asked him to fill the pulpit uh for us But in light of our anniversary celebration next week in our congregational meeting this week, I thought it would be appropriate to share some time with you thinking about the church, considering the church And in our text for today, we'll see both an example that's worthy of being imitated as well as an example that's worthy of being repudiated. We'll find both examples to follow and examples to forsake. And they're both found in the same text of Scripture And we're talking about the same church. And uh this passage stands as a reminder to us in Acts chapter 5, and actually a couple verses before in chapter 4. uh stands as a reminder uh to us that the Bible is committed to portraying reality without the touch-ups. And some of you know what I'm talking about. Professional photographers and even amateur photographers with the help of a smartphone can find all kinds of ways to manipulate photos We can remove the blemishes, smooth out the skin, whiten the teeth, eliminate any unwanted objects. We can even eliminate unwanted people from our photos Just take them right out of there. We can add people in that weren't there. And the goal of touching up a picture is to enhance the overall appearance, create a more polished and visually appealing image. But the Bible doesn't touch up its portraits of the church. In one of his sermons, John MacArthur mentioned doing some historical reading. about Oliver Cromwell, uh who's regarded as one of the most important figures in British history. And Cromwell was disfigured in his face by many warts, and he had hired a professional painter to paint his portrait. And the the painter who was hired painted his face and he was hoping to please Cromwell with the photo, the picture that he he painted. And when Cromwell saw the painting, it's recorded that the painter removed all of his warts before he gave him the photo. Or gave him the painting. And when Cromwell received this portrait of himself, he says, take it back and paint me warts and all. Paint me warts and all. I looked it up and the head of research at the Philip and Mould Art Gallery remarked that is that it is the best painted wart in all English history. If not the only painted wart in English art. And when you see the wart close up in high definition, the top of it is white and flaky, and he says it's absolutely repulsive. But that's what the reality was. And Cromwell said, Don't don't paint somebody that's not me. Paint me warts and all. I I want to see all of the warts. I want to see all of the the the the the disfigurement of my face. I want to see all the irregularities. And the Bible, when it paints history and when it paints its heroes, it paints them warts and all. And it's a testimony to the faithfulness and the trustworthiness of the scriptures. The Bible is committed to the truth, even if that truth is totally repulsive. And it leaves us instructions for us to follow. Examples that we can follow or examples that we can forsake In first Corinthians chapter ten, verses eleven to twelve it says, Now these things happened to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction upon whom the ends of the ages have come. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed that he does not fall. Why does the Bible paint its history and works and all? It's so that you can look back and say, I don't want to be like that. Somebody's been down that road already. I don't want to go there. It's like the warning, you know, don't come this way. There's danger ahead. We want those warnings in Scripture, and that's what we find in Acts chapter 4. We find both an example to follow and an example to forsake. So let's take a look at Acts. Chapter 4 and 5. We'll start at the end of chapter 4 just for the sake of context, but we're we're going to focus on this passage here that really records the part of church history that we should all be aware of. Acts chapter 4, I'll start at verse 32. It says, in the congregation of those who believed, were of one heart and soul, and not one of them claimed that anything belonging to him was his own, but all things were common property to them. And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all. For there was not a needy person among them, for all who were owners of land or houses would sell them and bring the proceeds of the sales. And laid them at the apostles' feet, and they would be distributed to each as any had need. Now Joseph, a Levite of siffering birth, who was also called Barnabas by the Apostles, which translated means son of encouragement And one who owned a tract of land sold it and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira sold the piece of property and keeping and kept back some of the price for himself, and with his wife's full knowledge and bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles' feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart? To lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back some of the price of the land. While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last. And great fear came over all who heard of it. The young men got up and covered him up, and after carrying him out they buried him. Now there elapsed an interval of about three hours, and his wife came in, not knowing what had happened. And Peter responded to her, tell me whether you sold the land for such and such a price. And she said, Yes, that was the price. And Peter said to her, Why is it that you've agreed together to put the Spirit of the Lord to the test? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out as well. And immediately she fell at his feet and breathed her last. And the young men came in and found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband. And great fear came over the whole church and over all who heard these things. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this text and we thank you for the examples that we find in Scripture, both to follow and to avoid. Now, Father, we we're grateful that you give us warnings. That you don't leave us without instruction, and that even these negative portraits of the church, Lord, that they're here for a good purpose Well, so Father, I pray that you would teach us, God, as we look to your word. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The Puritan author Ralph Venning in his book The Sinfulness of Sin says, as in God there is no evil, so in sin there is no good. God is the chiefest of goods, and sin is the chiefest of evils. And no good can be compared with God for goodness. So no evil can be compared with sin for evil. All God's works are good, exceedingly beautiful, even to admiration. But the works of sin are deformed and monstrously ugly, for it works disorder, confusion, and everything that is abominable And then he says this, it is the master of misrule, the author of sedition, the builder of Babel, the troubler of Israel and all mankind, so contrary is sin to the works of God. That it sought and still seeks to undo all that God does. Sin seeks to undo all that God does. Every good and perfect gift comes down from the Father of lights, but sin seeks to corrupt and pollute every good gift of God. There's nothing so sacred that sin will not smear its ugly pollution upon it. And we see that corrupting influence throughout history, don't we? In the garden. We find in Genesis 1 31 that God saw all that he had made, and behold it was very good. But by the time we get to Genesis 6 and verse 5, The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually In just six chapters of the very first book of the Bible, we've gone from creation to chaos, from paradise to pollution, and from delight to death. All because of the pollution of sin. In Genesis 9, just after God washed the earth clean and makes a covenant with Noah, starts all over again, a reset button, hits the reset button on the planet. In Genesis 9. 11, God says, I establish my covenant with you, Noah, and all the flesh will never again be cut off by the water of the flood. Neither shall again be a flood to destroy the whole earth. And Noah is barely off of the boat before he finds that the curse of sin had come along the ride with him. Noah takes the fruit of the vine, which was a blessing from God, and gets drunk off of it, uncovers himself, and sin had already polluted the new world. The nation of Israel. In the book of Leviticus, just after the nation of Israel was formed, the priesthood was established This would have been an exciting time for Israel. God is establishing them as a nation. He's promised them that I will be your God and you will be my people. I will dwell among you. And Aaron and his sons, Nadab and Abaihu, were part of the celebration. Nadab and Abihu, first day on the job. This is their ordination day. I mean, this should have been a time of celebration, great celebration, but sin was right there to spoil it Leviticus chapter ten, verse one. Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective fire pans, and after putting fire in them placed incense on it, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Just one more example. After the death of Moses, Joshua is given the privilege of crossing the Jordan into the promised land. This is it, right? This is what we're waiting for. We're finally entering into the promised land. God speaks to Joshua and he says, No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I've been with Moses, I will be with you. I will not fail you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous. For ye shall give this people possession of the land which I swore to their fathers to give to them. This should have been a time of celebration for Israel. We're finally here, we're freed from Egypt. We've crossed through the wilderness. We're entering into the promised land. All of the hopes and dreams of Israel are about to be realized. But when Israel faced off with a small city named Ai , Joshua chapter seven verse five. The men of Ai struck them down, about thirty-six of their men, pursued them from the gate as far as Sherabim, struck them down on the descent, so that the hearts of the people melted and became as water. What happened? What happened? All the hopes, all the dreams, all the expectations. Joshua chapter 7, verse 11, God tells Joshua, there's sin in the camp. Israel has sinned. And again, sin is right there to destroy what God is establishing. So when we arrive in the book of Acts, We shouldn't be surprised that sin is working its dastardly deeds, disorder, confusion, everything that is abominable right from the very beginning of the church. And the picture of Acts chapter 4 is this beautiful picture of the church. There's no other time of church history that could be described like this. Because the entire church, think about this one, the entire church is united. Where have you ever seen that in the world that we live in? The entire world of Christendom is all united. They're all one. United in purpose. United in possessions. United in power. United in participation in the grace of God. Look at Acts chapter 4, verse 32. It says, and the congregation of those who believed were of one heart and soul. That speaks of their unity of purpose. The heart and soul are terms that Scripture uses to speak about the immaterial part of us, the invisible part of us. And the heart was seen as the control center of life, the center of thinking, emotion, will. Soul was a word that was used in a similar way for the inner life, the thoughts, the intentions of the heart. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 19 and 20, Paul speaks about Timothy as being of kindred spirit with me He's of one spirit with me. This actually uses an interesting word. You've heard of the Nysosceles triangle, where you have equal sides. He says he's of equal sides with me. And instead of isosceles like an isosceles triangle, he says he's isosuke He's got an equal soul as me. Just like a triangle has equal sides, he's got an equal soul to me. We're of one mind. We're kindred spirits And then he speaks to the Philippian church and he says, I am praying for you. This is my desire for you, that you would stand firm in one spirit with one mind, striving together. But Paul's prayer for the church in Philippi was already realized at the beginning of the church in Acts. They were already of one mind, striving together. They had all things in common. They had a united purpose. They're also united in their possessions. Look at 32 again, verse 32. It says, and not one of them claimed that anything belonging to him was his own, but all things were common property to them. And that doesn't mean that the early church was a communist society. They still believed in the idea of private ownership. The church did not control everybody's resources Later on, Peter will say to Ananias, you know, while it remained unsold the land that you had, while it remained unsold, did it not remain in your control? It belonged to you. After it was sold, was it not under your control? So again, it's not that the church just owned all the property, but the early church was committed to taking care of one another with what they had So Luke could write, not one of them claimed that anything belonging to him was his own, but all things were common property to them. This is particularly important in the early church. Because the church was born during Pentecost, which was one of the three pilgrim festivals. So people were traveling all across the known world, coming to Jerusalem. But this time when they came to Jerusalem, they became swept up in this movement, the the birth of the church. So instead of going back home right away and they might have only packed for you know however long they were planning to be there but now it's like hey I'm staying for longer because I can't miss this thing. I I'm part of this the church. I mean I'm seeing things that I've never seen before So, this time of Pentecost, these believers, people from all over the known world, come to Jerusalem, and now we've got a problem on our hands. How are we going to care for everybody? So what does the church do? The church says, hey, it's no problem. We'll make sure that everybody is taken care of. Anything that I have, hey, it's yours too. However, I can help you, I'm I'm here to help. We we want you to stay so you can be discipled in the Lord. Don't let money be an object to you We want you to be here. And those who had means shared with those who did not. United in purpose, united in possession. They're also united in power. Look at verse 33 It says, and with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all. With great power, they were giving testimony to the Lord Jesus. In the early church, the apostles were confirming the testimony of the resurrection with miraculous signs, great power. This is exactly what's described a little bit earlier on in chapter 2. Look back at chapter 2 at verse 43. Chapter 2, verse 43. Listen what it says here. It says everyone kept feeling a sense of awe, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles, and all those who had believed were together and had all things in common. And they began selling their property and possessions, and they were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. This describes the same work. But listen to what it says in verse 43. They kept feeling a sense of awe. signs, wonders taking place through the apostles, miraculous works to confirm the message that they spoke. And this was God's provision in the early church. The message that the apostles preached was authenticated, verified by the miraculous signs that they were able to perform. And actually, and this might be helpful for you, if you do a survey over all of biblical history, just think about all the stories, all the history that you know in the Bible. Do you know that the miracles were concentrated at specific periods of time? Specific periods of time. Why? Because there was a specific purpose. Like during the time when Moses, the lawgiver, he's giving revelation from God. But how do we know that Moses really speaks for God? Okay, uh give me a stick here, and I'll turn it into a snake. Yeah, pour that water out, it's going to turn into blood. I'm going to cause all kinds of plagues to come out because of my word. Bread is going to come down from heaven Okay? There is no way the people who are standing there don't know that Moses is the one who's speaking for God. And those people that wanted to doubt that he was speaking for God They would have wanted to do something different, right? God has shown them that no, Moses is the guy that I'm talking through. You don't want to listen to Moses. Okay, leprosy for you Oh, you you you want to come against my servant Moses? Let the ground open up and swallow you. No, no, Moses is the guy that I'm talking to. So so God does these miracles to say, no, listen to him. Listen to him. The prophets, during the time of the prophets, there were miraculous works to confirm their signs, to confirm their words. verifiable miracle. So Elijah up on the top of Mount Carmel. Well it's not going to rain and now it is. I I mean that's the kind of work uh okay let's let's see who's really you know who whose God really hears them. You know it's like you know just pour pour water, keep pouring water over the the sacrifice. Build build the trench, dump more water into that Whoever's God answers by fire, that's the real God. So God is confirming, no, this is my prophet. This is the one to listen to. And the same thing happened with Christ and the apostles. All these miracles, concentration of miracles, because they were giving new revelation. This is not just for everybody that I'm just going to sling mountains around. It's like, hey, mountain pickup and cast into the sea just because I don't feel like taking a drive around it. Oh, you don't just have that power to fling out anyway that you want. These things had purpose behind it, and the miraculous signs verified the testimony, the word of Christ and the apostles. So the apostles had these miraculous signs. Jesus said in John 14, 11, Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me. Otherwise, believe because of the very works themselves. The works give testimony to who I am. And the apostles, it was the same way. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 3 and 4. How will I escape if we neglect so great a salvation? After it was first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard. Who are those who heard? It's the apostles. Those who were with Christ, those who heard him. And now it's confirmed to us by them. God also testifying with them. Not with all of us, but with them, by signs and wonders, by various miracles, gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will. So when you have this inauguration of the church. It was accompanied by miraculous signs, and there was this united testimony of the apostles, the verification of their signs. And finally, they were united in their participation of grace. Look at verse 33 again. Back in Acts chapter 4. It says, And with great power the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and abundant grace was upon them all. God's grace was upon them. It was evident that God was at work in their lives. Abundant grace was upon them all. And how did this grace demonstrate itself? How did it demonstrate itself? That's where verse 34 comes in. For There was not a needy person among them. That's how the grace was demonstrated. Everybody's needs were being met by everybody else There's not a needy person among them. For all who were owners of land or houses would sell them and bring the proceeds of the sales and lay them at the apostles' feet, and they would be distributed to each as any had need. For this reason We can see the grace of God that was evident among them. And again, this doesn't mean that people didn't own property, but rather as needs were being made known, the church was answering those needs. Property, possessions being sold, so that they could care for one another. Uh actually in Acts 2. 45 it uses the imperfect tense, which means that it didn't all happen at once. It was as the needs came up, they were answering those needs, selling property as they had need. So this wasn't mandated, it was voluntary, it was sacrificial, and it put the grace of God on display. That we see in the church that no, God was at work in their lives because of how they responded to one another in love. That's what we see. And it's a beautiful picture, isn't it? Just a couple principles that we can learn about giving from this passage. Number one, the giving of the church began with the singleness of heart and soul. Singleness of heart and soul. That's where it started. The unity of heart and soul is what promoted this desire to meet the needs. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 4, Paul speaks about the church that's begging us with much urging for the favor of participation and the support of the saints. The church was begging them, please, we want to be a part of this. And he says, not as we had expected, but first they gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God This is uh the giving of themselves first. This is that unity of heart and soul, a single-minded purpose. So Paul here commends the the church for this unity of of heart and and soul Now these are the uh the the churches of of Macedonia. These churches that that might not have had a a lot on their own, but but no, God was doing a great work in their lives. Churches of Macedonia, poor church, but big hearts So this is the work of the Lord, the unity of heart and soul. This is where it starts. First principle. Second principle, they did not view their possessions as belonging to them. What belonged to them first came from the Lord, and were willing to share that with others. 1 Corinthians 4, verse 7 says, What do you have that you did not receive? I'll wait for you. What do you have that you didn't receive? Everything! You've received everything. You came into the world naked And naked you will return. Right? This is what Job says. Naked I came from my mother's womb, naked I shall return there. Everything I've received. What do you have that you didn't receive? There's nothing that I have that I didn't receive that didn't come from outside of me. I I didn't show up in my mother's womb with a a packet full of gold or something. No, I came in naked. And when I leave I'm not gonna, you know, leave from this earth with you know my packets full. You know you see those crazy You know, kinds of religions that, you know, like the the pharaohs and the tombs and they dump all kinds of gold and stuff in there for him, like he's going to take it with him. No, it's all gonna be right there so somebody can steal it, right? You're not taking any of that with you. That is not going to help you in the afterlife. You come in naked, you're going to leave naked. All that we have in this life comes from the Lord. Number three, they believed in the message that the apostles taught They got behind the message that was being proclaimed. It was clear to them the apostles speak from God, and the message they have is not their own, and the church rallied around that message. In Acts chapter 4, verse 33, it says, Great power, with great power of the apostles were giving testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. They believed in that message and were willing to contribute to that. Number four, they personally experienced the grace of God. The grace of God was abundant with them. God was doing a work in their hearts, and because God was doing that work, they overflowed with liberality. The Macedonian church even begged for an opportunity to get involved. I want to get involved in what the Lord is doing. I want to get involved in giving and sharing in this goodness of God. Number five, the needs of the church were the priority. Needs of the church were the priority. In verse 34, it says, there was not a needy person where Among them. Among them. Meaning that the church was the priority. It's not just that there were not needy people in Jerusalem, but no, it's among us. We're going to make sure that we're taking care of those who belong to the family of God. Galatians chapter 6 and verse 10 says, So then, while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people. So do good to all people, but especially to those who are of the household of faith. That's the priority. I make sure that I'm taking care of those who are of the household of faith. Number six, they gave sacrificially. They they didn't just give out of the extra that they had laying around their house, you know, between their cushions at home and get the packet changed. They were willing to sell something even if that meant I'm going to do without in order to give. They were willing to sell something they owned in order to participate in the giving. Number 7, the apostles were trusted to distribute to the needs of the church. In verse 35, it says, they laid them at the apostles' feet, and they would be distributed to each as any had need. And we know that the apostles did not do this work by themselves. You know, Acts chapter six lets us know that they couldn't do it all. They they they had deacons that would help out with that dis distribution, but the apostles still oversaw the work. You know, on the first day of the church there's already three thousand members in the church. You know, the apostles aren't going to take care of all of that by themselves. And many more were added to the church. Thousands were added to the church. So yes the apostles need help, but the apostles are trusted to oversee that work. And they made sure that those proceeds were distributed as people had needs. And we don't know the names of all the members who gave out of the proceeds of their land, but we do have the example of one, and it's in verse 36, now Joseph, a Levite of Cyprian birth who was also called Barnabas by the Apostles, which translated means son of encouragement, and who owned a tract of land, sold it, and bought brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. His birth name was Joseph, but we just know him by his nickname. Barnabas. Barnabas, son of encouragement. He was such an encouragement to the church that that's just how he was known. And at this time, he's not a leader of the church. He's not an elder of the church. He's not considered an apostle of the church. It's just Barnabas. Hey, here he comes again. He's here to encourage people. He's here to share what he has with with others. I mean, he was just such an encouragement to the church that he was known. It changed his name that people would call him by that. Son of encouragement. Here comes the son of encouragement He was a Levite of Cyprian birth. And we get to know Barnabas a little bit more in detail later on, but he was originally from Cyprus. He was of Cyprian birth. And he was also a Levite, which may not seem like a big deal, but if you remember the tribe of Levi was the one tribe that traditionally did not own land. You remember that? Numbers 18 verse 20 speaks about Aaron, you shall have no inheritance in the land, nor any own any portion. Deuteronomy 10, verse 9, therefore Levi does not have a portion or inheritance with his brothers. The Lord is his inheritance. But by the time of the New Testament, the Levites clearly owned property. And we don't know if it was gifted to them, if they acquired it in another way. But by the first century, Levites were known to be outstanding in wealth and education. But in any case, Barnabas is not condemned for having land. Instead, he's commended because he submitted himself to the Lord. And I'll take what I have to be a blessing to others. And that's how he would be an encouragement. And if this is the final portrait that we had of the Christian church, it would have been without the words. Right? Just a beautiful picture, left with this beautiful portrait of the church. But scripture does not stop there. Scripture goes all the way to say, well, let me show you the other side. Let's let's cross the tracks now. And see what's on the other side. And we're introduced to the warts in the next chapter. Chapter five, look at verse one But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira sold the piece of property and kept back some of the price for himself with his wife's full knowledge, and bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles' feet Number one, this is a deceitful conception. He's conceiving this deed in his heart. It's important that we understand what the sin of Ananias and Sapphira was. There was no sin in selling their property. There was no sin in giving a portion of what they had to the church. There wouldn't even be a sin if they You know, said, hey, I'm going to give this to the church, but I've miscalculated and I've discovered that you know I'm going to have a need, and I'm actually going to be the one that's got my hand out next week. So I I'm not able to give what I thought I was able to give. That's there's nothing wrong with that The sin is the hypocrisy. The sin is the deceitfulness. The sin is trying to say that I'm doing something that I know I'm not. And look at look at this, listen to this. The specific word for keeping back some of the price for himself in verse 2, kept back some of the price for himself. That word for kept back is actually the word for pilfered. That's the fancy word for stealing. Misappropriating. This is actually a word that's found in Titus chapter 2 and verse 10, where it speaks about bond slaves Who fell into the temptation of stealing from their masters. And that's the word that's used for Ananias and Sapphira. They were taking what did not belong to them. Interestingly, it's also the same word that's found in Joshua chapter 7 to speak about the sin of Achan, who took what was dedicated to the Lord for Jericho, and he took it for himself. Uses the same word that he stole, that he misappropriated, that he pilfered. Joshua chapter 7, verse 1 says, But the sons of Israel acted unfaithfully in regard to the things under the ban. For Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, from the tribe of Judah, took some of the things under the ban, and therefore the anger of the Lord burned against the sons of Israel. He took it. He stole, he misappropriated, he pocketed it, and walked away with something that was dedicated to the Lord. The whole city of Jericho was dedicated to the Lord, and he took what was dedicated and said, No, I'm going to take that for myself So here Ananias and Sapphira are communicating before everybody that no, we've dedicated all this to the Lord. We're coming in and we've sold this land and I'm just dedicating all the proceeds. I mean we're just doing what Barnabas was doing. We we want to be the sons of encouragement, at least the cousin of encouragement or somebody. But here we go. We're coming before the church and oh, you know, I surrender all. All to Peter, I surrender. Here you go, Peter. This is everything that we have. But they knew in their hearts that they had not. That's the sin. The sin isn't just giving part of it. The sin is saying that I've given all of it. When I know that I haven't. So here we have Ananias and Sapphira stealing from what they publicly communicated was dedicated all to the Lord Misappropriating the funds, and Sapphira, his wife, is in full knowledge of what he's done and an accomplice to the crime. Men, I'll just throw this word in here, be careful how you lead your wives. Here you have Ananias leading his wife into sin. Cover for me, honey. Behind the back door, they're talking about what they're going to do. Can you cover for me? Tell the pastor I'm not home or something. I don't know But here we go, we have with Sapphira's full knowledge, accomplice to the crime. Just like Barnabas, they bring it to the apostles, but they have a different intention behind what they give. And the hope is that he and his wife might be recognized for their generosity. But there's clearly a contrast between them and Barnabas, and immediately he's recognized for his treachery. Listen to Peter's stinging rebuke in verse 3. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? Peter recognized this was the work of Satan. Satan shows up the church. And Satan might have shown up to church this morning. You might have driven in your car with you. What does it mean that Satan filled Ananias ' heart? Does this mean that Ananias was possessed by Satan? We know that Satan entered into Judas's heart, right? Luke chapter 22, verse 3. Satan entered into Judas, who was called Iscariot, belonging to the number of the twelve. Satan right there in the midst of the twelve. Haven't I chosen you the twelve, and yet one of you is a what? A devil? Was Ananias possessed by Satan? Not necessarily. Filling, that's used here, the word filling. Why has Satan filled your heart? That word fulfilling is often used for the idea of influence. Or being characterized by. It was often used in the book of Acts to speak of filling with various emotions. Like people who are filled with wonder. Acts chapter 3 verse 10. People who are filled with jealousy. Acts chapter 5, verse 17. People who are filled with joy. Acts chapter 13 and verse 52. So people are characterized by joy or fear or excitement. And here Ananias and Sophia were characterized by Satan. Satan had filled their hearts, influenced them, not necessarily possessing them. We know, for example, that Peter, he spoke in Matthew chapter 16, and you know he's telling Jesus, you know, you don't have to go to the cross. Don't bother with going to the cross. This shall never happen to you, Lord. You're never going to go to the cross. And what does Jesus turn around to Peter and say? Get behind me, Satan. Does it mean that Peter was possessed by the devil? No, it's just that Peter was influenced by the worldly thinking. No, no, Jesus, you need to protect yourself. You don't need to go to the cross. You need to promote yourself. You don't need to be you know bowing low like that. I mean, please, not the cross, anything but that. This is the time to reign, not the time to suffer And Jesus turns around and says, get behind me, Satan. You're being influenced. You don't know of what influence you're under right now. You're under the influence of Satan. And Jesus prays that Peter's faith would not fail. John 17, verse 15, Jesus prays for his own that they would be kept from the evil one. In Matthew chapter 12, verse 45, Jesus lets us know that evil spirits occupy empty spaces. If you're filled with the Holy Spirit, you're not empty. The evil spirits aren't coming back to an unoccupied space. According to Colossians chapter 1, verse 13, believers have been rescued from what? From the domain of darkness. You're no longer part of that kingdom anymore. You're no longer under the domain of darkness. You've been transferred to the kingdom of his beloved son. You can't be possessed by Satan. You're out of the kingdom of darkness. And in 1 John 5 and verse 18, it says, the evil one does not touch him. Talking about the believer. The believer can't be possessed by Satan, but he can be influenced. And Satan can plant worldly ideas into your head. Just by the conversations that people have, things that you desire, lust of the flesh, lust of the eye, pride of life. Satan can influence you, and I believe that's what happened to Ananias. I think that Ananias was a believer. And he's looking at Barnabas getting all this recognition in the church. I mean, hey, everybody, I mean, they gave him a nickname. Nobody ever gave me any nicknames. Call him the son of encouragement. Where's my name? You know, where's my trophy? Where's my plaque? Where's my recognition? So here he is being filled by Satan, influenced by Satan, and he conceives this deed in his heart. You know what, Sapphira, I think we can get some of that And he comes up with the plan. We're going to sell the land, but I don't want to I don't want to give all of it away. We're going to hold back a portion of it and we're just going to present ourselves. As if we've given all of it. And his wife buys it. His wife is on board. So Peter says, Why? Why? What does that mean? There was no need for this If you're going to give 80%, just say I gave 80%. Don't say you gave all of it. It's not the sin and what you gave, it's the sin and what you portrayed. That's where the sin is. Why is it that Satan has filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? Those deceitful thoughts. Why? Now sometimes you talk to people and it's just why? Why? It didn't have to be like this. You didn't have to go down this road. Why? There was a detour. There's a way off of the highway that you're on. Why? Why did you do this? The money wasn't demanded by God The money wasn't demanded by the apostles. Listen to this. God does not need your money. God doesn't need your money. He desires your worship. But he doesn't need your money. And Ananias could have kept what he had, sold it, held on to it, it was his choice. It remained with him. And Peter says, You had a long time to think about this. While it was your own, you could do anything you wanted with it. But what's not allowed is for you to come into the church and corrupt our worship. That's not allowed. And you think, why would Satan be bothered with tempting people to lie about their financial commitments? I mean, is really like doesn't he have better things to do? I'm just gonna, you know, enter into your heart to say that you gave 100% when you only gave 75. Like, like really, that's the work of Satan? Absolutely. Absolutely. Listen to this. If Satan can corrupt the worship of the church, that will destroy the church. If Satan can corrupt the worship of the church, that will destroy the church. If Satan can get the church to focus on itself instead of Christ, he's won a victory. To come into the church, and I'm more concerned about what people think about me than what they think about my Lord. That's the problem. You don't come into the church and want people to give attention to you That's not what this place is for. That's not what the gathering of the saints is for. It's not so that we can all come around and talk about how great you are. No, it's how great thou art, right? How great God is. I don't come in here to talk about how great you are. The worship of the church belongs to God. And if the church becomes hypocritical and man-centered, it loses its power and its influence and its integrity. You don't come in here and talk about how great I can sing. Hey, did you notice how great I sang today? Did did you hear that sermon I preached? I mean that was whew. I mean I almost got saved, you know? I was about I was about to raise my own hand, you know. Did you see the way I served last week? Man, that was something. I've been witnessing hard for the Lord. I am a soldier on the battlefield for my Lord. I'm a soldier. I'm a soldier. Did you notice how much I gave? Hey hey preacher, did you see uh what I put in the plate? Brother, you know it's it's been been hard. I've been fasting for two days. Oh Lord, I'm hungry. I'm so hungry But hey, I gotta I just gotta stick it out because, you know, oh he is worthy. He is worthy I've been praying. I've been I mean the calluses on my knees. Oh my I could hardly get up from my prayer closet this morning. I mean I've just been entreating the Lord You know what you just did? You took Satan along for the ride. Satan showed up to church And Satan says, and Peter says, why? Why are you doing this? Why? Why is it that you've conceived this deed in your heart? And Ananias doesn't say, when Peter says, you know, why have you conceived this deed in your heart? Ananias can't reply, well, you know, the devil made me do it. No, you have conceived this deed in your heart. No, you you came up with this idea yourself Yeah, there might be desires and influences out there, but you came up with the idea. Why have you conceived of this deed? In your heart, you made a choice about this one. When you made the decision to lie, you haven't lied to men, but you've lied to God. And we can see multiple ways that Ananias lied to God and lied to the Spirit of God. Number one, the Holy Spirit is present in the people of God, right? So when he lied to the church, the temple of the Holy Spirit, he was lying to the Holy Spirit. The apostles who Ananias spoke to were under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, filled with the Spirit. How do you think Peter knew that he cut back some of the price of the land? That was by the Holy Spirit. It's not like he's checking the real estate records and it's like, you know, what's the county records on Ananias 's Property there. No, he did that liar. No, the Holy Spirit let him know. No, no, he is not being honest Just like Elisha knew that Gehazi had gone out to go and steal some of Naaman's belongings, pocket it for himself, it's like Didn't my spirit go with you? It's like the Lord showed me all about that. You're not getting away with anything. But even more than that, when Ananias conceived of this deed in his heart, He was attempting to get away with something before God. Ultimately, all sin is against the Lord, right? David says, against you and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. And most particularly believers sin against the Spirit of God and the person of the Holy Spirit. It's grieving to the Holy Spirit when we sin And when he's conceiving of this deed in his heart, how is he lying to the Holy Spirit? Because the Holy Spirit is there. You're grieving the Spirit of God. So yes, I do believe that Ananias was a believer. And particularly for believers, we grieve the Spirit of God. Sin against the Holy Spirit. Lie against the Holy Spirit. And when he's conceiving this deed in his heart, the Holy Spirit is right there as a witness. You're lying. You're lying. We find that there's consequences to a sin, immediate consequences. Look at verse 5. And as he heard these words, as the words are coming out. Ananias fell down and breathed his last. Like that's that's it. This is a word that means to expire. It's like the the the the last breath that's coming out as he falls over. He dies. The candle is blown out. Do you notice that Ananias doesn't have any chance to repent at this point? It's not like, hey, you know, just confess your sins and let me pray for you. It's like, no, it's it's it. Boom. You're done. Done. No pleading with him to confess, just an immediate sentencing. The time to repent was when you were contemplating this. That was the time to repent. And again, I believe that primary primarily that the sin was between him and the Spirit of God, who he rejected. And does the Lord do this in believers' lives? I mean, will he put a believer to death? 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 30 speak about that, doesn't it? 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 30. It says, For this reason, many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep. Do you know what that means? You die. You come in here, you're not partaking of the Lord's Supper in a worthy manner. You're bringing in your sins. Eating it in an unrepentant state. No, some of you are sick because of that, and there's some of you that are dead. Some of you aren't here next week. No, the Lord will take people out. In 1 John chapter 5, it speaks about this. 1 John chapter 5 and verse 16. It says, if anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will will give for him life to those who commit sin not leading to death. But there is a sin leading to death. I do not say that he should make requests for this. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not leading to death But there are sins that we would commit that would lead us to death. The God would just that's that's it. I I'm I'm not going to tolerate that. You're not gonna continue to be a a poor witness for you're not gonna bear my name like that. Proverbs 29 verse 1 says, A man who hardens his neck after much reproof will suddenly be broken in that beyond remedy. There can be a point of no return. Even for a believer. Which communicated something powerful to those who heard about this. Look at verse 5, the end of verse 5. And great fear came over all who heard of it. This is the divine communication. What's the message that got out when Ananias fell dead? God is not to be played with. We don't play with God. Great fear came over all who heard of it. And that was the point. As God is establishing the church, as the church is in its infancy. God wants to let people know that this is a place of holiness. This is a place of righteousness. This is a place where I am worshiped. You don't come in here trying to lift up your name. This is where the name of Christ is lifted up, where I'm exalted. Great fear came over everybody, and it would have been obvious to everybody that you don't play with God. Think about what that communicated. It communicated that God is not interested in your money. Think about how much He might have given. You know, say say his property is worth a hundred thousand and he gave he gave eighty. I mean that's that's a chunk of change. Hey, I'll I'll I'll overlook that Ananias. I mean, come on. You know, the nursery could could use a couple extra toys, so you know let's let's bring that in here. We'll we'll take care of that. I'm not sure what the amount was, but there was some level of sacrifice in what Ananias gave. But what God communicates is that I'm not interested in the amount. The amount is not what I'm interested in. I'm interested in your heart. Where is your heart? Proverbs 19:14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. The meditations of my heart. God is interested in the heart, and great fear sweeps over all the church, over everybody who heard it. And this was not only believers who heard about it, it's everybody who heard about it. Everybody's fearful. Now I was thinking about visiting that church next week, but people die in there. I'm not going unless I'm serious. And the only people who dared to join the people of God were those who took God seriously. No, I uh this is what I want. That's what I want. And the church was known for being a body of truth. And the fear of this event is reinforced by the swiftness of the burial. According to the custom of Judaism, when a person was prepared for burial, when death was certain. The family would tear their garments as a sign of mourning. They'd close the eyes of the corpse to show that death had come. They would invite mourners to join them in mourning. Mourning over their loved one, the body was anointed, it was wrapped in a cloth, it was buried quickly. In a normal funeral service, they would end with the Shema You know, uh hero of Israel, the Lord thy God, the Lord is one, and the family would mourn for thirty days. That that's a normal funeral. And sometimes professional mourners were even hired to come and raise a greater cry. You know, the family's cry isn't enough. We're going to hire more people so there's a louder noise. Oh, my loved one is gone. Do you notice what happens here? They don't even tell his wife that he's dead. The kids don't get a message. No, they just pick them up immediately and go out and bury them. Wrap them up. I'll take them. Let's go ahead and put them away. Put them away. Wasn't gonna be a great morning, thirty days mourning over Ananias. He simply picked up, wrapped up, and dropped off. Do you remember what happened to Nadab and Abihu? Flip back to Leviticus chapter 10 real quick. Leviticus chapter 10. Take a look at verse 4, Leviticus chapter 10, chapter 10, and verse 4. Listen to this Actually, I'll just start at verse one. You know how we do. Leviticus chapter ten, I'll start at verse one. It says now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took their respective fire pants, and after putting fire in them, placed incense on it, and offered strange fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them. And they died before the Lord? Then Moses said to Aaron, It is what the Lord spoke. Like like Aaron, we shouldn't be surprised at this. This is exactly what the Lord said he would do. It is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near me I will be treated as holy, and before all the people I will be honored. So Aaron therefore kept silent. No, no, no, Aaron, we can't raise up the cry. This is exactly what the Lord said he would do. This is not the time for us to raise up the cry. Don't forget that Nadab and Abihu are Moses' nephews. Aaron is his brother. So his kids, Aaron's kids, are Moses ' nephews. He's seen these boys grow up They're related to him. But he turns to his brother and he says, no, we we we we can't lift up a mortar. This is exactly what the Lord said he would do. I will be honored! So Aaron therefore kept silent. Moses called also the Mishel and Elzephan, the sons of Aaron's uncle, Uziel. And said to them, Come forward, carry your relatives away from the front of the sanctuary to the to the outside of the camp. So they came forward and carried them still in their tunics. They didn't even have a chance to get out of their tunics. Still in their tunics, in the show of the priestly duties. Take them outside of the camp, as Moses had said. Then Moses said to Aaron and to his sons Eliezer and Ithamar, Do you not uncover your heads nor tear your clothes, so that you will not die. And that he will not become wrathful against all the congregation, but your kinsmen, the whole house of Israel, shall bewail the burning which the Lord has brought about. You shall not even go out from the doorway of the tent of meeting, or ye will die. This is serious. You don't carry them out mourning, weeping, oh Lord, what have you done? No, none of that. No, what the Lord has done is right. You let somebody else mourn. You're not going to mourn. Pick them up, wrap them up, drop them off. You shall not even go out the doorway of the tent of meeting, or you will die. For the Lord's anointing oil is upon you, so they did according to the word of Moses. This is serious. This is serious. The worship of God is serious. God takes it seriously. God is dead serious. Dead serious about worship. But the text doesn't stop there. We've got another cycle. Look at verse 7 back in Acts chapter 5. It says in verse 7, now there elapsed an interval of about three hours. I love what MacArthur said. He says, How long does it take Sapphira to do her hair? Three hours passes by. Her husband's already in there. And she's getting ready to come in, probably expecting that the red carpet's going to be rolled out. Everybody knows by now what we gave So here she comes in expecting some kind of thanks and congratulations. Oh, we want to thank you so much for your generosity. You know, the woman of encouragement is here. Here she is. Look at verse 7. It says now there elapsed an interval of about three hours, and his wife came in not knowing what had happened. Which also tells us this that the church services were pretty long, three hours. And Peter responded to her, tell me whether you sold the land for such and such a price. And she said, yes, that was the price. Again, we have the deceitful conception. This is something that Ananias came up with in his heart, but he shared it with Sapphira, and she put it in her heart. She took on the same idea. Yes, that's that's what that's what we sold it for. That was it Three hours. Obviously this was the Pentecostal church. Devastating confrontation with Sapphira as well. The devastating confrontation. So here, Sapphira has an opportunity to tell the truth, but she continues to deceive. Yes, we sold it for that amount. Verse 9, then Peter said to her, Why? Again, why? Why? Why is it? That you've agreed together to put the Lord, the Spirit of the Lord, to the test. Do you think that God doesn't recognize this? You think that God has his eyes closed? Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. Whatever a man sows, that shall he also reap. Why have you agreed together to test the Lord? To kind of push push the Lord, kind of poke him and see if he's going to respond. Why have you agreed together to do this? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out as well. Pay attention to what Peter doesn't do. When Sapphira shows up, the first thing that Peter says isn't, hey, Sapphira, did you hear about Ananias? I'm sorry to tell you this, but but your husband Ann and I, he's dead. And we've set up a grief counseling for you over here. Some of our brothers are going to come around you and care for you because of your husband who's died. I know this has to be extremely hard news for you In this case, that's not the priority. Because there's sin in the camp. We've got to deal with the sin. And this is so instructive for us as a church because people, listen to this, can guilt the church into thinking that the main priority is comforting and consoling people who are in their sin. And that if you specifically ask them about their sin, oh, you're being unloving. Don't don't do that. You can't confront them. They're going through a hard time. Don't don't you know that her husband has just died, Peter? How could you? That's not compassionate But here it's not the priority. It's not about comforting her and consoling her in her sin. You don't try to comfort those who are comfortable in their sin? That's not our job as a church to comfort people who are in their sins. It's not what Peter does. He confronts the people who are in their sin. Peter says, tell me whether or not the, you know, before we talk about your husband, I want to hear about what was the price that you sold this land for. Was it such and such a price? And again, the person of the Trinity that was particularly offended was the Spirit of God. Why why are you putting the Spirit of the Lord to the test? You don't think he's serious, do you? You don't you don't take God seriously? Why why are you putting him to the test? Why are you grieving the Spirit of God So again, I believe that these were believers. I do believe that they were believers. And the Lord took them out. And in a similar way, Sapphira has no chance to explain herself. The opportunity for you to repent was when I asked you the question the first time. When I asked you how much did you sell it for? That was the time to confess. But no, you you don't want to confess that's it that's it. The the man who just buried your husband, they're coming for you too. They're coming for you too Verse 10 And immediately she fell at his feet and breathed her last. She expired. And they carried her out and buried her husband her beside her husband. And at this point, you know, these young men are just like, you know, good grief, another one? Like, what what's going on in this place? What is with this place? Again wrap her up, pick her up, take her out, drop her off And what's the divine communication that goes out from this? Same thing that happened with Ananias, and great fear came over the whole church. And over all who heard these things, God is not to be played with. And who's the primary target for understanding that? It's the Church of the Living God. This is what we need to know. This is what we need to understand. That God is serious about his worship. That we come in here to exalt him. We don't come in here to exalt ourselves. It's not about us. It's not about all of us together. It's about Him. And as a church, we need to take sin seriously. Because God takes sin seriously. And if you're looking for a perfect church, you won't find it. And I love what Spurgeon said. He says, when you do find the perfect church, make sure you don't join because you'll mess it up. The Bible paints the picture of the church with warts and all. Warts and all. So there is no perfect church. But we can strive to have a church that loves holiness, a church that takes sin seriously, a church that worships God from a fervent heart. That loves our Lord. As God is holy, all holy, only holy, altogether holy, always holy So sin is sinful, all sinful, only sinful, altogether sinful, and always sinful. We need to have a love for the Lord and a hatred for sin. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, Lord, for the time that we've had in your word. Now Father, we pray that you'd use this word in our hearts, that you would conform us to the image of your dear Son. Now Father, we thank you For what you're demonstrating to us through your word. And Father, I pray that you would help us to live our lives for you and not for ourselves. Now, Father, we thank you that your word is clear and that you've left us with those that we can follow and those that we're to avoid. You've left us with a true witness of the church. And Father, because of this, we can avoid the same pitfalls that Ananias and Sapphira fell into. And we can follow men of integrity like Barnabas was. He wasn't concerned about himself. He was most concerned about you and your glory. So Father, I pray that you would help us as a church that we would live for you, that we would not live for ourselves. To you belongs the glory. May you be exalted to you and to you alone, not to us, not to us, but to you alone belongs the glory. And we give you all glory and honor. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files