The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, let's take our Bibles and open to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 6, as we continue our study through the uh the fantastic, wonderful book of of Romans. As I mentioned to you last week, these next few chapters of Romans are really an exciting section of scripture to study because of the powerful life-transforming impact that these next few chapters can make in your pursuit of personal holiness, and that's not an exaggeration. If you're a believer, there's no way that I can talk about pursuing holiness, battling sin, living for God, and have you walk away saying that wasn't for me. I'm really not sure what's going on, what what what what the preacher was going on today about personal holiness and having to grow. I mean, that's that's all of us. That hits every one of us. Because if you're a true believer, God has placed within you the desire to please him. If you're a true believer. That's the desire that you have in your heart. It's your ambition to please God. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 9. It says, therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. That's the ambition of the believer. We have a desire to be Pleasing to God and every member of the Trinity, listen to this, every member of the Trinity is at work for your holiness. Every member of the Trinity. The Spirit who dwells within us is called the Spirit of Holiness. Spirit of holiness, Romans chapter 1 and verse 4. And he's described as the Holy Spirit for a reason. He yearns for our holiness. In the book of Ephesians, right in the middle of a list of sins that we need to put away, Paul writes, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. Don't grieve the Spirit of God. The Spirit longs for our holiness, and the Spirit of God is grieved when we don't walk in a manner that's pleasing to God. Jesus, the Son of God. was the example of holiness, always doing what was pleasing to the Father, and we're called to imitate him. In John chapter 8 and verse 29, Jesus said, and He who sent me is with me, he has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. In John 4 and 34, he says, My food is to do the will of him who sent me. That's my food. That's what I eat. I live for this to please God. And furthermore, we're commanded in the Great Commission to observe all that He commanded of us. We're commanded to imitate Christ and to please God. And finally, God the Father has called us with a holy calling. 1 Peter 1 and verse 14, it says, As obedient children, do not be conformed to the former lusts. Which were yours in your ignorance, but like the holy one who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. But even though the entire Trinity calls us to holiness, is at work for our holiness, and we have a basic desire to live a holy life. There are many Christians, as Jerry Bridges says, who have come to believe that they simply cannot do it. They struggle for years with particular sins or deficiencies of character And they've more or less given up ever attaining a life of holiness. The promise of Romans 6, 6 to 7, to be freed from sin seems like impossibly beyond them. And the strong commands of Scripture to live a consistently holy life only frustrate them. They feel defeated. And that might describe somebody who's here today. In a short but extremely helpful book, The Pursuit of Holiness, Bridges describes where Christians often find themselves. On the one end of the spectrum, Christians find themselves in what's been called pietism. Pietism, where the emphasis is placed on self-discipline, practical Christian living, law keeping. Pietism was a reaction to the dead, cold orthodoxy of many Protestant churches in the 17th. century in Germany where church services became rote, formal, disinterested in true spiritual life. But the emphasis of Pietism was placed on the practice, what you do. And sadly, it led to an over-emphasis on self-effort. And what you did became even more important than what you believed. And many who followed this movement relied on personal willpower more than dependence on the power of God to transform their lives. What was their answer for sin? Well well, did you pray enough? Did you read enough? Did you serve enough? And what should have encouraged people to trust God became a not-so-subtle confidence in the flesh. It's about what I did. Did I do enough? John Flaybell, a Pyridine author, says we are as able to stop the sun or make the rivers run backward as by our own willpower to rule our hearts And that became the the the dangerous error of Pietism. And as MacArthur said, as you might expect, Pietism frequently led to legalism, moralism, self-righteousness, the judgmental spirit, pride, and hypocrisy, because it was all about the person's ability to perform. And sometimes even unbelievers fall into this trap thinking that somehow there's enough that they can do. A number of years ago I read a book on preaching. And uh uh the the author uh talked about how there was this popular uh preacher that came on the radio. And uh he said he used to listen to him and you know, he's speaking powerfully about you know being a man and taking care of your family and uh raising your children and being self-disciplined and taking care of your responsibilities and you know he's just sitting here saying, yes, yes, yes, this is right. And then before long he says, but but something's wrong here because he's never mentioned Jesus. Found out that the guy was actually a Mormon. We can talk about the right things, but have the wrong source. And be trying to do the right thing without the power of God in our lives. Relying on our own self-efforts to somehow, by the flesh, accomplish the work of the Spirit. We can do it. And as Bridges writes, we confidently assume we will simply discover from the Bible what God wants us to do, start doing it, and we fail to recognize that our tendency is to cling to our old sinful ways. And many have sought to live a holy life in the flesh by their own willpower and have agonized in prayer over particular sins, seemingly without success Then on the other hand of the spectrum, there's what's known as quietism, which is a word that was used to describe a movement in the 17th and 18th centuries. Which argue that believers have a passive role in their sanctification, that all we need to do is just simply rest and allow God to do the work Burgess describes it this way. He says, we're told that we have been trying to live the Christian life in the energy of the flesh. We need to stop trying and start trusting or to let go and let God, as some of you might have heard. We're told that if we just turn our sin problem over to Christ and rest in his finished work on Calvary, he will then live his life in us and we will experience a life of victory over sin. Having experienced fatigue and frustration with our sin problem, we're delighted to be told that God has already done it all, that we only need to rest in Christ's finished work after struggling with our sins. To the point of despair, this new idea is like a life preserver to a drowning man, almost like hearing the gospel for the first time. But then he goes on to say this, but after a while, if we're truly honest with ourselves. We discover we're still experiencing defeat at the hands of the flesh. The victory seemingly promised still eludes us. We still struggle with pride, jealousy, materialism, impatience, lust. We still eat too much, waste our time, criticize each other, shade the truth just a little, indulge in a dozen other sins, all the time, hating ourselves for doing them, and then we wonder, what's wrong with me? Why can't I? Why can't I experience the victory described in the books that others seem to have experienced? The quietist says, do nothing. The Pietist says do everything. And again, the promise of Romans 6. Is that we can be free from sin. We can be free from sin, but it seems so far beyond us that God is not like Pharaoh who commands us to make bricks without straw. And my prayer is that as we we work our way through this section of Scripture, that you'll see that God's power has granted us everything pertaining to life and godliness. So let's take a look at our passage again, Romans chapter 6, and I'll start at verse 1. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father. So we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old self was crucified with him. In order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin, for he who has died is freed from sin. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, as we come before you, Lord, Father, we ask that you would use these words to instruct us. Father, it's our desire to please you. It's our desire to honor you with our lives. And Father, you've given us all that we need For life and godliness. And Father, this passage in particular has been given to us for life and godliness. And Father, I pray that as we study these words, Lord, which is. Really, words that are considered to be a central text on the Christian life. Father, I pray that we would pay attention, that we would pay heed to what we read. That we would make application to our lives. And Father, I pray that as a result, that we would grow. Father, that we would honor you And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The question that drives this section of Scripture is uh the question that Paul's critics had for him. And the question is found in verse 1, where he says, Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? Paul just taught back in chapter 5 and verse 20 that there was grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt. Romans chapter 5, verse 20 says, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. And this teaching about God's grace opened Paul Open them up to the charge, the accusation, that he was giving people a license to sin. As if Paul was teaching that believers can sin without consequences, without reproach. So Paul is accused of preaching a grace that is too gracious. And the way that Paul responds to this question is with horror. May it never be Make gnoita, the strongest form of negation in the Greek language. It's translated as certainly not. God forbid, perish the thought. But the reason that Paul was so shocked is not because grace doesn't exceed all of our sin and our guilt. He doesn't back down and say, well, I didn't mean to say that grace was that gracious No, it was still true that where sin increased, grace abounded. That's still true. But the reason Paul was so shocked by the question is because if you think God introduced his grace just to give you a license to sin, you don't understand grace at all. You don't understand grace. And there's a reason that Romans 6 through 8 follows Romans 1 through 5. How could you think that Paul is soft on sin if you read Romans 1 through 5? In Romans 1 through chapter 3 and verse 20, Paul demonstrates that the entire world is under the condemnation of the wrath of God? Sin is so serious that it demands the eternal wrath of God. Romans chapter 1, verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. Romans chapter 2 and verse 5, but because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. God does not take sin lightly. Sin is serious. Sin deserves the wrath of God. And then in chapter 3, verse 21 through chapter 5, we learn that sin was so serious that it required the blood of the Son of God to pay for our sins. Romans chapter 5 verse 8. It says, but God demonstrates his own love toward us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. And if you think that there's a hope, That one day you'll meet God and that He won't take your sin that seriously, you're in for a rude awakening. You don't you don't stand before the judge of the universe who knows everything and expect that somehow he's just gonna sweep your sins under the rug? That you're going to approach him without Jesus Christ? That you haven't been united to his son, Jesus Christ, that you you considered the blood of the Son of God to be of no value And then you're going to waltz into heaven? You're in for a rude awakening. You don't get into heaven aside from Jesus Christ, apart from Jesus Christ. That's the only way that you enter in. God takes sin so seriously that his son had to die in order to grant forgiveness for sin. So now when Paul gets this question, like, are we just supposed to sin and grace increases? Like, are are you kidding me? Do you think that's what I've been teaching for five chapters? That God doesn't take sin seriously? And that God means to just give us grace so that the believer can just continue in his sin? God forbid it. Certainly not. How could you think such a thing? Rather, what God's grace does is it actually gives us the power to do what we could not do in ourselves. You know, far from giving believers the license to sin, it gives the believer freedom from sin. God is actually giving us His grace to enable us to say no to sin. You don't just have to receive the command, you actually receive the power to obey the command. Look at the middle of verse 2, Romans chapter 6 and verse 2. He says, how shall we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who've been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? What that means is that you now have power to say no to sin. The moment you were regenerated by the Spirit of God, you trusted in Jesus Christ by faith, something happened to you. Something happened to you. The old you that lived in sin died. The person you used to be, the person that was attached to sin , the person who could not stop sinning, that person died. Stop breathing. You attended your own funeral. You passed away the day that you came to Christ. You passed away. Second Corinthians 5:17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things have passed away. That includes the old you. You passed away. And that death was a death to sin. And that death to sin changes everything. Changes everything. A decisive break has been made with sin so that we no longer live underneath sin's power or control Sin is no longer the master over us. If you remember back in chapter 5, we learned that Adam introduced the world to the reign of sin and death. Chapter 5, verse 12, therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. Then down to verse 19, it says, For as through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. That's a text that speaks primarily of our legal condemnation because of sin, but it's not all that it speaks about because there's also the moral corruption that comes with sin. That Adam's sin made us sinners. Not just legally, but but in our practice, morally, we became sinners. We fell underneath sin's authority, sin's control. That's why Romans chapter 3 and verse 10 says, As it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one. We were all made sinners because of Adam. None who understands, none who seeks for God, all turned aside. None who does good, not even one. That's why David speaks about the moral corruption, even from the womb. Psalm 51, 5. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin, my mother conceived me. We were made sinners because of Adam. We were born under the power and dominion of sin. There's nothing we could do to free ourselves from sin's grip. And the only way out, listen to this, the only way out from sin's power over us is that we had to die. That was the way out. Sin 's grip on us was so tight that the only way out of that the only way out of that authority is that we had to die. And that's what the death of Christ did for us. It put to death the old man. That was under the dominion of sin. And how does that work? Paul says, Don't you know? Look at verse 3. Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? The last time we were together, we explained that this baptism into Jesus is speaking about a spiritual union with Christ. It's a baptism that happens by the Spirit of God. 1 Corinthians 12, 13, for by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, we were all made to drink of one spirit. It's a spiritual baptism. Happens by the Spirit of God. And that spiritual connection brought us into the spiritual benefits of salvation. Listen to this. Our death to sin was connected to Jesus' death for sin. Our death to sin was connected to Jesus' death for sin. And because of our union with Jesus, we've been separated from sin's dominion. Spiritually, we've been transferred into a different realm. where we were able, we're now able to do what we were unable to do before. And this is helpful. Augustine referred to what he called the fourfold state of man. Fourfold state of man. What does that mean? Listen to this. Originally in Adam, in Adam, man was in a state of innocence, and Adam was created with the ability To sin or not to sin, right? Because obviously he did sin, right? You know, so he was created with an ability to sin Or not to sin. You know, the Latin expression is passe non picare. He had the ability not to sin. He had the ability to say no to sin. That's how Adam was created. But after the fall All of mankind in our natural state lost the ability to say no to sin and to please God. That's how we're all born. And that doesn't mean that man always chooses the worst form of evil that he can possibly choose. But it does mean that whatever he does, it's not pleasing to God. Not saying that everything is, he's a criminal in everything that he does, but it's not towards God. That's why in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 6 it says, And without faith it is impossible to please him. And again, Romans chapter 3, there's none who does good, there's not even one. Even the good works that we do, the Bible calls filthy rags. The best that we have to offer to God is filthy rags outside of a relationship with Jesus Christ. So we were not able not to sin. Not able not to sin. This is the second stage, non-passe, non-picare, if you want the Latin. But what happens in Christ is that the people who were not able not to sin are now able not to sin. We've been given the ability that now we can please God again. It's like we've been restored. So so the true the the the believer can never say I've fallen and I can't get up. The true believer is able now to please God. You're not the person that you once were in Adam. We don't live our lives in sin in an unredeemed way. We still have the unredeemed flesh to deal with But now I can choose to say yes to God. And I can choose to do that which pleases God. So we became non-passe, non-picare all over again. We now have the ability to say no to sin. We're able not to sin That's the third state of man. But you know what's the fourth state of man? What happens when we die physically in eternity? We will not be able to sin at all ever again. That's where we're heading. That's where we're heading. Non passe picare. Not able to sin. And that's what the believer is pressing toward. Philippians chapter 3, verse 14 says, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. One day we will be called up either in death or in the rapture, whatever comes first. Our sin will not be called up with us. We're done with sin. And then we'll never be able to sin ever again. One day sin will be done with. Thomas Boston writes this, he says, the corrupt nature will be quite removed. That root of bitterness will be plucked up, and no vestiges of it left in our souls. Praise God. Our nature shall be altogether pure and sinless. But as we wait for that final state where we we won't be able to sin again, we exist in this third state where we're able to sin or not to sin. But Christ has freed us from the reigning power and dominion of sin over our lives And just like Adam could not return back to the garden to enter into his previous state of innocence, as a believer, you're also not able to return back into Adam, into your previous state where you weren't able to please God. Like it's been barred off from you, ever entering again. It's like the terra beam, you know, with the flaming swords. You can't go back into Adam anymore. Now you're over here. You exist now in a state where you can please God or not please God. That's the state that you exist in. But you can't cross over back into that old realm where you weren't able to please God. That's not where we live. We now live over here. So to continue in sin would be unimaginable because that's not where you live anymore. You understand that? I I don't live over in that realm. I don't live in Adam anymore. I now live over here, where God has given me the ability to please him. And he's barred off ever going back into that old way of life ever again. Because we've been crucified with Christ. We've died with Christ. And the reality of our death, Paul goes even further with it, and he says, not only did you die with Christ, you were also buried with him. Look at verse 4. Verse 4, the beginning of verse 4. It says, Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death. According to the customs of Judaism, a person was not prepared for burial until death was certain. The family would uh uh make sure that the uh the the corpse had no signs of of life before they they wrapped the corpse and anointed the corpse and and buried it quickly, but it was certain that death had come. Jesus, when he was prepared for burial, it was certain the death had come. We read in uh John chapter 19, verse 31, that then the Jews Because it was the day of preparation so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day. They asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they be taken away. Verse 32 says, so soldiers came and broke the legs of the first man and of the other who was crucified with them. But coming to Jesus when they saw that he was already dead, They did not break his legs, but one of the soldiers soldiers pierced his side with the spear, and immediately blood and water came out. Then over in Mark chapter 15, Joseph of Arimathea Came, and this is in verse 43, a prominent member of the council who himself was waiting for the kingdom of God and gathered up courage and went in before Pilate, asked for the body of Jesus And Pilate wondered if he was dead by this time, and summoning the centurion, he questioned him as to whether he was already dead, and ascertaining this from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. All that to say, before somebody was buried, it was certain that you were gone. There's no coming back, right? It was certain that you were gone. And then every year around Easter you find these silly suggestions in the magazine rack at the grocery store that say that Jesus didn't really die. He merely swooned. Anybody ever heard of that Yeah, y he just passed out. You know, you had a hard day, he passed out. You know, and uh after going through all the the the scourgings and being hung on a cross and being pierced with a a a spear. You know, he he kind of went back into the tomb and you know got refreshed in the cold air and just kind of you know woke back up and pushed his way out and convinced everybody that that I'm here and I'm victorious. What kind of nonsense is that? But but that's that's what you read. That's you know, that's what they they try to present before you is like, you know, Jesus, he he just he just kind of kind of passed out, you know, because it was an intense Period of time and he woke back up and refreshed himself in the tomb. What what garbage garbage In his book, Did Jesus Really Rise from the Dead, Thomas Miller, a well-respected surgeon, writes, Anyone who thinks that Jesus was alive when removed from the cross really has no understanding of the brutality he went through and the effects on his body. That are simply incompatible with survival, it's the swoon theory that should be forever buried. But my point here is that when you were buried, it was a clear indication that death had come. And just as Christ was buried and death came for Christ, so death came for you spiritually. Spiritually. Galatians chapter 2, verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ. And it's no longer I who live. Galatians 6, verse 14. But may it never be that I would boast, except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. I'm dead. I no longer live. Colossians chapter 3, verse 3. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory. My life doesn't exist anymore. My life is now hidden with Christ in God. That's where I exist. That's my true life. It's a statement of reality. This isn't something that we do. It's something that's happened to you. You're dead and you're buried And the break with sin has happened. And you need to let that one register in your mind if you're going to be able to pursue holiness. If you're going to battle with sin, if you're going to live for God, you need to live like you've already died. You've already died. Because you have. You just need to consider it true. You can't crawl back into that old corpse and live that life anymore. You can't make a home there anymore. The old you is dead and stinking. You know, it stinketh by now, right? You can't go back there anymore. And even when we try to live in the patterns that we used to live in, it's never the same, is it? As a believer, you can't go back to what you used to do and just kind of live those same old patterns again. And I know we're getting ahead of ourselves here, but I won't go too far into it, but flip over to Romans chapter 7. Take a look at verse 15. Romans chapter 7. Look at verse 15. He says, For what I am doing, I do not understand. For I'm practicing what I would like to do, but I am doing the very thing I hate. I'm not practicing the thing that I would like what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. So now no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. What's Paul saying? Paul's saying, Paul's saying that as a believer, We still sin, but somehow it's just not the same anymore. Like I don't understand it. Sin used to make sense, but now it doesn't make sense to me the way it used to make sense I used to want it and desire it and be satisfied with what I got, but now it just doesn't taste the same anymore. I'm doing the very thing that I hate. Like like why am I going back? I don't even like this anymore. But you find yourself still kind of stuck in these ruts, these patterns, and you respond in the same way, or you say the same thing, or you look at the same thing that you used to, and just like, that's why why would I even do that anymore Because it's not the same. It's like it's foreign to me. Like it doesn't belong here anymore. The true me is no longer at home with sin. If you're a believer , you don't live and dwell with sin as just like you know a happy life, happy coexistence with sin. That's not where you live anymore. And again, it's because I've been taken out of the realm of Adam and placed into a new life in Christ. Like I I don't live there anymore. That's not me. That old me has died. I'm trying to live like the old me, but the old me is already dead. If you're at home in sin, that's where you need to start asking the questions. If you feel at home in sin. I've heard it said pigs live in the mud, but sheep may fall in, but a sheep wants out. Right? Because we've got a different nature. We got a different nature. I don't wallow around in the mud and enjoy it. I might fall in, but it's like I fall in, it's like, okay, I want this doesn't feel good. Get me out of here. That that's the believers like you fall in and it's like okay I want out. I don't want to stay here anymore. My friend Kerry Hardy used to say it like this He said it's almost like, you know, when when you're an unbeliever, you're you're you live and exist with gills, and you just swim in the water of the world. You're happy just swimming around, flicking your tail, and that's just where you live. You can survive under there. But it's like when you come become saved, it's like the Lord gives you lungs and removes the gills. And now it's like you gotta hold your breath to stay under there. And it's like something keeps forcing you back out. I can't stay here because this is not where I belong. I don't live in this realm anymore. But somehow we still think we can get down there and swim around and hold our breath. It's like, no, that's not you anymore. You don't have the capacity to do that anymore. You have now a new nature. We've died, we've been buried. To continue in sin would be unimaginable. And number three, we've been raised with him We've been raised with him. We've died. We've been buried. We've been raised with him. Look at again at verse 4 and chapter 6. It says, therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Listen, when you died with Christ, it was not just so that you could be dead to this world. It was not just so that the world could be crucified to you and you would be crucified to the world. It was so that you could live a glorious and resurrected life You've been saved to live. When Jesus was raised from the dead, it was a glorious resurrection. And here we might expect Paul to say. That uh as Christ was raised from the dead through the power of the Father, in verse 4. That's what we might expect him to say. But what is he saying? As Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father. Through the glory of the Father. And there 's a number of times when the power of God is mentioned, like back in Romans chapter 1, verse 4. Jesus was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection of the dead, so we know it was the power of God that raised Jesus from the dead, and it's an incredible display of power in the resurrection. And often in scriptures, the power and the glory of God are actually mentioned in the same connection, same context. First Chronicles, David blessed the Lord for the offerings that were given for the temple, the construction of Solomon's temple. He says, Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, indeed everything that is in the heavens and the earth. Psalm 145, verse 11, it says, They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and talk of your power. So again, connecting power and glory together. And then, of course, in Revelation 4, verse 11, worthy are you, our Lord, and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, to give glory to God for who he is. So glory and power are often related to one another, but in particular when glory is mentioned, it's talking about the outward manifestation of God's character. It's God putting himself on display. And God specifically puts himself on display in the resurrection of Jesus. It was a glorious display of who God was. And Jesus came forth from the grave, and even the body that he had was a glorious body. When Jesus came back, he wasn't in the same kind of body, was he? Jesus wasn't a ghost when he rose from the dead, but you know, he could still be touched and handled. He could eat food. But he also had a body that was walking through walls. John chapter 20, when it was evening on that day, the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, disciples where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you. It was like he had to say that because like they were terrified out of their minds, right? Like who is this coming through the walls? Like, hey, hey, peace, peace. It's okay. It's okay, guys. Peace with you. Peace be with you. It was the same body. He looks the same, but like this body doesn't act the same. This body is different. He appeared and disappeared before the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, Luke chapter 24. Verse 30 says, He reclined at the table with them. He took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it, he began giving it to them. Then their eyes were opened, they recognized him, and then he banished from their sight. It's like it looks the same, but he's not acting the same. Appearing, disappearing, walking through the walls like it looks like him, but something's different. You know what? That should be the same thing about you. As a believer, as somebody who's come to Christ, somebody should be able to look at you and say, you know what? They they look the same, but something's different. They're not acting the same. They're not talking the same way they used to talk. They're not doing the same things they they used to do. Like everything else, they they look the same. They can still eat food. Right? They're still natural, like I can still touch them, but like something's different. Something's different about who they are It should be true for us. Because of our union with Jesus Christ, we've experienced some kind of difference in our life spiritually. Spiritually, we're different. You know, we might not be walking through walls or appearing and disappearing, but we have a power in our lives that we didn't have before. There's something different. And we need to know what kind of power we have. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1. What kind of power is at work in your life? Ephesians chapter 1, look at verse 18. I love this. Paul says, I love it all, but I just got to say that every once in a while. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 18. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. So that you will know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory, of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe. I am praying, Paul says. That you would know the surpassing greatness of his power. You need to know this. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might, which he brought about in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Wait, hold on. What kind of power is it work in your life? It's the same power which he brought about in Christ when he raised him from the dead. You right now have in your life as a believer resurrection power The same power that raised Jesus from the dead is the power that's at work in your life. Do you understand the surpassing greatness of the power in your life as a believer? The kind of power that's at work in your life? It's a resurrection power. You were dead in your trespasses and sins. But what did the Lord do? He made you alive. He made you alive. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 lets us know without faith it's impossible to please him. But you know what? Now we make it our ambition to please him. Something's different about you We can now lay aside the encumbrances and the weights, the sins that easily entangled us. We can seek him first in his righteousness. We can say yes to God, no to sin. And why is that? It's because there's a newness of life. You've been given a new life, and now continuing in sin is foreign to you. You've been enabled to walk in the newness of life back in Romans 6. Verse 4, it says, Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in the newness of life. And the word newness that's used here, it's not newness as an adjective, it's a noun. In other words, it's not a temporary description like, you know, it's new now but could become old later. It's just saying that this just describes what your life is now. It's just a newness. It's a newness of life. That's just what it is. It retains the quality of newness. You've been saved with the goal that you would walk in this brand new life. And again, the spiritual benefits are connected with our union to Jesus Christ. If we become united with him in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. And you don't have to wonder if that power is there. That power is there. It is there. Galatians 2. 20. I've been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live. But what? It's Christ who lives in me. That's the one. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. It's Christ who lives his life in me. If you've been crucified with Christ, you have the life of Jesus in you. Colossians 2, verse 12, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him, through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. You're united to him in his death, and certainly you will also be united to him in his life and his resurrection. You're united to Jesus Like John and 15 and verse 5 says, I'm the vine, you're the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. We're we're connected to him. And even the word for for united that she 's back in uh uh Romans chapter chapter 6, when it says, for if we have become united with them, it's actually a word that means to grow together like trees that are intertwined and they all come back to the same source. Like our source is in Christ Himself. We're literally rooted in Him. He is our life. So to continue in sin would be unimaginable. And lastly, and we'll we'll come back to this, but not only have we died with him, been buried with him, been raised with him, we've also been freed in him. Look at verse 6. Romans chapter 6 and verse 6. Just knowing this that our old self was crucified with him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin, for he who has died is freed from sin. We're free from sin. It's important to remind you what Paul is talking about. He's talking about what's reality You've been crucified, you've died, you're freed. And the first thing that we're reminded of is that this old self, the old self that lived in Adam, under the dominion of sin, that guy is dead. And specifically, the man that is said to be crucified is that old man. We don't lay down our old lives willingly, that it had to be crucified. Like that life had to be taken. And what's the result of being crucified? What's the result? In order that our body of sin might be done away with. And questions interpreters have asked is what's meant by this body of sin? Is he talking about physical bodies? Is he talking about before salvation, after salvation, and what does it mean to be be done away with? I mean, there's all kinds of questions And we'll explore this more next time that we get together, but without getting into all the various views right now, the context of the passage helps us understand what Paul is driving it. First of all, what does Paul mean by the body of sin? The closest explanation for the body of sin is actually found in the phrase that came right before it It says that our body of sin might be done away with. What did it say before that? Verse 6: Knowing this, that our old self was crucified with him. What's this body of sin? It's speaking about the old self. That old self that's died the sin, that was buried, that was united to his death. That's the old self that we're talking about. That's the body of sin. All of that spoke about the old man. That lived under the dominion of sin, was crucified with Christ. That is the body of sin that's being spoken of. And just to verify that, if you look in verse 12. It says, Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lust, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead. Like, that's no longer who you are. You're no longer that person who gave himself over to sin, who lived under the dominion of sin, who let sin reign over him. That's not you anymore. Ephesians 4. 22 describes it as the former manner of life and the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the lust of deceit. So the body of sin is best understood as the body under the reign of sin, and that's the condition that was true of you before you came to Christ. And Paul says, now you're alive from the dead. That old self doesn't exist anymore. And that old self utilized the members of your physical body and even your natural desires for corruption. Martin Lloyd Jones spoke about how our physical members and natural desires can be used for sin. Listen to this. He says it will turn the natural instincts of our bodies into lust. It will turn our natural appetites into indulgence, our need for clothing and shelter into materialism, our normal sexual interest into immorality. It's like sin takes those members, those desires, and twists everything. Perverts everything and takes the members of your body to do its dirty work. But what Romans teaches us is that that old self that was under the tyranny of sin has been done away with The Greek word uh is used uh kastergeo, it's used to render useless, to be inoperative, to destroy its power, deprive it of its strength. So we're no longer slaves of sin and allowing our members to be used to do sin's bidding. You're under no obligation to sin. You're not under its control anymore. I love this illustration uh MacArthur mentions from uh Martin Lloyd Jones. He says he gives this illustration. He says there were two fields with the little road in the middle, and all of his life before he knew Christ, he lived in the field over here. Where Satan was the dominant force in the field. And Satan drove him and dictated to him and told him what to do. And his humanness and his flesh and his body was used for sin. That's where we used to live. And Satan was in control. Sin was in the dominion over that field, telling us what to do, where to go, and we listened. And then by the grace of God, he crossed over into the new field. And that field is under the dominion of the Lord Jesus Christ and is controlled by righteousness and holiness. And that is the new ruler and the new monarch. But he says, I always seem to have a hard time because I keep hearing Satan across the yard Yelling orders at me. And though I'm not under his dominion, he has a very clever way of making me interested in what he's asking me to do. The real tyranny is gone, but we fall prey to the very thing we've been delivered from. That's just a great illustration. You don't live under his dominion anymore, but we still hear the voice. We still get the temptations. It's still like he makes us interested in what's he doing over there? What's happening there? We're enticed. But we don't live there anymore. We're not under his domain anymore. Another illustration on January 1st, 1863, Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. As the nation approached its third year of a bloody civil war , The proclamation declared that all persons held as slaves within the rebellious states are and henceforward shall be free. And Booker T. Washington, who was born into slavery in Virginia, 1856. Describes his first hearing of the Emancipation Proclamation. Listen to this. In his book Up From Slavery, he says, the most distinct thing that I now recall in connection with the scene Was that some man who seemed to be a stranger, a United States officer, I presume, made a little speech and then read a rather long paper, the Emancipation Proclamation, I think. After the reading, we were told that we were all three, could go where and when we pleased. My mother, who was standing by my side, leaned over and kissed her children while tears of joy ran down her cheeks She explained to us what it all meant, that this was the day for which she had been so long praying, but fearing that she would never live to see. For some minutes there was great rejoicing, thanksgiving, wild scenes of ecstasy But the wild rejoicing on the part of the emancipated people lasted for but a brief period. For I noticed that by the time they returned to their cabins, there was a change in their feelings. The great responsibility of being free of having charge of themselves, of having to think and plan for themselves, their children, seemed to be taking possession of them. Was it any wonder that within a few hours the wild rejoicing ceased and a feeling of deep gloom seemed to pervade the slave quarters? To some it seemed that now they were in actual possession of it, the freedom And it was a more serious thing than they expected to find it. And some found it easier to live as slaves. And sadly, that's how some Christians are responding to their freedom. You've been set free by the Spirit of Christ. You've been set free. You've been liberated. You've been placed into a different realm. You no longer have to obey the slave master anymore. But sadly, some Christians think that it's just easier to follow the old patterns of life that like I used to live. But that's not you anymore. That's not you. We're to live as free men because that's what we are. And here's the thing: what we find in Scripture: what God is calling us to do is to be what you are. That's the power. Be what you are. You're not just called to try to live this life and try to pursue this life. No, God says, I've made you this, now I want you to walk that out. I've made you free, now I want you to live as free. John Murray gives an excellent illustration. He wrote this. He says, to say to a slave who has not been emancipated, do not behave as a slave. is to mock his enslavement. But to say to the same slave who has been set free, do not behave as a slave, is a necessary appeal put into effect the privileges and the rights of his liberty. When we're called in Scripture to live as free, it's because we are. Because God has actually done something to change our condition. You've been made alive. Now I want you to live as like you're alive. You're dead to sin. I want you to live like you're dead to sin. You've been buried. You can't go back and cross over into that old Adam anymore. I want you to live like that Since we've died with Christ, you can say no to sin. Since you've been buried with Christ, she can't go back into Adam. Since you've been made alive with Christ, you can say yes to holiness. Since you're free in Christ, you're free from the tyranny of sin and the dominion of sin. And now we're just calling you to live as what you are. Live like who God has made you to be, and God has given you the power. The same power that raised Christ from the dead is at work in your life. And that's what we're calling on you to do. Live according to the power that's at work in you. And because of that power, we can put to death sexual sins. We can put to death the sins of anger. We can put to death the dishonesty and speech and practice. We can live graciously with people who don't live graciously with us. We can live a life where the word is central to all of what we do. The word of God can deeply dwell within us. The name of Christ can govern all that we do. The relationships that we have can be Christ exalting in our marriages, in our parenting, in our relationships at work, relationships with other believers that can be permeated with Christ. We can walk in wisdom towards those who are on the outside, but it's all because of what Christ has already done for us. That we're walking that out, and God has given you the power to say no. I don't know. For for me, I I know when I first came to Christ. And uh just being discipled, it was it was like it was just like revolutionary to be told that you can say no. And it's not just saying like you need to say no. No, no, you've been given the ability to say no. Like God has done something in your life because you've trusted in Him, where you now can say no to sin. You don't fall and say, I can't get up, because God has given you a power, has placed a power within you. And it's the same power that rose Christ from the dead. Amen. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh this time that we've had together in your word. Father, I pray that uh you would allow the things that We've covered today, Lord, that these things will be put into practice in our lives. Father, I pray that we would see that something's different about us. Father, that we're not the same people that we used to be. We might look the same. We might go to the same places, but Father, something's different about us. And Father, even the sin doesn't taste the same anymore. Well, because you've transformed our nature. We can't live in sin. We can't make a home with sin the way that we used to anymore. Because we've died, and our true life is hidden with Christ in God. So Father, I pray that we would make use of the strength that you supply, the greatness, the surpassing greatness of the power that resides within us. Father, I pray that we would live out the new nature, Lord, that you've placed within us. We're not the same old man anymore. Father, we've been made new creations in Christ, and the old has passed away. Praise God. So, Father, we give you all honor and glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.