The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter 6? This week we come to the last petition In the Our Father prayer, there's uh six petitions in all. In this prayer, there's three that deal with uh God's glory, uh, his name, his kingdom, his will. And there's three that deal with our good, uh with our bread, our forgiveness, and our deliverance. Uh it's really a a simple prayer in Matthew uh chapter six that the Lord taught us to pray. Many of us have probably memorized it as children. But it's amazing how wonderfully profound and rich these these truths are once we really take the time to consider what the Lord has to say. And uh I really believe that God has taught us so much in the past few weeks that we've spent together uh examining uh this model prayer, and uh I pray that he'll continue to uh uh allow his truth to transform our time with him. This is about time with him, right? You know, prayer is a time with him, and we're close to the end. We'll have one more that we'll have to come back and deal with, you know, the conclusion of the prayer. Uh, but today we reach the final petition, which is deliver us, deliver us. So if you can recite the Lord's prayer with me, we'll use the older version of the prayer that uses uh debts and debtors. All right Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory. Forever. Amen. Heavenly Father, we do thank you once again for being able to take a look at your word to consider what it has to say. We pray that you would open it up to us. And help us to apply what we learn in our lives. I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Philip Riken captured it well in uh in these words. Listen to what he has to say. He heard it in the middle of the night. Long before the first rays of sun pierced the eastern horizon, he heard that sound that shattered his soul. It was only the cry of an old rooster. But to his ears it must have sounded like the devil himself, crowing in triumph. For when Peter heard that noisy old bird, he remembered the word Jesus had spoken, Before a rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Jesus was right. Three times Peter denied his master. First, while he was sitting in the courtyard of the high priest, the servant girl accused him, saying, You also were with Jesus of Galilee? Peter said he had no idea what she was talking about, but just to be safe, he went out to the gateway where he promptly disowned Jesus again. When they asked him a third time, he began to call down curses on himself, and he swore to them, I do not know the man. A night that began with feasting ended in profanity. Desperate lies, salted with the curses of an old sailor, immediately the rooster crowed, and Peter went out to weep bitter tears. When's the the last time you heard the Rooster Crow in your life? He usually struts in right after you've had a blow up with your wife or your husband? Something told you to hit the pause button like 10 minutes ago and pray. But you couldn't let them get away with that last statement, so you just had to make sure they heard that one last point. And ten minutes later tempers are flaring, things are said that should have never been said, and you wish you could reel it all back in, take back all the words that you said. And in the silence that's left afterwards, you can almost hear the sound of the rooster reminding you that you didn't have to go there. It was avoidable. He makes his present known one after one click too many on the screen in front of you. Now you're left with the images that you can't erase from your mind. tidal wave of guilt that you can't get out from underneath of and all of the promises to yourself and to others and to God and you're left alone with regret and you wonder how can you say sorry again for the same thing? The rooster puffs his chest out while you're busy puffing out yours. And just as you have an opportunity to defend your brother or sister when they were slandered, instead you use the occasion As an opportunity to present yourself as more intelligent, more spiritual than your brother or sister. You even added some unnecessary comments that didn't have to be shared, some information so that you could show yourself to have discernment. And then after the conversation is over, there's that sound of the rooster again. It's that that snap back into reality when you realize that what you've done you shouldn't have done, or what you didn't do that you should have done. And it's a bitter and a miserable place to be. In Romans chapter 6, verse 21, it says, Therefore, what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? Sin brings shame with it. And then the end of the verse says, for the outcome of those things is death. And one of the things that makes our sin so sickening to us is that it's always unnecessary. Sin is always unnecessary. If you're a believer, you never have to. You never have to. You never have have to have that excuse that, you know, I just couldn't help myself as a believer. There's always a way of escape. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 13 reminds us of that. It says no temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man and God is faithful. Who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but will with the temptation will provide a way of escape so that you will be able to endure it There's always an off-ramp when you're faced with temptation. And God has given us all that we need for life and for godliness. We have everything that we need. We have the the power of our salvation. There's a power in being united to Jesus Christ. You believe that, right? That's the truth we're taught over in Romans chapter 6, if you want to flip over there with me really quick. Romans chapter 6. This is a really a liberating passage if you have the faith to believe what it's saying to us, Romans chapter 6, starting at verse 5. Listen what he says He says, For if we have become united with him, this is talking about salvation, in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, been given new life Knowing this that our old self was crucified with him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is what Freed. He who has died is freed from sin. If you've been united to Jesus Christ, your old self has died. The new you has been resurrected. You've died, you've been freed from sin. That old person who was bound to sin died. Sin lost one of its slaves the day that you gave your life to Jesus Christ. But that doesn't stop the slave master of sin from you know barking out orders at you. But you don't have to listen You don't have to listen. You're dead to sin. That's why Colossians 2, verse 2 to 3 says, Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth, for you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ in God. My union with Christ gives me the power over sin. And you can add to that the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, Romans chapter 8, verse 13, that by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body. We have the Holy Spirit of God that's at work inside our lives. Spiritually, when you were born, when you were born again spiritually, you were given all the equipment necessary to stand in the day of temptation. We're united with Christ and dwelt by his spirit. There's power into your salvation. There's also power in the Word of God itself. Power in the Word that helps me in my battle against sin, helps you with your battle against sin. A few months ago we were reading in uh Matthew chapter 4. And uh examining the temptation of Jesus Christ, and uh we saw how every temptation that faced Jesus Christ uh was refuted powerfully by the knowledge of the Word of God. Every temptation, Christ said, it is written, it is written, it is written. Why? Because that's the defense against sin. That's how we battle sin And Christ as a man taught us how, as men, to battle sin. In Psalm 119, verse 11, it says, Your word I have treasured in my heart. Why? That I may not sin against you. That's why we memorize Scripture. That's why we meditate on Scripture. One of the reasons, anyway. So that we can battle sin, so that I may not sin against you Of the power of our salvation, the power of scripture. We have the power of the saints. There's a power in the fellowship of believers. If you flip over to Hebrews, the book of Hebrews. recently been studying in the the book of Hebrews and I've been struck just by the importance that it gives to encouragement, encouraging one another and just the the place that hat that has in our our lives to help us in our battle against sin. If you look at uh chapter 3 and uh verse 3, look what it says. Actually, I'll start in verse 12. It says, Take care, brethren, that there not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. Verse 13, but encourage one another, day after day, as long as it is still called today, so that none of you will become hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. What's one of the purposes that we get together and encourage one another? So that we won't be deceived by sin. That's part of the reason why we we have this fellowship, why we encourage each other when we get together in uh chapter ten, if you flip over there, uh verse that y'all know, but uh just to remind you of it. In chapter 10, verse 24, it says, And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds, not forsaking our own, assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. And all the more as you see the day drawing in air, you know what your responsibility is when you get here to church? When we gather together corporately? It's to find somebody that I can encourage. Why? Because that's part of what God uses to help them to feed sin in their lives. We're responsible to encourage one another. That's why one of the reasons why we get together. So we have the critical role that we play in each other's lives. Dietrich Bonhoeff said it. He says, sin demands to have a man by himself. It withdraws him from the community. The more isolated a person is, the more destructive will be the power of sin over him, and the more deeply he becomes involved in it, the more disastrous is his isolation. Isolation is a dangerous place to be When you're by yourself. And then there's also the power of separation as well. Sometimes we we fall just because we're asking for it. Not paying attention. Watch something that you shouldn't have shouldn't have watched. You went somewhere you shouldn't have gone. You listened to something you shouldn't have listened to. All because you thought you could handle it. There's certain things that we need to separate ourselves from. In Romans chapter 13 and verse 14 it says, But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and listen to this, make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lust. Don't make an opportunity for it. Don't crack open the door. Then all of a sudden you're wondering how did you get there? You know how you got there. You open the door. It's our duty to avoid persons and places that would allure us to sin. One writer said, he who carries about with him, listen to this, this is great. The person who carries about with them so much flammable material would do well to keep the greatest possible distance from fire. We're all walking around with flammable material. And what do you think is going to happen when you rub up against the fire? Of course you're going to catch a flame. Of course you're going to catch a flame. Another writer said, you who tempt others To sin and expose yourself to temptation or who in temptation fight without the armor of God, why will you mock God by praying, lead us not into temptation? After you've carried yourself there. Then say, oh lead me not into temptation. And every one of these gifts is is necessary in our battle against temptation. But there's a A power, as as we know in our salvation, the scriptures, the fellowship of saints, separation from sin, and we could go on about the uh uh the benefits and the blessings that the scripture gives us but uh every one of these gifts as I said is is necessary uh but when the rooster crowed for Peter that evening it wasn't because he wasn't saved Or because he didn't know the scripture. Or because he wasn't being encouraged by the saints or separating himself from sinners. I mean, you think about it, he was personally encouraged by Jesus Christ. You can't ask for better encouragement than that. Personally encouraged by Jesus Christ on that night. His closest disciples, Jesus' closest disciples, are all together when Peter fled for the first time. The reason Peter heard the rooster crow that night was because he neglected the vital discipline of prayer. Jesus warned his disciples at least twice that we know of. At least twice. In the Garden of Gethsemane that night, pray that ye may not enter into temptation. Twice. It's intriguing intriguing to think about. What would the final chapters of the Gospels look like if just one of them listened to what Jesus had to say? I mean, just one. Everybody left them. And we know that it had to happen this way. It was prophesied that it would happen this way. In Zechariah 13, Jesus prophesied himself that it would happen that way when he spoke to the disciples, saying that they would all scatter. But it's just interesting to think about how would the story look different if just one of them prayed? If just one of them steeled themselves against the temptation that was about to To hit. It all hinged on prayer. Whether they stood or fell, the battle was lost or won by prayer. And there's there's three questions that this text back in Matthew chapter 6 forces us to wrestle with. Number one, do you understand the weakness of your own flesh? We're to pray, lead us not into temptation. Do you understand that the dangers of your temptation? Do you understand the real danger? Because he asked the disciples to pray, deliver us. We need help. We can't do this on our own. Do you understand the dangers of your temptation? And uh number three, do you understand the power of your God? And this is just demonstrated by the context of this uh petition. So do you understand the weakness of your flesh? Do you understand the dangers of your temptation? And do you understand the power of your God? First of all, do you understand the weakness of your flesh? Do you really understand it? Everywhere we turn today, we're encouraged to believe in ourselves. As if that's a good thing. You know, believe in yourself. And it's presented to us in a in a way that that is just assumed that faith in itself is just virtuous. You know, as long as you believe. Regardless of what you put your f faith in, you know, just just belief in itself is is good. And uh sometimes people just use the word believe and without any object and it's just kind of for you to it's like this incomplete thought, you know, just believe. And it's like, well in what? Right? Just believe. And most often when the blank is filled in, it's for you to believe in yourself. Where does the Bible encourage us to believe in ourselves? It's uh it's definitely not encouraged as it relates to your ability to present yourself before God. Philippians chapter 3 and verse 3 Paul says, we are of the truth circumcision who worship in the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. When it comes to our ability to continue in faith, even that's dependent on the Lord. Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6, for I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's not saying I have confidence in you. I've got confidence in the one who chose you that he's going to complete his work. When Paul spoke of his hope in the even in his confidence for other people, listen to what he says. He says, we have confidence in the Lord concerning you. That you are doing and will continue to do what we command. We don't believe in ourselves. As the hymn writer said, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. That's our natural bent to walk away from God. MacArthur writes, when we honestly look at the power of sin and at our own weakness and sinful propensities, we shudder at the danger of temptation or even trial. And this petition is a plea for God to provide what we and ourselves do not have. We don't have it. Where do you ever find it in the scriptures working out well for a person who believed in himself? Wherever do you find that? When David placed his trust in God, he could defeat the giant with a handful of rocks. When David started counting up his army to see how many men he had, the Lord stood opposed against him. Anytime somebody started putting trust in themselves, it doesn't turn out well. Faith in ourselves is deadly, and uh we need to live by the grace of God. Charles Spurgeon once told a story about a man who found mercy and received grace in a time of need. The story comes from the days of the English Reformation when people paid for their profession of faith with their very lives. Often being burned alive at the stake for it. Listen to this account. History records the fate of two men who were condemned to die during the days of Queen Mary One of them boasted very loudly to his companions of his confidence that he would stand firm at the stake. He did not mind the suffering. He was so grounded in the gospel that he knew he would never deny it. He said that he longed for the fatal morning even as a bride for the wedding. His companion imprisoned in the same chamber was a poor, trembling soul who could not and would not deny his master, but he told his companion that he was very much afraid of the fire. He said he had always been very sensitive to suffering, and he was in great dread that when it began to burn, the pain might cause him to deny the truth He begged his friend to pray for him, and he spent his time in much weeping over his weakness and crying to God for strength. The other continually rebuked him and chided him for being so unbelieving and so weak. When the day came, they both came to the stake. He who had been so bold recanted at the sight of the fire. And went back, ignominiously to an apostate's life, while the poor trembling man whose prayer had been, Lead me not into temptation, stood firm as a rock, praising and magnifying God as he was burnt to a cinder. Where where are you placing your your trust this morning? Where are you placing your your trust? The rooster crowed pretty loud on that day. You should have should have prayed. You should have depended on God. This is a lesson that Peter learned the hard way. Peter said to him, Jesus Christ, even if I have to die with you, even if I have to die, I will not deny you. All the disciples just, you know, follow right behind him, you know, just ducks in a row. Yeah, me too, me too. And every one of them left. It's an empty claim if it's not rooted in trust and attendance on God. Because even though our spirit might be willing, the flesh is what? We're weak. We are weak Do you realize what Paul said in Romans 7. 18 is true about you? For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. For the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. And even though we've been transformed, we're still awaiting the redemption of our bodies. That's a day when we'll be able to live in complete conformity to the will of God, but until then we still groan. And it's our prayer that the God would not place us in a situation where we deal to temptation because we don't trust in ourselves So what does it mean? Lead us not into temptation. What does that mean? Are believers to live in fear that God will somehow lead them into a place of temptation? The early church actually uh struggled you know with this with this verse uh because they they understood the character of God, that God doesn't tempt anybody, right? That's what it talks about over in James chapter 1, if you want to turn over there, and uh most of you probably remember the verse, but uh over in James chapter 1. In verse 13, James lets us know that we should never be in fear that God will be the one to lead us into temptation, right? God's not the one that tempts us. It says in verse 13, let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone. So in what sense is it right to pray, lead us not into temptation? Are we asking God not to do what He'll never do? He'll never entice us to evil and we're just saying, God, I just hope that you're going to follow through with what you said. Is that what we're asking? God doesn't entice people to evil. In the Garden of Eden, if you remember it, God placed a tree in the middle of the garden, right? But what did he say? Don't eat of it. You know, he never entices people towards sin. Satan's desire was to see them fail. God's desire was to see them tested. In the trial of Job, remember uh God granted Satan permission to touch everything that Job had And uh any way you slice it, Job's calamity was ordained by God. I mean there's there's no way around that one. In uh Job chapter 1 and verse 11, uh Satan says, But put forth your hand, speaking to God, your hand, now and touch all that he has. And he will surely curse you to your face. Job chapter 2, verse 5. However, put forth your hand and touch his bone in his flesh, and he will curse you to your face. God was involved in this trial in Job's life. God was involved in it. But God never enticed Job to sin. He was in that situation. God's design was for him to stand. Satan's design was for him to fall, collapse, underneath the weight. Jesus' temptation. If you remember, it was the Holy Spirit who led Jesus into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. This is God's design. The Holy Spirit's design was to prove that Jesus had the rightful claim to be Messiah, and Satan was bent on seeing Jesus failed to test and concede the kingdom over to him. So we know that God doesn't actively entice us to temptation, even though he places us in situations where temptation happens, right? But God doesn't actively entice us towards evil. So what does this mean when we say the don't lead us into temptation? What does it mean to ask God not to lead us into temptation? One way that people have tried to understand this is by saying uh pointing to the the Greek word uh for uh test that's used here or temptation. Uh it's the the Greek word uh perhapson uh can either be translated as temptation or trial. So in a temptation, it's a temptation to evil when it's translated that way. When it's translated as a trial or a test, it's to determine the goodness or genuineness of a person's faith And uh it's true uh that God does lead us into uh places where we're we're tested, but when we look at what the scripture says about those times of testing, he says to receive those times of testing with with joy. James chapter 1, 2-4. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance, and let endurance have its perfect result. So that you may be complete, perfect, complete, lacking nothing. This is God's design in the trial. Are we to pray that God doesn't bring that to us? You know, God, I don't want this perfection, completion, and lacking nothing. Yes, keep that away. Perfect and complete somebody else. You know? Don't but don't lead me there. You know, is that what we're asking? In addition, in uh 1 Peter chapter 1, 6 and 7, it says, in this you greatly rejoice, talking about their trials. Even though now for a little while if necessary, you've been distressed by various trials. Why? So that the proof of your faith being more precious than gold which is perishable even though tested by fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Your your trials are producing something good for you. This is something that you can rejoice in. The testing of our faith gives us assurance of our salvation according to 1 Peter. It develops Christian character according to James 1. It brings us eternal rewards. According to Matthew 5, 1 Peter, James 1, Romans 8, 18. I mean, everywhere where we look, when God brings us into trial, it's actually for a good purpose. So are we now to pray that God Would not allow us to benefit from the very things that he's trying to produce in our lives? So we know that God doesn't tempt us And uh we shouldn't ask that the God not uh uh bring us into a time of uh of testing. So so how are we understand this? I believe that the the best way to understand this verse is within its own context. Because Jesus explains what he means by lead us not into temptation by the contrast that's found in the same verse. Do not lead us into temptation, but what? Deliver us from evil. That explains it. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. The word is this strong contrasting uh conjunction, the word but is a strong contrasting conjunction that shows that there's a connection between the two halves of of this verse and one explains the other You'll often find that in the scriptures that one way to make a positive statement was to place it in the negative. One way to make a positive statement was to place it in the negative. Real quick, flip over to Acts chapter 12 just to show you an example of this. Acts chapter 12, you had uh Peter being miraculously released from prison. And on the next day, listen to what it says. Acts chapter 12, verse 18. It says now that the day came when there was no small disturbance among the soldiers as to what could have become of Peter. And when Herod had searched for him and had not found him, he examined the guards and ordered that they be led away to execution. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and was spending time there. But in uh in verse 18 It says, now when that day came there was no small disturbance. What does that mean? There was a great disturbance, right? The way to state the positive was by stating it in the negative. There was no small disturbance, meaning there is a great disturbance. Acts chapter 19 Just another example of this, Acts chapter 19, a couple chapters later. You have a man named Demetrius. Who was uh bothered by the casting out of demons in his hometown in uh Acts chapter 19, look at verse 24. Actually, let's start in uh verse 23. About that time there occurred no small disturbance concerning the way You know, talking about Christianity here. For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, was bringing no little business to the craftsman. What does that mean? He's bringing a lot of business. The way to state the positive was by stating it in the negative. No small disturbance. There's a great disturbance. He made no little uh business. He made a lot of business. Right? Stating it in the in the negative to to say the positive. And when we uh think about this uh petition, when Christ instructs us to pray, lead us not into temptation, what is he saying? Deliver us from evil. Deliver us from temptation. It's a way to escape the positive by using a negative. One commentator put it this way. This petition is not so much for God not to lead the disciple into a moral test. As it is for the disciple to be delivered from Satan so as not to yield to temptation. What we're praying is, God, don't let me yield to temptation. God, deliver me from temptation By saying, lead us not into temptation. It's a prayer not to yield to temptation and to be delivered over to the power of the evil one. We pray against that. Jewish prayers often use this kind of construction, making a positive petition through the use of a negative statement. An ancient Jewish prayer reads this way: lead my foot not into the power of sin. And bring me not into the power of iniquity, and not into the power of temptation, and not into the power of anything shameful. It's just a way to state the positive by using The negative, the Psalms are filled with requests like these. You know, do not abandon me to my enemies. What is it saying? Defend me, right? It's stating that the positive by using So when we ask for deliverance, it clarifies what we're asking for deliverance from. We're asking for deliverance from sin, from iniquity, from temptation, from shame. It's our prayer that we'd be delivered. This is our prayer for deliverance. This is our prayer for deliverance. Not to succumb to the to the wiles of the evil one. It's uh it's not afraid that God would eliminate every test from our lives. You know, that's not what we're we're praying. When uh Jesus instructed his disciples to pray in the garden of uh Gethsemane. He wasn't saying, you know, hey guys, if you pray hard enough, this mob that's on its way is going to go back down the hill. Right? So so just pray with me and we'll see if we can get these guys out of here. That's not what he was saying. He's saying that the mob is coming. I want you to pray so that you can be prepared for it. Pray that you enter not into temptation. He's not saying that the mob's not going to enter into the garden. He's saying I'm pray you need to pray that temptation doesn't enter into your hearts when the mob shows up. That's what he's asking them to pray. It wasn't to avoid the trial altogether, but to respond the right way when the trial came. And the question is, is that your prayer? Is that what your prayer is? That God, would you prepare me for the temptations that I'll face this day? Prepare me for the trials that I'll endure? Do you understand the weakness of your own flesh and that you can go down at any moment? That's the way that we need to be praying before the Lord. Number two, do you understand the dangers of your temptation? Do you understand the dangers of it? The word for deliverance assumes that this is a situation that you're unable to free yourself from. And everywhere that it's used in the New Testament, it's always God that does the saving. God is always the one who does the saving because we are helpless against evil. And this is the point that's made even more clear when you consider the way that the word evil is probably being used here in uh in Matthew chapter 6. In the Greek language, the particular form of the adjective for evil that's used here could either be understood as a neuter or masculine, or in other words, it could be talking about evil as a category. In general or evil as a person, speaking about Satan himself Lead me not into temptation, but deliver me, you could say, from the evil one, as some translations put it. Jesus clearly used The adjective in that way in Matthew chapter 13, he just used evil, but in Matthew 13, 19 it was clear that he was talking about Satan. He says, when anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches it away. What has been sown in his heart, this is the one in whom the seed was sown beside the road. And it could be that in Matthew chapter 6 that we actually have a reference here to Satan himself. Deliver us from the evil one. And what match do you think you are for Satan? I mean, this is the one who dared to oppose God. He was so bold that he'd opposed God. And do you think you're a problem? If you would dare to oppose God and you think you're a threat , one of the signs of false teachers, according to Jude, is that they revile angelic majesties. They make fun of the spiritual world. Make fun of it. But Jude offers this warning in verse 9 of Jude. He says, But Michael the archangel, when he disputed with the devil and argued about the body of Moses, did not dare to pronounce against him a railing judgment But said the Lord rebuke you. You know, you have Michael praying. The Lord take care of you. I'm not going to try to fight. The Lord take care of you. What kind of master you think you are? If Michael's praying and saying the Lord rebuke you, what what what are you gonna do? R. C. Sprohl pointed out that uh one of the purposes for people dressing up as spirits on Halloween was the belief that one of the ways to attack the demonic world was to make fun of them. Interesting to think about. There is a real evil power out there that we're not to underestimate. We're not to underestimate evil. There's an enemy of our soul and he's hostile. Hostile. The word Satan means adversary. Adversary. He's the enemy of God. He's the enemy of all that belong to God. He's dangerous. The Bible calls him the destroyer or Apollyon in Revelation chapter 9 and verse 11. And anywhere that the Bible likens him to an animal, he's always a dangerous animal. He's called the serpent of old, Revelation 12, 9. He's called the dragon, Revelation 20, verse 2. He's called the roaring lion, 1 Peter 5, 8 Always a dangerous animal. He's dangerous. He's hostile. He's powerful. 2 Corinthians 4. 4 calls him the God of this world. Ephesians 2 verse 2 calls him the prince of the power of the air. He's a defeated foe, but he's still a foe. He's still a foe. And as a believer, he is after you. The most common word for for our enemy is is devil, which means uh the accuser, the slanderer. He's your opponent. He's your opponent. He's cunning, traps you in sin, and then he accuses you after you do it. And that's that's the kind of person he is. But whether we're we're talking about evil as a category or evil personified and and Satan himself, we've we've We're we're outmatched, all right? We're outmatched when it comes to to sin. And uh in his book, The The Plague of Plagues, which was uh uh rewritten as uh the sinfulness of sin. An author by the name of Ralph Venning who wrote in 1669, he says this. He says, in general, sin is the worst of evils, the evil of evil, and indeed the only evil. Nothing is so evil as sin is. Nothing is evil but sin. Sin is worse than affliction, worse than death, than the devil, than hell. Affliction is not so afflictive. Death is not so deadly. The devil is not so devilish. Hell is not so hellish as sin is. The four evils I've just named are truly terrible, and from all of them we'd be ready to say, Good Lord, deliver us. But yet none of these, nor all of them together, is as bad as sin. Sin is what brings men under the control of Satan. Sin is what uh brings people under divine wrath. Sin is what brings people misery. In Proverbs 13, verse 15, it says, the way of the treacherous is hard, the way of the transgressor is hard. Sin brings misery into your life. I love what MacArthur said. He says it's the first lord of the soul. Its virus has contaminated every living being. Sin is the degenerative power in the human stream that makes men susceptible to disease. Illness, death, hell. It's the culprit in every broken marriage, disrupted home, shattered friendship, argument, pain, sorrow, death. No wonder scripture compares it to the venom of a snake and the stench of death. That's what sin brings into our lives. It's all a result of sin. And this is what we're asking, Lord, deliver us from this. Deliver from the effects of sin in my own life. Father, I don't want to dishonor you. We go from asking for forgiveness of sins to asking for deliverance from sins. And we do that because we understand that God is the only one that's powerful enough uh to to remove sin from us, to deliver us from the power and the penalty of of sin. And this is just really the simple point that's made in the in the context of this prayer. Why are we coming to God for prayer, for deliverance? The simple answer is because he's the one that can deliver us. He's the one that has the power over sin. We shouldn't underestimate our enemy, but we shouldn't overestimate the enemy either, right? First John chapter four verse four You are from God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. And the way that we depend on the one who is greater is through the discipline of daily prayer. You can't avoid this and think that you're going to battle sin. You can't avoid daily prayer. There is no substitute for it. And so many places today we have these deliverance centers that pop up all over the city. You know, deliverance center over here, deliverance church over here, everybody's talking about deliverance. All of a sudden you find these centers, and the idea behind the vast majority of them is that, you know, there's going to be one prayer. Or one worship experience or one gift that you can give to the church and all of a sudden all your problems will just disappear. You know, we we've got the deliverance center, and if you come in and you get your hands laid laid on you by the apostle, prophet, bishop Potentate, whatever you want to call them, up in the front, you know, you just you know get get slapped on and you you get prayed for and all of a sudden deliverance deliverance is coming. If that was the case, why didn't Jesus do that? Hey fellas, let me take care of you right now. One prayer for deliverance, you're you're good. Jesus didn't do that. What he said is that you need to be on your knees daily before God. If you think you're going to battle sin, you need to be before God on your face, pleading for deliverance. Daily. We find that this uh this prayer is uh connected uh to the other prayers that we find in inside of uh Matthew chapter six. Just as we need daily bread. Just as we need daily forgiveness, we need daily deliverance. We need to come before God every day asking God for deliverance. And if if you find yourself struggling with sin, you can't convince me that I'm serious about getting rid of the sin in my life if you're not also serious about prayer. If you're not also serious about daily prayer, you can't tell me that you're serious about getting rid of the sin in your life. Looking for some kind of answer. You know, some kind of special key. You know, what's the trick? to to getting over this sin in my life. Is there some kind of book I can read and some sermon I can listen to? Or, you know, what do I need to do to just unlock the power of God in my life and to deliver me from these these sins? Christ talks about it right here. It's coming before the Lord daily when he when he came to the disciples. It was uh, brothers, couldn't you uh couldn't you wash with me for one hour? You really want to battle sin. One hour is not not too long to stay before the Lord in prayer, asking God to deliver you from sin. The Lord teaches us that we cannot skip this petition. And some of us are hearing the rooster crow in our lives because we don't believe that we're weak. Because we don't believe the temptation is strong, and we don't believe that prayer is effective. And we're faced with sin in our lives. I like the Heidelberg Catechism puts it this way. It says, we are so weak in ourselves that we cannot stand a moment. And besides this, since our mortal enemies, the devil in the world and our flesh ceases not to assault us, Do ye therefore preserve and strengthen us by the power of your Holy Spirit, that we may not be overcome in the spiritual warfare, but constantly and strenuously resist our foes until at last we obtain a complete victory. There is coming a day of complete victory over sin, right? There's coming that day. But until then, we're going to do daily battle. That's just the way it works. We do daily battle against sin and we do it on our knees. The battle is lost or won in private prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God. We thank you so much for this opportunity that we have to uh uh to come before your word once again to be challenged uh by it. Father, I pray that we would depend on you daily in prayer. Father, that we would not look for some kind of quick fix, some quick solution to the problems that we face. But Father, that we would uh be serious about coming before you because uh you're the God that's promised us deliverance if we come before you. Uh Father, uh Christ has shown us the example. Christ is our leader, our forerunner. He's the one that we follow behind, and he's the one that's instructed us to pray in this way. And Father, we saw when the mob came that our Savior was ready. And when the mob came, the disciples fled. And the difference, not only that Christ was the Son of God, the sinless son of God, but the difference that we also notice is that Christ prayed while his disciples slept. And Father, I pray that we would not be found sleeping, and that we would not be found hearing the rooster crow again in our lives because we failed to come before you, God. Father, may you do your work in our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.