The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, if you have your Bibles with you, why don't you open up to the book of Galatians? Book of Galatians, we're in Galatians chapter 1. I can compete with babies, so I'm not worried. Yeah, it almost it feels like a uh a coffee next to Jesus night, like I should have a board behind me and you know doing my outlines. For those of you who who uh I I know uh Herb said he's gonna try to come out, but uh we're working through the book of Ephesians right now. So if you if you do plan to come You can uh read through Ephesians a couple times and uh we're starting next time in verses three down to fourteen. Uh so we're looking at that next section there. But Galatians uh chapter one. Uh why don't you follow with me as I read verses one through twelve? Paul, an apostle, not sent from men nor through the agency of men, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead and all the brethren who are with me To the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins so that he might rescue us from this present evil age. According to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forevermore. Amen. I'm amazed that you are so quickly deserting him, who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed As we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you have received, he is to be accursed. For am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. Uh why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this, your word. Father, we pray that you would speak to us through it. Father, that you would uh help us to understand uh what you've revealed, and uh Father, that you would help us to glorify you uh for the uh the gospel of Jesus Christ and the uh the means that you use to communicate uh this precious gospel to us. Father, we thank you for uh the Reformation and we thank you for the uh the men that have gone before us, uh men who have uh uh in many cases uh paid to to have this message uh given to us through uh uh their own lives, uh through their own blood. And uh Father, we uh pray that uh you would help us to be uh people of of faith, uh people of courage and strength, and that we'd be able to pass on this message to the next generation. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Out of the 13 letters that we know that Paul wrote in the New Testament, there's no other letter that begins like this one does. Every other letter offers some sort of prayer. uh for the church. Uh there's uh a kind of standard format to a lot of the letters that uh Paul has uh you know opens up with you know who he who's writing, who he's writing to. Uh there's uh a short kind of uh uh uh greeting, you know, of grace to you and peace and and then usually he'll transition into a prayer uh for the the church that he's writing to but uh but this letter here just totally goes past the prayer and right into the meat of what he wants to say. And uh it instead of uh after this offering of praise to God, he jumps right in with, I'm amazed at you. You know, like like what is going on with you? Uh he uses this strong word in the Greek style mazzo, uh which means to be astonished, to marvel at. It was a word that people used when they couldn't come up with uh you know any kind of explanation for what they had just seen. We find this word used where the the disciples um in Matthew chapter 8 verse 27 they couldn't come up with a an explanation uh for um how uh the winds and the waves could be still you remember that and uh it's just that they were struck out of themselves they're just amazed at what they had seen. And this is the kind of reaction uh that Paul has towards uh the church in verse 6. He says, I'm amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Like I have no explanation for this There's there's no words that I can put to this. And this is how he opens up the uh book to the uh Galatians. In addition to that, uh the letter to the Galatians is unique in the way it begins and uh also in the way that it ends. If you flip over to chapter six. In uh verse 17 , the book of uh Galatians, look at look at how how Paul ends this letter. From now on, let no one cause trouble for me, for I bear on my body the brand marks of Jesus. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit Brethren. He just ends it with like don't don't anybody bother him bother me. Don't don't bother me. It's just like what in the world, Paul? Like what is going on And there's no other letter that's as straightforward as this letter in chapter 3 and verse 1. Look at what Paul says here, chapter 3, verse 1. You foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified? And you wonder what in the world is going on in the city of Galatia for Paul to respond like this You know, for Paul to open up by, like, I'm just shocked. I'm amazed by you. You know, he ends his letter, don't bother me, don't let anybody bother me. And then in the middle of the letter, he's calling them foolish and bewitched. Like what is going on in uh the city of Galatia? And what we find is uh in chapter four and verse eleven that Paul is in fear that perhaps he's labored over them in vain. Look at verse eleven. I fear that perhaps I've labored over you in vain. And he was concerned that the fruit of salvation was phony fruit, that that maybe what he saw in the lives of the Galatians was just all leaves. It wasn't the kind of fruit. that we talked about even uh earlier uh this morning. Uh it wasn't the the wheat that that the Lord was going to you know bring into his barn, but it was going to be the chaff that was just burnt up. And that's his concern with the Galatians. He's like, you know, what is going on? Because you are departing from the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the only gospel that can save. The churches of Galatia were founded by the Apostle Paul. They heard the good news through him in chapter 1 and verse 11. It says, I would have you know, brethren, the gospel which was preached by me. It's not according to man. And then in chapter 4 in verse 13, he says that he was the one who preached the gospel to them the first time. It's one of the reasons why he speaks to them as his own children. He talks to them as children in the faith. These were churches that were likely established by Paul during his first missionary journey in an area that was considered part of the southern province of Galatia. And uh Paul's ministry uh to this church was well received in uh chapter four and uh verse twelve if you want to take a look over there. So I beg of you, brethren, uh become as I am, for I'm as I also have become as you are You have done me no wrong, but you know that it was because of a bodily illness that I preached the gospel to you the first time. And that which was a trial to you in my bodily condition, you did not despise or loathe, but you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus Himself. And then he says, where then is that sense of blessing you had? For I bear you witness that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me. So he talks about like this affection that they had for the Apostle Paul. You know, you received the gospel from me. And uh he says, what what what what happened now? Like like who's bewitched you? Like who's turned you against me? Why why would you depart from the message that you've heard preached? He looks at them as his own children and he's wondering what's what's what's gone wrong? Galatians chapter 6, verse 11, he says, See with what large letters I'm writing to you with my own hand. He had written this Letter in a large script. Many people say because of a physical affliction that he had with his eyes prevented him from seeing clearly, so he had to write in large letters so he could actually see what he was writing. Only a few short years, if not months, after Paul had visited this church, a church that expressed love to him, a church that, you know, he claims would have plucked out their own eyes if it were possible to give to him And uh and now this church has turned against him, and he can't believe what he's hearing. False teachers have crept into the church. These false teachers were uh known as the Judaizers. Uh they were men who tried to convince the Galatian church that uh in order to to really be received by God that they had to follow the Old Testament practices, the Old Testament rituals. Old Testament ceremonies, that they needed to be circumcised. And they could have looked to the tradition of the Old Testament to try to you know, defend what they were teaching. They could have looked back to the Genesis chapter 17, you know, the institution of circumcision. They would have been able to claim the example of Jerusalem that was following this practice. They Would have looked back to the law to say that, you know, we're just trying to follow the law. But look at what Paul says in uh Galatians chapter five, verse two. Galatians chapter five, verse two. He says, Behold, I Paul say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. For you who you have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by the law, you have fallen from grace. And the book of Galatians has been called our our spiritual emancipation proclamation. It's a book that lets us know that we're free. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. Chapter 3, verse 13. Christ set us free from the penalty of the law. Chapter 5, verse 1, it says that it was for freedom that Christ set us free. And if the Galatians sought to be justified or to be declared innocent, in the sight of God based on the law, they didn't just have to have to cut themselves. They had to obey the entirety of the law. It wasn't just a small part of the law. They would have to obey the the entire law Obedience to the Old Testament law could not save because nobody could truly be obedient to all of it, right? If you're going to try to be obedient to any part of it as as a as a means of your justification standing as righteous before God, now you have to obey it all. You can't just obey part of it. And this is why Paul is so adamant that the message that you received, it's not just a human message. It's from revelation from Christ. It's revelation from God And it's easy to understand why this book was really so precious to Luther and others that were like him, uh, the battle that Paul waged for the truth and Galatia was really the same kind of battle that the Reformers encountered in the 15th century. Luther considered this book so dear to him that he called it his Katie von Bora. Uh Katie von Borough was his wife. He says, I I consider this book my wife. I've betrothed it to myself. It's so precious to me. Because he didn't want to let go of this doctrine of justification by faith alone Uh in addition to Paul fighting the same kind of battle in Galatia as the Reformers did, there's ideas that are brought up in this book that are that are really uh kind of key to the Reformation. There were uh there's five solas uh as it's uh been titled, five uh Latin phrases or slogans uh that came out of the Protestant Reformation, uh which really summarized the the basic uh theological principles of the the Reformation, uh the word sola is the the Latin word for alone or only. And there were five main principles that separated Protestant belief from Roman Catholicism and the belief that One belief, and we'll kind of just work through these because all these are found in the book of Galatians, was that salvation is by sola gratia. By grace alone. And that word alone is key. You know, when when you have a uh if you run into somebody who's of a of another faith or in the Roman Catholic Church, they'll say, oh, we believe that we're saved by grace. But if you say, do you believe that you're saved by grace alone? Now there's something different. They say, oh, we believe in salvation by faith. We believe that we need to have faith. You know, th they they don't have a problem with faith, but if you say, is it faith alone? I I remember I I've and I've shared the story before. I've I've I went to a Roman Catholic church. uh as an assignment uh during uh uh bible college and uh one of the assignments was just to go around and ask you know different denominations you know what did they think about the scriptures what do they think about salvation went to a Roman Catholic church and You know, asked him, you know, do you believe that uh that a person can enter into a relationship with Christ, you know, by grace alone, faith alone, and you know, through Christ alone? And he said, No. I mean just straight up told me no. That's that's not what we believe. You know, do you believe that the scriptures are sufficient to lead a person to a knowledge of salvation? He told me, no. It's scripture and the traditions of the church. And really when you look at any false religion, I mean that's really what comes out is that they're unwilling to settle on a conviction of Christ alone, faith alone, scripture alone. It's always plus. You know, the false religion is all they always do this this kind of arithmetic. They always have to add something. Add something to Christ. You know, there's there's something more. There's something something in addition to Christ, something in addition to grace, something in addition to faith. The idea that our salvation is only by God's grace, apart from any human merit, is found in the book of Galatians. Look at Galatians chapter 2, verse 21. Paul says, I do not knowify the grace of God. And this is in the context of where he's talking about circumcision. He says, if I were to be circumcised, I would know if the grace of God. He says, I do not know if I the grace of God. For if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. Like what sense did it make for Christ to come and die if you could do it yourself? When Jesus was in the garden, he's saying, you know, you know, Father, if there is any other way, let this cup pass from me. Do you think that that the father would have sent the son to the cross if there was something that he could have done? You know, hey son, you know, don't worry about going to the cross. They can do it themselves. No Like the answer is no, there's nothing I could do by myself. I needed Christ, I needed his grace, and I don't nullify the grace of God. I'm not saying that, well, there's something that I can do to earn my salvation. There's something that I can do to earn some kind of favor before God. There's nothing that you can do. It's all of Christ. I do not nullify the grace of God. If righteousness comes through the law, then Christ dies for no purpose. It's grace alone. And it's also through faith alone. Look at Galatians chapter 2, verse 16. Chapter 2, verse 16. It says, nevertheless, knowing, I'll start at verse 15. We are Jews by nature, not sinners from among the Gentiles Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Christ Jesus. So that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. So he says it's it's only through faith, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through what? Through faith in Christ Jesus. Nothing is added to that. It's our faith in Christ Jesus that justifies. Also, it's through Christ alone. Look at chapter 3, verse 26. Because what is the object of our faith? Christ. For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. The object of our faith is Jesus Christ. And I love what R. C. Sproul says. He says when we talk about justification by faith alone, it's really shorthand for justification by Christ alone. The Christ is the one who justifies. Faith is the instrument that connects me to Christ. So I'm trusting in Jesus Christ because Christ alone is my righteousness. And I'm trusting in him to save me. I'm not trusting, it's not my faith that saves. You know, some people have like, you know, this kind of idea of faith in faith. You know, just because I believe. You know, it's the object of your belief. What are you believing in? Who are you believing in? And it's because we believe in Jesus Christ that our faith saves. Because Jesus Christ is the one who saves, right? It's Jesus Christ who is the Savior. To say that we're saved through faith alone is to say that we're saved by Christ alone. And obedience through the law could not do what Christ could do And it's also through the means of Scripture alone. The gospel that Paul taught was not a gospel according to man. It was not received by man. It was not taught by man. It was not revealed by man. This was the revelation that came from God. It was revealed from heaven. Galatians chapter 1, look at verse 12. It says, for I neither received it from man nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. And the Galatians were able to judge the words that they heard from others based on the words that they heard from Paul, because the words that they heard from Paul were the words that he heard from Christ. You understand that? The words that they heard from Paul were the words that he heard from Christ. It was by Christ's authority. Galatians chapter 1 verse 9. Look at what it says there Just as we have said before, so I say again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you've received, he is to be accursed. And that's really the principle of sola scriptura. It's only through the revelation from Christ, only through the revelation from God that we can trust in for our salvation. We don't need anything outside of the revelation of God. You know, so what God reveals is all that we need in order to be saved. So, you know, this whole idea of you know scripture plus tradition, uh, you know, and and the teachings of the the church or whatever else. You know, this would fly in the face of what the Apostle Paul said. He says, the gospel that you've received from me is all that you need. It's sufficient in itself. The message alone is sufficient to bring you to salvation. And this salvation, you know, understanding that it's by grace alone and faith alone and Christ alone and through the scriptures alone, through the revelation of God alone. Who receives all the glory in the end? God alone. Solideo Gloria. To God alone be the glory. And the idea that salvation is to be to the glory of God is also found in this book. If you look in uh Galatians chapter 1, verses 4 and 5, it speaks about Christ who gave himself for our sins. so that he might rescue us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forevermore. Amen. All glory belongs to God. And the reason why all glory goes to God alone is because no credit of salvation goes to us. All credit goes to him. All credit goes back to God. It's all his work. And if you're a Christian today, it's because you've been rescued from your sins. And united to God by grace alone, through faith alone, by Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. And the foundation of your belief comes from the scriptures alone. It's all through God, and all the glory goes back to God. Just wanted to to close with a with a story here. Can't close without a without a story. We already talked about October uh 31st, 1517 and what made that date so important, you know, when uh Martin Luther nailed the the 95 uh theses on the the the castle uh church door in in Wittenberg. After the the posting of the 95 Theses, Luther was in constant danger everywhere. He debated, he debated with you know uh different people within the Roman Catholic Church, but every time he went to a debate, he was always fearing for his life. At uh Heidelberg he was called on to defend his position before the new general of the Augustinians and he traveled secretly. He was called to a meeting in Augsburg before one of the Pope's representatives, a cardinal named Thomas Cajetin. And he believed he was headed to the stake to burn when he went to this debate. I mean, how many people go to a debate and say, I'm just expecting to die after I'm done? You know, that's what Luther was doing. He was going to debate with this Roman Catholic cardinal, and he and he and he just assumed that after this debate, I'm done. Like these are my final words He's quoted to say, now I must die. During this debate, Luther admitted that, in his opinion, the Pope could make mistakes Later on in his most popular debate, which was held in Leipzig, Germany, where he appeared before the most capable German theologian of that day, a man by the name of Martin Eck, he came with 200 students from Wittenberg armed with axes. During his debate, Eck tried to corner Luther by linking him with men condemned by the church. And by the way, that's Luther who came with 200 students with axes. He came with 200 students from Wittenberg armed with axes. Again, he was fearing for his life. During this debate, Eck tried to corner Luther by linking him with men condemned by the church. John Wycliffe. who translated the Bible into English, who is condemned for saying that it is not necessary for salvation to believe that the Roman Church is above all others. John Huss, he was linked with John Huss, who was condemned for claiming that Peter was not the head of the universal church. And Luther asserts this. He says councils have sometimes erred. They cannot make a divine right out of what is not a divine right, and that they have sometimes contradicted each other. And then he made this statement A simple layman armed with scriptures to be believed above a pope or a council without it I say that neither the church nor the Pope can establish articles of faith. These must come from Scripture. For the sake of Scripture, we should reject popes and councils. That's the kind of stand that he was willing to make because of his conviction in the Word of God. And it was scripture alone that gave him that kind of confidence. And uh my question for you is is this the kind of confidence that that we have as a church? You know, we we we stand on the shoulders of of giants, you know, people people who who bore the testimony in times past and said, Hey, I'm I'm willing to die if it's necessary. to hold this book alone as the authority over my life and over the church's life. I'm willing to give my life for this book. Like, where are those people today? Do we have men and women today who say, you know what, I'm willing to give my life for this book? That it's scripture alone. It's God alone. It's Christ alone. It's grace alone. It's faith alone. There's nothing that can be added to that. Nothing can be added to that. You add to that, you have cut yourself off from Christ. You have nullified the grace of God. And you've told Christ that your death was meaningless. Because there was something that I could do to contribute to my own salvation. We can contribute nothing, right? Nothing at all. We praise God for uh for his word, and uh may God give us uh the kind of fortitude that we need in the days uh ahead that we'll stand on the foundation of the Word of God. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh this time that we've been able to spend in your word. Father, we thank you for the men who've gone before us, uh, and we pray that we'd be people of conviction. uh that uh we went back down from uh what your word has to say and that we would give all glory and honor to you realizing that no no glory goes to uh to us for uh uh any of of the the blessings that we've received. Father, we thank you that we have a certain hope, that we look forward to heaven, not based on our own efforts, but based on the righteousness of your Son, Jesus Christ. He is our righteousness. And Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, in our day, Lord, to take a firm stand on Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.