The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well it's my privilege to introduce our guest speaker for this morning. Uh those of you that were here for the Sunday school hour already got the benefit uh from his teaching, which uh I'll just point out this book that I mentioned at the beginning of the Sunday school class, How the Nations Rage , written by our speaker, Jonathan Lehman. Rethinking faith and politics in a divided age. I would definitely recommend this book and also recommend that you listen to the recording of the Sunday school class if you missed it because it was excellent. Thank you, brother, for that I just wanted to give you an introduction of Dr. Jonathan Lehman is the editorial director for Nine Marks And after doing undergraduate and graduate degrees in political science, he began his career in journalism, where he began as an editor for an international economics magazine in Washington, D. C. He uh served for a number of years um as an elder at Capitol Hill Baptist Church in Washington, D. C. And since his call to ministry , Jonathan has earned a Master of Divinity and a PhD in theology and worked as an interim pastor. Today he edits the Nine Marks series of books as well as the Nine Marks Journal, which I'm sure Uh many of you are familiar with the Nine Marks ministry. Our church has definitely benefited from that ministry. We're grateful for it. I know I have personally for many years as well. And we use and recommend a number of the Nine Marks books and some that Jonathan has authored himself. He lives with his wife Shannon and four daughters in a suburb of Washington, D. C. And he currently serves as an elder at Chevrolet Baptist Church, which is a somewhat recent church plant from Capitol Hill Baptist Church. He teaches as well for a number of seminaries. And I forgot to mention two of his daughters are with us today in the back there. So please be sure to greet them. We are glad to have them with us. Also, he's written a number of articles that can be found on the NineMarks website, ninemarks. org. And he and Mark Dever uh together do a weekly podcast called Pastor's Talk that some of you might be familiar with and I would recommend it. I mentioned earlier I find it informative and entertaining because to hear Jonathan Lehman and Mark Dever, the banter between the two of them is enjoyable to listen to as well. So if you uh as I mentioned earlier, if you if you missed the class earlier, would definitely encourage you to to listen to that. Um But for the Sunday service for this morning for the sermon, he's going to be Preaching to us on the subject of discipleship. And disciple, if you are a Christian, you probably know this. Hopefully you know this, but you are a disciple. And you are called, in fact, commanded, as we read earlier in Matthew 28, you're commanded by Christ to make disciples. And it discipleship is one of those words, you know, sometimes the most familiar words are the ones that we can define that the were the least skilled at defining, right? The ones that So discipleship is one of those words like, okay, we know we are disciples, we know we're called to make disciples, but what exactly does that mean? How am I supposed to do that? Do I have to go to seminary before I can disciple someone? So Every question you've ever had on discipleship, I think Jonathan Lehman is going to answer this morning. Is that right? And uh in the next uh hour or so here. So well if you'd please uh warmly welcome our guest speaker, Jonathan Lehman. Good morning, Saints. Um sweet singing with you of of you don't know me, I don't know you, but the friend that we all share in common, right? That was that was sweet. Thank you for I was sitting in front of you, obviously, listening as I sing. I listen to you, and my heart is warmed, encouraged to hear your songs of praise. to our shared Lord Jesus. So thank you for this chance to spend time with you. Greetings from Chevrolet Baptist Church, as Matt mentioned. Type typo Not an expository sermon. Uh Ordinarily I think expository, expositional, whatever sermons are the best way to preach. I think the ordinary diet of a church should be an expositional sermon in which I'm opening the Bible and I'm exposing a particular text and explaining that text and applying that text. But when you're a guest preacher, you get to cheat a little bit. And so we're doing a topical sermon on this topic of discipling. Here's my opening question for you. If you call yourself a follower of Jesus, but you're not helping other Christians follow Jesus, what do you mean when you call yourself a follower of Jesus? If you call yourself a follower of Jesus and Jesus made disciples, Jesus helped people follow Jesus, call yourself a follower of Jesus, but you're not helping other Christians follow Jesus. What do you mean when you say you're a follower of Jesus? Right? As Matt said, that's what we read this morning in Matthew 28. Part of that is evangelizing, making disciples. Half of that is evangelizing. saying to people who don't believe, who don't follow, hey, you need to follow too, because you're a sinner and you're under under God's wrath and you need to be saved by grace alone. So that's part of it. But another part of it, not what we're thinking about this morning is helping those who are now saved to follow Jesus, teaching them everything, teaching them to obey everything I Commanded. That's a half that we're going to think about this morning. And to do that, I'm going to look at a bunch of texts. But start, if you could, turning your Bibles to Ephesians Four Ephesians four verse eleven I'm going to take a few points just just to dive in to this topic. I'm going to take a few points from Ephesians 4, 11 and following. Five things, in fact, just very briefly to observe from that text. Exegetical observations. Verse 11, and he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the pastors, and teachers to equip the saints. Okay, first thing to notice: what is a pastor's job? To equip the saints. Pastor's job is to equip the saints. Pretty clear? Okay. Second, what does he equip the saints for? Keep reading. To equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. So, who is responsible for the ministry of building up the body of Christ? Is it just the pastor? So pastor and everybody. Pastor and the members to build each other up. Okay, third thing to notice in this text: how long are church members, you, Called to build each other up. Again, keep reading, verse 13. Until, how long? Until We all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God. How long? until there's mature manhood. How long? Until there's a measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ Okay, fourth observation. Why should pastors equip the saints and why should church ministers work to build one another up unto this goal? So that you would hold fast to the truth and not be deceived, verse 14. So that, why? So that We may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves, and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes Why? That's why. That we wouldn't be misled by false doctrine, right? And then notice fifth and finally, how church members, you Build each other up by speaking biblical words to one another, by discipling one another. Verse 15. Rather Rather than being carried off by cunning doctrine, rather speaking the truth in love, we We, Baltimore Bible Church, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ. From whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, him and her, and him and him, and her and her, every joint held together. with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up Not just the pastors, so that the body builds itself up. Speaking the truth in love builds itself up in love. Every part, every member of the body. has a job to do in the ministry of building the body, speaking the words of love, building the body up. Until we reach the fullness, the fullness, the maturity of Christ Isn't that what this is saying? You all y your job is not just to show up here and listen for an hour and a half. No, your your job lasts all week. In building one another up. That's your job. Grateful you joined the church. Did did we tell you when you joined the church that you have a job? Sorry if we didn't tell you. You you have a job. That's to build each other up. Speaking the truth in love. The point gets picked up in the f you don't believe me? Well let us keep reading a little bit further. Paul's talking about putting off the old ignorant self and putting on the new self, and he says this: look at verse 25. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each of you, Baltimore Bible Church, each of you. Speak truth with his neighbor. Why? We're members of one another, for we are members of one another. Speak the truth to your neighbor, you 're members of one another. And then look at verse twenty-nine. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth. Okay , enough of the gossip. Enough of the slander, enough of the complaining, enough of the She didn't show up for nursery on time. What's wrong with her? Enough of the complaining. Let no corrupting talk come out of your minds, but only Not principally, not primarily, not mostly, but only such as is good for building up. Only such as is good for building up. Does that mean you say everything all the time that you want to say that's good for building up? No. As fits the occasion , we're exercising wisdom and discernment, and don't gotta say everything all the time. As fits the occasion, why? That it may give grace. To those who hear it, I'm only going to speak those words. They build up as fits the occasion. Giving grace. My goal in speaking to you, your goal in speaking to each other, each part, each joint, a fit together. It's giving grace. I want to build up. Sometimes that's law, sometimes that's gospel. But the goal is to build up and give grace, mercy, grace, love That's how you speak to each other. Non-Christians come in and they're like, weird kind of speech in here. All is grace. What's going on? Okay, I just want to draw out the lessons of Ephesians 4 really clear. Okay, so uh Matt mentioned I teach in seminary sometime, so it's pop quiz time. You ready? I'm gonna have a pop quiz. You are gonna answer my questions. Multiple choice. Make it easy. Okay? Multiple choice. Question number one. Where does Paul envision the Christian life being lived out? Question one, where does the Paul Paul envision the Christian life being lived out? Is it A by oneself at home, looking only to your own personal personal Bible reading to be your source of spiritual nourishment. Anybody pray Okay, B by oneself in nature, communing and experiencing God in the glory of nature. Anybody for B Uh C. Through a casual fellowship of Christian friends where you occasionally talk about Christian things, but basically you're just hanging out together. Anybody for C? Okay, D. In the fellowship of where does Paul in live envision Christian life being lived out? In the fellowship of believers who regularly gather together under the instruction of a man or a group of men set apart as pastors for the instruction in the word in the context of being committed to help one another grow in unity, maturity, and the fullness of Christ. Anybody boy for D? Good. All right. Paying attention. Okay, multiple choice question number two. According to this passage, who is responsible for the ministry of the word in the church. Is it A the pastor, B the members, or C, both the above? Anybody for A? B? The members? C, both of the above. Good, okay. Okay, few a few true or false questions. You guys are getting A pluses so far. True or false? In this passage, Paul called you, you can just speak out. True or false. In this passage, Paul calls you, if you are a Christian, to live a life characterized by putting yourself under the preaching of good, faithful pastors. True or false? Good. True or false in this passage, Paul calls you, if you are a Christian, to live a life that is characterized by speaking the truth in love to other Christians. True or false? True or false, in this passage, Paul calls you, if you are a Christian, to live a life that is characterized by listening to brothers and sisters in Christ speak the truth and love to you. Okay, you've all testified. You've all given witness. The Christian life is lived in the gathering where we're listening to faithful pastors who equipped us. The Christian life is spent through Learning as fits the occasion to speak truth and love to others, and sometimes the hardest of all, letting others speak the truth and love to me. To you. I remember one occasion when a uh a a sister in the church said, Jonathan, you you can be so selfish. And uh my f first flash of a response was like, no, no, I'm not. But she was loving me, speaking the truth in love to me in that moment. Now, of course, that was a long time ago. I never struggled with that anymore. No, that's not true. I still need brothers and sisters saying those things to me. Here's here's here's the point. I think many Christians Affirm the priority of the word from this pulpit. But the the the priority of the ministry of the word from this pulpit. But here's the deal, friends. It doesn't end here. It doesn't end at Whatever time we in, 12 o'clock on Sunday. The ministry of the Word needs to continue to go out and be massaged through the life of the congregation, like yeast through dough. Right? It needs to reverberate around from one mouth, one heart to one to the other all week. You get in the car, you drive home, you say to your spouse, what do you think of the sermon? Or I was really challenged by that. What did you think? And and and a couple of deacons will be standing in the back having those conversations. And to the the person who you're meeting for the first time, you can say, hey, I I hope they're Hope the sermon was encouraging to you, is encouraging to me. You you go home with your children and you talk to your children about the minister of the word and and what was preached around the family dinner table or but by the bedside or and you then you go into the the workplace in the week and maybe you share that. that that word that you hear with your non-Christian friends and neighbors. My my my former pastor Mark Dever, his one of his habits on on Sundays is if he goes to a store or a restaurant, he always says So what'd the preacher preach? Kinda knowing that they probably didn't hear a preacher preach something, but that's just his way of starting to have a conversation. So what'd the preacher preach? Sometimes they did. The ministry of the word begins here, yes. But friends, it should last all week in our lives together. And that is the topic of discipling. Sometimes that word creates relationships where none existed. Sometimes that word helps to reform, reshape those relationships. So it's not that Christians don't talk to each other about other things that the world talks about. You know, what'd you think of the game on Sunday? What'd you think of the game on Saturday? What do you think of the weather? How are your children doing What curriculum is being used at your school? Those are good things to talk about, fine things to talk about. But what should make Christian relationships different, among other things? Is that we also speak words of grace, words of truth to one another What are the conversations of this church like? If I were to climb into your lives as a church, what what would I hear? What kind of conversations? Would they sound just like the neighborhood's conversations? Or would there be these additional elements? And let me just admit, in many churches, it's countercultural to talk Bible to one another. It's weird. Right? It's uncomfortable. It's unusual. But little by little, my encouragement for you is to begin the art of uncomfortable conversation. The art, the skill of awkward talk. Talk of Jesus. Talk of Bible. Talk of grace. Talk of confessing that thing about yourself that you don't really want others to know. The awkward talk of saying to the brother, you know, the way I saw you speaking to your wife Can can I can can can you help me understand how why you speak to her like that Or I'm really struggling with this temptation. I need help. Discipling is not a program. Discipling is not a podcast. As great as some podcasts are, or not. It's not a one -to-one information transfer. Discipling is about life on life, loving in word and deed. Discipling is life on life, loving in word indeed. As I said a moment ago, Jesus told us to make disciples, and part of that is helping other Christians follow Jesus. That's discipling, helping other Christians follow Jesus according to his word. It's a basic part of the Christian life. It is 101. Friends, this is not advanced Christianity. This is not fourth year of college 401 class. This is not the advanced session. This is the basic session. Okay? This is Christianity. Sharing about Jesus and helping Christians follow Jesus. Seven observations about discipling this morning. Okay? Here's the outline. It's not up there. I didn't get it to you on time. Seven observations observations about discipling. Number one, discipling begins with joy and love. Discipling begins with joy and love. It always strikes me as I read through the New Testament how much Paul talks about the love he has for the churches that he he's been interacting with. Uh listen listen to just a few passages. You don't need to turn them. You can write them down if you want. Second Corinthians 2. 6 he says, I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart. With many tears, not to cause you pain, but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you. In Philippians 4:1, he says, My brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. Or Philemon 9. Yet for love's sake I appeal to you, says Paul. In his book, The Art of Pastoring, David Hanson paints a striking picture when he describes a parallel between a great Pastor, and I'm I'm just gonna say Christian. And the best fly fisherman This is what he says. He says, the very best quality of the very best, or I'm sorry, not fly fishermen, fishing guides. Not fly fishermen, fishing guides, people teaching fly fishermen. The very best quality of the very best fishing guides is the very best quality of the very best pastors, Christians. The very best fishing guides, the top of the heap of that profession, all love to watch clients catch fish as much as they like catching fish themselves. It gets to the point of silliness sometimes the way a truly great fishing guide starts to laugh, even giggle like a grade school girl when a client starts catching fish. And it continues Out of pure love, they give you their undivided attention. And when you catch that fish, when your net is full, there's always that smile, that glint in their eye that tells you they've just spent the best hour. of the day with you. If we speak in the tongue of men 's and of angels but have not love, we are only a noisy gong or a clanging symbol We listen to the ones who love us. Do you listen to the teacher, the parent, the coach who the pastor who doesn't love you? You kind of don't. You kind of shut them out. You listen to the ones who you know love you. Think about how easy it is to hear that word of rebuke or correction from the friend who you know really loves you versus the one who doesn't. Discipling begins with love. Loving the people to whom you mean to speak a good word to. Begins with love. Number two. Now by the way, back on number one, I'm often in my in my in my conversations with just very practically, uh I've just made it a part of my speech when I'm speaking to a spouse or a child. or a friend or a fellow elder is to remind them very explicitly, listen, I'm on your team. I am for you. Right? I am so for you. I want your good. And then any any words I offer of correction need to be in that context. They need to know I'm on their team. They need to know I'm on their good. If they don't All my words will do is harden the heart. That doesn't fit the occasion. Okay? Okay, number two. Disciple So begins in love. Number two, discipling works through instruction and imitation. Discipling works through instruction and imitation. We disciple through word and deed. The word leads the church follows, and we help others to follow. Again, Paul, a bunch of passages you can write down the references. 1 Corinthians 14 9. 1 Corinthians 14 9, he says, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others than ten thousand in a tongue. Or in First Timothy three He says an elder must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction and sound doctrine, and also to those to rebuke those who contradict it. Or Ephesians 4. 25, which I just read to you. I'll read again. Therefore each one of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are members of one another. And Ephesians 4. 29. Also, do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building up others according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. But these words of instruction need to be followed by deeds, right? Such that we can say to others, follow me. Paul, 1 Corinthians 11, be imitators of me. Because I'm awesome? No. As I follow Christ He said something similar back in chapter 4. He says, I urge you then, be imitators of me. That's why I sent Timothy, my beloved and faithful child of the Lord, to remind you. of my ways in Christ as I I teach them everywhere in every church. Hey, hey you guys remember remember remember what I was like? I want you to do that. In fact, I sent another ambassador, Timothy, because Timothy is going to imitate me. So as you watch Timothy, imitate him, as he imitates me, as I imitate Christ. Okay? Word and deed. We want to listen to those who teach us God's word, and then we want to imitate their lives. So affection, love , instruction, imitation. Affection, instruction, imitation. My dad Taught me what God's love looks like the way he loved me Uh a man named Jeff, when I was in high school, taught me God's love for the lost and the way he shared the gospel. A man named Mark taught me in his devotion to God's word and proclamation of God's word, taught me what the son's love for the Father's Word is like. A man named Michael demonstrated Christ's patience with me as I was a young immature punk and he was patient with me, so I saw what Christ's patience is like. Friends, I could keep going through different men in my life. Tom, Bruce, Sean, Steve, Eric, Matt, Thibi, still more, teaching, modeling something about Christ for me. I could point to my mother and different women in the faith as well, who have taught me what God is like, different parts of the body. These are my disciplers. I trust them. I attempt to humble myself before them, put myself under them. So that they can speak the truth and grace to me. Because I know they love me. I know they love Christ. I invite their instruction. I invite their rebuke. Was there was there anything in that when I was leading that meeting, Mark, that you saw that I should have done better, that would have been more helpful? I feel like my tone was what do you what do you think, brother? And in turn, I then try to turn and do the same for younger brothers in the faith. in my life. So that means inviting younger individuals in in the faith into my life so they can watch me, watch my marriage, watch how I parent my children. I remember two young men coming over for dinner. Both of these men grew up in homes with, let's just say, bad dads. One had a completely absent father, one had a very violent father. And on this particular occasion, one of my daughters Neither of whom are here this morning. Well, uh two daughters here. I'm not talking about you guys. Another daughter was, let's just say, not being utterly helpful. She wasn't being helpful in the home in that evening. And I was tempted to be impatient with her. Stop it. And I again I had two young men there with me at the family dinner table. And she is acting this way, and I went, mmm. And it occurred to me, among the many reasons I shouldn't respond impatiently. One of the reasons I should not respond impatiently is because I was defining what Christian dad means for these two young men with bad dads, the absent dad, the violent dad. They watched me to see what Christian dad does in response to difficult children situations. Make sense? So I'm inviting people into my life, and in word and deed, I'm trying to follow Christ so they can follow me as I follow Christ. That's discipling. Okay. You guys all passed the test that I gave you before. You said, okay, Christianity 101, yes, means living your life, speaking the word. to others and also receiving the word. So my question for each one of you just to ask in your own head, don't need to say out loud, is who are your disciplers? You all admitted you need them. You have them? Who are they? Question two, who are you discipling? You all admitted you needed it, or needed to do it. Who, what what names, if I asked you afterwards in the hallway, what names could you give me that you are intentionally, deliberately trying to use a few minutes of your life, a few hours of your life in your week, whatever? To help those people follow Christ, as you follow Christ. What do you mean you say you follow Jesus if you're not trying to help others follow Jesus? Not sure what you mean. Number three, discipleship affirms differences. Discipleship affirms differences. So the call to discipleship is the call to imitate, yes, imitate and follow, but it also works through discovering and affirming one another's differences, particularly in the context of the local church and the different life experiences we have Mourning with those who mourn, celebrating with those who celebrate, and affirming the different gifts That God gives each of us. Paul writes, If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell? But as it is, God arranged the members of the body, each one of them, as he chose. So again, the call to disciple is the call to imitate and follow. Yes, but this isn't a call that smothers differences. Instead, it highlights Holy Spirit assigned distinctives. And it calls everyone to use those distinctives and gifts to the same end, building up the body. So for instance, I think of my friend Josh who is so nitpicky about details, and just like, dude, chill, come on. Why do you have to be so nitpicky with all those details with this? But thank God Josh is overseeing the money in the church and not me. Or I think of the way that my friend James is So emotional and he always wants to have these heart-to-heart conversations, like digging into our hearts. I'm just like, ah But thank God that he has a ministry of counseling others in the church, especially those who are hurting and been broken. The body needs all of these members. And so in my own ministry of discipling, I look for ways to disciple and spend time with guys who are different than me. So it just uh any given moment I'm I'm typically discipling uh what say one guy who's twenty years younger, another guy who's ten years older. Uh my the friends who I disciple are going to be black and white. and Asian, Hispanic insofar as I can. I deliberately work to to find people who are living and have different life experiences to me, because I think that's good for the whole body of Christ. I I spend time with one guy who's an academic egghead and he likes to read books and we read books together. I have another guy who kind of spent many years in sort of the Rastafarian movement and has kind of was a was you know quote unquote pothead and and then got saved. And so we we talk about the doors and Led Zeppelin and things like that, right? But then we also talk about Christ. So I'm trying to spend time with different kinds of people because I trust that like an orchestra all those instruments are needed. I might be a trombone, but what would an orchestra full of trombone sound like? Terrible. So again, I'm back to you guys. Question for you. Do all your friends look just like you? Stay boring. There we go. You want more spice, right? Do all your friends stop shop in the same stores, drive the same kind of cars, have the same life experiences? Did they go to the same schools? All those things that divide and we find our own little tribes. Stay inside of my tribe. Well the Christian life should look different. Stepping outside of our tribes, doing things that are a little uncomfortable. Remember what I said? I'm inviting you into uncomfortable conversations. I was a interim pastor, Matt mentioned, of of a church in Grand Cayman for four months. You know, down in the Caribbean. It was a sacrifice. Somebody ought to do it. Uh it was it was wonderful. Uh the the church was filled with Caymanians and Jamaicans and Caribbeans in general, but then also A lot of people come to Grand Cayman for financial reasons and so South Africans and Canadians and Americans and but but but on the whole it was a very Caribbean feel And I remember in the church services, you know, I'm I'm the interim pastor for I'm sitting up front and look, I'm, if you didn't notice, I'm white. And my manner of expression tends to be pretty white. So here I am standing in the front row singing like this. And behind me, they're all swaying. They're going nuts. And that was awesome. I don't gotta be them, they don't gotta be me. I'm not gonna pretend to be something I'm not, nonetheless. I'm gonna embrace and enjoy them, and they're gonna embrace and join me. Right And make fun of me, which is fine. So number three, discipling affirms differences. Number four, the power of discipling is forgiveness and grace. The power of discipling is forgiveness and grace. The engine. The fuel. The engine and the fuel. Because everything I've said so far. Could be applied to any field of discipling. And we could be talking about engineering. I'm going to say instruct and imitate. We could be talking about Islam. We could be talking about snowboarding or sailboating. Instruction imitation. The engineer, the Muslim, the the snowboarder, instruct, imitate, right? So everything I've said so far in a sense applies across teaching and growing people into something. You might even say there's a sense in which so far all I've been doing is giving you law. Okay, this is what you must do. Do the same as I've been doing. Right. And and and there is that crucial role of law, as it were, truth, follow the truth. in Christian discipling. It is a crucial piece. But what's unique about Christian discipled is that it's powered by the Spirit and by grace and is accommodated to power frail flesh. It's not powered by the law. Jesus in John 13, as I have loved you, so you must love one another. How did he love us? Because we're awesome? He loved us while we were yet sinners. Okay, as I've loved you while you're yet sinners, so you must love one another. Your love for the disciple goes not because the disciple is doing everything you've called them to do, but in their weakness. In their frailty. Paul, Romans eight. For what the law was powerless to do because it was weakened by the flesh, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh to be made a sin offering. And so he condemned sin in the flesh in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us, who do not live according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. I can say to you, law, lay not going to be able to do it You have frail flesh. I have frail flesh. The law does not change the heart. The law does not, that is to say, finally, in any meaningful spiritual sense, enable people to grow up into the image of Christ. The law is necessary. But what gives power to enable people to can't get rid of the law because then there's nothing to follow. No, you have the law, you have truth, but what gives me the power To follow the law, to do the law, to conform my life to the image of God in Christ. Mercy and grace. Right? Through the Spirit. And so our primary task is to point to the work of Christ in one another's lives and to exemplify his gracious posture towards one another. So while we call people to imitate and follow, we're always doing that in the continual context. The context of continual reminders of the gospel, constantly reminding people that their worth and their righteousness is not found in the fact that you've obeyed my words. Your worth and righteousness is found in the fact that God loves you. And gave his son for you, and made you his own, and gave you his righteousness. That's what makes you worthy. You're you're not worthy because of this or that about you. You're worthy because God loves you and gave you his righteousness. Right? So all of my words of instruction for you aren't to get you to prove to you something about yourself to me. You don't have anything to prove to me. No, you've been proven. Because of God and Christ. And so now I'm calling you to follow in the way of truth and the law because of what Christ has made you. He's made you righteous, so be righteous. He's made you wise, so be wise. He's made you worthy, so live worthy. See, the fuel, the engine, is the reminder of the gospel. Other forms of discipleship are purely meritocratic. You need to merit. You need to live up to my standards, or you're not good enough for me. Christian discipling isn't that way. You don't need to live up to my standards. You need to live up to God's standards. Oh, you fa you failed, actually. Ah, here's the good news Jesus has grace on sinners, so he loves you. And so now I'm calling you to follow after me as I follow after Christ. You're a new creation. You're a son, a daughter of the king. All the inheritance of God in Christ is yours. Heavenly treasures awaiting you. Born again. Loved, worthy. This is my beloved son, said the father to the son. And you know what? If you're in Christ, if you're united to Christ, his word, this is my beloved son, is yours. This is my beloved son. This is my beloved daughter. Now, imitate and follow. I remember when a young man came to me, confessed a fairly significant moment of sexual sin. And I gave him both law and gospel. I gave him law, like this. I said, and this is something he'd been struggling with for a while. And we'd been in this conversation many times before. And I said, I'm going to call him Joe. Joe, you know you don't have to be a Christian. If you want that sin, you can just stop calling yourself a Christian and pursue that sin all you want until your heart's content. It won't be content. But if you want to just stop being a Christian and live in that sin, Go for it. I have no words of encouragement or promise for you. You'll experience death eternally. But go ahead. If that's what you want. What was I doing in that moment? What I was doing is saying, hey, look, being a Christian means not living that way anymore. If you're going to call yourself a Christian, you've got to give up that way of living, gotta repent. Don't keep calling yourself a Christian and living contentedly in this. Ha ha. Don't work Okay, so I was giving him law, but then I also gave him gospel. I said, But let me say this, Joe, the fact that you came to me and you confessed that sin without my inviting it, on your own initiative That seems like that smells like Holy Spirit. That seems like God's at work in you, brother. I think you want better. I think you know better. I think the desire for God in Christ is in your heart, and I think it's burning there. Even if it's just a little limber. As evidenced by the fact that you're confessing sin to me. I think you belong to Jesus. I think Jesus has forgiven your sin of what you did last night that you've come and confessed to me. Jesus' arm is not so short it can't reach to that sin. It's longer, it's bigger, it's better. And it forgives it entirely, but you've got to repent and believe. So I gave him law, but I also gave him gospel. And I know the power is over here. Make sense? Okay, number five. Now I keep going to the next and then I want to come back because I think it's something else I don't want to say. I I can think of times in my life. I remember one brother when um this was in the context of uh of an elder meeting. What time do you guys end? Before twelve. Usually. Usually. Don't give me that long of a lease, you'll regret it. Uh I remember one occasion, and it was at it was an elder meeting, and uh I'm just gonna I'm gonna confess my ugliness to you. And at that point we would we would every at the beginning of every every elder meeting, we would pick one person, we would every other elder would ask questions. Hey, how's the things going at home? How are things with your kids? How are things at work? It was just an opportunity for us to love one another and shepherd one another before we worked at shepherding others. And on this c on this one occasion, uh a brother asked me about my prayer life. And before I could even think, uh an embellished answer to the question came out of my mouth about how much I pray. And for the rest of the elder meeting, I just felt the weight of that. I was like, ugh. And I went to bed that night and I woke up early, like at 4 a. m. still thinking about my lie. How much I pray? And so I called them at 7 a. m. I said, brother, last night in front of all the other elders, you asked me how much I pray. The truth of the matter is probably this, but I said that. And he said, Oh, thank you, Jonathan. I love you. I forgive you. And my heart just melted. I loved that brother so much. Because in that moment he extended me grace and forgiveness that I didn't deserve. So friends, when you extend, if you want people to follow you as you follow Christ, the primary Thing they need to know and feel and experience in your life is one of affirmation and grace and mercy. Husbands, you want your wives to respect you and follow you? Parents, do you want your children to respect and follow you? And friends, I'll I'll confess to you, and this is I'm working on this all the time. It's so easy for me to be Look, I'm a teacher, right? It's easy for me to say, XYZ, you must. I'm good at that. That comes naturally to me. But how I'm constantly having to work at at trying to make the primary thing my daughters feel for me and my wife feels for me and my friends feel me feel for me and my church from feels for me is the one of affirming grace. Not at expense of the law, not expense of the truth. But the primary bearing of my heart is one of affirmation, grace, mercy, and grace. Because that's what melts the hearts of others and cause causes them to follow you as you follow Christ. Number four, you might say, in some ways, a repackaging of number one. Begin with love. Well, what does that love look like? Well, it looks like number four. Okay, number five. Discipleship is church-wide. Discipleship is church-wide. How impoverished then are those believers who keep themselves at arm's length? from the church. The I cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you. You need them. Don't say you don't. So my wife leads a or f at our previous church, my wife that we we left to plant in the one way. My wife led this small group, a bunch of women. Two of the women in very difficult marriages, different kinds of difficulties, but both very difficult marriages. And on one evening, and also both of these women are, in the context of their difficult marriages, in counseling and including and in counseling and meeting with the elders of the church. So there's the elders and all of their wisdom and glorying speaking into the lives of these women. In the context of that Bible study, however , you have one of those women, let's just say, is is fairly uh Soft-hearted, humble-hearted. She in the difficult marriage, she receives instruction. The other woman in her difficulties is fairly hard-hearted. And you're trying to help her, you're trying to counsel her, but she doesn't listen. She's still hard-hearted. She's angry, she's bitter. The irony is. The woman who's soft-hearted and listens to instruction, encouragement, counsel in that difficult marriage has in the worst marriage. Than the woman with the bitter heart in the This one's abusive, this one's just more he's passive, he's absent, he doesn't engage. This one is awful. In the context of that Bible study one evening, the first woman in the in the worst marriage the more actively abusive marriage, said something to the woman in the bad but not quite as bad marriage, or said something to the whole group about trusting God's love and God's sovereignty and God's grace in the context of her trials. And she said it in a way that on that particular evening The woman in the second marriage was able to hear it. And she thought to herself, maybe for the first time , okay. Jesus still is king and Jesus loves me. Even in spite of these difficulties in my life. That these difficulties don't mean God is any less God and God is any less loving. But she couldn't hear it from the elders. She only could hear it from another woman in a similar, even worse situation. Discipleship is church-wide. Every part needs every other part. There is no hierarchy in that sense. There's just a circle. We all need to speak the truth and love to one another as we build ourselves up. Back to Ephesians 4. So we build ourselves up. There's also a sense in which entire churches can decide, so it's church-wide. Disciple other churches, be example for other churches. You you prayed this morning for the garden church, and as you involve yourselves or get to know other churches are actually ways that you will help encourage other churches and pray and build up other churches. Listen to Paul again. In First Thessalonians 1, he says, You became imitators of us and of the Lord so that You, Church in Thessalonica, you, plural, you, Church in Thessalonica, became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and Achaia. They themselves report how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. So the church in Thessalonica became an example to the churches throughout Macedonia and Achaia as they followed God. Discipleship is church wine. It's not an individual activity. It is an individual activity. I'm sorry. It's not just an individual activity. You need each other. Other churches need you. We're all working together. Okay? Number six. I don't know of any. Oh, uh number six. Counseling is a subset of discipling. Counseling. I don't know of any reason from a biblical perspective to distinguish between counseling and discipling. Instead, counseling is under the umbrella. of discipling. Counseling is discipling, you might say, in the tough cases. Counseling is discipling in the tough cases. Typically The problem is deeper and typically the problem is issue specific. But I need discipling help in this area that's really deep and problematic. Right? Either in my life or my family's life or or whatever the case may be. The nature and depth of the particular sin or struggle call for more intensive Treatment. Jude twenty two twenty three. Jude twenty two twenty thir twenty three. Have mercy on those who doubt Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, hating even the garments stained by the flesh. Galatians 6. 1 Brothers, sisters, if anyone is caught in any transgression You who are spiritual, that is to say, filled with the Spirit, should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. I think Jude and Paul are both speaking of those situations that require extra help. I remember one brother who I spent a lot of time with. who was caught up in a particular type of addiction and he would come and he'd confess that addiction to me. And uh I uh, you know Sometimes I would try the carrot, sometimes I'd try the stick, you know, I'd go in soft and affirming and I'd go in hard and law and just it just kind of the addiction kept happening. I remember one occasion he came to me or sitting at Burger King um Landover Road and I remember saying he came and he would confess to me again. I'd be like, uh Again, really? I I got nothing left in my tool bag to say to you What do I do? I'm like, do I take it to the church? Is this a church discipline situation? But no, he was trying to repent. He was I remember one occasion, uh another occasion when I didn't hear from him for a few weeks. Um And uh I called him and he didn't answer, and I texted, and I called, texted, emailed, no answer. Finally, about a month goes by and I finally get a hold of him. And I'm like, yo, what's what's what's going on? And he's like, uh Jonathan, I have to confess to you, I'm I'm I'm deeper in than I've ever been. And I don't want out. But I want to want out. Okay. I'll take that. A bruised reed he will not break, a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. I got a smoldering wick here. Man, that thing is about to be quenched, but there's a little ember. I'm going to do what I can to fan that ember. I want to want out. Okay. Let me grab your arm. Let me pull you out of the mud. Let's keep walking. Now that was a situation. That was a more. intensive situation. Gratefully most of my relationships in the church aren't quite like that. I got a few of them, but I gotta attend to those two. That might be you, friend. And if that is you, if you're my friend in the mud, you don't want out, but you want to want out. You need other brothers and sisters in Christ, friend. And the relationships you build now are the tools or the ropes that we use to rescue you, to pull out. If you're living your life anonymously, my Christian friend, that is to say you're here, people know your name, but basically you're not sharing that sin with others. We have no tools, no ropes to help you. We can't help you. And you're just going to fade into the dark and nobody's ever going to they might not wonder what's happened, but they can't help you. So now is the time to be opening your life to others and confessing those sins. Sin doesn't automatically by itself get better. It just gets worse. It wants to consume you. It is a deceiver. And so, friend, I'm saying to you this morning, whether you consider yourself a Christian or not, confess that sin to other brothers and sisters in the faith. Okay, counseling is a subset of discipling. Seventh and finally, a primary goal of counseling is I'm sorry, of discipling is to equip for discipling. What am I trying to do? I'm trying to equip others to do the same. The primary goal of discipling is to equip for discipling. It's very tempting for you. It's very tempting for many church leaders. to do things themselves. After all, you know how to do it, you know what needs to be done, you can do it, you can do a good job, and those people there, they can't. And so you kind of want to hoard opportunity, hoard ministry to yourself. I think that's a natural temptation of of many of us. But not Jesus. Jesus is like, hey, 72, you go out and preach for me. Jesus would have done a better job He had a better daughter done a better job than the disciples. And yet he tells them to make disciples. And that's why George can go away and have a guy like me come and preach. Even though I'm not going to be able to preach like him, right? Because he understands that other voices need to come listen and you need to learn under more than just one teacher. In your Sunday school class, you're looking for opportunities to learn from others. And so let let that young guy who's not going to teach as well as as George or Matt, let the young guy have the opportunity and make his mistakes. And you as a congregation need to be welcoming and inviting, giving young people the opportunities to make mistakes and to learn and to grow. Because one of the primary goals of discipline is to equip for discipling and you and your life. I don't know what. I don't know what area of responsibility God has given you, but you are looking to share those areas of opportunity with others. Wherever He's giving you charge over something. Are you working to bring other people into that area to raise them up and give them opportunities? Are you generous with the authority God has given you? Are you passing out authority or are you hoarding authority? I don't care if you work at if you if you're if you're you're a manager at this fast food restaurant or you're or you're or you're working over lawn care, are you looking for ways to build others up? That's something we should just do in life in general, but But in the church in particular. The primary goal of discipling is to equip for disciples. Listen to Paul again. What you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses and trust of faithful men. who will be able to teach others also. Think about that. Three generations. He's saying, here's Paul. He's saying to Timothy, what you've heard from me, one generation, father to son , entrust to others. Generation two, who will be able to teach others also. Paul's not looking at his son or grandson, but his great-grandsons. He wants them to be building up. Isn't that amazing? How short-sided we are. I have an opportunity to teach. Look at me, I get to teach. Paul's like, give me a break. You should be looking to give opportunities to teach others who will be able to teach others who will teach still others. It's not about you. Right? Primary goal of discipling is to quit for discipling. Okay, so what very practically in the last couple of minutes does discipling look like? Well, friends, all of you have different opportunities, different stewardships, different seasons of life. Some of you got $100 in your wallet, some of you have $1 in your wallet. Whatever you have, spend for the sake of the king. Whether it's $100 or it's one. Some of you have lots of emotional energy, some of you are introverts, and you have a little bit of emotional introverts. The standard of Jonathan Lehman and what Jonathan Lehman does isn't your standard. Whatever emotional energy God gives you, spend. Okay? Mothers of young children, you don't got a lot. Your primary discipling, mothers of young children, is your children. Alright? Those of you who are single, those of you who maybe your children are out of the home, you have a little more time spending. For the sake of it. So in my life, that means I'm getting up at six and maybe I'm doing my quiet time. Maybe I'm going to give call to to Brandon and read the book of uh chapter of Proverbs for five minutes. That's Brandon. And then and then James often will show up and read his Bible with me for quiet time. He would do that every day of the week for for several months because he was just falling behind. I'll do that. I'm looking at the beginning of the week. Okay. Actually it's several weeks out. How am I going to schedule my lunches for this week? How am I going to schedule my dinners for this week? Well, most of my dinner's going to be with my family, but are there other people we're going to bring into our home? Or after dinner? Are my wife and I gonna do hospitality, or my wife and I gonna be doing these things? And obviously a lot of that for me depends on my wife and her capacities. I'm I'm living according to her and and what she's able to do and not do and doing it in joy hopefully and not in with a grudging attitude. So I've got to think about different factors. But the point is I'm being deliberate. And that's what I'm calling you to do is whatever resources God has given you, whether a lot or a little, the widow with her two mites. She's giving it for the king. So if all you have is two cents of energy and life and time. Because life is eh on you. You're like, oh, I want to use those two cents for Jesus. And helping others to follow Jesus. Okay? And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry? for building up the body of Christ until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God To mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Wow. So that we may no longer be children Enough of our childishness, I want to be done with being a child, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes, rather speaking the truth in love. We are to grow up in every way into him who is ahead, into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. Let's pray. Lord God, forgive our selfishness. Forgive us for the way we just use our time just to entertain and soothe ourselves, and we don't use our time and our money to serve you and serve others. Lord, help us to be more generous. Forgive us. Help us to follow Christ and call others to follow us as we follow Christ. And Lord, help us to follow others who are following Christ. Help us to be soft-hearted and open to instruction and and challenge and encouragement and rebuke. Father, I pray that such a culture would increasingly characterize Baltimore Bible Church. In Christ's name, amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.