The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Good afternoon. It is a uh marvelous Privilege to be entrusted with the task of bringing God's word to you today. You all have been such a blessing to my wife and I, and I hope that um I can be a blessing to you. And the Lord would use me to, as Pastor George says, be a weak instrument to be a blessing to his people. As we begin this miniseries on discernment, please open your Bibles with me to 2 Timothy 3. And we're going to be reading verses 14 to 17. 2 Timothy 3, verses 14 to 17. I'll be reading from the Legacy Standard Bible. And as you turn there, I want to introduce a survey to you that you might already know about. If not, it's worth looking up every two years, the State of Theology Survey by Ligonier Ministries In the year 2022, Ligonier conducted their biannual state of theology survey in which they take the theological temperature of the United States. They make certain statements and ask participants whether or not they agree, strongly agree or unsure, disagree or strongly disagree. Listen to some of the results from those who took the survey claiming to be evangelicals. In general terms, 48 % of evangelicals agree that God learns and adapts to different circumstances. 65 % agree that everyone is born innocent in the eyes of God. 38 % agree that religious belief is a matter of personal opinion. It is not about objective truth. 55 % agree that Jesus was the first and greatest being created by God. Forty-three percent agree that Jesus was a great teacher, but not God, and 56 % of evangelicals who took the survey agree that God accepts the worship of all religions, including Christianity, Judaism, and Islam. In a land in which the church is not under persecution as it was in the first century, or as it was in the Reformation, or as it was elsewhere, as it is elsewhere today. How can that be possible? How can the majority of professing believers today who have open access to the scriptures have such a lack of discernment? The root of the problem lies in the fact that these people are untaught at best, not to mention that they may not actually be regenerate. And some of those errors shows that they are not. It goes back to what they are taught or what they are not taught. It goes back to a replacement of the Word of God in ministry for man's ear-tickling preferences. The Word of God is the foundation of discernment A rejection of God's inerrant word as the ultimate standard of truth leaves you vulnerable to, if not wounded by, destructive heresies. This is not just a matter of, oh man, how do these people not know this stuff? Don't they read the Bible? It is much more grave than that. The lack of biblical knowledge leads to their destruction. In Hosea chapter 4, God points the finger at the priest and says, My people are destroyed for a lack of knowledge Because you have rejected knowledge, I also will reject you from ministering as my priest. And in the church today, the pastor is under the same pressure. James 3. 1 gives a warning to those who aspire to teach the word, saying, Do not many of you become teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive a stricter judgment. The stakes are extremely high. The content that every listener of every sermon hears is a matter of eternal life and death. Knowing this, and knowing his death is imminent, Paul writes his second letter to his beloved son in the faith. whom he's entrusting to teach and guard the doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's entrusting Timothy with the care of the church. And the truth which the church is to guard. And he tasks him with entrusting it to other faithful men also. And his circumstances are bleak as he's writing. He no longer has fruitful ministry opportunities to look forward to. He's writing from the chains of a cold Roman prison, knowing that he won't make it out this time. Not only does he know that his death is near, but he had also been abandoned by those, by most of those he was once close with. Cold, abandoned by most of his closest friends. He has one last opportunity to say something to Timothy, who has to carry on without him here shortly. Final words, in a sense. Chapters 1 and 2 served as a massive encouragement to Timothy that he would not be timid but strong. Not to be ashamed, but to hold fast the sound words which he has heard from Paul and other faithful believers And in chapter 3, the first half of chapter 3, Paul issues him a solemn warning. Look at verse 1. We'll skim through this quickly. He says, Difficult times will come. Evil men are emerging, men who hold to a form of godliness in verses 2 to 5, but deny its power. False teachers and their destructive heresies had been on the rise. Men who are ascending to positions of leadership in the church, men who, according to verse six, enter into households and take captive weak women weighed down with sins, always learning but never able to come to the full knowledge of the truth Men who were opposed to the teaching of the apostles and propagated different doctrine, men of depraved mind, disqualified in regard to the faith according to verse 8. These are all on the rise, and hoping that Timothy can come to him before his death, Paul writes one final letter to him, just in case he doesn't make it in time. These are Paul's last words to him. What is on his mind? Fear? Escape? Is he asking Timothy to help get him out? Regret? No, in all of this, Paul's goal, in his final words to Timothy, is to make sure that he knows that as the times change. As evil men and impostors grow from bad to worse, he can trust and stand upon the firm foundation of God's sufficient word. And in 2 Timothy 3, verses 14 to 17, there are three demonstrations of Scripture's complete sufficiency, which show its unmatched value for Christian life and ministry. I'll say that again. Three demonstrations of Scripture's complete sufficiency which show its unmatched value for Christian life and ministry. First, we'll see that the scriptures are sufficient to lead sinners to the Savior in verses 14 to 15. Next, we'll see that the scriptures are sufficient to sanctify the saved in verse 16. Third, we'll see that the scriptures are sufficient to equip the saved in verse 17. Read with me. 2 Timothy 3, starting at verse 14, but you continue in the things you learned and became convinced of. Knowing from whom you learned them, and that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to make you wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus All Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction. for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be equipped, having been thoroughly equipped for every good work. Pray with me, and then we will dive into our text. Lord, you have revealed yourself generally through creation, and you have revealed yourself specially through your written word, Lord. Your word makes fools wise. It brings dead people to life by leading us to the Savior, and it gives us everything that we need. to thrive to your glory and to suffer to your glory. Lord, I pray that your word would go forth and accomplish the work that you've sent it out to do In this congregation and in the ears of all who hear this message today. In Christ's name. Amen. At first, we'll see that the scriptures are sufficient to lead sinners to the Savior. Look at verse 14. He starts with a contrast, but you, he's mentioning the evil men and impostors from earlier, from the first half of chapter 3, and he's directly contrasting Timothy from them. Verse 13, he says that these men are evil, ravenous wolves, deceiving and being deceived. They're a bad problem now, and they're going to get worse. But you are fundamentally different. This contrast even began earlier in chapter 1, verse 5, where he gives, he says to Timothy, that he is reminded of his unhypocritical faith. Versus now, he just listed men who are opposed to the truth, who hold to a form of godliness, but deny its power. He says, but you Or as for you, continue in the things you learned. And now he gives Timothy a command. It takes the form of a command. Continue, hold fast, remain, abide. It's the Greek word mene. One commentary says that this word calls for a commitment to live and abide in what he has learned. It's used in chapter 1, verse 13, where Paul tells Timothy, hold to the standard of sound words which you have heard from me. Hold to them, cling to them, don't let them go. It's used from in Jesus by Jesus in John 8. 31. If you abide in my word, then you are truly my disciples. It's more than just having orthodox theological thinking. It has to do with the state of Timothy's heart. Paul is saying here, stick to what you learned. Abide in it, continue in it, remain in it. And what is it that he's learned? We'll see as we go on. Continue in the things you learned and became convinced of, knowing from whom you've learned them. You already know the truth, Timothy, because you followed my teaching and my example. And the example of other faithful believers who have gone before you and who have brought you up in the faith. This word learned, continue the things you've learned, it has the idea of intentionality behind it. It's related to the word for disciple. Learned by inquiry, by asking questions to his teachers. It's learned by observation, by watching the life of those who teach him. And he's become convinced of that which he's learned. It's not just an acknowledgement of the intellectual facts of these things, but he's become entirely convinced of them to the core of his being. He's outwardly demonstrated that he was convinced of this truth. And Paul commands him continue in that. And some of the demonstrations that we can think of are so many, even in this church, of those believers who have suffered to the glory of God. And even in church history, I'm moved by the example of martyrs like men such as John Rogers who faced the death penalty for preaching against the heresies of the Roman Catholic Church. They gave him the option to escape the penalty, and all he that had to do was compromise. I'll take it back. That's okay. I'll just keep it to myself. I take it back. He could have returned home to his wife and eleven children. But when given the opportunity to recant , John Rogers boldly proclaimed, That which I have preached I will seal with my own blood. I've heard it said that men hold opinions, but convictions hold men. Conviction will keep you grounded when there is pressure to compromise. Conviction will cause you to stand for the truth when you aren't sure what the consequences will be. And one question that I have for you today is are you convicted about the Word of God? Are you convicted about the Word of God? Does it hold you fast? Continue in the things you've learned, knowing from whom you've learned them. If his examples had compromised on their convictions, they would set an example of those who limp between two opinions. Tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by dis by craftiness in deceitful scheming. And in contrast to these godless hypocrites that Paul is mentioning to Timothy, he's encouraging Timothy to remember the faithful examples that he's had for his entire life, his grandmother, Lois. And his mother Eunice are mentioned in chapter 1, verse 5, Paul himself in verse 10 of this chapter, and many witnesses mentioned elsewhere. The example, integrity, and character of those who taught Timothy, what Paul later says about I'm sorry. The example, integrity, and character of those who taught Timothy demonstrate what Paul later says about the sanctifying effect of God's Word. Verse 16 says that the word teaches, reproves, corrects, and trains in righteousness. And Timothy's examples were those who had been taught by the Word. had been reproved by the word, had been corrected by the word, and trained by the word. The effect that Scripture had on them was a tangible example set before him from the earliest days of his childhood And you can ask yourself, what sort of example am I setting for those who are watching me? Do I radiate the effect of God's word upon my own heart? Or would I be better categorized as an imposter? Moving on to verse 15. So continue the things you've learned and become convinced of knowing two things. One, from whom you've learned those things, and two, that from childhood you have known the sacred writings. Parents, you lay the foundation of your children's convictions. There's no parent who doesn't do that. It's just a matter of whether you do a good or a bad job. Childhood is the word brefos, child, baby, infant. MacArthur says it was at the knees of his grandmother Lois that he first saw genuine godliness We teach and establish conviction in children by living it out and by teaching it. Will your children see genuine godliness or will they merely hear about it? And what was the content that Timothy's godly mother and grandmother had taught him? From childhood, look at the text. You have known the sacred writings which are able to make you wise unto salvation through Christ Jesus, through faith which is in Christ Jesus. The sacred writings, the hierogramata, it's a phrase that was used by Greek-speaking Jews to refer to the Old Testament Hira being sacred of transcendent purity and gramata being a unit of alphabet, letters which make up the words, or a written document. It can be used both ways. And what was the content that his mom and grandmother taught him? The sacred writings, the scriptures, the word of God, which are able or capable or have the power or capacity to make you wise unto salvation. This is where we see that the scriptures are sufficient to lead sinners to the Savior. They contain the information that makes you wise unto salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. Psalm 19, we'll come back to this a couple times, but the law of the Lord restores the soul and makes wise the simple. It was the law of the Lord that sufficiently demonstrated to God's people, or at least was intended to, that the standard God demands For fellowship with him is unattainable. Year after year, animals were sacrificed in a bloody ritual to demonstrate the serious and graphic consequences of sin. Death And year after year, not one of those sacrifices was sufficient to pay for a single sin, but rather they pointed to the one sacrifice to end them all, when the Father sacrificed the Son on the cross. To pay for your sin if you're in Christ. And his next words in this text are critical. Look down with me again at verse 15. The scriptures which are able to make you wise unto salvation, here's the key, through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Apart from him, there is no sacrifice for sin for you. Apart from him, there is no salvation. Apart from him, none of the benefits of Scripture apply to you Because apart from him, your very mind is hostile against the Lord. You cannot do anything that pleases him, because all of our righteousness are as good as filthy rags in the eyes of the Father. He is holy, holy, holy. And who are we to think that we will stand before him and say, you know, I was pretty good. I was better than the other guy. It can't happen. First Corinthians 2: a natural man does not accept the depths of the Spirit of God, for there are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they're spiritually examined. Romans 8. For the mindset on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace, because the mind set on the flesh is that enmity toward God. For it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so, and those who are in the flesh are not able to please God. Outside of Christ, you're not wise unto salvation. Paul qualifies this. He qualifies the salvific wisdom that Scripture gives as being found in Christ alone. And outside of Christ, all that remains for you is a fearful expectation of the just and due wrath of God against your sin, because you've rebelled against him. Your sin is cosmic treason against the eternal, holy, king of kings, and not one of them will go unpunished or swept under the rug. But praise the Lord, He gives you the chance to have this death that you owe him placed onto Christ in your stead. And he offers to place Christ's righteousness unto you. On the cross, an exchange was made. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. 2 Corinthians 5, 21. Friend, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And without Christ you will bear this wrath alone. Yet he offers you his own righteousness. This exchange. Christ bore the wrath of God against every sin that every believer has ever committed, and by his grace, through faith in the work of Jesus on the cross. And his resurrection, God applies the righteousness of the eternal Son to your account. He didn't crush your sin into a ball and throw it into a bottomless sea. He placed your sin upon Christ and crushed him under the weight of his wrath, through Christ into the sea of his wrath. And in his divinity, in his divine nature, he satisfied that eternal wrath. And you can stand before him with his righteousness covering you rather than accusing you. If you're here today and you have not cried out to him for mercy and salvation, we would beg you, be reconciled to God. Apart from him, you're not only deceived by error, you're dead in sin. So the Scriptures are able to make you wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. And once saved, we see the second demonstration of Scripture 's sufficiency. In verse 16, the scriptures are sufficient to sanctify the saved. They're sufficient to sanctify the saved. And here in this verse, Paul makes two declarations. A declaration of the nature of the word, and a declaration of the work of the word. He says all scripture is God-breathed. And we'll see in a moment that this applies to both the Old Testament and the New Testament. Scripture is the word graphe, and it means words or longer units of written text. It's almost synonymous, not synonymous. Ignore that. I apologize. But if you pair it with grammatic or writings, you get the idea of that from the smallest stroke of the pen To entire collections of writings of Scripture. The whole of it is inspired by God. Literally, the word is Theat Nustas, which translates God breathed In the beginning, God spoke and there was. He breathed the breath of life into mankind. This is a massive statement about the nature of Scripture. Scripture is God breathed. It owes its origin directly to God. And this idea of the inspiration of Scripture is not the same thing as when we see a beautiful sunset and it inspires us to go paint what we saw. It's not something that occurs when something inspires a musician and then they go compose a beautiful piece of music. That's better called Impressionism, not inspiration in the sense that Scripture deals with it right now. H. V. Charles says the Bible is not man's word about God, it is God's word to man. It's not that God inspired their thoughts. It's not that God made them mechanically dictate every single word of the Bible as if they were robots. But here Paul's making a statement about the product of inspiration, and 2 Peter 1. 21 describes the process of inspiration. It says that, for no prophecy was ever made by the will of man. But being moved by the Holy Spirit, men spoke from God, like the wind fills a sail and moves a boat. God so moved the human authors of Scripture that they composed the exact product he intended without error. without error. Now I'd love to keep you here for about an hour longer than you were expecting and talk about this, but uh my wife would probably say that that is not a good idea. So there are two facts that I want you to grasp about this doctrine. First, it extends to the very words themselves, not just the ideas that they convey. And second, it applies to the Old Testament and the New Testament. First to the word themselves, the words themselves. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 12 and 13. First Corinthians chapter two, verses twelve and thirteen The Legacy Standard Bible captures the sense of this text well. It says, Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God. So that we may know the depths graciously given to us by God, of which depths we also speak, not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit combining spiritual truths, spiritual deaths, excuse me, with spiritual words. The truth that the Spirit conveyed to the authors of Scripture was combined with actual intelligible words and written down exactly as God wanted them to be In Matthew 22, verse 32, where Jesus is questioned about the resurrection, he rests his entire argument for the resurrection on the fact that when God says, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he did not say, I was, and now they're dead, so I'm not anymore. In other words, he stakes his entire argument on the tense of a verb. Scripture is inspired by God down to the very words themselves. Second, although in this context Paul is speaking primarily about the Old Testament, it extends to the New Testament as well. Go with me to 2 Peter now, chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 15 and 16. Peter here mentions the writings of the Apostle Paul. He says, And consider the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul, according to to the wisdom given him, wrote to you, as also in all his letters, speaking in them of things of these things, in which are some things hard to understand. which the untaught and the unta unstable distort, here it is, as they do also the rest of the scriptures, to their own destruction. He equates Paul's writing with the rest of the scriptures. And over in 1 Timothy 5, verse 18, Paul gives two quotes. First, he says Well I'll I'll read it and then break it down. For the Scripture says, you shall not muzzle the ox while it is threshing There's the first quote. And the second quote, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. The first quote, you shall not muzzle the ox while it is threshing, is from Deuteronomy 25, 4. And he says, the scripture says that. The second quote, the scripture says You shall not mu excuse me, the laborer is worthy of his wages is from Luke chapter 10 verse 7. He's referring to both as Scripture. And so we see that the New Testament authors recognized one another's writings as Scripture. So when Paul says all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable. That extends to the entire Bible that we can hold in our hands today. And as important as the doctrine of inspiration is, Paul's main point here in our text is that Scripture is profitable. because of its inspiration. The second declaration in in verse 16, if you want to flip back to 2 Timothy 3, the second declaration he makes is that the work it is about the work of the Word to sanctify God's children. It is profitable, useful, beneficial, advantageous, and the word works. It accomplishes that for which God sends it out to do. If you're not tired of flipping around, you can turn to Isaiah 55. 10. And as you turn there, listen to these other verses which discuss or describe the or or showcase the work of the word. Ephesians 5 25, I'll repeat it. We're we're turning to Isaiah 55-10. Isaiah 55 -10. And as you turn, listen. Ephesians 5 25 The church is cleansed by the word. Romans 10:17. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word, by the word of Christ. James 1:18, in the exercise of his will. He brought us forth by the word of truth. John 17, 17, before Jesus goes to pay for your sin, he says, sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. Romans 15, 4. Whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, so that through the perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope. Psalm 19, the law of the Lord restores the soul, makes wise the simple, rejoices the heart, enlightens the eyes, it warns the slave. Elsewhere we see that God speaks with creating power, that Jesus speaks with resurrection power, and now in Isaiah 55, verses 10 to 11. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there without watering the earth and making it bare and sprout. And giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so my word, so will my word be which goes forth from my mouth. It will not return to me empty without accomplishing what pleases me and without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it. This is God's word at work This is God's word at work. Think about the rain. As we think about this idea of profitability, that scripture is profitable. Think about the rain. It doesn't, the result of the rain is not just that things get wet. That alone is not profitability. The result is that the seed is watered. The crop grows The produce is sold, the belly is filled, the bones grow longer, and the body grows stronger and is sustained all because it rained. That is profitability. And Paul is saying that the scriptures are God-breathed and profitable. And as Pastor Jeff says, God is not stingy with the profitability of his word. Back to 2 Timothy chapter 3. With this in mind, Paul says that all scripture is God-breathing and profitable for teaching, for reproof. For correction, for training in righteousness. And these four words encompass every aspect of sanctification in the Christian life You are heading to glory if you are in Christ. You will get there if you are in Christ. And while you are waiting here for that glory, for your Savior to be revealed to you, and for you to be made like him , You are in the process of being sanctified and being conformed to his image. And the scriptures are profitable for your sanctification. It's profitable for teaching. In 1 Timothy 4 13, Paul instructs Timothy to devote himself to the teaching of the word. One chapter earlier he says that the pastor must have a particular skill. He must be able to teach. It's not about ear tickling. It's not about being funny or pleasant to listen to. It's not about personality type This has to do with the content being taught. The word for teaching here in verse 16 is not a verb, but a noun. It carries the connotation of teaching that which is in accordance with the truth. It is of primary importance in the life of the church. Remember the Hellenistic widows in Acts chapter 6? Who were being neglected food, the apostles decided to establish deacons in order to meet that need so that they would not have to neglect the primary ministry of theirs, which was the Word of God and prayer. They decided to refrain from doing a good thing so that they would continue in the work of the Word. The teaching is that crucial to the life and health of the church. One commentator says that this word refers specifically and exclusively to divine instruction or doctrine given to believers through God's Word. Again, it inherently implies sound doctrine. Look just one chapter previous in 2 Timothy 2, verse 14. Paul says to him, remind them of these things. Solemnly charging them in the presence of God not to dispute about words which is useless, as opposed to profitable, and leads to the ruin of the hearers. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, accurately handling the word of truth. Timothy is to work hard at accurately handling God's word. Why? Because the teaching of Scripture is the nourishment of the believer. The teaching of Scripture is the nourishment of the believer. Excuse me. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11 to 14. Paul says that he himself gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints. For the work of service, to the building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the full knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man. The doctrine of the Word of God is the food of the believer which leads to maturity. It's what reveals God and His will to us. It is truth and truth that sanctifies us as we wait for glory. So to neglect the preaching and teaching of the whole council of God is to deprive God's flock of its food. There is no spiritual profitability to be found in preaching that finds its content in any other source than Scripture alone. Scripture is profitable for the teaching that nourishes, grows, and sanctifies every believer. Again, the rain falls, the food grows, the body is sustained and grows. And Scripture is as profitable for the spiritual nourishment of every believer, for the teaching of God's truth. And next we see that it's also profitable for the exposure and disapproval of error. Teaching truth and exposing error, scripture is the very foundation of spiritual discernment. A rejection of the sufficiency of Scripture allows the greatest danger in the church A lack of discernment to go completely unchecked. We say that it is profitable for reproof here. Teaching and reproof. It's an expression of strong disapproval against both false teaching and false living or sinful living. It's a reproof against false teaching. God does not speak through the scripture any less authoritatively. than when he spoke creation into existence. And that being so, he does not speak any less authoritatively when he declares that which is true, and when that which is false rises up against the truth. It's an expression of strong disapproval. Again, God's word, being God breathed, possesses the divine authority to call out false teaching for what it is: destructive deception. Listen to Peter in 2 Peter 2, verses 12 to 14. Speaking of false teachers, he says, But these, false teachers, like unreasoning animals. Born as creatures of instinct, to be captured and killed, blaspheming where they have no knowledge, will in the destruction of those creatures also be destroyed? Suffering unrighteousness as the wages of their unrighteousness. Considering it a pleasure to revel in the daytime, they are stains and blemishes. Reveling in their deceptions, as they feast with you, having eyes full of adultery and unceasing sin, enticing unstable souls. Having a heart trained in greed rather than trained in righteousness, as we see in our text here. They are accursed children. How's that for strong disapproval? Because as one preacher said, to misrepresent Scripture or misinterpret Scripture is to misrepresent God. To put words in God's mouth which he did not say, or using methods of which he does not approve, misrepresents him and ought to be exposed and reproved strongly. It's profitable aga for the reproof of false teaching, and it's profitable for the reproof of false Living, sinful living, or misbehavior. It's a word that's used in Titus 1:9 and 13, where Paul tells Titus , holding fast the faithful word, which is in accordance with the teaching, so that he will be able Both to exhort in sound doctrine and to reprove those who contradict. Reprove them severely so that they may be sound in the faith. This is the reproof of your own sin. This is the reproof of your own misbehavior. Believer, did your king not say that he is the vine of which you are the branches? Did he not say that your heavenly father, the gardener, prunes every branch of his? Does the word not reveal that the Son of God learned obedience through the things which he suffered? And later we'll see that as we train in righteousness, it's not always pleasant? This reproof is not painful profitlessly. Would he reprove you of your sin without profit? No. Believer, God loves you. The word of God that He has given you and preserved for you is profitable for a proof. How? Because Paul's very next word in this text is the goal of reproof. Scripture is God breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, and for correction. It's not only profitable to reveal how things ought not to be, it reveals the will of God, that which is good and pleasing and perfect, transforming your mind to approve of his will. Reproof exposes the fact that the bone is broken and correction sets it straight again. In chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, Paul says to Timothy, the Lord's slave, must not be quarrelsome, but kind to all, able to teach, patient when wrong, with gentleness, correcting those who are in opposition. Still strongly disapproving of their error, not backing away from that Correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may give them repentance, leading to the full knowledge of truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. And again, Matthew 18, the passage on church discipline. The goal is not to reach the final step and excommunicate the brother. The goal is to win your brother quickly and privately. The goal of reproof is correction. Scripture doesn't just call out our false teaching and sinful living and false thinking. It corrects us in both areas. Thinking and living, so that his truth, the teaching of sound words, will grow us in conformity to Christ. That is the direction of your sanctification, Christ-likeness. And in first John 3:3. He says that we know that when he is manifested, when Christ is manifested to us, we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. And everyone who has this hope that will see him just as he is, that will be like him just as he is. Everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. So Scripture is not just profitable for exposing the false teaching and thinking in our lives. In the false living in our lives, but it's profitable to prune us of such things, so that we grow in respect to salvation The prophet is that day by day you are becoming more like Christ and less like the world. The Word of God sets forth the standard of truth in teaching, exposes and diagnoses our error and reproof, displaces our error with godliness and correction. So that we would know and do that which pleases God. And from that taught, reproved, and corrected state, it is also profitable for training in righteousness. This word training is used in Titus 2. 12, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing There is that word instructing us that denying ungodliness as and worldly desires, we should live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. Not only should we be taught by the word Reproved by the Word and corrected by the Word, we should be trained by the Word in that corrected state, trained in righteousness. Hebrews 12, 11, this word for trained, is rendered discipline. And trained again. And all discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful but sorrowful. But to those who have been trained by it, afterwards it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness Training has to do, this word, with the moral upbringing of a child that leads to righteous living. It has to do with guidance for responsible living. Instruction that aims at the increase of virtue and godliness. And just like you train a child with firmness and gentleness, it provides guidance and instruction for us. To train us in righteousness, which is the condition acceptable to God. Purity of life, uprightness, correctness in thinking, feeling, and acting. That's the area of our training. Rather than being treacherous, reckless, lovers of self, lovers of pleasure, rather than lovers of God, rather than holding to a fake, merely external form of godliness, the scriptures bring us to Christ. And they instruct us on how to grow up in Christ, how to mature, how to live according to the righteousness that is now yours by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 2,2, like newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the Word, so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation. And that's the expectation of every believer, of everyone born of God. They begin as a babe with regard to their walk with the Lord. And just as a baby eats and grows, so the believer grows into maturity as he feeds on the Word of God. Now let me ask you, are you malnourished today? Are you feeding on the Word of God? Is it teaching you? Is it reproving you? Correcting you? And is it training you in righteousness? Or are you malnourished? Hebrews 5, verses 11 to 14, the writer is trying to explain some glorious reality of Christ to his audience. But he says concerning him we have much to say, and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God, and you have come to need milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an infant. But solid food is for the mature. Who, because of practice, have had their senses trained to discern both good and evil. A grown adult eats solid food, not milk. Likewise, a maturing believer feeds on the milk of the word at first, but then grows and begins to be nourished by the solid food of the word The expectation is that every believer would grow into maturity. And milk is acceptable for young believers, young spiritually speaking. It's not a bad thing for a young believer to need milk. But this passage in Hebrews is talking about children that won't grow up. The word is clear enough to feed babes in the faith and deep enough to leave the most profound theologian with more questions than he had before. Psalm 119, verses 9 and 11, how can a young man keep his way pure by guarding it according to your word? Your word have I treasured in my heart that I might not sin against you. This training has to do with basking in God's revelation in scriptures. Psalm nineteen Verses 7 to 9. The law of Yahweh is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of Yahweh is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of Yahweh are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of Yahweh is pure, enlightening the eyes The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of Yahweh are true. They are righteous altogether. All of that is about the word of God. That's the work. That's the training that categorizes believers who are growing up in Christ. I've heard it said, come as you are, yes, but don't stay as you came. You come to Christ And he saves you, but then he begins using his word to teach, reprove, correct, and train you in righteousness. He uses the word to do this, and the training doesn't stop until you stand in his presence. Face to face glorified with him. There's no sanctification retirement plan on this side of eternity. So what's the result of all of this? Teaching, reproof, correction, training, and righteousness, that those four words can be summarized by the word sanctification And the scriptures are sufficient for every aspect of your sanctification. If the scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. Which continues until you die and go to be with him, then the result of that profitability is that the man of God Is completely equipped for everything he needs in life and ministry. Which brings us to our third demonstration of the complete sufficiency of Scripture. In verse 17, we see that the scriptures are sufficient to equip believers for every good work. They're sufficient to equip believers for every good work. Look with me at the text, verse 17, so that the man of God may be equipped, having been thoroughly equipped for every good word. Again, this result of the high profitability of Scripture , this profitability is so high that by it the man of God is thoroughly equipped for everything that he needs to do. The man of God is a reference to Christian leaders, especially preachers. Remember, he's writing to Timothy, a leader in the church, a pastor. But does this mean that you're not equipped if you're not a pastor? No. Because in Ephesians 4, verses 11 and 12, we see that the job of the pastor is to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. That's you. It says then he himself gave some as prophets, or excuse me, some as apostles, and some as prophets, some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers for the equipping of the saints for the work of service to the building up of the body of Christ. The pastor's job is to equip you with the word. In a sense, every believer in the church is a minister, in that you minister to one another. The pastor's job is to equip you for your task, and Paul is saying to Timothy that the scripture is enough to equip the pastor for his task of equipping you. This word for equipped or complete means to be well fitted for some function, able to meet all the demands of the task at hand, and it's to such a degree that he's not just fit for the task Rather, it it causes him to be put into full working order because it has an effect on his own heart. He's sanctified, reproved, correct, trained, taught. Being sanctified, I should say. He both has the resources necessary to fulfill his duty readily available, and he himself is personally outfitted for his task by God's sufficient word. Again, H. B. Charles. He puts it so well. He says, the word of God, which trains up the people of God, also equips the man of God, complete and equipped. complete in terms of spiritual maturity and equipped in terms of ministerial skill. And after explaining all of this, after explaining to Timothy that he has all he needs in the scriptures. He issues him a charge. Look down with me at chapter 4, verse 1. I solemnly charge you. In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom preach the word. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort. With great patience and teaching, for the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance with their own desires. And will turn away from and will turn their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths. In verse 16, we saw that Scripture is indeed profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, training, and righteousness. And here in verse 2, chapter 4, verse 2, Paul says to Timothy, Preach the word, be ready. And there are those four words, reprove, rebuke, exhort, which has to do with correction, with great patience and teaching. He tells Timothy to do these things, but before telling him to do them, he says, you have everything you need for what I'm about to charge you with. And for you, believer , What does Ephesians 2. 10 say? You're not just saved and then forgotten until you die. Rather, Ephesians 2. 10 says that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we would walk in them You have been created in Christ and given good work to accomplish, and the word thoroughly equips you for every good work he has for you to do. The sufficiency of Scripture Demonstrates its unmatched value, its complete sufficiency, gloriously profitable. God Himself, who cannot lie, has guaranteed its success. As we read in Isaiah 55 earlier. And so in verses 14 and 15, we've seen that the word is sufficient to make one wise unto salvation. It leads sinners to the Savior. In verse 16, we've seen that God's word is God breathed and sufficient to sanctify God's people, his children. Through the teaching of the of truth, through the reproof of error in thought and deed, through correction and by training us in righteousness. And in verse 17, we've seen that because of the nature and profitability of Scripture. It possesses the complete sufficiency to thoroughly equip every believer for the work of ministry that we're all called to partake in. That being said, how sad is it? That Christian pastors today think that there is some better, fresher, or more attractive way of bringing people to Christ and sanctifying every believer. Neglect or denial of the sufficiency of Scripture, whether in principle or in practice, is detestable, disobedient. And leaves one unfit for any good work. A couple more passages to flip through. Go to Titus 1. 16. It's like a page or two to the right. You may be tired of flipping, but you can do it. I'll say this again, neglect or the or denial of the sufficiency of Scripture, whether in principle or practice, is detestable, disobedient, and leaves one unfit for any good work. Titus 1. 16, Paul, speaking of men who have turned away from the truth, says in Titus 1. 16, they profess to know God. But by their works they deny him, being detestable and disobedient and unfit for every for any good work. But God's word, which is truth, is profitable and equips us for every good work. The Word of God contains complete sufficiency and unmatched value for Christian life and ministry. Paul's final words to Timothy were ones which reinforced his confidence in and steadfast commitment to God's word. Last passage. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 1. Proverbs chapter 1, starting in verse 24. Proverbs chapter 1, starting in verse 24, says , Because I called and you refused, I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention. And you neglected all my counsel and were not willing to accept my reproof, I will also laugh at your disaster. I will mock when your dread comes. When your dread comes like a storm and your disaster comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you, then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me earnestly, but they will not find me, because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of Yahweh. They were not willing to accept my counsel. They spurned all my reproof. So they shall eat of the fruit of their way and be satisfied with their own devices. For the turning away of the simple will kill them, and the complacency of fools will destroy them But he who listens to me shall dwell securely and will be at ease from the dread of evil. Dear Saints, make every effort to ensure that these words do not describe you unless they're found in verse 33. How do believers discern truth from error? How do they keep themselves from error? By standing upon the very foundation of discernment itself, which is the Word of God. In closing, I have a few questions for you to ponder throughout the week, to ponder throughout the month as we go through this series. Has the word led you to the Savior? Has the word led you to the savior? Believer, have you been reproved by the word and do you readily welcome its reproof? If someone comes up to you and points out your sin, is it sweet to you, knowing that That sin is being pruned by the Lord from your life? Have you been corrected by the word after receiving its reproof so that you've been moved to repentance? Or have you denied the resource that God has given you, shooting yourself in the foot and leaving yourself unfit for any good work? And are you being trained in righteousness and equipped for the work that God has for you? He's created you in Christ Jesus for good works that you would walk in them. God 's word is completely sufficient for all that you need in life and ministry. It was during Timothy's day, and it is in ours. Let's pray. Lord God. How kind of you to reveal yourself to us and to save us in the Lord Jesus Christ You could have justly flooded the earth with everyone in it, never to be preserved. You could have justly slaughtered Adam and Eve on the spot. But you allowed them to be fruitful and multiply because you had a plan for salvation, Lord. The fall was worked together according to the counsel of your perfect will. And you've revealed yourself to us. You've revealed this salvific gospel in your word. And I pray That we would stand upon it, that we would be convicted by it and convinced about its nature, its inerrant, inspired nature, Lord. I pray that you would keep us by your word and let us stand on its firm foundation. In Christ's name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.