The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. All right. Let's try that again. He is risen. He is risen in me. Amen. Jesus Christ is risen, and that's been the the proclamation of the church for thousands of years, thousands of years, and we'll continue to be the focus of the the true church until Jesus Christ uh comes to take us home. And if we don't speak about the resurrection, we don't deserve to be called the church. If that's not the focus of what we proclaim, we don't deserve to be called the church. The resurrection was the focus of the first sermon of the church in Acts chapter 2. It was included in every gospel proclamation according to 1 Corinthians 15. It was the topic that received the most attention in the early church. The Apostle Paul, who spread Christianity throughout the Gentile world, was known for constantly speaking about the resurrection of of Jesus. And um one of my professors called the resurrection the money ball. You know, if if if you get one ball in, if there's one thing that you can get in, it's the resurrection. You want to make sure that people understand the resurrection. When Paul was in Athens. Um, the Bible lets us know that he spoke about the resurrection of Jesus Christ so much that the people thought resurrection was a person. They thought it was a personal name because he continued to talk about Jesus and Anastasia. Yesus and Anastasia, Jesus and Anastasia, Jesus and the resurrection, Jesus and the resurrection. And they're saying, is the resurrection like a person? Is he trying to introduce this to some kind of new deity or something named the resurrection? In Acts chapter uh seventeen, verse eighteen, uh there were some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers. who were conversing with Paul, and some were saying, What would this idle babbler wish to say? And others said, he seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities because he keeps preaching Jesus in the resurrection. He kept saying resurrection in Jesus so much that they thought it was the name of a of a new God that they didn't know about because that's how much the resurrection was on his lips. And that's how the resurrection should be on our lips as well. And uh while the world might be uh confused about a lot of what Christianity teaches, they do seem to get right that we make a big deal about the death, burial, and resurrection of of Jesus Christ. Even this morning I was driving into church, I was on Frederick Road, and there's balloons just lined up. all throughout the the street with uh just the little little phrase, he is alive. He is alive, you know, all different colored balloons talking about the resurrection of of Jesus Christ. And that's a that's a good thing. You know, people understand that as Christians, we make a big deal out of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Just a few days I checked my my newsfeed and uh there were several articles that recognized the Christian belief. in the resurrection of of Jesus Christ. So it's not a secret that Christians believe in the resurrection. And you think that the news that that death has been squared off with and soundly defeated Would be given proper attention in the world, right? You'd think that it would be given the proper attention that it deserves, but for the most part, it's ignored. And maybe once a year the world might pay lip service to, yeah, those Christians, they believe in a resurrected savior, you know, isn't that nice? And they just move on. But can you imagine a person who had come up with the cure for AIDS or the cure for cancer and the world not make a big deal about it? And even beyond that, a person who says, I have the cure for death, you know, not not just disease, I have the cure for death, that you don't have to die. And the the world just kind of You know, takes a big yawn and looks the other way and like, hey, what do I got to eat this morning? Not making a big deal out of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, but Christians understand that the news that Jesus Christ has defeated death changes everything. It changes absolutely everything, even though it's ignored for the most part by the world. Why don't you flip open to the book of Acts this morning? That's where we'll be. Acts chapter 2. If you don't have uh have a Bible, again you can raise your hand. We'll have uh some mushrooms that'll uh pass out a Bible to you. But Acts is found in the the New Testament of uh of the Bible. If you flip kind of to the middle of the of the Bible, actually you'll be in the Psalms if you're in the direct middle, but Flip over a little bit to your uh to your right and uh you'll enter into the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and you'll run into the book of Acts. Acts chapter two. The the big numbers are the chapters, the smaller numbers are the uh the verses, and we're in Acts chapter two this morning. And we're going to give our attention to the first recorded sermon of the church. Acts chapter 2 could be considered the church's inaugural address. It's the first word to the church and sets the tone for everything else. that follows after. Acts chapter 2. And we're not surprised to find that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is a central theme of the first sermon of the church. Acts chapter 2, we'll start at verse 22. Acts chapter 2 starting at verse 22. Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God, with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know This man, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power. For David says of him, I saw the Lord always in my presence. For he is at my right hand so that I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue exalted. Moreover, my flesh also will live in hope, because you will not abandon my soul to Hades, nor allow your holy one to undergo decay. You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of gladness with your presence. Brethren, I may confidently say to you regarding the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. And so because he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants on his throne, he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ. That he was neither abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh suffer decay. This Jesus God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses. Therefore, having been exalted, To the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth this which you both see and hear For it was not David who ascended into heaven, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies the footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you crucified. Bow with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, Lord, and we thank you for the power and the authority and the centrality, the sufficiency of your word, God. Father, this is a necessary word. Without this word, we're lost. Without this word, we have no hope. Father, without this word, we're the most to be pitied. And Father, we thank you that you've given us your word, that you've given us hope through Jesus Christ. And Father, this morning I just pray that ears would be opened. Father, that uh that eyes would see, that hearts would trust and believe in this word that you've declared to us. And Father, I pray that you've used me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. There's two major points in this passage or two major burdens of this passage. And the first is found at the end of verse 23, if you'll look at that again with me It says this man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. That's really the first main point. That Peter wants to deliver. The conviction of the guilty, you nailed him to a cross. You nailed him up But there's a second major point that Peter communicates, and it's what we find in verse 24, and it's the fact that God raised him up again. You nailed him to a cross, but God raised him up again. It's the vindication of the innocent. So you nailed him to a cross. God raised him up. That is the main heart, the main burden behind this passage. And the vindication of the moral innocence of Christ. uh is delivered here, but Peter also takes it a step further because not only was Christ vindicated by being raised up in resurrection, but he was also lifted up in his ascension as well. And Peter uh takes verses twenty-four to thirty-six to Speak about both his resurrection and his ascension. So those are the main two points that I want to communicate to you. Those are the main two points of the passage. And there's just some incredible teaching. uh about our Lord in uh in this text. But before we get there, it's important that I set up the background for you when uh we look into uh the scripture, one of the things that we want to make sure is that we place every text within its context. uh within the environment that it's uh found in the the ordained uh context of the of the scriptures. And uh as Peter delivers this sermon, as he's delivering these words, Like I said, this is the inaugural address of the church, and it's only fifty days after the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. If you remember the crucifixion of of Jesus occurred the day after Passover. Uh Jesus celebrated the Passover meal with his disciples. It was called the Last Supper. And it was late in the night that he was betrayed and handed over to the chief priest late on the night of the Passover, the Last Supper. And on the next day was when he was crucified on that Friday. The trial lasted all through the night, and it wasn't until Friday morning, according to Matthew chapter 27 and verse 1, that he was delivered over to the Romans. That day after the Passover. So 50 days after the Passover, there was another feast called the Feast of Pentecost. uh or shavwot in uh in hebrew. It was one of the the three pilgrim holidays or festivals uh when all the jewish males were required to uh uh come to jerusalem to bring an offering to the Lord They would have traveled from all over the place, from many different countries, many different cultures, different languages to recognize that God is the giver of the harvest. But this year there was another kind of harvest that God was about to bring in, and it was a spiritual harvest. A harvest of souls was about to be brought in. And it was on this day that a small group of believers were gathered together in an upper room as the Lord had instructed them to wait in Jerusalem. And uh and that's where we find uh this group of believers. Uh if you flip over to uh uh chapter two In verse 1, if you look up at uh chapter uh 2 and verse 1, uh just to read through you uh just a little bit of the context here, it says, when the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place. And suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as of fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance. Now there were Jews living in Jerusalem, devout men from every nation under heaven, and when this sound occurred The crowd came together and were bewildered because each one of them was hearing them speak in his own language. And there's there's a number of amazing events that occur all at the same time here. There's this this group of Galileans, about 120 uh that are gathered together, uh who would have typically spoken Aramaic and Greek, uh were suddenly able to speak in the languages of every group, of every people, every tribe that was gathered together. There was an appearance of the of of of tongue shaped Flames that divided over the the heads of these individuals, and there was this loud and violent noise from heaven that filled the room that they were sitting in. And imagine it must have sounded like a jet landed in this upper room, this little space where these 120 believers are gathered together. There is this loud noise like a like a tornado that struck down into this little little room. And verse 6 lets us know that the crowd around, this great crowd, heard the sound. So you have this this great group that's gathered there for the feast of Pentecost, and they're hearing this great noise. What in the world is this? So people rush out, they come to this little place where the disciples are gathered, and when they come there, they see this amazing phenomenon that there's people speaking in their language People that were Galileans that, hey, I I don't know this person. They didn't come in the caravan with us, but they're they're speaking my language. Aren't all these men Galileans? How do they know how to speak my language? So this is what happens. There's this great noise that fills the upper room, gathers everybody's attention like a siren blast. Everybody comes to this Little place where the disciples are gathered, and what they hear is this the speaking of tongues in different languages, and they're wondering what is going on. And Peter understands that the miracle of tongues was not the main point. That was not the main point. The miracle, the loud noise, the the the tongues that divide it out, the flame-like tongues that divided out was just an introduction to the main point. It was an introduction to the main point. What was the main point? Was the proclamation of Jesus and the resurrection. The loud noise and the tongues were just to gather everybody's attention. Hey, listen up. We've got something to say. And then the main point was to say, men of Israel, listen to these words. Listen to these words. He doesn't say, hey, men of Israel, listen to these tongues. Men of Israel, listen to that noise that came from heaven. Did you hear the noise? No, the main point is listen to these words In verse 14 in chapter 2, Peter, taking his stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared to them, Men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give heed to my words. Give heed to my words. And then he quotes from Joel chapter two, which explains that what they are saying was in the fulfillment of Scripture. So he points them directly back to the scripture. He doesn't point them to the signs. He points them back to what does the scripture say about this experience? Scripture has to explain your experience. It's not the other way around. Scripture explains your experience. In verse 16, he says, but this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel. He's going through the scriptures to say that this is what the scripture speaks about. And if the church can't explain what it's doing by the use of the scriptures, they need to stop doing it. If you cannot explain what your church is doing by pointing to book, chapter, and verse. You need to stop doing it. And sadly, there's way too many churches today that can't explain what they're doing biblically. Can't explain it. Churches filled with all kinds of supposed manifestations of the Holy Spirit that can't be defended biblically. Healings that aren't true healings, prophecies that aren't true prophecies that don't come true, tongues that aren't real languages, the tongues that are spoken here were real languages that people understood. But today we have tongues that nobody understands. How can you defend that biblically? When in Acts chapter 2 you have the you you have it written right here. It's it's I can hear in my own language. I know what they're saying, but now we have a tongue that nobody can understand. Nobody can interpret. How can you defend that biblically? The defense from scripture is honestly forced or non-existent in most cases when they're trying to defend these different things that they do in the churches. And Peter understands that scripture has to take priority. over your experience. And the question is, how does your experience line up with the scripture? And next Peter understands that the spiritual manifestations and signs, again, were not the main point. They serve the greater purpose of leading to something else. And that was the whole purpose for a sign, right? If I'm driving down down uh 95 north, driving up ninety five north going to New York and I see a big green sign with an arrow that says, New York, you know, and an arrow. I don't like, hey, you know, we're here. There's a sign, right? You know, pack my bags and my, you know, look around. Where's the Statue of Liberty around here? It's like It's a sign pointing me to something else. The sign is not the sign is not to attract attention to itself. Hey, look at me No, the sign is meant to point you to something else. Miracles and the speaking of tongues were a sign that pointed people to something else. It wasn't to focus on the sign. And here again, Peter repeats in verse 22, men of Israel, listen to these words. Because if you've missed the death, resurrection, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, you've missed the whole point of Acts chapter 2. And there's many people that go to Acts chapter 2 just to talk about the miracles and the signs and the tongues and, oh, we just wish for the violent rushing wind again. But that's not the point of Acts chapter 2. The point of Acts chapter 2 is to focus on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And outside of that message, you have no real power. I don't care how many times you run around the church and fall out, you have no real power. And Peter understood that the power was in the message. So he gives us his first point, the conviction of the guilty. Look at verses 22 and 23 again. Men of Israel, listen to these words Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst just as you yourselves know This man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. The main idea that Peter wants to communicate here is found at the end of verse 23, like I mentioned before, that you nailed him to a cross. You nailed him to a cross. You nailed him up. And he wants them to understand who it was that that hung there. Jesus was attested by God, but also rejected by men. Back in verse 22, when he talks about Jesus, he says, listen to these words, Jesus the Nazarene. There's a lot of ways that Peter could have referred to Jesus. Jesus wasn't actually born in Nazareth. Jesus was born in Bethlehem. He could have said, you know, Jesus of Bethlehem. And Jesus didn't live in Nazareth. Jesus was actually living in Capernaum for the duration of his ministry. He could have said, Jesus of Capernaum. But instead he says Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus the Nazarene. And that would have brought up all kinds of negative stereotypes in people's minds. Like if I were to say, uh, this person is from the backwoods. You know, there's all kinds of thoughts that might come into your mind if I say that. Or if I say, you know, this person is from the wrong side of the tracks. You know, all kinds of thoughts might come into your mind. When when Peter said Jesus the Nazarene. He understood what he was saying. Nazareth was a place that was rough, it was poor, it was uneducated. In John 1, verse 46, Nathaniel said, you know, can anything good come out of Nazareth? He could have said a number of things about Jesus, but he used Jesus the Nazarene on purpose to let us know that Jesus was a man who was rejected by men. Jesus the Nazarene. But he was approved by God and attested. It says here, Jesus the Nazarene, even though he's rejected by man, he was a man who was attested to you by God. With miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as ye yourselves know. So even though Jesus was rejected by men, he was approved and attested by God, and his works gave evidence to who he was. There's no doubt that the works that Jesus performed were supernatural. There's absolutely no other explanation for what he did. In John chapter 3, there was a religious leader named Nicodemus who approached Jesus at night. In John chapter 3 and verse 3 says, Rabbi, teacher, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. This is supernatural. Everything that you do is supernatural. The crowds were astonished by his miracles that he performed in John chapter 7, verse 31. They were saying, when the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than this man has, will he? I mean nobody can outdo this guy in the signs and the miracles. So there there should have been an obvious connection between what Jesus did and who he was, between his miracles and his person, his identity. In John chapter 5, verse 35, Jesus says, The works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do testify about me. The things that I do should tell you who I am. The Father has sent me. I come from God. But even though there was this mountain of evidence that stared them in the face, they ignored the obvious connection. They had no excuse. And Peter emphasizes that you have no excuse when he says, you yourselves know. Nobody even has to tell you about the works of Christ. You've seen it yourself. You yourselves know. He was attested by God. It's obvious that everything that he did was supernatural. But even though he was attested by God, it says that he was delivered over and killed by men. The crucifixion. Of Jesus Christ. In verse 23, it says this man was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, and you nailed him to a cross. And we could talk a lot about divine sovereignty and uh human responsibility uh through this one. We can spend the rest of our time there, but I just want to point out to you really quick that the crucifixion of Jesus Christ was God's idea. This is God's plan. In 1 Peter chapter 1, in verse 20, it speaks about Jesus being foreknown before the foundation of the world. And it speaks about that in relationship to him spilling his blood as a sacrifice as the Lamb. So even before the foundation of the world, it was known that Jesus Christ predetermined, foreordained by God that Jesus Christ would be the sacrifice for the world that he was about to create. Before God said, let there be Let there be in his mind it was already going to be Jesus Christ who had paid the price for the sins of mankind before he even said it. So so it's not like uh the cross was God's plan B. You know, break glass in case of emergency. It's like, uh-oh, you know, they messed up my world. Let me break the glass and pull out the cross. That wasn't it. Jesus Christ and the crucifixion was always God's plan A. It was always God's plan A. Flip over to Acts chapter 4. Look at Acts chapter 4. Look at verse 27 to 28. Look what it says here. For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel. to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. Even though they're all gathered together against Christ, and it was a wicked act A violent, wicked act, but God had already predestined that these things would occur. God determined this ahead of time. To predetermine means to map out the boundaries. Ahead of time, this is all mapped out by God. And even though God's intentions were pure, uh, as I said, the men who carried out this plan intended nothing but evil and hatred against the Son of God, and they were fully responsible for the sinfulness of their actions. And Peter says he was put to death by the help of of godless men, wicked men or or lawless men. Actually the uh uh the Greek term uh that's used here in uh back in Acts chapter two and verse twenty-three it's anomas Lawless, those without law. So basically he's saying that you carried out the crucifixion of Jesus Christ at the hands of those that have no regard for our law. Those that have no connection to God. But you use these vile and wicked men to carry out your evil deeds. Like how dare you? How dare you? Couldn't do it yourselves, and you go to the wicked and the godless to carry out the crucifixion of the Son of God. And Peter says that that you did this. You nailed him to the cross. He's delivered over by men into the hands of godless men. And Peter lays the conviction at the crowds. And on the on the first blush, it looks like, you know, isn't that a little bit of a stretch? You know, you have this this crowd, they're all coming from out of town. You know, these Jews that are gathering together for Pentecost, it's a pilgrim holiday, and you know, they don't even live in Jerusalem. But here you have these people coming from out of town. They're all gathered together. And then Peter stands up and says, you killed him. You nailed him to the cross. It's like Is he stretching that a little bit? Like how could he say that they actually were responsible? I mean, it was Judas who betrayed Christ. It was the chief priest who handed him over to the Romans. I mean, where was the crowd involved in all of this? First of all, this crowd that was gathered together at Pentecost was likely the same crowd that was gathered together for Passover. Fifty days before. Same crowd. It was a pilgrim holiday. It was a pilgrim festival. The same crowd would have been required by law to all gather together at Jerusalem. So here you have this massive crowd that gathers together for Passover, who were likely there when Pilate cries out, What shall I do with Jesus who is called to Christ? What do you want me to do with this man? The massive crowd is gathered there. All there for the time of Passover. Massive crowd is gathered. And he says, What should I do with this one who's called the Christ? Matthew chapter 27, verse 22. And they all said. Crucify him. Crucify him. Get rid of him. We don't want him. That's not our king. That's not our Messiah. Kill him. Same crowd gathered together for Passover. Same crowd gathered together for Pentecost. And they all say, crucify him. That's why Peter can say, you nailed him to the cross. This is your fault. In addition to that, Peter just charged the crowd with being familiar with the miracles and the wonders and the signs of the Lord. He says, you yourselves know. You've seen his miracles, you've witnessed his works, and up until this point, they had rejected all of his works. All these signs that pointed back to Jesus Christ, and they rejected all of it. And as we learn back in Matthew chapter 11 and verse 23, that to reject and refuse the evidence of Jesus Christ, he says, it's worse for you than Sodom and Gomorrah, is what Jesus said. It would be worse for you. More conviction lays at your feet than even Sodom and Gomorrah because you openly rejected the one that was given to you. There is really no middle ground when it comes to Jesus Christ. It's not like you can just remain undecided for Jesus Christ and, hey, I'm okay. I'm just kind of like in the gray area in between. There is no gray area in between when it comes to Jesus. You're either with him or you're against him. There is no middle ground. You're either with him or against him. Martin Luther said this, which is really true of all of us. Before we've given our lives to Christ, we carry about in our packets the nails of his crucifixion. Until you give your life to Jesus Christ, you're carrying about in your pockets, carrying around in your pockets the nails that hung him to the cross You're responsible. John Stott said that until you see the cross as that which was done by you, you will never appreciate what it has done for you. You first have to see that it was it was my sins that put him there. I'm responsible. And unless I'm for him, I'm actually against him. There's no middle ground in between And if it it was our sins that put him there, and if it wasn't for God's grace, we would have wanted him to stay there. We would want him to stay there. The Bible says that we're enemies by nature against God. We would have wanted Christ to stay on the cross. Stay out of my life. I can run it better on my own. When you refuse the Lordship of Jesus Christ. But death didn't have the last word on Jesus, and this is the second major point. God raised him up. It was the the vindication of the the innocent Son of God. The guilty were convicted, and the innocent one is vindicated, declared as righteous through his resurrection. As we sang earlier, death in vain forbids him rise. You know, death could not keep him in the grave. Amen. Death could not keep him in the grave. Back in Acts chapter 2, look at verse 24 again. It says, but God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death. Since it was impossible for him to be held in its power. And here here death is described as agonizing, torturous. Peter uses the same word for uh for pain or agony that's used to describe labor pains or the pains of of childbirth. And uh death is is described as a powerful enemy, a torturous enemy who holds its prey captive. And death is s has suffocated every opponent since Adam and Eve. There's not been one who could defeat death. Nobody wrestles with death and comes out on top. Everybody goes down. Every single one of us is going to go down. Don't describe this as powerful enemy in our 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 26. Also lets us know that we're naturally subject to the fear of death. In Hebrews chapter 2 verse 15, it's been said that death is the great great equalizer. I mean, nobody's getting away. Doesn't matter who you are. Ecclesiastes chapter 2 verse 16 says, in the coming days all will be forgotten, and how the wise man and the fool alike die. Doesn't matter who you are. You're wise, you're foolish, you know, great accomplishments, no accomplishments, healthy, sick, rich, poor, death will catch up with you all. Doesn't matter who you're you're not going to outrun death. You're not going to escape death. But for Jesus Christ, death couldn't hold him down. Death could not hold Jesus Christ down. And there's a number of reasons that Peter could have given us. He could have pointed out that death is the result of sin. Death is the result of sin, and Jesus Christ had no sin. He could have said that. That's why death couldn't hold him. In uh Romans chapter 5, verse 12 it says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, so death spread to all men, because all Sin. Why do we die? Because you sin. If you have any doubt that you're a sinner, if you have any doubt, you know, just ask yourself, is there a day on the calendar that I'm going to die? If that's true for you, you are a sinner We're all sinners. Death was the punishment for our first parents because of their sin, but Jesus Christ was born without sin. First John chapter 3 verse 5, you know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. Death had no legal hold on Christ. Peter could have also pointed out that death was no match for the author of life. Jesus Christ is the resurrection and the life. How is death going to keep him captive? Jesus proved it multiple times during his ministry that he had the power over death. In Mark chapter 5 verse 41, he talked to Jairus' daughter. He was a synagogue official, touched her on the hand, said, Taletha kum, which means little girl, I say to you, get up. Just with the word, she's resurrected back to life. In uh Luke chapter 7 verse 14, Jesus stops a funeral procession, touches the coffin, and says, hey, time to get up Time to get up. Touch the coffin and the bearers came to a halt. He says, Young man, I say to you, arise. And I mean, just imagine being at a funeral. And and somebody walking up, you know, you have the the line procession line coming down to see the body and and Jesus steps in and says, hey, get up. Just like, all right, it's like, what in the world? This is the power of Jesus Christ. And who can forget Lazarus? John chapter 11. Lazarus come forth. And out hops Lazarus. And uh, you know, some preachers say that he had to say Lazarus because if he just had come forth, like everybody would have came out of the tomb. He has that kind of power. And then after the religious leaders see Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead, they come up with the bright idea. I think we need to kill him. Are you kidding me? This is the guy who has the power of life. He is the resurrection, and now you think you're gonna kill him and get rid of him? Jesus Christ has power over death. What are you thinking to try to attack Jesus? But Peter points out a different reason that Jesus was raised from the dead. His resurrection was a fulfillment of the scripture. His resurrection was a fulfillment of the scripture. Flip back to Psalm chapter 16. Psalm 16. Psalm 16 is a uh a testimony of David's trust in the Lord. It begins with a prayer for safety over in uh Psalm 16 and uh in verse 1. It says, preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in you. This is a a statement of trust and security in God. And verses 2 to 4, he rejoices in the God who is the source of all that is good. I said to the Lord, you are my Lord, I have no good besides you. And verses 5 to 11, he rejoices in the God who is his portion, his inheritance Because his trust is in God. And verse 5, the Lord is the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You support my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. I will not be shaken. But then in verses 9 and 10, he says something that could not honestly be said about himself. David writes something that could not be said about himself. Look at verse 9. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will dwell securely. It's talking about his physical body. My flesh will dwell securely. I have no fear of my physical safety. Why? For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol. That's a word for the grave. I will not be abandoned to the grave Look what else he says. Nor will you allow your holy one to undergo decay. I will never decompose. My body will not go to the grave and decompose. That is not going to be the end for me. My flesh is secure, because I'm not going to the grave and I will not decay. I will not decompose. That's what he says And you might be tempted to read that and say, well, you know, David must have just been speaking hyperbolically. You know, maybe he's just talking about his great confidence in God. But he didn't really mean that his body went to decay, because you know everybody's body decays, so maybe he's just kind of speaking spiritually. But that's not how Peter and the rest of the disciples and the first century Jewish people were taught to read their Bibles. You don't just spiritualize it and say, oh, that's just spiritual language, hyperbolic language. He didn't really mean that. Peter didn't spiritualize the Bible. He also didn't criticize the Bible and say, well, David said that, but he was just wrong. You know, like a lot of modern liberal interpreters would would say, uh, you know, that's just another example where the Bible's in error. You know, David thought he went to decompose, he thought he wanted decay, but surely he did, and surely the Bible's wrong. Peter didn't spiritualize the Bible. He didn't criticize the Bible, but he did seek to harmonize the Bible. And the early interpreters of Scripture understood that sometimes a prophet could speak on the behalf of somebody else. Sometimes a prophet would speak on behalf of somebody else. Flip over to Psalm 22, just to give you an example of this. See if you remember these words in the mouth of anybody else. Psalm 22. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Far from my deliverance are the words of my groaning. O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I have no rest. Verse 6, I'm a worm and not a man. Verse 7, all who see me sneer at me. Talks about even later on that they can even count the the bones, count my bones, my strength is dried up, poured out like water. Those words were spoken by David, but they were words that could only truly be said about who? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was the one who was forsaken. Jesus Christ was the one who cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus Christ was forsaken so that we wouldn't have to be. These were words that were spoken by David, but they were really meant for somebody else. Same way in uh uh Psalm 16, words that were spoken by David were really meant for somebody else. People understood that prophets could speak in that way. If you remember in uh Acts chapter 8, verse 32, there's an Ethiopian eunuch, he's reading Isaiah 53. Remember that? He's reading in the prophet Isaiah 53, and Isaiah says he was led as a sheep to the slaughter, as a lamb before it shears the silence, so he does not open his mouth. And then he asked the question. Perceptive question. Tell me, of whom does the prophet speak? Himself or somebody else? Because he understood that a prophet could speak on behalf of somebody else or for himself. So who's he speaking about here? He understood that, and here Philip explains to him that he's talking about Jesus. Let me explain to you who the prophet 's really talking about. He understood that the prophets could speak on behalf of himself or somebody else And this is one of those times. Psalm 16 was one of those times when David did not speak for himself. He actually spoke for the Messiah. And even uh uh Jewish commentators, the Jewish Midrash or a commentary on the scriptures. Would say of Psalm 16 that the Lord the Messiah is the one who is being spoken about. Even Jewish commentators understood that. And that he would come from the line of David. And Peter, along with the faithful interpreters of Scripture, looked for the literal fulfillment of those words. Words, the literal fulfillment of the one who would not undergo decay. We're looking for one to come who will not undergo decay because the scriptures promised that this would happen. And we're looking for the literal fulfillment, and we know it wasn't David. We know it wasn't David. It has to be somebody else. Flip back over to Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2, he points this out to those that were gathered together. That we're looking for the literal fulfillment of the scriptures. Acts chapter 2, verse 29. He says, Brethren, I may confidently say to you regarding the patriarch David that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. If you want to go visit it, you can. David Sum is still with us, and I'm pretty sure if you open it up, he has already decomposed. David is not talking about himself. The tomb of David is mentioned in Nehemiah 3. 16, and according to Josephus, a Jewish historian, King Herod built a monument of white marble right at the entrance of the tomb, so everybody knew where it was. And he says, if you want to go and check, be my guest. But I'm pretty sure you're not going to find a body that's still put together. This body has already decayed. It's decomposed. David clearly wasn't speaking about himself, is what Peter points out And David believed in the promise that was given to him. Look at verse 30 in Acts chapter 2. And it says, and so, because he was a prophet, And knew that God hath sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants on his throne, he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ, that he was neither abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh suffer decay. Back in 2 Samuel chapter 7, David was promised that there would come one from his lineage who would have a kingdom that would be established forever. His throne would be established forever. And David looked forward to that one, looked forward to him. It was impossible for Jesus to be held under death because the fulfillment of Scripture had to come to pass. Scripture cannot be broken. The scriptures cannot be broken. The scriptures must be fulfilled. That was the reason why Jesus couldn't be held in the grave. And he says, and we're eyewitnesses of these things. He looked ahead, spoke of the Christ. Verse 32, this Jesus God raised up. The scriptures were fulfilled, exactly as Jesus, as the scriptures prophesied, it's come to pass. We've seen it. We've seen the fulfillment of the scriptures. This Jesus God raised up again, and we're all witnesses of it. Without knowing the exact time or person, David looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But there's something else that Peter points out, and for this, let's flip back to Psalm 110. Psalm 110. Back to the Psalms again. Psalm 110. This is the the most quoted psalm in the the Old Testament. The New Testament writers refer to Psalm 110 more than any other scripture in the Old Testament. Psalm 110 is referred to. This is a psalm that describes the Messiah, the king, the high priest who receives the nations as his inheritance, rules over the nations. Really a majestic psalm. But it was also a psalm that puzzled the religious leaders. during the day of Jesus because of of how David refers to the Messiah. Everybody understood that Psalm 110 is a messianic psalm. This is the psalm that refers to the Messiah, the promised one, the anointed one who's to come. Everybody understood the Psalm 110 was a prophecy about that because it talks about one who will come with the scepter to rule from Zion. So they they understood that this is a psalm that speaks about the future ruler to come. But listen to what David says. Verse 1. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will stretch forth your strong scepter from Zion, saying, Rule in the midst of your enemies. So like I said, it was clear that the Messiah would be a descendant of David. Uh David received that promise in 2 Samuel chapter 7 that there would come one from his lineage. It was clear that David is referring to the Messiah in Psalm 110. But what the Jewish interpreters couldn't figure out is why would David refer to one of his descendants as his Lord. He says the Lord, capital L-O-R-D in verse 1, refers to Yahweh, the Hebrew name for God. He says, the Lord God says to my Lord, my, it's a word for master, sir. It's the Hebrew word Adonai. He says, the Lord Yahweh speaks to my Lord, my Adonai, you know, master, sir. And he says these words The Lord says to my Lord the Messiah, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And uh Jewish interpreters would look at this and say, well, why is David referring to one of his descendants as his Lord? You know, I don't refer to my son as sir, you know, and if he has a son, you know, I expect him to refer to me as sir, not, you know, hey, sir, you know, that's like it's just out of place, right? I don't refer to my descendants as sir. They refer to me as sir because I'm the older. Right? That's how it works. And the Jewish interpreters are saying, why is David referring to his son or his descendants as Sir, my Lord? Why would you do that? And David himself is a king. So why would the higher king refer to another king as my lord? Why would he bow down before this other one as his lord? Jewish interpreters couldn't figure this out. Back over and uh flip back to Matthew chapter 22. Just want to point this out. Because Jesus pointed it out that they couldn't figure it out Just showing his mastery over scripture and their ignorance of it. In Matthew chapter 22, look at verse 41. Here you have the religious leaders, the Pharisees. They're the religious experts on the law. The interpretation of it, the practice of it. And listen to what he says to these supposed experts. Verse 41, chapter 22, Matthew. Says, now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, what do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? And they said to him, the son of David. You know, immediate answer. We know that the Messiah is the son of David. He said to them, Then how does David in the Spirit call him Lord? Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies beneath your feet. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? Now no one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask another question. It's like we can't handle this guy. Like he he knows all of our weak spots. He knows what we can't answer. Like he's pointing it all out. I'm ashamed. I'm embarrassed. I don't want to ask him any more questions. You can ask him, but I'm not asking him anything So here you have Jesus pointing out their their ignorance of the scriptures because whoever fulfilled the psalm had to be both greater than David and a descendant from David. Had to be both. Which points to the spiritual identity of who Jesus Christ really is. But there's something else that Peter picks up. Not only is Jesus the Lord, the Messiah, but he also expected something else to be fulfilled literally. He says, The Lord said to my Lord, sit where? At my right hand. Sit at my right hand. Peter expected that to be fulfilled literally. I'm literally expecting a descendant of David to be seated at the right hand of God. And all throughout the scriptures, where is the throne of God located? In heaven. All throughout scripture, the throne of God is located in heaven. Psalm 11, verse 4. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven Isaiah 66, 1. Thus says the Lord, heaven is my throne and the earth is my footstool. Psalm 115, verse 3. But our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases. And when David, when David spoke this about his descendant, Peter is saying, which one of David's descendants was literally raised to the right hand of the throne of God in the heavens? Which one did this ever happen for? He didn't try to spiritualize it. He didn't criticize it and say it's not true. He looked for the literal fulfillment of it. And where did he find that literal fulfillment? It was the one who was lifted up. Saw him right before his very eyes, saw Jesus lifted up to the throne of God at the right hand, at the right hand of the throne of God. Look back at Acts chapter 2 again. Acts chapter 2, verse 34. Just take a take a look at this where he he points this out. Acts chapter 2, look at verse 34. He says, for it was not David who ascended into heaven This didn't happen to David. But he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies the footstool for your feet. Therefore let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him. Both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. The literal fulfillment for this was found in Jesus Christ when he was raised before the eyes of five hundred brethren at the same time. Acts chapter one, verse eleven points that out. They were witnesses of it. But interestingly, what Peter does is he doesn't point to himself as the proof. He says, hey, you know, guys believe it because I saw it. Look at what he says in verse 33. He says, therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured forth this which you both see and hear. He says, not just that I'm a witness of it, you're a witness of it. You're a witness of the evidence that Jesus Christ is in the heavens. Because over in uh John chapter 16, and I know I got you flipping around a lot today, but this is good, so keep flipping. All right. John chapter 16, look over at John chapter 16. This is fascinating. John chapter 16, look at verse 7. Listen to what Jesus says. I tell you the truth. It is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And he, when he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment Concerning sin because they do not believe in me, and concerning righteousness, because listen to this, because I go to the Father And you no longer see me. What is he talking about? I'm going to be raised up to the right hand of the throne of God. I'm going back to the Father. And concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged. I have many more things to say to you now, but you cannot bear them. But when he, the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth, for he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will disclose to you what is to come, and he will glorify me, for he will take of mine and will disclose it to you. Jesus says, I am going to the Father. You will no longer see me. I'm going to the Father. And he had to go to the Father. He says, it's to your advantage that I go away, because if I don't go, I won't be able to send who? The Holy Spirit. I'm going to the Father. When I get to the Father, I will send you the Holy Spirit. When the Holy Spirit came on the day of Pentecost, what was that in evidence of? That Jesus Christ was at the right hand of the throne of God. I'm here, guys. I'm with the Father, and I'm sending the Holy Spirit back to you. That was the evidence that Jesus Christ was already at the right hand of God. It's the evidence. And Peter points this out and says, and you are witnesses of it. You've seen the evidence of the Holy Spirit fall upon this place. You are evidence. You've seen the evidence of it. You've seen it demonstrated before you As the church received the gift of the Holy Spirit, it was a clear indication that Jesus was at the right hand of the throne of God. He had been risen. Jesus, God raised him up. God raised Jesus up. And God also lifted Jesus up. He's in the heavens. Jesus was clearly being identified as the Messiah. It was impossible for death to hold Jesus Christ. Because the scriptures had to be fulfilled. When Jesus spoke to his disciples on the road to Emmaus, he gave a mild rebuke to them for being downcast when he says, These are my words, in Luke chapter 24, verse 44, he says, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you. That all things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. Everything has to happen, just like Scripture says. And Peter points out that the events of Pentecost And the spiritual manifestations and the phenomena associated with the day. That wasn't the main point. It was just to attract people so that they could hear the main point. The main point was that Jesus is risen. God has raised him up. And Jesus is in the heavens. God has lifted him up. That was the main point. And the fact that he was raised and lifted up was proof of who he really was, his true identity, that Jesus is both Lord and Christ. All the scriptures. All that the scripture says about the Messiah is fulfilled in this one. And that's why in verse 36 he says, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. And you yourselves know. You yourselves know. Like I said, the great noise and the tongues and everything else was to point them to the resurrection because that's where the power was. And as they they started to put the pieces together and say that we are responsible. We are responsible for the death of the Savior, we're responsible for the death of the Messiah. It says in verse 37 that they cried out. They cried out when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart, stabbed to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent each of you and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit Convicted. Conviction fell upon all of them. They were convinced this is the Messiah, this was the Lord. And I had a hand in putting him to death. My voice was with the crowd when they said, crucify him. I put the Lord to death. I put the Messiah to death. They fell under the conviction, just as Jesus Christ predicted in Over in John chapter 16, that when the Holy Spirit came, that he would also bring about conviction, exactly as Jesus Christ prophesied, conviction fell upon the crowd, and they cried out, brethren, what can we do? What can we do? And Peter says, repent. That was the response to the resurrection. And that was what was supposed to grab their attention. Not the signs, not the wonders, not the noise. What was supposed to really grab their attention was the Savior. The crucifixion and the resurrection of the Savior. And my question for you is, does the resurrection have your attention this morning? Does it really have your attention this morning? Does it just one day out of the year where you hang up some balloons and paint some eggs and carry baskets and dress up and give some kind of lip service to the resurrection? Or has the resurrection changed your life? I'm sure it's a story that you've heard many times before, but have you ignored the significance of it? The significance of the resurrection, what it means, or have you made excuses for ignoring the resurrection? Do you understand what the resurrection says about the identity of the Messiah? About who he really is? Jesus Christ is the Lord. He's the Messiah. He will rule over his enemies. He will crush them beneath his feet. That's what the resurrection signifies. Do you understand that every promise of Scripture will be fulfilled exactly as it's written? That we're looking for a literal fulfillment And when Scripture says that Jesus Christ will come back just in the way that he left, that that is literally going to happen, Jesus Christ is coming back. We don't know when. Are you prepared? Are you ready? Have you trusted in the resurrected Savior? Do you understand that the word of God cannot be broken? And do you realize that the same kind of sin that Israel committed when it rejected Jesus Christ? It's the same kind of sin that you commit when you ignore the resurrection and that you walk around in your pockets with the nails that hung Jesus Christ to the cross. If you have not given your life to Christ, if you are not for him, you are against him. If you're not on his side, the Bible says you're an enemy of God. You're an enemy of God. And have you been cut to the heart by your sin against the Savior? Have you seen the cross is what was done by you? That it was my sins that put him there. Have you seen the cross as something that was done by you? Because only in that can you appreciate what the cross has done for you. And if you're here as a believer, would you be more excited this morning if we uh ran around the church a couple times and did some backflips and you know spoke in tongues? And would you be more excited about that? Or do you understand that the power of God is in the preached word? It is in the message, the cross, the crucifixion. That is the power of God. And that's what we need to focus on. The resurrection has been the proclamation of the church for thousands of years. And it has to be the true focus of the church until Jesus Christ comes or takes us home. And if we don't speak about the resurrection, we don't deserve to be called the church. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do come before you, God, this morning. Father, we're uh thankful for the cross of Jesus Christ. We're thankful for the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we're thankful for the ascension of Jesus Christ. He was nailed up, he was risen up, he was lifted up, and he abides to make intercession for us at the right hand of the Father. My father, I pray that we would understand that all that was done was in fulfillment of the scriptures, that we looked for the scriptures to be fulfilled literally. And uh Father, I just pray that we would humble ourselves. Father, I pray that you would give us a greater appreciation for the resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ, and that he would be our focus, that our focus wouldn't be on signs and seeking for miracles and healings and deliverance and all the other things that the world looks to and uh the so-called church looks to as well, or that becomes the focus And the center of what they do. My Father, I pray that the center of all that we do would be the message that we preach about Christ and the cross and his resurrection. And it's soon returned, Father. And I pray that we'd be ready. And Father, help us to be ready for that time. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.