Amen. In the power of Christ we stand. It's in his power that we live. It's in his power that we have new life. It's in his power that we continue to stand, and he'll bring us all the way to glory as we mentioned earlier. What a wonderful, wonderful promise that we have in him. Amen. Why don't you take your Bibles and open with me to the book of Romans? We're in the book of Romans, chapter 4, as we continue. study through the book of Romans. And we're continuing our our way through this important letter, most important letter of the Apostle Paul, the longest letter of the Apostle Paul. And just to remind you of where we've been, in chapter 1, Paul condemned the Gentile world as being without excuse before God. Romans chapter 1 verse 20 says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen. being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse. Nobody is without nobody's with excuse before the Almighty God. Even those who uh don't have a Bible never have been to church in their lives, they're still without excuses, they stand before God. Why? Because even though they knew God, they did not honor Him as God. They knew that there was a God, they refused to honor Him as God, they refused to seek Him. And the Bible says they're without excuse. Chapter 2. The entire Jewish world is condemned as being without excuse before God. Romans chapter 2 and verse 12 says, For all who have sinned without the law will perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law, meaning the Jewish people, will be judged by the law. In other words, being under the law won't save you. Being under the law only condemns you. In chapter two and verse one it says, Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another you condemn yourself, for you who judge practice the same things. Even though you might have the law, you can't get away from the condemnation of it. And the Jewish people even condemn themselves by the words that they read. By their own words, they will be condemned. In chapter 3, Paul condemns the entire world as under sin. In chapter 3, in verse 19, it says, Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, referring to the Jewish people. So that, meaning that the Jewish people are just a small sample of the entire world, so that every mouth may be closed And all the world may become accountable to God. What does that mean? That even if the Jewish people, that if the Jewish people who receive the law can't obey it, they can't be saved by it. How do we think that anybody else is going to be saved by obeying the law? If even the people who received the law, who the law was intended for originally, can't obey it to be saved, how can anybody else be saved by obeying the law. But then we get to verse 21 of chapter 3. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God, through faith in Jesus Christ, for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. Just a wonderful explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The great doctrine of justification, we've been talking about it for a while in the book of Romans. Wonderful doctrine of justification can be defined by verse 22, which says the righteousness of God. Through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. That's how we're saved. We receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, and this is for all those who believe. And instead of appearing before the judgment seat of God as sinners who are justly condemned in the sight of God, we can stand before God as righteous How righteous? We can stand in the righteousness of God Himself. His righteousness, the righteousness of God through Jesus Christ. This is such a wonderful doctrine. It's no wonder that he continues to go chapter after chapter talking about this wonderful doctrine of justification, that I'm declared righteous in the sight of God, not because of what I do, but because of what Jesus Christ has already done. And it's not just as if I've never sinned. That's one part of it. It's not just as if I've never sinned. It's also just as if I'd always been righteous. We stand in the righteousness of God Himself, as the Westminster Shorter Catechism puts it this way. Justification is an act of God's free grace. Wherein he pardons all of our sins, accepts us as righteous in his sight, but only for the righteousness of Christ. Which is imputed to us and received by faith alone. And this is such an incredible and precious promise that Paul takes an entire chapter just to defend it. As if to say, don't let anyone rob this blessing from you. Don't let anybody trick you. Don't let anybody tell you that there's there's something else that That is necessary for you to receive this righteousness of God. Don't let anybody rustle away the confidence that you have in justification alone. Justification by faith is not a modern invention. Paul did not invent the doctrine of justification by faith alone. Or even worse, Luther did not invent the doctrine of justification by faith during the Reformation. This is a doctrine that we find in the Bible. This is something that we find from the beginning of the Bible to the end. And Paul argues that justification is as old as the very first book of the Bible. Look at Romans chapter 4 and verse 1. He says, What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Where's that quote found? The very first book of the Bible. Genesis chapter 15. And then after that, Paul quotes from David, the greatest king of Israel, in verse 6, where he says, just as David also speaks Of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. But this is where team doubt creeps in. Because a Gentile who is outside of the Jewish nation could read this and think, well, that's good for the Jewish people, but what about me? You know, Abraham is Jewish. David is Jewish. You know, these examples that Paul is bringing up are all Jewish people. And the Jewish nation, according to the flesh. They're Jewish. I mean, he says in the very first verse, what then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? You know, Paul, you're bringing up all these examples of Jewish people, you know, Abraham and David, and he's your forefather according to the flesh. But what about us? What about us? Doesn't this leave the Gentiles out? And we know that there were Jewish converts who actually felt the same way, that the Gentiles were left out of this blessing. Peter had to be convinced that the Gentiles were included in the blessings of God. In Acts chapter 10 and verse 15, where God gave him a vision, he had to give him a vision to remind him that uh there is no partiality with God. You know, the sheep that came down with all the unclean animals, he says, rise, feeder, kill, and eat. He says, Lord, I've never had anything unclean. And what does the Lord say? Don't call unclean what I have cleansed. You know who the the unclean animals are coming down all the creepy crawlies on the sheet? That's you and I. That's us And God says, don't call unclean what I've cleansed. They're part of this body. There is no partiality with me. They came in the same way that you did. They came in by faith and by faith alone. Peter had to be convinced of that. The elders in Jerusalem had to be convinced of this in Acts chapter 15. Peter stands up in their midst and he says, Brethren. You know that in the early days God made a choice among you that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe You you you know that the Gentiles came in. I was the one who preached the gospel to them. They came in, you know that they're received the same way that we're received In verse 9 of Acts 15 he says, and he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. And Paul was constantly in conflict with those who erected Jewish barriers between the Gentiles and the blessings of God. In Philippians chapter 3 and verse 2, Paul says this: he says, Beware of the dogs. Beware of the evil workers. Beware of the false circumcision. For we are the true circumcision who worship in the Spirit of God, glory in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence in the flesh. What did he mean by that? I I don't put any confidence in my birth. I don't put any confidence in my lineage. I don't put any confidence in any kind of ceremonies. There's nothing that I put confidence in that I can do myself The only one that I put confidence in is the Lord. It's he who saves me. I can add nothing to this. I can contribute nothing to this. We have no confidence in the flesh. And what we find in Romans chapter 4, verses 9 to 16, is Paul's defense of this blessing that's been given to the Gentiles Justification by faith alone, beyond any Jewish ceremonies, beyond any Jewish laws, beyond the lineage of the Jewish people, and by implication, what we'll see in this text is that any attempt To add ceremonies or laws or lineage to our great salvation is a distortion of the faith and a denial of the faith. Why don't you follow with me in Romans chapter 9, verses uh chapter 4, verses uh 9 to 16? Romans chapter 4, verses 9 to 16. It says, is this blessing then on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? For we say faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it credited? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised. So that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, that righteousness might be credited to them And the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had while uncircumcised. For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void and the promise is nullified. For the law brings about wrath, but where there is no law, there is also no violation For this reason, it is by faith, in order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants Not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. Father, we're grateful for this text. We're grateful for your word. We're grateful for This defense of the doctrine of justification by faith alone, and now Father, I pray that we would stand in it. Father, that we would allow no one to rob us of our blessings. to confuse us about our position in Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that as we read your word, that you would make these things clear to us. And Father, I pray that you would open up your word, Lord, to us, Lord, that you would help us to understand and apply these things in our lives And our Father, as we think about this great salvation that we have, Father, I pray that we would glory in it, that we would bask in it, that even as the Apostle Paul, who just continues to rehearse these things over and over again, Lord, that we would rehearse these things over and over again in our minds. Father, that we would glorify you for the salvation that we have, Lord, there is no greater joy than to know that our sins are forgiven, that we're at peace with with God. And uh Father, this is what brings us comfort, Lord, even during times of adversity. So Father, I pray that uh you Lord would uh ignite our hearts again, Lord, with the same old story, that we never get tired of the same old gospel story. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Number one, justification by faith alone does not depend on ceremonies. Justification by faith alone does not depend on That's going to be our first point and takes us from verse 9 down to verse 12. And in verse 9, Paul raises the question: who is the blessing of justification for? Who is it that receives the blessing of justification? Back in verses 1 through 5 of chapter 4, we learned that this blessing of justification is not for people who work for it. Abraham taught us that. In chapter 4, verses 2 to 3 it says, if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. So it's not for people who work for it. Abraham couldn't work for it. He didn't receive salvation by works. It's also not for people who purified themselves for it. And David taught us that. Verses 6 to 8. In verse 6 it says, just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered, and we all remember the story of David David didn't receive this blessedness of being justified by faith because of a righteous life, because he was he purified himself. We actually find that David speaks about this blessing of justification in the midst of his greatest sin. As he's confessing his greatest sin, that he's talking about this blessing that he has. So it's not because of this purified life that David had. So it's not because of people who work for it. It's not for people who've purified themselves for it. And it's also not for those who perform some kind of religious ceremony to receive it. It's not for those who did a ceremony for it. Look at verse 9. He says, is this blessing on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? For we say faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. We understand from scripture that Abraham was the father of the circumcision. In verse 12, it actually lets us know that the father of circumcision To those not only who are of the circumcision, but also who follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had while uncircumcised. So right there it speaks about Abraham, it's the father of circumcision. The first time that we find circumcision in the scriptures is in Genesis chapter 17, and it's in reference to Abraham in Genesis chapter 17, and actually wants you to flip back there. Actually, it just gave me a chance to drink some water, so go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Genesis 17 Genesis 17, this is the first time that we find circumcision mentioned in the scriptures And verse 10, it says, This is my covenant, which ye shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin. And it shall be the sign of the covenant between me and you. Today we perform uh circumcision for medical reasons, for uh hygienic reasons, but during this time God commanded it for religious reasons. And the removal of the foreskin was so closely connected to the identity of the Jewish people that the Jewish people could simply be called the circumcised. You know, when you just said the circumcision or the circumcised, it was a reference to the Jewish people, uh, is often but the uh brought up as the mark of separation. When David faced off with Goliath, you know, he says, uh, who is this uncircumcised Philistine in uh Genesis 34, when the Hivites wanted to intermarry with uh Jacob's daughters? They said we cannot do this thing to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised. So circumcision was considered the distinguishing mark of the people of God And there were some who were trying to convince the Gentiles that unless they were circumcised also, that they could not be saved. And that was the position of many of the Jewish people according to Acts 15. There were some who taught that unless you're circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. So Paul asked the question, is this blessing then on the circumcised or the uncircumcised also? For we say that faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. Faith was credited to Abraham, and we know that Abraham is the father of the circumcision. So is this a blessing that only belongs to the circumcised? But what does he say? Look at verse 10. He says, How then was it credited? At what point was it credited? Under what condition was Abraham when this blessing of justification was credited to him? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised. Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. The command for Abraham to be circumcised is found in Genesis 17, which we just read. Genesis 17, we find the command to be circumcised. And Abraham at that point was 99 years old when he was circumcised in his flesh. His son Ishmael was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in his flesh. But when Abraham believed in the Lord and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, that was back in Genesis 15. And Genesis 15 comes before Genesis 17. Do you know what that means? There was a period of time when Abraham was understood to be reckoned as righteous in the sight of God. before and without being circumcised. It was at least fourteen years because uh we know that Ishmael was thirteen when He was uh circumcised and uh we find Genesis fifteen before Ishmael was even conceived, before he was, you know, uh Abraham was given to uh uh to Hagar as uh as a husband, but Uh we find that it's at least fourteen years because it took a year for you know Ishmael to be born and it was before that. And some say it might have been as many as twenty years. So 20 years Abraham is known as being righteous in the sight of God before circumcision. It means that Abraham's ceremony had nothing to do with his justification by faith. His faith is credited as righteousness while he was still uncircumcised. And what does that mean for the Gentile believer in our day? What it means is that there is no ceremony that is necessary for you to receive the blessing of justification. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ is all that you need, and there is no religious ceremony that is necessary in order to receive it. That includes baptism That includes communion, that includes confirmation or penance or whatever else you want to throw in there. There is nothing, there is no religious ceremony that would secure your eternal salvation apart from faith. And anything that you add to faith alone is a distortion of the faith and a denial of the faith. Because it's no longer a gospel of grace. You're adding some kind of work, some kind of human effort. To secure your eternal salvation. And the scriptures couldn't be more clear about this. Flip over to the book of Galatians, Galatians chapter 5. It's a book that I turn to often. The book of Galatians has been called the Charter of Christian Freedom and contains some of Paul's most severe condemnations against any additions to the gospel of grace. But listen what he says in chapter chapter five. Take a look at verse one. Listen what he says. He says, it was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to the yoke of slavery. Again, don't let anybody rob you of this blessing. Don't let anybody pull you into slavery. Behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision. Christ will be of no benefit to you. That's harsh. That is severe. He says, and I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by law, you have fallen from grace Verse 5. He says, For through we through the Spirit, by faith, are waiting for the hope of righteousness, for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working through love. Circumcision adds absolutely nothing to the grace that justifies, and anyone who's circumcised for salvation Accomplishes nothing but severing themselves from Christ, making Christ of no benefit. And what does that mean? It means that you can't say that I'm saved by Christ and by my ceremony. Jesus doesn't share the role of Savior with anything else or with anyone else. If you want to be saved by your ceremony, you have to cut yourself off from Christ You can't hold on to both to say, I'm trusting in both of these to get me to heaven. You have to let go of one to grab onto the other. You can't say, I'm holding on to Christ and my baptism in order to save me. I'm holding on to Christ and and the Mass in order to save me. I'm holding on to Christ and whatever ritual you want to put in its place. I'm I'm holding on to both. You know, some some people say it's like, you know, uh I'm I'm doubly secure. I've got on uh you know a belt and suspenders. But that's not how it works. You're trusting in one or the other. You're trusting in one or the other. And this is severe language again that Paul uses that you've cut yourself off from Christ. So what's the purpose then of circumcision? What's the purpose of the ceremonies? I mean, didn't God command it? Look back at chapter 4 in Romans. What's the purpose of circumcision? Chapter 4, verse 11. It says, and he received the sign of circumcision a seal of the righteousness of the faith, which he had while uncircumcised, so that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised That righteousness might be credited to them. What's the purpose of circumcision? It was a sign and it was a seal A sign and a seal. First of all, circumcision was a sign. And what's a sign? It's a distinguishing mark by which something is made known. It's like an arrow that points somewhere else. You know, the the the emphasis is not on the sign. If I'm driving you know up 95 and I see a sign that says New York, I don't pull over to the sign and say, wow, I I got here quicker than I thought You know, here we are in New York. It says New York. No, that sign is intended to point me somewhere. It's saying, hey, you're on the right road, right? You know, keep going down this way. I'm not to focus on the sign itself because the sign is not the substance. The sign is an indicator. It's pointing to something else, not to itself. So circumcision, if people focus on the circumcision, as if the circumcision is my salvation. You're not using the sign for the purpose for which it was intended. The sign is to point you to something else. So circumcision, the Bible says, is a sign. Jesus performed many signs. We read about that all throughout the scriptures, but the signs weren't the main point. Who's the main point? Jesus was Jesus was the main point. The miracles that Jesus performed were not an end to themselves. Yes, Jesus had compassion. Yes, Jesus cared for people. He met their physical needs. He performed miracles. But the point of the miracles was so that you could turn to him in faith. Because if all you focused on were the miracles, you're going to miss the Savior. If if all you do is get your needs met, I have my I I I had a great meal today by Chef Jesus You know, he fed us bread and and uh and fish. I mean you couldn't you can't imagine the kind of fish that I ate today I mean it was like a bread factory out there in Galilee. I mean it just kept on coming and coming. I mean basket loads of fish and bread. If that's all you s you focused on, I had my stomach filled today What does Jesus say? It's like you're working for the food that perishes. Because you're still going to die. You still need a savior from your sins. Don't focus on the sign. Don't focus on the externals. You need to focus on me because the signs are to point to me because I'm the Savior. So don't get focused on the sign, and circumcision was like a sign. And the purpose was to point to the greater reality. Circumcision wasn't the reality. It pointed to the reality. Also, according to Romans chapter 4 and verse 11, it was a seal. Circumcision was a seal. The word seal is another word that speaks about an identifying mark. A seal was a marker. an indicator of authenticity and said that something was the real deal. You know, kings, high officials, they would often roll up a document. and they'd seal it, they'd close it with like wax or some clay, and then they'd use their ring which had a special marking on it to say that, hey, this came from me, and they would stamp it into the the wax or the the clay. To say that this this is authentic. This came from me. It's really it's genuine. It's a mark of ownership. It's a mark of authenticity, and it also provides an added measure of security. Because if you tamper with the seal, you tamper with the one who made the seal, right? And we find that here, that circumcision was supposed to be like a seal And it was a seal of what? Look at what it says. Verse 11. A seal of the righteousness of the faith. It was a seal of the righteousness of faith. Circumcision, again, was not the main point. It was a sign and it was a seal. What did it indicate? It indicated that circumcision Abraham, you're owned by me. It's a mark of ownership. It was a mark that said, Abraham, you know what? Your faith is genuine. I'm identifying your faith as the real thing. Your faith is genuine. And it also had a measure of security that Abraham, these promises that I'm making to you, that I'm going to fulfill these promises. It's a mark of security So what we find with the circumcision, it was God's seal on Abraham. Abraham, I own you. Abraham, I'm saying that your faith is genuine, that it's the real thing, and it's a mark of security. It's a reminder of the security of God. So, circumcision did not save Abraham. It was a sign that he was already saved. It was a seal that God owned him, that his faith was genuine, and that God had made promises to him that he would keep. So it was a seal for Abraham. And it was totally appropriate for Jewish people to receive circumcision as a sign, as an indicator that I'm connected to this promise that was given to Abraham. But it would be totally inappropriate in a denial of the faith to receive circumcision as salvation. Receive it as the sign, receive it as the seal, but don't receive it as if it's your salvation. Because now you're looking at circumcision as something that it is not. And Paul was not opposed to the act of circumcision. Paul wasn't opposed to the circumcision. Paul was circumcised, right? He was circumcised, but he says, I don't trust in it. I'm not trusting in my circumcision. Actually says that all the things that would have been counted as as you know some kind of credit to me, I count it all as lost for the sake of Christ. I give it all up for the sake of Christ. I hold on to him alone, opposed to all the credentials that I might have because of my Jewish background, my upbringing, the ceremonies. I throw all of that away if I can get Jesus. And that's the way that we should be. All the ceremonies can go in the dumpster as long as I get Jesus. Because Jesus is the one who saves. My ceremonies do not save me. So it would have been appropriate for the Jewish people to receive it as a sign, as a seal, but not as salvation. So you have Paul who actually had Timothy circumcised. Why? Because Timothy had a mother who was Jewish. He had a father who was Greek. He wasn't circumcised when he was eight days old like the other Jewish people were. And it would have been a distraction as he's going around preaching to Jewish people to say, like, hey, aren't you Jewish? Why haven't you been circumcised? I know your father's a Greek. You haven't been circumcised, have you? So for Timothy to be circumcised, it removed the distraction. You know, if if circumcision is going to allow you to hear the message that I have to give, you know, pass me the blade, right? Because I want to make sure that you hear the message that I'm preaching. So Timothy, it would have been a distraction if he was not circumcised. As opposed to that, Titus, who was fully Greek, refused to be circumcised. Why? Because it would have given the wrong message. It would have said that I, as a Gentile, need to become Jewish in order to become saved. And that's not the path to salvation. It's not that I, as a Gentile, become Jewish so I can get to Christ. No, I get to Christ directly. And how is that? It's through faith and it's through faith alone. I don't come through a ceremony in order to get to Christ. I come to Christ through faith. I trust in him. It's the empty hands, like I said, of the beggar who receives the grace of God. I just come to him and I ask for Christ to save me. Through faith, I receive him. So Titus wasn't circumcised because that would have given the wrong message. And any religion that attaches a saving significance To anything other than trusting in Christ by faith alone is a false gospel. It's a false gospel. According to one ancient Jewish commentary, no circumcised man will ever see hell. Another says this, circumcision saves from hell. One ancient writing said this: Abraham sits before the gate of hell and does not at all allow any who are circumcised to enter there. It places trust where? In the ceremony. It's not a sign, it's not a seal. It's looked at as if it's salvation. I've been circumcised, so I'm good. I've had the ceremony. I'm I'm okay. That's the Jewish crowd, but uh Christian crowd has their own ceremonies that they lean on, right? According to the catechism of the Catholic Church, baptism confers on its recipient the grace of purification from all sins. Baptism celebrated worthily in faith. The sacraments confer the grace that they signify. The sacraments act, listen to this, ex opera operato, literally, by the working of the work. Or by the very fact of the actions being performed by the working of the work that they save. The saving work is being accomplished. It goes on to say the church affirms that all that for believers that the sacraments of the new covenant are necessary for salvation. I'm reading from the Roman Catholic Catechism. That's what they said. That the works themselves do the saving. It's trusting in a ceremony. And I didn't grow up Roman Catholic. I've mentioned before. I grew up in the Oeness Pentecostal church. But for me, it was like, have you been baptized in Jesus' name? And I got baptized four different times to make sure that I did it right because I'm trusting in the work to save. And how many people are stuck thinking that like if if I've done it the right way, have I come to the right place? Have I said the right prayer? Have I received the right ceremony? Is God going to accept me because of what I've done? And then so many religions, it's like they just add on and on and on. Am I wearing the right thing? Do I have my hat this way? Am I wearing my dress that way? Like there's all these ceremonies. Am I coming on the right day? As if somehow if I come on Saturday instead of Sunday, that's going to make me more holy. Trusting in a ceremony. And what it all does is it detracts from the glory of Christ. Because you're not looking at Jesus anymore. I remember we had a group of young adults that were here in our church and they started getting, you know You know, had all these questions about, you know, like uh, you know, shouldn't we be doing Passover like the Old Testament does? And shouldn't we be worshiping on Saturday like the Old Testament does? And I started, like, what where are you getting this from? I said, guys, what you're doing is very dangerous. Do you understand that? I mean, I understand having questions. If you want to wrestle with the with the text, you have a question about the passage. I'd love to sit down and talk with you about the passage. But do you understand that where you're going, like you're detracting from Christ? I said you keep going down this path, it's going to be all of the ceremonies and the outward kind of signs and nothing of the substance. And it wasn't long before this group left our church and everything was about, you know, my Hebrew name and I'm a Hebrew Israelite and you know I'm attached to this and I'm worshiping on a Saturday, just like the Old Testament. Now that becomes the focus. And the focus is no longer on Jesus. It's dangerous. You put anything in the place of Christ And it will detract from Christ. It's a substitute for Christ. And everything else is an unworthy substitute for Christ. It's Jesus. Jesus is the one who receives all the glory. And he should be worshipped and honored alone. And if your ceremony gets in the way of Jesus, drop your ceremony. Don't let anything get in the way of Christ, and don't let anybody fool you and trick you into thinking that you need something else besides Jesus. Don't let anybody make you think that uh you know you've you've got to you know trace some lineage back to Abraham. As if I can show that I'm a I'm a Hebrew or I'm an Israelite or something, that somehow that's going to make me closer to God, that I've really got salvation now. Look at what it says in verse 11. It says he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised. Why? So that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised. That righteousness might be credited to them. Do you know what the most important connection is that we have to Abraham? It's being connected to Abraham by faith. By faith. He received the sign, the circumcision, the seal of righteousness of the faith, while uncircumcised, so that he could be the father of those who aren't circumcised. It's not the circumcision that's the important point. It's the faith that's the important point. What's most significant about our connection to Abraham is our connection to his faith. There was a children's song I remember growing up that said Father Abraham had many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham I'm one of them. So are you. So let's just praise the Lord. Right arm, left arm, right foot, left foot. Turn around, sit down, right? How are we sons of Abraham? We're sons of Abraham if we come through faith. If we trust in God by faith, if we've received Jesus by faith, that's how we're sons of Abraham. Abraham is an example of faith without being circumcised. Why? So that he can be a father of all those who believe or are not circumcised. So again, this is just without the ceremony. You could be a child of Abraham without the ceremony. Abraham is father to the circumcised, but it's only for those who follow in the steps of his faith. And it's it's it's just again it's focusing in on what's really important. Look at verse 12. He says, and the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, so it's not just about the outward sign that they've been circumcised, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had while uncircumcised. Most important connection that we have to Abraham is our spiritual connection. It's a connection of faith. Now that doesn't mean that there's not a future plan for Israel, for the literal descendants of Abraham. You know, there's still discussion of the kinsman according to the flesh. You know, we'll read about that later in the book of Romans. But when John the Baptist saw the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to him for baptism, what did he say? You brood of vipers. Who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruit with keeping with repentance, and do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, We have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that these stones, from these stones, God is able to raise up children to Abraham. You think that you have a connection to Abraham? If you don't come by faith and repentance, you're no better than the rocks around the river. Don't talk to me about being a son of Abraham if you don't come through faith and repentance. Because that's the most important connection Jesus speaking to the Pharisees, John chapter 8. He says, I speak the things which I've seen with my father, therefore you also do the things which you heard from your father. And they had an idea of who their father was, so they respond back to Jesus and they answer him and says, Abraham is our father. And Jesus said to them, If you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. But as it is, you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God, this Abraham did not do. You are doing the deeds of your father. Who's who's the murderer from the beginning? Satan? And he says, You are of your father the devil. You know, don't talk to me about your physical connections. You know, everybody wants to make a big deal about, you know tracing their lines back to Israel and Abraham and for what? Might as well trace your line back to a rock if you're not trusting in Christ. If you're not trusting in Jesus by faith alone, you are of your father the devil. You know, I don't care what kind of headband you put on, and you know Whatever name you want to give yourself. You are of your father the devil. The most important connection to Abraham is not ceremonial, it's not a physical connection, it's a spiritual connection. And if you trust in Christ, you're more a son of Abraham than your Jewish neighbor who doesn't know Jesus. Because we followed in the footsteps of faith. You know, to follow in the footsteps of faith used there in verse twelve, follow in the steps of faith, it's a phrase. that was used by Greek speakers to to speak of uh uh being in a row, standing side by side in battle, lining up in a certain order. It was a phrase that was used to speak about conduct that was in line with certain expectations, imitating someone's example. It's like someone who walks in the snow ahead of you and you place your feet in his steps. And he says, if you really want to be a son of Abraham, put your feet in his steps. Live like he lived. Have faith like he had faith. And the example that Abraham had was an example of faith. He believed God, and that's the most important family tree that you can be a part of. To be a part of his family because I'm a child of faith, but I've trusted in Jesus Christ by faith. I don't know how much further I'm going to get, but uh we'll take a at least take a look at verse 13. Justification, this is point number two, justification by faith alone does not depend on law. Does not depend on law. And this is a point that's already been made a number of times. Romans 3, verse 20, because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Romans 3:21, but now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Romans 3:28, for we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. And again, why is Paul bringing this up again? I mean, we've already talked about we're not saved by the law, we're not saved by the law, we're not saved by the law. Like Paul, why do you need to bring this up again that we're not saved by the law? Because in verse 13 he says, For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that we would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. Why is Paul bringing this up here again? Again, remember what Paul is doing here, okay? Paul is defending justification by faith alone from those who would want to rob them of their blessings. To say that no you can't have justification by faith alone because you're not part of our group. You're not one of the Israelites You're not a child of Abraham. You're not of the law. You haven't been circumcised. You can't have that blessing of justification by faith alone. That's for us. That's for the Jewish people. And Paul here, he's trying to argue and push back against that. No, don't let anybody rob you of your blessing in Christ. Don't let anybody tell you that that does not belong to you. That belongs to you. If you're circumcised, uncircumcised, it doesn't matter. It's all about your faith and trust in Christ. So he's defending this Against those who would say that, oh, justification by faith alone, that belongs to us as the Jewish race. That belongs to us as the Jewish people. It belongs to the circumcision. It belongs to those who are of the law. Back in chapter 3 and verse 29, he asks this question: Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not the God of the Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. And what he's arguing for here is the inclusion of the Gentiles in the promises of God to Abraham. That you, as a Gentile believer. That you have just as much right to the blessings of God as the Jewish people that it was originally promised to. It's incredible to think about. Those blessings belong to me. You know, all the prophets that we read about in the Old Testament, those prophets are my prophets. Those prophets are those who speak to me. Like that word is my word. Christ is my Christ. Like this belongs to me. I have all the blessings that were promised to Israel because I've received them by faith and because of my connection to Jesus Christ, I'm connected to Father Abraham. So yeah, Father Abraham had many sons, and I'm one of them. I'm one of them. By faith I'm connected to Abraham. And what was Abraham promised? We won't I won't be able to cover all of this. We'll we'll have to come back to this later. But think about this. I'll just I'll just stop here. But This is amazing. What was Abraham promised? Look at verse 13. For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world. was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. Flip back to Genesis chapter 12 real quick. Genesis chapter 12 We have uh the first mention of the promise to Abraham, mentioned in Genesis chapter twelve. Listen to this this promise. It says now the Lord said to Abram , Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you, and I'll make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great. And so you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse. And the one who curses you, I will curse. And in you, all the families of the earth will be blessed. So here we have this initial promise that's given to Abraham, called Abram at the time. He's promised a land, he's promised a nation, he's promised blessing, a name. And at the end of this promise, he's also informed that all the families of the earth will be blessed in him. Worldwide connection. To this blessing that's given to Abraham. All the families of the earth will be blessed in you. Every nation will be benefited. in some way by the promise that I'm giving to you, Abraham. This promise has a global impact. Flip over to Genesis chapter 17. Because here the global nature of this promise is expanded, it's clarified. Genesis chapter 17, take a look at verse 1. It says now when Abram was 99 years old and the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless. I will establish my covenant between me and you, and I will multiply you exceedingly. Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you will be the father of a multitude of nations. A multitude of nations No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I will make you the father of a multitude of nations. So here we have the promise that's clarified and it's expanded. Not just are you going to have a nation, but now you're going to be the father of a multitude of nations. So it's growing. Abram means exalted father. That's what the Hebrew term means, exalted father. Abraham means father of a multitude. Father of a multitude. And right here it's saying a multitude of what? Nations. God even changing Abraham's name was to signify that you won't just be the father over one nation. I'm going to make you the father over a multitude of nations across the face of the earth. Over in Genesis chapter twenty-two, verse seventeen He continues to clarify this promise that's given to him. Verse 17, indeed I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply your seed as the stars of the heavens. And as the sand which is on the seashore, and your seed shall possess the gate of their enemies, in your seed all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Look over to Genesis chapter 26. Here God reiterates the promise to Isaac. Genesis chapter 26. Look at verse 4 Says, I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven, and will give your descendants all these lands, and by your descendants all the nations of the earth. All the nations of the earth will be blessed. Then over in chapter twenty-eight , look at verse fourteen It says, your descendants will also be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. Sounds like all directions. And in you and in your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed. There's just this expansive language. That's contained in the promises. So it's not surprising that Paul would speak of the promise to Abraham or his descendants to be heir not only of a nation, but heir of the world. Because he's going to become the father of a multitude of nations spread out to the east, to the west, to the north, to the south, filling the earth as the sand of the shores, the stars in the sky. But that promise did not come to Abraham because of the law. That promise did not come to Abraham because of what he did. That promise came to Abraham before the law even existed. According to Galatians chapter four, it says, What I am saying is this the law which came four hundred and thirty years later does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. There was no Mosaic law when Abraham was promised this. The promise was not based on his law-keeping. The promise was based on the covenant faithfulness of God. I'm promising you that I'm going to give you this I'm going to do this for you. And who else is joining in on that blessing? We are. We are, we join in on that blessing too. The blessings that are given to Abraham are the blessings that we also participate in, that we receive as well. In Matthew chapter five, we read these words Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Verse 3. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit what? The earth. We enter into the promise that was given to Abraham for him to be and his descendants to be the heir of the world. We enter into that promise. And how do we enter into that promise? It's through Jesus Christ. It's through Jesus Christ. And like I said, we don't have the time to go through all of this. We'll look at the rest of this later. But uh don't let anybody rob you of the blessings that you have in Christ. Well when we think about uh you know the blessings and you know somebody might read that t title, you know, don't let anyone rob you of this blessing. It's like, oh pastors finally got it. The blessings The anointing, you know, he's he's finally there, you know, finally talk somebody talk to your neighbor say neighbor Somebody's getting Talk to your neighbor and don't let anybody rob you of your blessings The the blessings that we're talking about here are not the blessings of uh you know health, wealth, prosperity, success. The blessing that Paul is talking about, don't let anybody rob you of. Don't let anybody rob you of the blessing that you have of justification. Don't let anybody rob you of the certainty that you have of a future because of Jesus Christ. Don't let anybody rob you of the righteousness that's been granted to you as a gift. Don't let anybody tell you that you've got to join in on some ceremony in order to get in on this blessing that we have in Jesus. Don't let anybody tell you that you have to come in on a certain day, wear a certain kind of clothing. You know, that there's something that you're missing out on. You know, you've got to change your name or whatever else in order to get in on the blessing of Jesus Christ. Don't let anybody do that, do you? Don't anybody tell you that you haven't been baptized the right way? You know, that you're you're not you know going to the right place, you know, that you need to come over here, go over there in order to see the blessings of Christ. Oh, the the anointing's falling down over here, you gotta go. Like you're gonna miss out on something. Don't let anybody rob you of what you have in Jesus Christ. If you have Jesus, you have all that you need. You don't need anything else besides Jesus Christ. Don't let anybody fool you to think that there's something else that I'm missing out on, that there's some kind of ceremony, or I've got to be attached to a certain individual in my lineage to somehow get in on the blessing of Jesus Christ. If you've trusted in Jesus Christ by faith alone, if you've acknowledged that I'm a sinner in the sight of a holy God and that there's no way that I could escape this condemnation except the blood of Jesus Christ. Unless I go to the cross of Jesus Christ, because there is where my salvation was purchased. It's Jesus Christ that lived the perfect life that I could not live. It's he who died on the cross and paid the price that I deserve to pay, the penalty that rested on me fell upon Jesus Christ, and he paid it all. And that because I trust in him, I've entered into all the blessings. There's no blessing that I'm left out of. Even the blessings of Father Abraham, yeah, that's mine too. The blessings of Father Abraham belong to me. Why? Because I've entered in the same way that he had to enter in. He entered in as a as a sinner in need of grace, and he had to receive righteousness by faith. And that's the same way that I came in. So I can call him my father too. I'm not missing out on anything because I've received Jesus Christ. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we've had to take a look at your word even briefly. And uh Father, we pray that you would allow these uh words to to sink deep into our hearts, Lord, that That we wouldn't be robbed, we wouldn't allow anybody to rob us of the blessings that we have in Christ, of our justification that we're declared righteous in the sight of God based on the righteousness of Jesus Christ alone. It's through faith that we enter in. It's not through any ritual or ceremony. It's not through our lineage. It's not through our background. It's not about what day we worship on, and even as Jesus said, that there's coming a time that neither in this mountain nor that mountain, but the Father seeks those who will worship him in spirit and in truth. And Father, we're grateful that we worship Christ in spirit and in truth. And it's because of Jesus Christ, Lord, that we enter into all the blessings. Father, what an incredible gift we have. Father, I pray that we would never look down on what we have. Father, that we would only accentuate it, Lord, that we would only uh amplify it, that we would explore all the riches that we have in Christ. Father, we thank you for what you've granted to us for the sake of Jesus. And Father, I pray that if there are any here today who have not yet entered in, Father, that they would know that today is the day of salvation, and that today they can come to Christ, and they can enter into these blessings, not because of what they've done, but because of what he's done. May you receive all the glory in Jesus' name. We praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Is it closer to the left?