The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So we got uh Tony Miano uh here and his uh his daughter Michelle I think is here somewhere. Oh there she is. Michelle's over here as well and uh and she brought somebody, somebody special. uh that uh I'm sure that she'd love to introduce everybody to. So uh so Donnie we're very happy to have you uh with us as well and uh uh John here from Iowa , Bobby McCreary and his daughter Hannah, as well as Psy Ten Brugencate. And for those of you who are not familiar , with him. I definitely highly commend his ministry to you. He definitely shares my heart for presuppositional apologetics and just the authority of the Word of God. Uh so very thankful that to have him here with us and uh uh he's actually uh uh agreed to uh do our Sunday school uh class this morning. So I'll go ahead and open this up in prayer and then I'll give him the rest of the time. We're also going to have some time for QA at the end of the class. So if you have any questions. While we're going through the class, you can maybe jot them down and we'll try to reserve a couple minutes at the end just so you can answer some of the questions that you might have as well. So let me go ahead and open this up in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we're grateful for uh this morning. Uh Father, we I thank you even for the rain, and uh we know that that's a blessing uh from you that you allow your rain to to fall on the just and the unjust. that you allow the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. And Father, it is a blessing from you. It's what makes the crops grow and gives us food to eat. And Father, we know that all that comes as a gracious gift and provision from your hands. Father, we do thank you for this day, for Mother's Day, and uh Father, we do honor the mothers who are here. We thank you for those that uh uh that you use to bring us into this world and uh we do give them honor uh even this morning. And uh Father, I pray for uh this morning's class, Lord, as we learn about uh what it means to defend the faith We don't apologize for what we believe, but Father, we do give a defense for what we believe of the hope that uh lies within us. Uh so Father, I just pray that you'd uh be with your servant uh this morning uh with uh Sai and that uh uh as he shares um uh just some of the the method and uh the methodology of um uh defending the faith, Lord, that you'd uh equip us and help us to uh to be uh uh just more certain uh Lord about what we believe it's as we share uh that we share the truth in a in a way that's bold, uh Father, in a way that's uh uh consistent with your word and in a way that uh points all the glory and honor to you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Sorry, thank you. Well good morning. My name is indeed Sly Tim Bruggenkate. That's a Dutch name. A lot of people want to leave the ten off it, but it's part of my last name I was speaking at a conference recently and everybody was calling me Bruggenkate. And I said, I see you got some books out backed by Cory Bohm. And they said, that's ten bohmes. I said, why'd you leave it off of my name? Anyhow, I um I am from Ontario, Canada, born and raised, and uh I still live there now. And um I have an apologetics ministry where I teach people how to defend their faith. But I want to encourage you with one thing. I'm you. I spent most of my life in a boiler room. I'm a uh skilled trade, um, heating, ventilation, air conditioning That's what I did for my entire life. But um one of my qualifications for teaching you today is that most of my life I was doing it wrong. When I defended my faith with people. I was not talking about the God that I adored. And by the grace of God, I was shown what I believe is a biblical apologetic. And um it troubled me so much of what I saw out in the world as far as apologetics that I quit my job. In a few days it'll be my 11th and 11-year anniversary of uh teaching apologetics full-time. And I've been given half an hour to teach you how to defend your faith that God exists. Half an hour. And you're going to find that it's much too long. Read your Bible, believe what it says. And you can defend your faith. Because I grew up in a Christian home. I don't know when I was saved. Um there are people who say if you don't know when you were saved, then you're not a believer. I usually ask them when they started loving their mother. And if they can't tell me when they started loving their mother, I say, I guess you don't love your mother. But no, I don't know when I was saved. Of course there are ups and downs in my walk throughout my Christian life, but there's not a time that I've walked this earth that I um did not Profess Christ as Lord. And um, you know, in some ways I think that's advantageous because I grew up with a reverence for God. You know, you see some people who are saved later in life and they're on fire for the Lord, but a lot of times they might come in with the Jesus is my homeboy t-shirt I say no he's not. He's King of Kings and he's Lord of Lords. I liken it to being adopted into a billionaire's home when you're very young. You get used to the Ferrari in the garage, you get used to the granite countertops, you get used to the silverware, but you know you don't put your feet on the table. You get somebody, do you see that Ferrari in the garage? You know, who's adopted when he's 20 years old? And and they're on fire, but a lot of times I think that they can be uh irreverent with their newfound faith. Well one thing that um was drilled into us was a reverence and an honor for God. And that's why when I see people defend their faith in an unbiblical way, if I ever need encouragement, I just have to go on the internet and uh And the thing is, for those of you who aren't familiar with presuppositional apologies, but I understand your pastor is quite uh trained in it, that you know, this won't be new to you, but if it's If you're not familiar with it, 99 % of what is taught out there, I say, is an unbiblical apologetic. Now, for those of you who aren't familiar with what um the word apologetics means, As your pastor said, it does not mean to say you're sorry. We're not apologizing. We're giving what's called an apologize from the Greek word, which means to give a defense. So if you're accused of a crime in ancient times, you are to give a defense of the truth of what you believe. Now as Christians, why do we do that? 1 Peter 3. 15 is the magna carta of apologetics. This is where we go as a reason for giving our defense. 1 Peter 3. 15, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you, yet do this with gentleness and respect. So we're commanded to do it. And I have people come up to me and say, yeah, I really can't do apologetics. You know, there's people uh they go to university, they know how to defend the fact that God exists. We'll get them to do it. And I say, you know what, I really can't love people. I wish that I could love people, but I just really can't. She's really good at loving people. We'll get that person to do it. And they said, well, while you're a Christian, you're supposed to love people. I said, you're supposed to be able to find your faith. Not, you know, who can do it? We're commanded here to defend our faith. Now, if I were to ask you, it says here we're supposed to always be prepared to give a defense of our faith. If I went around, I won't do that. But if I said, why are you a Christian? You'd be giving me your apologetic. And if you said to me, I'm a Christian because God took up my heart of stone and gave me a heart of flesh. That would be true for every believer here, but it wouldn't be apologetics. Because that would be the cause of you being a Christian. It would not be the reason. If I said, why did you come here this morning? And you said, well, I took a bus, or I got a ride, you know, some people brought me here, that would be the cause of you being here, but it would not be the reason that you were here. So when you're to give a reasoned defense of your faith, you're to give a defense as to why you believe this to be true. So, why am I a Christian? I'm a Christian because Christianity is true. Quite simply. Now you get might get a lot of people who say, well, I think you're crazy. I really don't believe that your God exists. You need to give a defense. And what do most Christians do? They pull out some evidence and they give them some evidence for the existence of God. But if somebody came up to you and said, I don't believe in words, Would you pull out a dictionary and prove to them that words exist? Would you go to one of those nurseries with the children's alphabets up on the wall there and get some letters together and prove to them that words exist? Or would you look at them and say You don't believe in words? Are you kidding me? You're using words. Who made words? God made words. Somebody says they don't believe in God, and we go and give them evidences. See, we should look at a person who says they don't believe in God in the same way as somebody who says they don't believe in words. Or if somebody came up to you and says, I don't believe air exists. Excuse me? You're breathing. Well, here's the question: who actually needs evidence that God exists? Because we as Christians, when somebody says that they don't believe that God exists, that they need evidence, we give them evidence. What does God say in his word? Romans chapter 1, starting at verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who, by their unrighteousness, suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, and the things that have been made, so they are without excuse For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they came futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. So according to Romans chapter 1, it says nobody needs evidence that God exists. Everyone has sufficient evidence that God exists. If somebody says, Well, I need evidence that God exists, then what do we do? We give them evidence. Say, wait a minute, God says they have enough. And this is a question that I would ask somebody who says they need evidence that God exists. I say, which evidence would convince you of the God who says you already have enough? And if they give me some evidence, they didn't understand the question. Which evidence would convince you of the God who says you already have enough? No evidence can convince them of that God. It shows that it's a heart issue, it's a spiritual issue. Now the question that I ask is where do you hear evidence most often out in the world? Tony will be familiar with this as a former police officer, but you hear it in court. In court, who do you give evidence to? The judge or the judge and jury? Unbeliever comes up to you and says, I don't believe in God, and we give them evidence, who are we saying is the judge? Them And in that courtroom, where do we put God? We as Christians place the Lord of glory into the criminal's box. And we try and acquit him, and as my brother Tony says, in the unbeliever's blasphemous courtroom. And the thing is, we can win that court case because God has given us wonderful evidences. But if you convince somebody that God exists with evidences and they say, Yeah, you've convinced me that God exists, I'm going to worship him now. What they're basically saying is that God has bowed to my standards, and now I'll bow to his. And that's a huge problem. Have people been rightly converted with evidences? I believe that they have. But I believe that there's a lot of people walking the series who say they're a Christian because of the evidence. And my question to them is, what evidence could make you no longer a Christian? And if they tell me some evidence, that's a huge problem because it shows that they're still the judge. See the Bible says that they are suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. Now you might go to work with a bunch of unbelievers. And you say, well, the Bible says you know that God exists. Oh, you're crazy, man. You're nuts. Well, let me tell you what the Bible says about you. You are crazy. Sir, I I'm not interested in this. And they walk away from you. And you think you've missed. You think if I only talked with them about the complexity of the eye for six hours, if I only elevated them to the position of judge, then they would have talked with me for six hours. For brothers and sisters, you didn't miss. And I like to recount this story, which helps in teaching people how to evangelize. And it comes from my friend Jeff Rose. And uh he says that the story has morphed over the years, so it might be not totally accurate of um the time when he first told it, but uh I think I even tell it better than he does now, but I think it's appropriate for the issue of defending your faith. And he said that um years ago he was invited to go deer hunting, bow hunting, and he'd never been before. But he figured he was a pretty good shot, so he went out and bought the nicest bow and the nicest arrow with the sidewinder arrowheads, he bought a nice camouflage outfit and a tree stand. He was going to show off to his friend, who was a little bit more experienced. They went out in the woods and they set up about a hundred yards apart. And they were out there all day. Nothing. Just starting to get dark. And Jeff hears a crash at his friend's tree stand. He said, Either he got it here or he fell out of the stand, but he said, I'm gonna go over there, check to make sure he's okay. And walking up to his friend and his friend's eyes are wide like this. He says, I got one! I got one Jeff says, where? It 's over in that tall grass over there. So Jeff goes to look for this dead deer. Going through the tall grass. Finds his arrow. He says, You missed, pal. You missed. I got your arrow right here. You missed. He said, I didn't miss. He said that arrow went cling through it, through his ribcage, through his heart. He says, seven yards down that path, that deer is going to be lying there dead. And sure enough, they go down that path, and there's that deer lying there dead. And you're at work, and you quote a scripture verse, and they turn around and walk off. So you missed pal. You missed. You didn't miss. God's word is sharper than a two-edged sword. It's sharper than that arrow. And the thing is, Scripture talks about two types of people. It talks about sheep, those who will end up in heaven. It talks about goats, those who will end up in hell. But one thing that scripture never says is that goats become sheep. Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. Now we don't know who the goats and sheep are, so we treat everyone like a sheep. But if you quote a Bible passage to them and they turn around and walk away, who cares? Who cares? Of course we care for their soul, but you cannot convert even one person. See, the person that I want to talk to is the kid sitting in church like this. Can't wait till he's old enough to get out of the house. Sitting at home like that. I was telling the story to a friend of mine. He said, I got a nephew like that. Grew up in the in a Christian home and now he says there's no God. I said, I bet you he's king in that household. He said, Oh yeah, his parents are afraid to talk to him. Push him further away from God. I said, really? This is what you do. Next time you go over to that house, you sit down beside him, you put your arm around him, and you say, you might be fooling your mother You might be fooling your father, but you're not fooling me and you're not fooling God. I know that you know that God exists. And I don't know what sin in your life is important enough for you to go to hell for eternity But I want you to know that I love you and I'm praying for you. If you want to know how to be made right with God before you die, you come talk to me. Do you want to go shoot some fool? Now he's afraid of you. Now he knows that you know. Now we don't call them liars. The Bible says that they're suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. Now, evidences are a wonderful testimony to God. I will share evidences with people, but I will not use it to put God on trial So this type of apologetics, as you know, is called presuppositional apologetics. And the way that I describe the difference, if you were to put a fossil between a believer and an unbeliever. PhD Christian geologist on one side, PhD unbeliever geologist on the other side. Look at that fossil. The Christian looks at that fossil and says, uh, Noah's flood thousands of years. I'm believing PhD looks at the same fossils as millions of years. Same evidence. Both experts in their field, different conclusions. Why? Not because of the evidence But because of the beliefs they take to the evidence. And what I demonstrate is that without God, you cannot make sense of those beliefs you take to the evidence, because they want to have truth, logic, reason, all of those things. And I demonstrate that they can't have any of those things without God. Now that used to be how I taught the apologetic. I would explain how God is necessary for all those things. And the guys would be taking notes. Ooh, I can't wait to get to work tomorrow to crush my opponent. And the woman would be, I had to learn all these evidences, and now I have to learn the preconditions of intelligibility. Are you kidding me? And I thought, and I came up with this now just a few days ago, I thought, if you were about to talk to a group of Mormons or Muslims or atheists, and you could zap anybody from history to be standing right beside you except for Jesus Christ, who would it be? Maybe the Apostle Peter. Now, if you were to hear some of the experts on Mormonism or Islam or, you know, maybe myself with atheists, or the Apostle Peter. Who would you most like to have beside you? Likely Peter. Now, if you heard all of us defending our faith with an unbeliever, who do you think if you listened to them, you could say, you would say, I can do that I don't think it would be the expert in Mormonism or Islam. I think it'd be the Apostle Peter. Say, what are you talking about, preconditions of intelligibility? What are you talking about, King Follow discourse? What are you talking about, Quran? I walked with Jesus. That should be our apologetic. Know that they know that God exists and it will change the way you defend your faith. So I just become a presuppositionist, and now I know that everyone knows that God exists, and I was going to a restaurant with a friend of mine. Unbeliever. We'd been there about five minutes and uh sat down. He says, Sly, the thing that I hate most about you is how certain you are that God exists. Those kind of friends I have. He says, How are you so certain that God exists? A few months before I would have given him all the evidence, paper fragments, I would have given them the complexity of the eye, all this stuff, but I didn't. I looked at him, I said, You know how I'm so certain that God exists? Same way you are, but I'm following him, and you're not. I don't know why you're not following, but I'm certain that God exists the same way you are. My friend looked at his hands as if he had to go wash them. We'd just been to the restroom five minutes earlier, and he got up from the table, he walked to the restroom. Do you know why? Because he was crying. I could have talked to him six hours about the complexity of the eye, but I said, I know that God exists the same way you do. And it broke him. That doesn't mean they're going to be converted right away. And they might say you're nuts, but who cares? You didn't miss. You didn't. But you'll find more often than not, I've been training this woman in Pennsylvania who does street evangelism. She's had it twice when an atheist has come up to her and said, I'm an atheist And she says, No, you're not. And they go, Yeah. And her jaw dropped to the ground. She thought she was gonna have a six hour argument, and they just admitted right away. It's not gonna happen all the time. But it might indeed happen. People say, what about different worldview? What about the cults? Well, if you're about to witness to a Muslim and they get hit by a bus just before you get there, does any Christian think they have an excuse? No. Because they have sufficient knowledge of the God of the Bible for their condemnation So I was with the Living Waters crew um at an ambassador's academy a number of years ago. We went to Newport Beach. And there's about fifty of us on the bus. And believe it or not, for what I do, I'm quite an introvert. I don't like crowds, you know. I Like to stay by myself. So I was the first off the bus and I walked away from the crowd. And this guy came up to me on his bicycle. He's in his fifties. He says, uh what's going on over there? I said, I don't know, some crazy Christian sharing their faith or something. I don't know. And the guy goes, oh no. I said, yeah, I'm one of them. And he started laughing and it was a it was a nice icebreaker. And then he got real serious. He said, Two of my brothers killed themselves. I swore at God. I shook my fist at God. I hated God. And he said, I finally concluded there could be no God. No God would take my brothers But he happened to have a book on Hinduism in the basket of his bicycle and he showed it to me. It was dog-eared, underlined. He was reading it. He picked it up at the dollar store a few days before, and he was loving it. He said, tell me, what do you think about this Hinduism? Hinduism is one of the easiest religions to logically refute. It's absurd. But I didn't do that. I said, tell me, this Brahman, this oneness of being, is that the God you're mad at when your brothers killed themselves? Do you know what he said to me? Nothing. He started weeping. People don't go to other gods to find truth. They go to other gods to run away from the one that took their brothers. It's that simple. It's that simple. Read your Bible, believe what it says. When the Bible says that they know that God exists, believe it. It'll change the way you defend your faith. And if they don't listen to you, who cares? So by amazing circumstances I found out that there was a missionary in Ghana. He's from Brazil, but he was in Ghana And he had heard about the ministry that I do um on YouTube. Amazing thing. And he said he was up all night. He went to school for four years to become a biologist so he could learn how to defend his faith better. That's how much he was interested in defending his faith But he was spinning his wheels in Ghana and and it just wasn't working out for him. He's praying for truth and he said he came across these videos. And just the circumstance by which I found about this guy, you know, he could ask me about it later, but it was just uh amazing But now he knows that everyone knows that God exists. So he was with a bunch of Americans and they were handing out mosquito nets in this small town in Ghana. And they weren't supposed to be preaching that day, they were only supposed to be handing out mosquito nets. But as they were going through the small town, he saw a young man sacrificing a bird in the middle of the street. And he said, What's going on? He says, Well, we're sacrificing this bird to our gods because a girl in our community was bitten by a snake and she's dying. He says, Can I go in and see your gods? The young man says, nobody's allowed in there. But in Africa, the older people have the authority. He saw an older man standing by the door and he said, Sir, can I go in and see your gods? He says, Yes, you can go in. So he went in with the three Americans. There's a translator there. And he said, your gods are not gods, and you know it. He said, This sacrifice will not help this girl. You need the true sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And then he prayed for them. He said, You must repent and you know and you know you must repent. The Americans caught his attention and they said, What are you doing? You can't tell them the gods aren't real. You're doing it all wrong. The young guy who was sacrificing the bird earlier looked like he wanted to kill him. But he was persistent, and then he finished and he was going to the next house. The young man came running after him. He says, My father wants you to pray for the girl. And the American said, Are you going to do it? He said, Why not? He said, What if she dies? He said, Well that's up to God. That's not up to me. So he went up back in the um He did pray for the girl. Two days later, he was in the same small town. And this young man was coming up to him, but now he had three of his friends with him. And he was worried. He thought something might be going down. But this man said to him, Can you tell me more about Jesus? And this fellow from Bri he's from Brazil, this missionary cristiano, he laid out the gospel, told him about the true sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And this young man said, I heard about your Jesus years before, but I didn't come to him because I do the sacrifices. And when my father dies, I have to become priest in this family. And Cristiano said to him, That's why he wants you first. And the man repented and put his trust in Jesus Christ. He said if he was there six months before, he would have deconstructed the man's world if you had told him why his gods weren't real and all these things. But now he just says what the Bible says And he says, you know what, if that man was not saved that day, it wouldn't have made a difference to him. He said it's a beautiful thing that it happened, but it wouldn't have made a difference because now he's honoring Jesus Christ as Lord, and that's what 1 Peter 3 says 15 says, honor Jesus Christ as Lord. But most people you go online, they tell you how to give evidences to the unbeliever. We don't need to do that, brothers and sisters. We speak the truth in love. It's the gospel that are the words of salvation. That's what God uses to save people. So the more I do this, the more I try and get away from the philosophy. Because the people that I learn from, they do it in universities with philosophy students on the street, you're not going to have that. You're going to have the person slouching at church. I don't believe in God. But it's that simple. So my friend Cristiano, now he's back in Brazil, and I've been Skyping with him, and he's been telling me some wonderful stories. Um he uh He said that as he was studying biology, he saw his grandfather who learned how to read by reading the Bible. Never spent a day of school in his life, and somebody came up to him and says, Yeah, I don't believe your Bible. And the guy says, You must believe the Bible. And he's in school thinking how ignorant his grandfather was. Now he realized his grandfather was doing right the whole time. You see, people ask me to come and teach them how to defend their faith that God exists. I say, you know what, I'm going to change things up a bit. I'm going to teach you how to defend your faith that your parents exist. Say, well, they have this freak from Canada teaching us how to defend our faith that our parents exist. So that would be crazy, wouldn't it? Why? Because you know your parents. Well, if you know God, you can defend your faith. You don't need me. When I walk out of here, I want I didn't need that guy. I'm just gonna read my Bible, believe what it says. So Cristiano, he also has he went to seminary and he's gonna be a pastor, and uh but in the meantime he's working in a call center And now he's defending his faith biblically. And people from around the call center are coming up to him. Are you Cristiano? They've heard about him because he's talking different than people have talked before. And uh he said he had a woman come up to him once and said, heard about him, this Christian defending the faith. What's your shirt made of? And I knew exactly where she was going, because on the street you hear this a million times. She was going to talk about mixed fabrics. In the Old Testament, you can wear mixed fabrics. And he didn't know what she was talking about. He's new at this kind of thing. So he looked and he said, Well, I don't know, 75% rayon, 25% cotton. And she says, You can't get to heaven. Because you're wearing mixed fabrics. And Christi Allen said six months before he would have talked about the moral law, the ceremonial law, the cultural laws, which ones still apply, which ones don't apply, and how they apply, and stuff like that. He didn't do that. Now he knows that this girl, this woman, knows that God exists. So he said to her, you're right. I can't get to heaven. And he said, neither can you. Why do you think Jesus came? Explain the gospel to her. Wonderful conversation. It's a smokescreen. So people always want a methodology for how to teach this, so I tell them the two-step methodology. Whatever they say that contradicts the Bible, that's not what the Bible says. That's not what the Bible says. It's not what the Bible says. Oh, I don't believe your Bible, sir. You're crazy. Oh, you don't believe it's true? No. Where do you get truth without God And then I would go down the philosophical route. And Cristiano , my friend in Brazil, he'd heard this and he thought, well, this is really cool. The two-step methodology, so he wanted to do that. So he's again, he was at work one day And um he was standing beside a guy who professed Christianity, and this woman came up to him, and this young man who said he was a Christian said to this woman, The most important thing in life is to have peace with yourself. And Christiano turned to the young man and he said, That's not what the Bible says. And he was hoping that this woman that had come up to them and this young man would said, Well, she doesn't believe your Bible You know, so that he could go to the next step and say, well, you don't believe it's true? But he said a very very odd thing happened. He said, that's not what the Bible said. And they said, well, what does the Bible say? And he was shocked. And he said, the most important thing is to have peace with God. And we can't. That's why Jesus came. And he wanted them to say, well, I don't believe your Bible is true, so we can go to the next step. But they said something very interesting. He said, that makes a lot of sense Brothers and sisters, it's that simple. Read your Bible, believe what it says. Jesus sheep low hear his voice. I I come to a conference like this. I say, I know why you're having me here. Because in John 1027, Jesus said, My sheep hear size really good argument. My sheep hear my voice. You can do it. Women are much better at this than men. That's why I said, you know, if the men don't get it, have their wives explain it to them. Because the men have the testosterone, they want to win the argument. The women will say, Oh, I get this. They know that God exists. I don't believe in your God. I'll pray for you. Have a nice day. And the men want to win the argument. The women get it. Women help me understand this. It's that simple See, we're commanded to give a defense to everyone who asks. And Jesus said, I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict. Luke 21, 15. Not me, not Tony, not your pastor. Jesus says, I will give you those words. You can defend your faith. And if you're faithful, I think you will be surprised at the reaction you get. Of course, some people will think you're nuts. Who cares? I was at a university and sometimes I'm kind of tired and I don't like getting into the argument. And I had a fellow come up to me. I said, Sir, the Bible says you believe that you know that God exists. I I don't. You are crazy. Well the Bible says you do, sir. No, you are nuts. I do not believe in your God. Well, the Bible says you do, sir. Sir, I do not believe in your God. You are crazy. Well, then you have nothing to worry about. Have a nice day. Guys are looking at me like What? You're not going to try and I said, if you don't believe in God, you've got nothing to worry about. Have a nice day, pal. And as he's walking away, I say, but the Bible says you do. Now if that guy has tragedy in his life, who is he coming to the next day? The guy who talked with him six hours about the complexity of the eye? Or the guy who didn't believe him? The guy who says, This is what you need to be made right with God That's what you do. Now you might have family members think you're nuts. Who cares? Share with them about the God. I you know one of the worst things I hear is on Facebook when somebody says, I was talking to my sister-in-law yesterday. I really wish I was there. I said, yeah, I wish I was there to listen to you talk about the God that saved you. Talk about Jesus Christ. It's that simple. If you have to do it like most of the people you hear out there, there's over four thousand religions out there. If you have to learn the intricacies of all those religions, you can never do it. Just think of how the Apostle Peter would do it. He'd talk about the God that saved him. It's that simple, brothers and sisters. It's that easy. Read your Bible. See? Amen. All right, well, we've got about uh ten minutes. I'm I'm kind of thinking that every question might have the same answer, but we're gonna go ahead and uh we're gonna go ahead and uh and see what kind of questions uh you guys might have. Uh maybe learn a little bit about uh uh size experience or uh yeah Tony, uh uh Bobby. Why don't you why don't you guys come on come on up? So I'm a factory worker. I've debated PhDs in philosophy. There's this one one fellow name with Stephen Law in England. He's debated William Wayne Craig. He won't debate me. Because he doesn't want a factory worker to make him look like an idiot. And it's not because I'm smart, because I argue from the truth of Scripture. And I say to this PhD in philosophy, okay, where do you get truth about God? And he would never answer me. And he finally says, okay, I get truth from the invisible pink unicorn. I said, really? I said, you're an atheist. The first thing you have to do to defend your worldview is to give it up. Now you're an invisible pink unicorn. And he says, yeah, and you'll discard my God as quickly as I discard yours. I said, not at all. You book the hall, I'll fly to England and I'll debate you. I'll argue for the God of Scripture, you argue for the miserable pink unicorn. He says, only if I can say I'm arguing something made up, a parody. I said, if you're arguing something made up, where do you get truth? Anyone can do this. Anybody can do this. All right. Well we've got uh a couple guys that are experienced in in doing this uh out on the street um talking to people just like we talk to, you know, just the average everyday uh person. So If you have any questions about just how this works or maybe talk about some of their experiences that they've had, I'd love to love to hear a little bit more about how you guys are processing. Uh well, I'm probably gonna give a pretty similar answer to uh Sai. You know, just uh believe what your Bible says. So for for me, um The Lord saved me at 34 years old. I was raised with a Christian grandmother and went to a Christian school for kindergarten through sixth grade, but then I was a rebel for a long time. But I always had an intellectual belief of the things of the Bible, things I was taught as a young person. So when the Lord truly gave me a new heart Uh I know I know some people do struggle with things like this, but I've just never struggled with the the fact that the Bible is true and that it's God's word and So I I just kinda look at it as well if God gave me faith to believe, you know, a man was swallowed by a fish, you know, and and was in that fish, you know, three days and three nights and it was k was spit out and was alive, if an act had floated, you know, if a flood covered the entire earth, you know, uh then for me it's just about, you know, telling people what the scriptures say Uh it's exactly what Sai said. You're gonna get a lot of people that say uh one of the things that Cy really helped me with is that statement the Bible says you do. You know, you know, I don't believe that. I don't believe that well the Bible says you believe it Sometimes I'll say to people, Well, you know, God's God says you do believe he exists, so I'm going to believe him over you. You know, if God redeemed my soul from the pit, should I believe the Teeth gnashing, you know, God haters standing in front of me or believe him. So on a college campus, I mean, sure, you're gonna face Quite a lot of uh mocking and scoffing and things like that, but is that not indeed what the scriptures say that in the last days mockers and scoffers will come and I think the more that you share your faith, the stronger your faith in the scriptures will become because you'll see what the scriptures say about man come alive right before you're I so as far as apologetics, I mean I uh I wouldn't say I'm like anti uh evidences. I just think I think evidential apologetics is better for new Christians. I think it helps you know, sort of em embolden your faith and it 'cause a lot of people accuse you you have a blind faith and you can, you know, go to a ministry like Answers in Genesis and they're gonna show you a lot of miraculous evidences. I just don't think they're great for evangelism because of that question. You have to say, I don't believe in God. Why not? I don't see any evidence. I kind of maybe have a little variation of what size has it. Well what amount of evidence would convince you? You know, so I kinda say we're your issues not, you know, with evidence, your issues it with is an issue of rebellion. Um so As far as navigating politics, I mean I I'm just gonna give them the Bible and trust the Lord to do what he's pleased to do with it. And uh I think we have to get out of this mindset that Um we need to see a certain type of result when we're sharing or else it's not effective. The word of God never returns void. So if you're giving people the word of God you you didn't miss. You all you always honor the Lord, you know what I mean? So if you're just giving them the word of God, you really can't go wrong. So Tony I I think uh the only thing I would add to what Bobby's saying, I affirm obviously everything Bobby is is saying is that you know this is the presuppositional apologetics is is a very powerful tool because it's biblical. because it it's based on the Word of God. And it is it's very easy, especially if you're new to utilizing a uh presuppositional apologetics. To be so enamored with the apologetic, you forget that there's a a lost person bound for hell in front of you. And it Because you will literally destroy a person's worldview in a matter of moments, whether they admit to it or not. You know that's happening because you are bringing truth to bear against their absurdity. And what you don't want to do is leave a person in that crushed state and walk away saying, I presupped them. without ever having brought the gospel to bear. The goal with presuppositional apologetics isn't articulating presuppositional apologetics. The goal is to get to the gospel of Jesus Christ. The presuppositional apologetic is a biblical tool to get to the place where you ultimately want to go, and that is to proclaim Christ and Him crucified and to call people to repent. uh and believe that gospel. Um you know I I I'm sure I've shared this with you in in times past. It applies to this w our conversation this morning. The only time you fail in evangelism, the only time you fail in apologetics, presuming you're doing it biblically, is when you fail to evangelize, is when you will not love the person in front of you enough to open your mouth. for love for them and love for Christ and declare to them truths, many of which uh they uh they already know. Um I don't spend hours with people going back and forth with I I don't believe God exists. Yes you do. I don't believe God exists. Yes you do. Uh you know, that can go on forever and ever. Um you know, I I leave I'll I'll step out of a conversation and sometimes, depending on the attitude of the person I will do it this way. Look, if I answer all of your questions to the best of your satisf to your satisfaction, are you going to drop to your knee, repent, and believe the gospel? Well, no, of course not. Well then why are we even talking? I'm not going to let you justify your unbelief at my expense. You know that God exists. God has written the reality of his existence on your heart. He's given you a conscience. He's written his law in your heart. You know what I'm telling you is true, but you are suppressing that truth by your unrighteousness because you love yourself and you hate the God you know. And you need Christ. And I will walk away from those from those conversations. I did that with a young man named Joe. a semester ago. Um he butted into a conversation I was having with a couple of uh uh students about the gospel and about the issue of abortion, uh professed to be an atheist, and I said, actually you're you're not an atheist. Oh you're calling me a liar. I said, Well you're deceiving yourself And you know it. And he walked away. And now every time he sees me in a conversation, he will stop. He doesn't interrupt, he doesn't interject, but he stops and he listens. Because Joe, even though to his friends he's still professing to be an atheist, he knows that in our conversation he was discovered not to be an atheist, but a man who knows God exists and is suppressing that truth. I have people come up to me and say, sorry, I did pre-sup on those guys last week. I say, never tell me that again. Tell me honor Jesus Christ as Lord. I don't care about what you call it. Everybody can do it. I don't care about the terms. But as far as miracles on the campuses, people say, well what about this? What about this miracle? I said, Well you would admit God could do that, right? Yeah, if he exists. I said, So your problem isn't with miracles. It's with the God of miracles. So I don't have to prove miracles to people. But this is I'll get to your question short, just but just to put things back into perspective, because I think a lot of my brothers who are out on the streets fail to honor God even when they defend their faith as presuppositionalists, because if somebody came up to you, I'm not a married man, but let's say somebody came up to you and said, hey buddy, I think your wife's a prostitute. Would you say, well last night she was making dinner, you know, m in a nice evening, so I don't think she was on the street. The night before that she was at uh Bible study, female woman's Bible study. I don't think she was walking the street the night that night. The night before that she was at her at at her parents' house So, sir, yeah, I really don't think my wife's a prostitute. Would you say that? You say, buddy, that's my wife you're talking about. You better be very careful with the next words out of your mouth. Somebody comes up and says, Yeah, I don't believe in God. I don't, you know, I believe Allah is God. And we say, well, let me give you some evidence, let's have this night. They just call our God a liar. And we treat it like nothing has happened. We need to reverence our godly defender. Look, buddy, that is not good for you to say that. The Bible says that you know that He exists. Now we'll have this conversation, but be very careful. This is not good for you. And the thing is we've turned it into something like it's a matter-of-fact, everyday conversation. No, it's not. This is a very important thing. And they're blaspheming God. If they said that about your wife, you'd freak out. They say it about God and we treat it like it's nothing We have to get back to the seriousness of the situation, sorry. Well, first of all, uh most of these people don't profess Christianity. And if they uh bring out a Bible verse, they say, Are you a Christian? They say, No. I say, Well, I don't do Bible studies with atheists And people freak out about that. Even Christians freak out about it. I will declare the truth of Scripture to an unbeliever, but I will not debate the truth of it with an unbeliever, because God is the judge. His word is the judge. So if a liberal says that who's not a Christian, I will not debate it with him. I'll say, well, this is what the Bible says. You need to get on your knees, you need to repent. Now, if there's somebody who professes Christianity, then it is a Bible study. And then you say, well, you know, what does your pastor say about it? Or I'll go to your church. But a lot a lot of times it's just a smokescreen. We've got to be careful not to fall. This is clearly what the Bible says. I'm not interpreting it, I'm reading it. You know, that's why it's good to know what your Bible says And say, well this is what the Bible says. Show me how I've interpreted this wrong. And it's because they love their sin. And you know, just draw that to their attention. And like I say, it's a lot of times it's people that will just throw up that smokescreen because they don't want accountability to that God All right. Well we'll go ahead and uh and end the class here. If you do have any questions, any personal questions for uh any of our guests here, uh I'm sure they they'd love to talk to you, but we've got about uh ten minutes uh for fellowship before we start. our morning service, so uh we'll go ahead and uh close our time in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we are grateful uh for uh the the truth and the power, uh the sufficiency. of your word , Father, for its authority and uh Father for us who are believers, uh Father, we're we're grateful that that one day you opened our eyes to the truth of what it has to say about us, about you. about our sin, about salvation, about uh the judgment that's to come. Uh and Father, we're we're grateful that it's uh through the power of that word, Lord, that we've been brought to life. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ. Uh so Father we pray that uh you would uh equip us, Lord, uh that you would give us boldness uh to share that truth. Uh Father, that as uh Sai even mentioned earlier, that uh when we share the truth of uh of your word that we don't miss, uh regardless of uh uh the effectiveness that um that people might admit uh of the the word of God. We know that it is effective and that it accomplishes what it set out to do. So Father, we pray that we would trust in your power over ours, that we would trust in your word over ours, and that we would give you all glory and honor. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. God bless you. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.