The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew again. This morning, we're in Matthew chapter 7, and the passage that We're going to cover this week is a passage that is absolutely terrifying. It's a passage that's sadly overlooked or misrepresented by many Christian traditions, but There's absolutely no reason to misunderstand what Jesus is saying here, and that's going to be made even clearer by the way that Jesus communicates in these verses. And as we've been saying, as Jesus concludes this sermon, he provides us with three frightening pictures, and two of which we've already uh covered in the past. If you remember in verses 13 and 14, he gives us the picture of the two gates, that your road will either end in life or end in destruction. In verses 15 and 20, he gives us the picture of the two trees. Your tree will either stand or it will be cut down and cast into the fire. And in verses 21 and 27, he gives us the picture of two houses or two builders, which we'll get into later, but but right here in the middle of these illustrations that Jesus gives about the gates, the trees, and the houses. As if that wasn't clear enough. In verses 21 and 23, Jesus abandons the metaphors. He goes away from the metaphors. And he communicates to his disciples and the crowds around him in this unmistakable, undeniable, unadorned language. This is just like the bare bones interpretation of everything that Jesus has been saying with the pictures of the gates and the trees and the houses. This is without the varnish. This is just raw. Raw truth. Just like Jesus is saying, you know, just in case you missed everything that I've been trying to communicate to you so far, let me just put it to you in plain language. Not everyone will enter the kingdom of heaven. Not everyone will enter the kingdom of heaven, and you can't get any clearer than that. You can't get any clearer. You can choose to ignore what Jesus has to say. You can choose to disregard what Jesus has to say, but nobody should walk away saying, I wonder what Jesus was really trying to say. I wonder what he was really trying to get at. You can't get any clearer than what he says here. And what he makes crystal clear is that the people who 's listening, the people who are listening to this sermon, that all of the people listening will not make it in. And what's even more terrifying than that, there's people that are talking about the kingdom of heaven. There are people that are hearing about the kingdom of heaven. There are people that are working about the kingdom of heaven who will not be entering into the kingdom of heaven. That's what Jesus says. That's what he says. And he just makes it clear there's probably no more frightening words in all of Scripture. Martin Lloyd Jones calls these words the most solemn words ever uttered in this world. Not only by any man, but even by the Son of God. For Jesus Christ himself to utter these words, the most solemn words. that were ever uttered. Let me read the passage for you, and then let's ask the Lord for his blessing to put our time together. Matthew chapter 7, look at verse 21. So it's not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name cast out demons and in your name perform many miracles? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, as we uh uh approach this passage, Father, we we don't want to do so lightly. Father, we know that uh the words of Christ are sobering, they're weighty. And the consequences of failing to listen to Christ here are eternal. Father, I pray that you would help us to have a correct sense of of what's being communicated here by our Lord. I Father that we would examine ourselves. I Father that I would examine myself. Father that we would all come underneath the scrutiny of this passage. And uh Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In verse 21, and really this this is just a passage that's just shocking like all the way around. Everywhere you look, there's a there's this shock. that you receive from the words here. In verse 21, we're shocked to hear the revelation of Jesus Christ. What is the revelation? He reveals here, the master reveals, that not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Then in verse 22, we're shocked by the claims of the people who are being cast away from the Master's presence. He says, Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles That's a shocking declaration, especially considering who they're acknowledging that they're standing in the presence of. And then finally, we have this shocking confession in verse 23. Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. There's nothing at all inside this passage that makes us comfortable, that kind of sits well with us, that we're kind of easy with. This is not an easy passage. And when you think about it, when it comes to the path of eternal life, not only is the gate that leads to life small and hard to find, But the way is difficult and narrow. There are ravening wolves prowling about the entrance, trying to prevent anybody from entering in dressed like sheep. And now Jesus tells us it's possible to declare him as Lord, Lord, and perform works associated with the kingdom and still not enter in. That's difficult. I can't imagine a more fearful scenario. There's nothing that's more devastating than hearing these words. And one of the clear principles that we can gather from this passage is that everyone of us who reads this needs to take it seriously. If there's anything that you get from this passage, Everybody needs to take this seriously. It's a personal responsibility. We have a personal responsibility to examine ourselves. In the very next verse in verse 24 in Matthew chapter 7, he says, Therefore everyone Who hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. A wise man will examine the kind of foundation that he's building on. There's no use complaining about the difficulty of the way and the distraction of the false guides when you have the clear voice of the master warning you about the dangers ahead. Jesus has warned us here. You've been warned, if you choose to build on sand there's no excuse to be found in these verses. And we examine all kinds of things, don't we? We examine uh you know contracts We examine the kind of cars that we buy, the homes that we we buy, the schools that we attend. We examine all kinds of things. You know, the labels on the food that we we eat. You know, Jennifer when she uh before she drinks a glass of water, she's always like looking in to see, you know, what's what's inside this glass But then when it comes to something as significant as your eternal destiny, you know, when when people when when when people are told that Or suggested, you know, it's suggested to people that, you know, you should, you know, you need to really examine whether or not you're a believer. You know, they want to look at you sideways, like you got two heads or something. You know, well why are you asking me about my eternal destiny? I mean, I'm saved. I'm okay. I don't have to examine that. Examine everything else but your eternal salvation? Doesn't make sense. There's nothing more important to check into than your eternal destiny. And the person who loves you the most, I've heard this, the person who loves you the most will tell you the most truth, right? You can't say you you love me and then you don't want to tell me the truth. And the consequences for failing to test the foundation are devastating and the results are final. We shouldn't have any objection to examining the foundation that we're building on. And just because you're considered part of a believing group of people doesn't give you a pass to kind of roam around without scrutiny. Paul, he tells the Corinthian church, this is a church that he's already identified in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. He's identified this church as a group of saints, those who have been called and sanctified. But then in 2 Corinthians chapter 13 verse 5 to the same group of people, listen what he says. Test yourselves to see if you're in the faith. Examine yourselves. Or do you not recognize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you unless indeed you fail the test? What Paul is saying is I'm assuming that this group is saved, but you still need to examine yourself. Still need to examine yourself. Peter, he speaks to the saints across Asia Minor, the people that he's identified in 1 Peter chapter 1 is as those who are saints elect according to the foreknowledge of God. But then in 2 Peter 1 and verse 10 to the same group of people, he says, Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you. Make certain of it. Don't just take my word for it. Make certain of this yourselves. This is a personal responsibility for everyone. And then the writer of the Hebrews in Hebrews chapter 6, verse 9, he says that I'm convinced of better things. I'm convinced that you're saved. The things that accompany salvation are true of you. I'm convinced of that. But then in chapter 4, verse 1, he says this, therefore let us fear. If while a promise remains of entering his rest, any one of you may seem to have come short of it. He's calling them to examine themselves. And here the Lord warns his disciples that not everyone who thinks they're really in is really in. You need to check the foundation you're building on. In Lamentations 3. 40 it says, let us examine and probe our ways. And let us return to the Lord. Each of us has an individual and personal responsibility to examine ourselves, and the false prophets in verses 15 to 20 aren't the only problem. One commentator says it's not only the false teachers who make the way difficult to find. A man may be grievously self-deceived. We can deceive ourselves. And Jesus' words here provide the kind of the right kind of shock to snap us back into reality. So first of all, let's consider the shocking revelation of the Master, the shocking revelation of the Master in verse 21. Look at it with me again. He says this, he says, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. And there's a number of shocking aspects to this revelation, but for many people today, what's shocking just all by itself, just shocking just by itself, is this idea that not everyone will enter the kingdom of heaven. That's like just shocking alone. People are shocked just by that. That's really the central idea that's communicated here. Not everyone enters the kingdom of heaven. Most Americans who believe in heaven pretty much assume that everybody's going to get there. According to Pew Research Center 's uh 2014 religious landscape study, it says that roughly seven in ten Americans 72% of Americans say they believe in heaven. 72% of all Americans say they believe in heaven. And 64 % 64% of all Americans have a feeling of spiritual peace and well-being by their belief in heaven. You know what that means? That if you talk to ten people, seven would say, Yes, I believe in heaven, and six of them would say that I believe I'm going there. They have a sense of spiritual well-being about the fact that there's a heaven There's even people who don't even believe in heaven, who are still sure that if there's a heaven, I know I'll get there. Don 't even believe in it. That's a very telling picture about where we are today in our society. The vast majority of people in America believe they're either heading to heaven. Or that they'll get there eventually. I'll either get there when I die or eventually the Lord will just let me in. And it really seems like the default the default view in our nation is really uh universalism when you think about it You know, ever everybody gets in. Doesn't matter what you believe, you know, how you you live, you know, eventually you'll you'll get there. And when you die, it's just assumed that, oh, you're in a better place. That's what everybody says, right? And while the views of the afterlife of the Jewish people in the first century is varied, it seems like the default position for the Jewish people was that everybody gets in. If I'm born as a child of Abraham, I'm in. We don't really have to examine the foundation too much. I was born the right way. In Matthew chapter 3, verse 9, it says John the Baptist, he's talking to the Jewish people of his day, and he says, Do not suppose to say That we have Abraham for our father. You know, I don't have to worry about judgment. Abraham's my dad. I'm in the lineage of the promised people. Why would I have to worry about anything? So don't say to yourselves, I have Abraham as my father. Don't take any comfort in that. In John chapter 8, verse 39, Jesus addressed some of the Jews he trusted in their birth. They answered him, the answer to Jesus, Abraham is our father. And Jesus said to them, If you are Abraham's children, then do the deeds of Abraham. Don't just trust where you came from. Are you actually performing the deeds that Abraham performed? What kind of evidence do you have in your life that you're truly Abraham's seed? It would have been a shock to many just to learn that not everybody makes it in. But if it's shocking to the world that everybody doesn't make it to heaven, it's shocking to the church that everybody who confesses Jesus is Lord doesn't make it to heaven. That's a shock to the church. And this is the second aspect of this shocking revelation. Not everyone who confesses Jesus as Lord will enter the kingdom of heaven. And these disciples might have assumed that as long as a person was willing to acknowledge who Jesus was and what he came to do, you know, that should be enough. As long as you acknowledge who Jesus is. And Jesus says, no, it's not. It's not enough. A person can even acknowledge Jesus as Lord and not enter the kingdom. And there there's some question over what was meant by this title Lord when they uh address Jesus as Lord, but I think it's obvious uh that the people here that Jesus has in mind are recognizing Jesus. The people that Jesus is talking about are recognized recognizing Jesus as both Lord and God. That's what they mean by this title, Lord, Lord. The title Lord is most often used as a title of supreme title, a supreme title of deity. The word Lord can be used as a title of respect, like our English word for for sir. And Jesus uses it in that way in Matthew 18, but the context makes it clear that he's referring to the master of a servant, or the Lord of a servant. But every time the word Lord has been used in Matthew up until this point, every time it's been used to refer to God Himself. In Matthew chapter 3, in verse 3, when John the Baptist said that he was making ready the way of the Lord, making ready the way of the Lord, he actually quotes from Isaiah 40, verse 3, where the Old Testament uses the covenant name for God. Yahweh, Lord, capital L, O, capital O, capital R, capital D. It's talking about God. So when these people here refer to Jesus as Lord, Lord, that is the title of supreme A supreme title, it's a title of of deity. And that would have been the natural way to understand that. Second, in addition to that, they appealed to Jesus as the supreme judge. Jesus is the supreme judge. Their plea, Lord, Lord, is this recognition that Jesus is just much more than a person worthy of respect. They recognize Jesus as having the final say in whether or not they enter into heaven or not. They're recognizing Jesus as the supreme judge. I mean, why make this kind of an appeal to a lesser judge if there's somebody over him? You know, this is the final appeal. Lord, Lord! We're expecting to get in and we know that you alone can grant us entrance. They recognize Jesus as the judge of all the earth, and that's a title that only God possesses. Why don't you flip back to uh Psalm 96 just to show you this uh In a couple places. Psalm 96. If you look in uh verse 12 of uh Psalm 96, and uh just to show you that if Jesus claims this title of uh Supreme Judge, that he's claiming to be God himself. In Psalm 96, verse 12, says, Let the field exalt, and all that is in it. Let all the trees of the forest sing for joy before the Lord, for he is coming, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. Now flip over to Psalm 98. Look at Psalm 98, verses 8 and 9. It says, let the rivers clap their hands, let the mountains sing together for joy before the Lord, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity. They recognize, the psalmist recognizes God as the judges all the earth In Genesis chapter 18, verse 25, Abraham recognized God and refers to God as the judge of all the earth. This is the title for God. If there is somebody who is judging all the earth, guess who he is? He's God. And this is how they recognize Jesus Christ. He's the supreme judge. He's the judge over all the earth. Not only does he have the supreme title and the As he had the supreme judge, they also recognizes that he recognizes that he has supreme knowledge. Yeah, supreme knowledge back in Matthew chapter 7. In uh verse 22, listen to what they say in verse 22. Talks about many who come to him on that day and say, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? They say, Lord. Didn't we do this? You know that we did this. They're really pointing to his omniscience. They expect Jesus to have knowledge of their entire lives. Did we not do this, Lord? And the construction in the Greek is actually a construction that expects a positive answer. Lord, did we not do this? With the the expectation that Jesus can say yes, I I know that you did. Why? Because they they expect them to know everything. Lord, did we not They recognize Jesus not only as having a supreme title and being the supreme judge, they recognize him as having the supreme knowledge that you know everything. Only God knows everything. And fourth, they recognize Jesus as having supreme glory. And why do I say that? I say that because uh of what they say about their works. They say, uh, in your name we prophesy, in your name we cast out demons, in your name we perform many miracles. And if you were to trace that phrase in your name throughout Scripture, you'd find that it's most often used for the name of the Lord. We did these things in your name, in the name of the Lord. And to do the things in the name of the Lord meant that they believed these works were done in association with his person, with the approval of his authority, assistance of his power, agreement with his character, and adoration of his glory. There's no question who these people thought they were serving. No question. At least verbally, they're acknowledging Jesus not only as authority but as deity. What they're saying is you are Lord and you are God. This is what these people are saying. That would be their confession before him. Now it's clear from scripture that confessing confessing Jesus Christ as Lord is necessary, right? I mean we understand that, right? Confessing Jesus Christ as Lord is necessary. In Romans 10. 9, if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you'll be saved. In 1 John 4 and verse 3, it says, Every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God, confession of Jesus Christ as Lord is necessary. And Christians must confess Jesus as Lord. But what's also just as clear from Scripture is that not everyone who acknowledges Jesus as Lord will be received into his presence. Think about this. Demons, the demons that Jesus cast out in Luke chapter 4, they knew exactly who Jesus was. Knew exactly who Jesus was and they trembled before him. In Luke chapter 4, verse 34, listen to what he says. Let us alone, these are the demons here. Let us alone. What business do we have with each other, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the holy one of God. We know who you are. James chapter 2, verse 19 says, You believe that God is one, you do well. The demons also believe and shudder. One day every tongue in the universe will acknowledge Jesus Christ is Lord. How do I know that? Philippians chapter 2, verse 11. Every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Everybody. There are examples of people who called Jesus Lord and were even baptized under that assumptions. Why don't you flip over to Acts chapter 8? Acts chapter 8. There was a man who formerly practiced magic and claimed to be someone great. But after hearing Philip preach the gospel, the Bible says he believed and continued on with Philip. But when it was discovered that the Holy Spirit was given to people that the apostles laid hands on this man Simon, Simon the magician, he asked if he could buy the power of the Holy Spirit with money Remember what Peter said? Look at Acts chapter 8, starting at verse 20. It says, But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part. or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours and pray, the Lord, that if possible The intention of your heart may be forgiven. For I see that you are in the goal of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity. This is to somebody who professed Jesus as Lord. This is somebody who was baptized. This is somebody who followed after Philip. And Peter turns to him and he says, you are in the gall of iniquity. Bitterness. You need to repent and pray that if possible the Lord might forgive you. One of the people who might have said, Lord, Lord. Lord, Lord. Salvation requires more than a mere acknowledgement of who Jesus is. Requires more than that. It's more than just a word. It's more than just words, what we say. It's more than saying Lord, Lord, it also involves accepting and submitting to Jesus Christ as as Lord. I was listening to the to the radio this week with my daughter. And uh uh the radio announcer said this. The radio announcer said, hey family, hey radio family, if uh if you've never accepted Jesus as your Lord and Savior, I want I want you to say these simple words. Jesus, I accept you as the Lord of my life I believe you died and rose again. I give you control. And if you just said that, I believe that you were born again. And it's just like it's like went by so quick. You didn't know that it came. When it left, it was just like, what? I just want you to say these simple words. Just say these simple words. I give you control of my life. You died, you rose again. And if you said that, you're born again. Born again. Thank the Lord. You're born again. And you might say, you know, there's there's no problem with what he said, right? And I'm not criticizing the words of the prayer, because if if you do repent of your sins and if you do acknowledge Jesus as Lord, trusting in Jesus as Lord. You're born again. But there's there's not necessarily a problem with the words. But the whole push was just to say it. Just confess it Just repeat this after me and then quickly try to assure people, hey, you're saved now, you're born again, you're in the family of God. You know, call me up and tell me about it. Like I said, it all went by so quick. And it's so dangerous. So dangerous. Because Jesus is interested in more than just what you say. He's interested in more than that. Flip over to Matthew chapter 21. Matthew chapter 21, Jesus is approached by the chief priests and the elders, the religious leaders of the people of Israel. And they're questioning Jesus' authority. So he answers them with this simple parable in Matthew chapter 21. Look at verse 28. Listen what he says. He gives this parable of two sons. He says, but what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first and said, Son, go work today in the vineyard. And he answered, I will not. But afterward he regretted it and went. The man came to the second, the second son here, and said the same thing. And he answered, I will, sir. But he did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? And they said, the first, Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and prostitutes did believe him, and you seeing this did not even feel remorse afterward so as to believe him. You may not realize this, but um nobody would have spoken more of the Messiah than the chief priests and the rulers of the people. Nobody talked about the Messiah more. Nobody talked more about their allegiance to the Messiah than the chief priests and the rulers of the people, the the the religious leaders. If anybody was expected to be looking for the anointed one and to identify him for the rest of the people, it would have been these guys. From the Gospels, we learned just some amazing things. This is what they were teaching the people about the Messiah. From the Gospels alone, we learn about the coming of the Messiah, that they taught that they knew where he would be born, that they knew that he would be king of Israel. That they knew he was to be the son of David. They knew that he would be a teacher of truth, a performer of miracles, and that he would live forever. All this just from the gospel is what the rulers of the people taught. And they also knew that the Son of Man was also the Son of the Blessed One or the Son of God. Interesting. Flip over to Luke chapter 22. Just for the views of the teachers of the people regarding the Messiah, over in Luke chapter 22, verses 67 to 70, we find a fascinating uh Fascinating uh discovery here. Luke chapter 22, 67 to 30. Actually I'll start back at 66. It says, When it was day the council of elders of the people assembled, both chief priests and scribes, and They came, they led him away to their council chamber, saying, If you are the Christ, the Messiah, the anointed one, tell us. But he said to them, If I tell you, you will not believe. And if I ask a question, you will not answer. But from now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God. And they all said, Are you the Son of God then? And he said to them, Yes, I am. Listen to what he said. He says, The Son of Man, right? The Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God. And they all said, Are you then the Son of God? What are they putting together? If you're the Son of Man, you're also the Son of God. The chief priests and the rulers understood that the Messiah was to be the Son of God. God in the flesh, they knew this. They knew this about the Messiah. And when Jesus identified himself with the anointed one of Psalm 110, they understood exactly who he was claiming to be. You're claiming to be the Son of God. They knew all that to be true. And they would have told the people that they're dedicated to the Messiah, we're looking for the Messiah, we're anticipating his arrival. But when John the Baptist pointed to Jesus as the Messiah, their words meant absolutely nothing. Nothing. The message of John the Baptist was one of repentance, directing people to trust in Jesus. Abandon themselves. Trust in Jesus Christ. He must increase. I must decrease. But even though the Pharisees and Sadducees listened to John's message, attended his baptisms, pledged public allegiance to the Messiah, they never actually followed the Messiah when he showed up. They were just like the respectful son in the parable who said, I will, sir. Whatever you say, I'm right there. I will, sir. But they never actually repented and trusted in Jesus Christ. It was all empty words. I will, sir. Interesting note the word, sir. It's the same word for Lord. I will, Lord. I will. But they don't do it. On the other hand, you had these outcasts who rejected God, his demands on their entire life, thieving extortionists, traitors, immoral, defiled prostitutes. But when they were confronted with Jesus Christ, they regretted their disobedience and turned to follow after Jesus Christ. Regretted their disobedience. Christ isn't interested in our empty profession. We can say that we'll repent. We can say that we'll follow Christ, but the question is, have you? You can say whatever you want. Have you? Have you repented of your sins? Have you turned away from your life? Have you trusted in Jesus Christ alone? Are you following after him Christ is interested in more than your words. There's another story about two sons. You know it well, Luke 15. Father has two sons, one stayed at home from all outside appearances. He was the obedient, submissive, dutiful son. But when it came time to actually listen to what the father had to say, he couldn't handle it. The other son squandered his father's wealth, but afterwards he regretted it. Realized he wasn't even worthy to be called a son. Came back home with a repentant attitude. Just make me a slave. Whatever you say. I'll just be a slave This is the one who was justified. This is the one who was accepted. One said, I will, sir, and didn't do a thing. The other said, I won't. But afterwards he regretted it and he came home broken. That's the kind of person that the Lord receives into his kingdom. The person who understands his sinfulness is broken and turns to trust in Jesus Christ. Kind of repentant heart that looks to be obedient to Jesus Christ. In Luke chapter 6, verse 46, Jesus puts it this way, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do what I say? If you're not coming to be obedient to me, what's the use of all your words? Why are you going to call me Lord? What's the meaning of all the prayer and church attendance and everything else that you're doing? If you're not actually going to do what I'm telling you to do. The claim to be Lord is meaningless. You don't show up to a job and say, hey, I'm working for you, but I'm here to do what I want to do today. You don't show up to any employer like that. That's the quick way out the door, right? You know, the employer says, hey, I want you to do this. No, no, I won't. Employer tells you to do, ah no, I don't want to do that. Then you don't want to work here then. That's what you're telling me. And then we come to Jesus Christ and say, oh Lord, Lord, yes, sir. And then Jesus says, do that. It's like, uh, do this, no. I'm not the Lord then. That's what you're telling me. Calling Jesus as Lord is nothing but empty if you don't desire and intend to submit your life in obedience to him. It's empty. And it's important to point out that Jesus is not saying that faith alone doesn't save. That's not the point. Jesus isn't saying that faith alone doesn't save. John chapter 5, verse 24 says, Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. John chapter 6, verse 40. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. John chapter 6, verse 47. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. All we need to do is trust in Jesus Christ for salvation. But a faith that remains alone, a faith that does not include and produce obedience, a faith that does nothing but talk, is not a real faith. And that's what Jesus is separating here. That the claim to follow Jesus as Lord and the actuality, the reality of it. You can say what you want, but have you really done it? Do you really believe me? Have you really repented? Are you really following after me? You can say what you want. The proof is in the actions. The proof is in the obedience of the life. And that's what Jesus is saying. John chapter 3, verse 36. He who believes in the Son has eternal life. But listen to this. Listen to this. But he who does not obey the Son will not see life. He who believes hath life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. You know what Jesus is saying? If you really believe, you'll really obey. If you really believe, you'll really obey. That's what he's saying. If you don't obey, you will not see life. You can't get any more clear than that. Matthew chapter 12, verse 15. For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother and sister and mother. You want to be rightly related to me? You also have to have a commitment to obeying the will of my father. The person who does the will of my father, that's the person that's related to me. The person that follows me in obedience, that's the person that's related to me. The only way to be rightly related to Jesus Christ is if we're also willing to obey him. Trusting in Jesus Christ as Lord and turning from your sin and repentance are inseparable. Two sides of the same coin. Trusting in Christ, turning from sin. It's two sides of the same coin. Can't separate it. That's why Hebrews chapter 5, verse 9 says, He became to all those who obey him the source of eternal salvation. To those who obey him, that's the evidence. That's the proof. He became to all those who obey him the source of eternal salvation. And if your life is not marked by obedience, there's no reason to have confidence that he is your source of eternal salvation. if you're not willing to obey. That's why James says faith without works is useless. Faith without works is dead. Faith without works cannot save you. Sinclair Ferguson writes that in today's church we are as likely to be told that not only that we can become Christians without repentance, but can even remain Christians without it, being carnal to the end of our days. By contrast, our forefathers were convinced that repentance is so central to the gospel that there can be no salvation without it. The Westminster Confession of Faith put it this way: repentance is of such necessity to all sinners that none may expect pardon. without it. The idea that we can receive Jesus as Savior without intending to follow him as Lord is to trust in a Savior who does not save. He doesn't presently save you from your sins. It's to trust in a new birth that doesn't actually give new life. I've been born again, but you have no new life? You have no new life, but you're born again? Where where's the evidence in your life that you've been born again? If you're a Christian, you've been transformed. You've been given new life. You're a new creation, right? That's what 2 Corinthians 5. 17 tells us. You've been made new. What that means is you have a new attitude toward sin. We we recognize that our sins are committed against the holy God, and it's more than just this worldly and temporary sorrow. I mean everybody feels bad because oh yeah, I shouldn't have done that. But why do they feel bad? Because now my mom feels bad and you know my brother feels bad and this person that I sin against they feel bad and you know I kind of look I'm kind of ashamed because I look like an idiot because I did this and that. That's not godly repentance. It's not not with an attitude towards God. It's like, yeah, I just feel bad about what I did, and you know, people don't like me now. That's not godly sorrow over sin. It's sorrow over the temporary consequences. I don't like the consequences of my sin. I got drunk last night and somebody put me on YouTube. I really feel bad about that. What does that have to do with God? What does that have to do with God? If you truly turn around, it means that you have a new attitude toward sin. It also means you have a new attitude toward yourself. You now agree with God's judgment of your sinful lifestyle. You're not trying to escape and make excuses. Oh, I did this because, you know, that's how I grew up. I did this because, you know, so-and-so did this. I did this because I had a bad example. That's not the attitude of a Christian. Not making excuses for sin. We're not making excuses. We confess them. We agree with God that what you say about my sin is exactly the same thing that I say. That's what true confession is. What you say is what I say. I agree with you, God. We're willing to crucify the flesh with its desires and follow after him. And we have a new attitude toward God. The newest and weakest Christian has a pure longing in his heart for God. Newest and weakest Christian has that kind of desire. That's what the Beatitudes point out. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. There's something that's transformed about the inside of a person. Who's been confronted with Jesus Christ? Something's different about you. MacArthur argues that a person who's not concerned about having his present sins cleansed has good reason to doubt that his past sin has been forgiven. If you have no concern about your sin, no concern about the present reality of sin in your life, why should you have any confidence that your past sins have been forgiven when you have no concern about the present reality? Not everybody will enter the kingdom of heaven. Not everybody who confesses Jesus is Lord will enter the kingdom of heaven. But one thing's for sure, everybody will appear before Jesus. Everybody will appear before Jesus. Martin Luther once said, there's two days on my calendar. This day and that day. Two days on my calendar, this day and that day. By this day he meant today. I'm living the day that I'm living in right now, and by that day he meant the day of judgment. He says, those are the only two days I'm concerned about Yesterday is already passed. There's no use worrying about that, right? Philippians 3. 13 says forgetting the things that lie behind. In Job 8 verse 9 it says, yesterday is like a shadow that passes by. And so many people just want to rely on the past. Well, you know, I used to serve God and do this and do that, but today they're doing nothing. But they want to rely on the past. Well, I I prayed and I walked the aisle and I raised my hand and you know This pastor kind of laid hands on me and, you know, they they kind of looked back to the past. Forget about that. Forget about that. That's not where you can have a place your confidence in, what I did in the past. It makes no sense worrying about tomorrow because there's no guarantee that she'll be around tomorrow. Well I'll change I'll change that about my life tomorrow. Who says you're even gonna be here? Proverbs 27, verse 1, do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth. James 4:14, yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You're just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. But there is a day that every one of us should be concerned about, and it's a day that every one of us will see, and it's the day that's called that day. And there's no escaping that day. It's a day of reckoning, a day of judgment, and the Lord Himself will preside as judge on that day. And my my question for every person who's heard the words of Jesus here is this, is are are you ready? Have you actually acted on the words of Jesus Christ? Do you take these words seriously? When Jesus says examine yourself, is that what you do? Lord, I just don't want to rely on what happened in the past. I don't want to just wish for the future, but today I'm living a life of repentance today. Martin Luther in his 95 theses, one of them mentioned that uh that the true Christian lives a life of repentance That's just our life. Our life is just constantly turning away from our sins. It's not, oh, I repented at one time in the past, somewhere back there, but I live a life that's constantly repenting That not only is the entrance narrow, but the way is narrow. I don't just live any way that I want as a believer and expect God to say, well done, good and faithful servant. Have you heard the words of Jesus? Have you acted on them? Have you repented and trusted in Christ? And if you're not walking in obedience to the Father's will, how do you know what you have? How do you know what you have? If there's no concern for walking in obedience to the Father's will. We're not saying that Christians live perfectly. We already know that's not true. We need to admit that we're constantly sinning, right? That's just the life as a believer. We constantly fall into sin. But what happens when you fall into sin? Do you just stay there? Or do you constantly live in repentance, turning back, turning back, turning back? Because that's now the new direction of your life. I'm a new creature. You know, pigs can stay in the mud and feel quite happy right there, right? As a sheep, you don't jump in the mud and just kind of roll around and like, this is my life. This is life. That's not the life of a believer. It's against your nature. You've been created new. You're a new person. You don't wallow in your sin anymore. And the Father is careful to correct his children and bring them right back on the narrow path. This is where you belong. This is where you belong. And if you try to go out there, you're going to get discipline so you know where you belong. No son goes without discipline. He's going to bring you back because he loves you. This is the path. And if you're walking in disobedience to God and his will, like I said, how do you know where you are? John Stott points out that the confession of the many is admirable. It's an admirable confession. They're polite. They address Jesus as Lord. Lord, Lord. It's a title of respect. Master, sir. They're orthodox in their confession. They understand that the Lord was a divine title. Lord, Lord, we recognize you as Lord and God. We recognize who you are. They're fervent in their acknowledgement. They say it twice, Lord, Lord, there's a sense of urgency. Enthusiasm, Lord, Lord. They're public in their confession. They did their works in his name, prophesied in his name. We've doing all this for you, God. It's all for you. They're sincere. They're expecting a positive answer from Jesus. That yes, you did do that in my name and you did do that in my name. They're expecting to hear that But when it came to the point of actually living for Jesus Christ instead of themselves, they chose themselves. All of their respect and orthodoxy and fervency and activity and sincerity meant absolutely nothing. They weren't ready. They cried, Lord, Lord! But it's too late. Because they're not prepared. It's just like the people in Noah's day. When the rain starts to fall, the door of the ark is already shut. And who shut the door? God shut the door. How many hundreds of people banging on the door? Noah, it's us! Don't you remember us? I'm your neighbor! Open the door! How many people? And it's too late because they're not prepared. Flip over to Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25, Jesus gives us a parable of those who aren't ready. Another parable about the kingdom. Listen to what Jesus says here. He says, then the kingdom of heaven will be comparable to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were foolish, and five were prudent. For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them, but the prudent took oil in their flask along with their lamps Now while the bridegroom was delaying, they all got drowsy and began to sleep. But at midnight there was a shout, Behold, the bridegroom, come out to meet him! Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps. The foolish said to the prudent, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the prudent answered, No, there will not be enough for us and you two. Go instead to the dealers and buy some for yourselves And while they were going away to make the purchase, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut. Later, the other virgins also came, saying, Lord, Lord, open, open for us. But he answered, Truly I say to you, I do not know you Be on the alert then, for you do not know the day nor the hour. You have no idea when your time is up. No idea. Walking around with a with a lamp, with the outside dress, looking like you're prepared, ready to go. Doesn't say anything about them not having having the lamp itself. They had the lamp. They have probably their clothes on, ready to go to this wedding feast, but they don't have the essential thing. They don't have any oil in their lamps. And how many people will stand before the Lord on that day? Lord, Lord, open, open to us We have all the outside accoutrements. We have everything on the outside going on. We've attended church. We've prayed. We've worked. He says, I don't know you. You have no relationship with me. You might have talked about the Son, but you never knew the Son. You might have talked about him being the Lord, but you never submitted your life to him. You didn't want to obey him. I don't know you. You don't know the day or the hour. Lord, Lord. In Lübeck, Germany, there's a large brick-built Lutheran cathedral. With a number of inscriptions written on the inside. And one of the most famous inscriptions inside the cathedral is a poem written by an anonymous author imagining the words of the master. Listen to this. It says, ye call me master and obey me not. You call me light and see me not. You call me the way and walk me not. Ye call me life and desire me not. You call me wise and follow me not. You call me fair and love me not. Ye call me rich and ask me not. Ye call me eternal and seek me not You call me gracious and trust me not. You call me noble and serve me not. You call me mighty and honor me not. You call me just and fear me not. If I condemn you, blame me not. Need to check the foundation. What kind of foundation are you building your life on? And when the when the time is up, will you be on the outside saying, Lord, Lord, open to us It's me! Don't you remember me? And hear those those frightening words. I don't know you. Depart from me, workers of iniquity. Your profession of faith was not genuine. The Lord gives us warning, and uh these are serious words that our Lord gives us here. Sobering words. And they're true words. The person who loves you the most tells you the most truth. Jesus tells us the most truth. He's the one that loves us the most. And there's there's no there's no um there's no reason for you to walk away without receiving salvation, repenting of your sins, turning to Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, God, uh, so much for uh these words of of Jesus Christ. Uh they are uh sobering words, uh Father, and uh uh Father, it's uh It's with a heavy heart, Lord, that we come before you with the recognition that there might be people even in this room who have professed to know Jesus Christ. Who on the outside look as if they're following Jesus Christ, but Father, you know whether or not they're truly following after you. Father, you know if they've submitted their lives to the Lordship of Jesus or not, if they're obeying the will of the Father or not. You know. And Father, I pray today that they'll know, and that they'll come to an understanding of who Jesus Christ is. that it's not just about what we say that gives evidence of our faith. It's the life that we live that gives evidence to our claim to know you. So Father, I pray that it would be true of everyone here, that they're examining their own hearts before you, and uh that today would be the day of salvation. You receive all who come before you with a broken and a contrite heart. You will not despise them. Father, we thank you for the hope and the promise that you give. In Jesus' name, praise you. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.