The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're in Matthew chapter 7 and nearing the end of our study of the Sermon on the Mount. The greatest sermon ever given by anyone. And uh the the more I study this sermon, the more I'm convinced of that. We're in Matthew chapter 7 and the frightening words of Matthew chapter 7 verses 21 down to 23. These are words that we've uh read before. Actually, I I thought I was going to get through 21 to 23 in one message, but it turned into a series. Didn't know it would, but um uh but there's so much much that's that's here that um uh that we don't want to just move on quickly. Matthew chapter 7, let's start at verse 21 down to 23. Says, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh pray that as we approach this solemn text, Father, that you would Open up our our eyes to the truth of it. Father, that you would open up our hearts, Lord, to be examined by it. Father, that you would allow none of us to walk away without applying these words to our hearts. Now, Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There are very few people who would feel comfortable with representing themselves in a court of law. In in our congregation here today, there might be one in a hundred that would feel comfortable doing that. And I only say one in a hundred because I know one of us is a lawyer. So if uh if I didn't know that, it would be none in a hundred, right? No, I mean who who feels comfortable standing before a judge to represent themselves, you know, in a court? There's few of us who are trained to do that. There's few people who think they know the law well enough or you know the judicial system well enough to represent themselves. Uh most of us would be happy uh for somebody else to stand in our place and to speak on our behalf. But in Matthew chapter 7, in verses 21 to 23, we have described for us a scene that's infinitely greater than any court we could imagine, where countless people will feel compelled to say something. In their own defense. Compelled to say something. To speak in their own defense. And the the reason for that I think it's pretty obvious. It's because there will not be a single solitary soul to stand up to speak for you on that day There's not going to be one person to stand in your defense on that day. So this is a this is a cry of desperation. I mean something has to be said. Somebody help. And they speak up for themselves. And if there was ever a day that you'd want the right to have an eternity, an attorney, it would be this day. The right to have an attorney. But countless people will stand before the judge of the universe without a single advocate to speak up for them. So they they feel compelled to make this pathetic last-ditch effort. At representing themselves before the judge of the universe? And what kind of words would you dare to bring before such a judge? What kind of words would you bring before the judge of the universe? What could you possibly say in your defense? We already saw what kind of words these people bring. Back in verse 21, it says that they bring these supreme words. Supreme words of confession to the Lord. Christ is addressed in verse 21 as Lord, Lord, which is more than just a polite address. I mean, here they're pointing out that they believe that the Lord is the Master. And more than that, that he's God. It's more than just, you know, sir. They understood that the one that they're calling out to has the supreme title. Every time Lord has been used in Matthew up to this point, it's been made clear that it's a reference to God. In addition to that, they're appealing to Jesus as the supreme judge. In Genesis 18, 25, Abraham recognizes God as the judge of all the earth. And here they recognize Jesus. You're the judge. You're the one that we make our final appeal to. They also recognize that Jesus has supreme knowledge. They assume that Jesus has first-hand knowledge of everything that they have ever done in their whole lives. And they recognize Jesus is worthy of supreme glory. They claim that everything that they've done, all of their religious works, has been done in your name. It's for you. They're orthodox, they're fervent, they're sincere, they bring these supreme words, but not only do they bring supreme words, they bring supernatural words. Verse 22, it says that many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy? Cast out demons? Perform many miracles? They bring these supernatural words to the judge of the universe. When they say, did we not, they're expecting Jesus to agree with them. But from what we learned last week, supernatural works can all be imitated by the demonic world. It happened in accident , eh? And that's why Jesus says in Luke chapter 10, verse 20, don't rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you. You know, that's not the big deal. You know what the big deal is? Is that your names are written in heaven. That's the big deal. That's what you should rejoice about. We're not to get all worked up over some spectacular service that we can give to God, extreme acts of devotion, religious activity. It can all be the appearance of godliness that lacks the true power of it. It can all just be a show. And it's frightening to think about. And what Jesus reveals to us is that in this kind of plain, straightforward language, is that she can bring supreme words And you can bring supernatural words, but if you don't bring the Savior's words, it does not matter. It does not matter. There's only one confession that's going to matter on that day. And it's the confession of the Master in verse 23. In verse 23, we move away from what everyone will say and from what many will say to what one will say. The only confession that matters is the one confession. When Jesus says in verse 23, then I will declare to them, he uses the Greek word homologo. It's a translated confess in uh in many portions of the scripture. It's a public acknowledgement. It's the same word that's used over in Romans chapter 10, verse 9, where it says, if you confess with your mouth. Jesus is Lord. She 's over in 1 Timothy 6, verse 12, where Paul tells Timothy, you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. It's a public profession. And Jesus here says, this is my public profession for you. I never knew you. That's my confession to you. That's my declaration to you. That's my profession. You're not a Christian just because you say you are. Christ could still say, I never knew. And you're not a Christian because in your mind you've accepted Christ. Christ could still say, depart from me. What we're talking about here is uh Christ accepting you, not whether or not you've accepted Christ. You know, we talk a lot about, you know, have you accepted Christ? The real question is, has Christ accepted you? Has he accepted you? And the only words that are going to matter on that day are his words. Two simple questions that we need to ask, that you need to ask yourself. Will Jesus acknowledge me? And the second question is, will Jesus accept me? Will Jesus acknowledge me and will Jesus accept me? Verse 23 again. Will Jesus acknowledge me on that day? Look at verse 23. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. I never knew you. Eternal life is directly tied to knowing the Lord. Over in John chapter 17 and verse 3, it says, This is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God in Jesus Christ. Who you've sent. Eternal life is bound to a relationship with God. Eternal life is that they may know you. The knowledge that's connected here to eternal life is a relational knowledge. It's not just gathering facts about a person. And that's uh one of the many errors of the Jehovah's Witnesses and their mistranslation of the scriptures that doesn't deserve to be called the translation. They had no Greek scholars that worked on the translation of uh the New World uh translation. has no right to be called a translation, but they they misinterpret John 17. 3. This is how they interpret John 17. 3. They say, this means eternal life, taking in knowledge of you. That's how they translate it. This is eternal life, taking in knowledge of you, as if eternal life is about a Bible study. You know, particularly with them. You know, taking in knowledge, that's eternal life. That's not what Jesus meant by that. It's not taking in knowledge. It's a relationship. Do you know me? And that's made clear by the way the phrase know the Lord is often used throughout the Bible. For example, if you flip back to the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah, throughout the book of Jeremiah, this concept shows up a a number of times, but in uh uh Jeremiah uh chapter two uh we find this. Uh the book of Jeremiah is a Book that's about the judgment on Judah, the southern kingdom of Israel. Judah's about to be given into the hands of Babylon. The temple's about to be destroyed. They're about to be driven into exile. And in chapter 2, the Lord starts to let them know why. It's because they turn their back on a relationship with God. Look at chapter 2, verses 4 to 8. It says, hear the word of the Lord, O house of Jacob, and all families of the house of Israel. Thus says the Lord, what injustice did your fathers find in me? That they went far from me and walked after emptiness and became empty. They did not say, where is the Lord who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, who led us through the wilderness? Through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought and of deep darkness, through a land that no one crossed where no man dwelt. I brought you into the fruitful land to eat its fruit and its good things, but you came and defiled my land. And my inheritance you made an abomination. The priest did not say, Where is the Lord? And those who handled the law did not know me. The rulers also transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied by Baal and walked after the things that did not profit. He says, What did I do for you to walk away from me? What injustice did you find in me? And then the the priests, those who handle the law, so these aren't people who are ignorant. They handle the law, but guess what? They don't know me They don't know me. They have information about me. They have facts about me, but they have no relationship with me. They don't know me Flip over to chapter 24 in Jeremiah. The Lord speaks there about uh the return of some of the nation after the captivity in Babylon. Like I said, they're going to be taken away. But he speaks about the return of some of them in Chapter 24, look at verses four to seven. Look what it says here, chapter 24, verse 4. It says, Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, Thus says the Lord God of Israel. Like these good figs, so I will regard as good the captives of Judah whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans. For I will set my eyes on them for good, and I will bring them again to this land, and I will build them up and not overthrow them. And I will plant them and not pluck them up. I will give them a heart to know me. For I am the Lord, and they will be my people, and I will be their God, for they will return to me with their whole heart. It's not talking about information. Returning to me with their whole heart. They're going to know me. It's going to have a relationship. They're going to have a relationship. And then over again in uh Jeremiah chapter 31. Jeremiah predicts another gathering together of Israel, but this isn't gathering Israel from the land of Babylon. This is gathering Israel from the the remote parts of the earth. In verse 8, it it talks about them being gathered from the remote parts of the earth. This is a global Kind of gathering. This is talking about the end times. And in verse 33 and 34, he talks again about this relationship that he's to have with them. He says, But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I'll put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They Will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord. Why? For they will all know me From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more. He gives them a new heart, they have forgiveness of sins, and it's connected to knowing the Lord. It's a salvation term. To know the Lord is to be saved. It's not knowing facts and information. It's having a relationship with God. That word uh know is also associated so close with the relationship that when Hebrews spoke about the intimate act of marriage, what did they say? They say the man knew his wife. It's talking about relationship, like in uh Luke chapter 1, verse 34, where Mary says, uh, you know, how can this be? You know, how am I going to have a baby? I'm a virgin. What does she say? I know not a man. I don't have that kind of relationship with anybody. So when we're talking about relationship, the knowledge that we're talking about is the knowledge of relationship. And having information and having a relationship are two totally separate things, right? Two different things. You can know the stats of all your favorite athletes, you know, when they were born, what school they went to, what teams they played for, height, weight, age, favorite food. But if you run into him on the street, that's gonna be that's not gonna be enough to get you invited into his house, right? No, it might be enough to get you an autograph. It's not going to be enough to get you invited to his house. And if you just kind of show up unannounced, it might be enough to get you hauled off by the cops, right? You know, hey, you know, don't you remember me? Back in 86 you did whatever. What difference does that make? Get off my lawn. Right? The nation of Israel knew all the stats about the Messiah. They knew where he's going to be born. They knew that he'd be king. They knew he'd be the son of David. He'd be a teacher of truth, a performer of miraculous signs. He would live forever. He would be the son of the Blessed One. They knew all the stats. But they didn't know him. Accuracy of information does not mean intimacy of relationship. It was all lip Nothing but talk. And that's exactly what Jesus pointed out to the Pharisees over in Matthew fifteen and verse eight when they tried to elevate themselves over other people. They try to elevate their tradition as some kind of proof that we know God because look at our traditions, look at what we do. We have the ceremony of washing our hands before we eat, and it's not like just getting rid of the germs. You know, it's like a ceremonial washing. You know, the hand that's got to drip from here to here, and you know, got a drip from here to here, and it's like this ceremony that they go through. This says that we're close to God. We're pure. And Jesus turns to him and he says, You hypocrites. Rightly did Isaiah prophesy to you. This people honors me with their lips. You talk a good game. You honor me with your lips, but your heart is far away from me. You have no relationship with me. So it's possible to speak supreme words of respect for God that aren't even worth the breath that you use to say it. Supreme words, supernatural words, but it's all vanity. Vanity. Empty. And what a frightening experience to assume that your words of allegiance to God were real and authentic. Only to find out that your relationship with God was imaginary. Flip over to John chapter 2. We find that uh Jesus began to develop a massive following. There are many who are attracted to his miracles, and who wouldn't it be, right? I mean, this is something that they've never seen before. Not even close. Nobody's even close to Jesus. on the religious landscape. He didn't fit into any category. He totally blew the curve when it came to miraculous power, his insight into the Bible, his righteous character. I mean multitudes flock to him just for his healing power alone. I mean this this would have been like the ultimate dream come true for the the the church growth experts, right? I mean it's like you get these crowds of people, multitudes of people, they're coming. Like this is it. Isn't this what we're looking for? But look at what uh what Jesus says in chapter two, John chapter two, look at verse twenty-three. It says, Now when he was In Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs, which he was doing. But listen to verse 24. But Jesus, on his part, was not entrusting himself to them. For he knew all men, and because he did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man He says, here come the crowds. Here come the crowds. They're saying they believe. They want to be with me. But I don't necessarily want them. They're accepting me. I'm not accepting them. They're saying they believe in me. I'm not entrusting myself to them. Why? Because I know it's on the inside. I know it's in men's hearts. Nobody's gonna fool Christ Your words mean nothing compared to what's going on inside your heart. What you say about yourself is not the last word about yourself. I 'll flip back over to Jose. I know I have you flipping around a lot, but uh back in in the book of Jose, and you can just listen in if uh You don't want to turn there, but in the book of Hosea, we find that the northern kingdom of Israel is in their final hours before destruction. Hosea's ministry is much like Jeremiah's ministry. Jeremiah preached to the southern kingdom of Israel in their last hours before destruction. Hosea preached to the northern kingdom of Israel right before their last hours of destruction. It's a similar kind of ministry. And Hosea's message is that whatever relationship Israel thought they had is non existent. It's been been called a one-sided love story. The book of Hosea, a one-sided love story. Hosea's relationship to an unfaithful spouse serves as a perfect illustration for an unfaithful people. Hosea chapter 8, look at verse 1. It says, put the trumpet to your lips. The trumpet is uh you know the the alarm system. This is the warning bell going off. Put the trumpet to your lips, sound the alarm! Like an eagle, the enemy comes. The eagle is a bird of prey, symbolizing judgment. Judgment is coming. Sound the alarm. Judgment is coming. Against the house of the Lord, because they have transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law. Look at verse 2. But they cried out to me, My God, we, we of Israel, we know you. God, we know you! We know you, God! We have all the information about you. We know who you are. My God, we of Israel know you But look at what verse 3 says. Israel has rejected the good. The enemy will pursue them. They're here saying, God, we know you. And God says, but you've already rejected me. What are you talking about? You know me. We have no relationship. What kind of relationship do you think you have with me? And here they're crying out before the judgment. But but God, we we know you. It's kind of like the cry in Matthew 7, Lord, Lord. We know you, God. But like I said, what's most important is not does do I acknowledge Jesus, but does Jesus acknowledge me? In Galatians chapter 4 and verse 9, it says, but now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God. That's the important thing. Not just that you know God, but that God knows you. Now that you've come to know God, or rather be known by God. Are you known by God? Are you known by God? Matthew chapter 7. 23 says, many will hear the words, I never knew you Matthew chapter 25, verse 12. Truly I say to you, I do not know you. Do you know what your profession of Jesus as Lord counts for? Absolutely nothing. If Jesus doesn't know you, absolutely nothing. So the question is, how do I know that Jesus will acknowledge me? How do I know? That's the same question that the John addressed in uh 1 John, if you want to flip over there, 1 John. It's a book that's dedicated to helping People who say they believe in the name of the Son of God to know that they have eternal life. 1 John chapter 5, verse 13 points that out. He says, this is why I've written my book so that you who believe In the name of the Son of God will know that you have eternal life. Don't let anybody say that you can't know that you have eternal life. You can know. We can know. We can know that God knows us. You know, Roman Catholics will say, you know, how arrogant is that to say that you know God and that you know that you're going to be saved? You know, the Bible says I can know. How arrogant of you to say that I can't know if the Bible says I can know, right? We can know that we're saved. That's exactly what John talks about. Knowing God. We can know that we know God. In 1 John chapter 2 and verse 13, he says, I'm writing to you fathers because you know him. I'm writing to you, young men, because you've overcome the evil one. I have written to you, children, because you know the Father. You can know that you know God. You can know that you have a relationship with God. That's what salvation is. He repeats it again in 1 John 5, verse 20. He says, We know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him. We can come into a relationship with God. But how do we know that we know him? Instead of just saying that we know them. Look at 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2, look at verses 3 and 4. How do you know that you belong to the group of those that know God? Look at verse 3. By this we know that we have come to know him. Got your attention? If we keep his commandments, how do you know that you've come to know him? That it's not just empty words. If we keep his commandments. The one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him. Sounds like John's been reading the Sermon on the Mount. Even uses Jesus' language about doing the will of God over in verse 17 of uh chapter 2. He says, The world is passing away, and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God lives forever. If you do the will of God, you can know that you've come to know Him. You can't get around obedience in your pursuit of assurance. You know, you want to be assured of your faith. You can't get around obedience. You can't like skip, you know, hop hop frog, you know, leapfrog over obedience and get to assurance. You can't do it that way. That's not how it works. The one who escapes the kingdom of this present world and enters into eternal life, the eternal kingdom of Christ, is the one who does the will of the Father. It's not the one who can mouth the words Jesus is Lord. John 8 verse 31 says, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. That's how you know you're disciples of mine. That you're continuing in obedience Assurance of salvation is tied into obedience to Christ, but this isn't all that the Bible says about assurance, and I just want to point this out because there's a danger in failing to understand the balance of what Jesus says about assurance and what the Bible teaches. about assurance. When it comes to our salvation, as uh Pastor Tom Pennington uh put it one time, he says there's two parallel tracks. Two parallel tracks, you might want to write this down. You can think about it like uh two sets of two sets of rails, you know, that a that a train rolls on, you know, the wheels right on. There's those two tracks, two parallel rails. And if a train gets off any one of the rails, it's going to be on the 6 o'clock news as the next tragedy, right? Any one of those rails they they get off of. It's going to be a tragedy. It's the same way in your Christian experience. If you isolate what Jesus says here, you can wrongly assume that assurance of salvation completely rests on your performance. You know what I do. And that can lead to false beliefs like legalism, which is attempting to be accepted by God on the basis of what I do. You know, look at how obedient I am, God. You know, that's how I'm going to be accepted. Or perfectionism You know, which is a a false belief that we can somehow attain to some kind of pristine, perfect righteousness on this side of heaven. You know, and if you have any questions about whether you have like some kind of pristine righteousness, you know, just talk to your wife, talk to your kids, they'll set you straight, right? People that people that know you, you know, they'll go they'll help you out. Assurance doesn't come from your obedience by itself Uh but if you fail to examine your life and keep in mind what Jesus teaches us here, you can fall off the rails in the opposite direction, you know, fall into antinomianism, which is the belief that uh God no longer requires that you conform yourself to his law. You can fall into that kind of belief. Or easy believism, which is uh the belief that says that repentance from sin is unnecessary for salvation. You know, that you can just, you know, I can just receive Jesus as Savior without receiving him as Lord. You know, he's my savior, but but I don't really have to worry about obeying him. I mean that's you know that's like works. You know, I don't have to do all that. You know, some people have that kind of idea. And unfortunately, there's there's many people who focus To the gospel on the gospel, you know, just the truth of the gospel, the facts of the gospel, to the exclusion of the life of the gospel. You know, some people just say, you know, all you have to do is just remind yourself of the gospel every day. And by that they usually mean just, you know, rehearse for yourself that Jesus Christ died and rose again for your sins. Without also focusing on the fact that there's actually a way that I need to live because of that. That the gospel produces a change in my life, right? So focusing on the gospel, just the facts, isn't all that you need to remind yourself about every day. So here's here's the two rails that you need to Be moving on as a Christian. Two rails. First, you need to rest in the finished work of Christ. And second, you need to expect the ongoing work of the Spirit in your life. First, you need to rest in the finished work of Christ. And second, you need to expect the ongoing work of the Spirit in your life. So let's look at the first one. You need to rest in the finished work of Christ. The obedience of Christ completely fulfilled the righteous requirements of the law, right? And that the death of Jesus Christ completely fulfilled the righteous punishment of the law. That's why he cried, it's finished. You know, in John chapter 19, verse 30, he said, it's finished. He didn't say, it's just beginning. I got it started for you, right? That's not what he says. He says it's finished, it's done, it's complete. So there's nothing that we could possibly add to what Jesus Christ has already done. In Hebrews 10, verse 14, it says, For by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. One offering, all time, it's done. No, the work of Christ is complete. And all who believe right now Right now, have as their possession eternal life. In John 3. 36, he who believes in the Son has eternal life. John 5 24, truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. John chapter 6, verse 47. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. It's already done. It's complete, right? You already have it. It's already accomplished So the person who is truly saved is truly secured. The person who is truly saved is truly secured. If you think about what Christ tells the people who he cast away from his presence. He doesn't say depart from me. You know, we used to be in touch, but now we lost touch. No, he says, depart from me, I never knew you. Never, never knew you. It's not like I I knew you at one time and then we, you know, we kind of lost touch with each other. I've never known you at all. So the person who truly knows Christ The person who truly enters into a saving relationship with Christ, that relationship is secure. Secure. When Jesus says, I never knew you, he uses the Greek word udepote, which means never at any time did I know you. So uh the person who's truly saved is truly secured. Jesus Christ is all that you need for your righteousness. It's all complete. 1 Corinthians 1. 30 it says uh that Jesus Christ is our righteousness, that he became to us righteousness. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus Christ is our righteousness. In the book Grace Abounding to the to the chief of sinners by John Bunyan, he talks about some of the doubts that he had over his own salvation at different points in his life. And he says this, he says, one day I was passing into a field with some dashes on my conscience, fearing yet that all was not right. So here he is. He's fearing whether or not I am I saved? He's fearing that all is not right. Fearing for his eternal soul. And then he says, suddenly, this sentence fell upon my soul. Your righteousness is in heaven I thought I saw with my eyes the soul, with the eyes of my soul, Jesus Christ at God's right hand. There! There was my righteousness! Wherever I was or whatever I was doing, God could not say of me that I lacked his righteousness. That you don't have his righteousness. Why? Because that was ever before him. Jesus Christ is my righteousness. Moreover, I saw that it was not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better, or my bad frame that made my righteousness worse, for my righteousness was Jesus Christ Himself, who is the same yesterday, today, and forever. If you know that your righteousness is Jesus Christ, it never changes. It doesn't go up and down. Jesus Christ is my perfect righteousness. Our righteousness is outside of us. It's fixed forever. It's complete. But here's the question that follows. How can I be confident that I have that righteousness? It's not that the righteousness stands there. I mean, we we know that. The righteousness is there. But how do I know that I have that righteousness? And this is the other rail that you need to be running on as a Christian. You need to expect the ongoing work of the Spirit in your life. You need to expect the ongoing work of the Spirit in your life. Uh Paul Washer illustrated it like this one time. He says, if I came in here and I was running a little bit late and I said, Hey guys, you know, I'm really sorry. I apologize for being late, but you never believe it. You know, I I was trying to change my tire, my tire got flat and Uh lost a lug nut. I went out into the street to pick it up and I got run over by a 18-wheeler. So I'm sorry, I'm I'm late. And it's like Yeah, okay. You y y you came in contact with an eighteen wheeler, you got hit on the way to yeah, I'm I'm I'm sure that happened. No no evidence, no scratch, no bruises, no broken limbs. But but you got hit by an eighteen wheeler on your way here. And he says, but now imagine somebody says, I've come into the most powerful encounter in the universe. I know God. I mean, I know God now. God knows me, and I know God, but there's no evidence that you've been hit. No brokenness of spirit, no contrite heart, no obedience, but but you've had an encounter with the living God of the universe Yeah, right. Yeah, right. Not a scratch to tell the story. We should expect an ongoing work of the Spirit of God in our lives that bears evidence of knowing God. What does that mean? It means that I believe Christ and I keep believing Christ. That's what it means. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 22 and 23 it says, Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death in order to present you before him, holy and blameless. And beyond reproach, listen to this. If indeed you continue in the faith, firmly established, steadfast, not moved away. There there's there's a belief that's floating out there that says, you know, you can believe it one time and then totally turn away. But as long as you've made your transaction with God at one point in the past. I believed at one point in my history that I should just have confidence that God is going to accept me on the final day. That's not what the Bible says. That's not what the Bible says. If I walk away from the faith tomorrow, I should have no assurance that I was ever saved at all. 1 John 2, verse 19, it says they went out from us, but they were not really of us. For if they had been of us, they would have done what? They would have remained. They would have continued. But you went out to really show who you really are. If you were really with us, you would have remained with us. To expect that we believe Christ and we continue to believe Christ. Ongoing work of the Spirit means that I repent and I keep repenting. It's not that I just repented sometime in the past. Yeah, I turned away from my sins sometime back there. But that's my lifestyle now. I continue to turn from my sins. We don't make excuses for our sins. First John chapter 1, verse 8 and 9. It says, if we say that we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves. The truth isn't in us. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we confess, that's a present tense verb. If we continue to confess our sins, we're constantly coming before God, acknowledging who we are, repenting, turning away. That's a lifestyle. Ongoing work. Like Martin Luther says that when our Lord and Master said repent, he meant that the entire life of the believer should be one of repentance. We're always turning back to God. And as a believer, I obey and I keep obeying. I obey and I keep obeying. It's not a perfect obedience. We already established that. It's not perfect. But it's a real obedience. I really want to follow Christ. You know, believers are the good trees that now produce good fruit, according to verses 15 and 20 of uh chapter 7. And if you don't produce good fruit, The answer isn't that, you know, I just need to try a little harder to squeeze out a fruit. Yeah, that's not the answer. The answer is that you might not be the right kind of tree. If you're not producing good fruit, maybe you're not the right tree. You have to run on both rails, like I said, if you're going to stay on the tracks of assurance. Uh Archibald Alexander, uh Princeton theologian, said in its essence, the evidence which shows a real Christian is eminently simple. Entire trust in Christ for justification and sincere and universal love of holiness. The two rails. Two rails. Trust in Christ, sincere love of holiness of life. I mean that that's it. That's it. And we need both. And the the Puritans used to say for every look at yourself, make sure that you take ten looks at the cross. I examine myself, I look at myself, and then I'm taking ten looks at the cross to remind myself. Because that's that's where it comes from, right? And if you don't have this as a part of your experience, how do you know that Jesus is going to acknowledge you? How do you know? The answer is that you don't. You don't. The second question is like the first, you know, how will you know that Jesus will accept you at the end of uh Matthew chapter 7, and this will be quicker. Because then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. One ancient preacher, Chris Aston, said that uh it's better to be struck by a thousand lightning bolts than to hear these words. Depart from me? Depart from me. Psalm 16, verse 11 said David describes the presence of God. Psalm 16 and 11, he says, In your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand are pleasures forevermore. Heaven is described as the joy of the Master. The joy of the Master. And it's not only the joy that's provided by the Master, but it's the joy that is the Master. Matthew chapter 25, 21 and 23 both say the same thing. Well done, good and faithful slave. Enter into the joy of your master. Enter into joy. Heaven is more than a place. Heaven is a person. In John 14, verse 3 it says, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and what? Receive you to myself. For where I am, there you may be also. Where I am. That's heaven. It's where Jesus is. Where I am, there you may be also. That's why sometimes when the Bible speaks about eternal life, all that needs to be said is that I'm going to be with Christ. Like that's that's all that you need to say. I'm going to be with Christ 2 Corinthians 5. 8, we are of good courage, I say, and prefer rather to be absent from the body and to be at home with the Lord. Doesn't even have to say heaven. It's just I'm at home. My home is with the Lord. Philippians chapter 1 verse 23, but I'm hard pressed from both directions, having the desire to depart and to what? To be with Christ. I mean, that's it. That's what I want to be. That's where I want to be. For that is very much better. Heaven is to be with Christ. It's his joy, his reward, his pleasures. And to be cast away from the presence of Christ is hell. That's what hell is. And people foolishly try to imagine a world with without Christ, without any reference to Christ. You know, John Lennon tried to imagine a world without religion, without heaven, without hell. We even have a foundation today called the Freedom from Religion Foundation. We just want to be free from all religion. You can't imagine this day away. You can't imagine this away. To be cast away from Christ is hell itself. Instead of his light, you experience outer darkness. Instead of his peace, you'll experience his wrath. Instead of his joy, you'll experience his torment. Instead of his blessing, you'll be under his curse. And instead of his reward, you'll bear his punishment Want to flip over in the Matthew chapter 13? Jesus paints this terrifying picture in the parable of the wheat and the tares. He says that the wheat represents the believers, those believers that are gathered into his barn. But the tares are the ones who at one time looked like they were wheat. They grew up right next to the wheat. They could pass for wheat at one time. But there was nothing on the inside. It's nothing on the inside. They had everything on the outside. It was nothing on the inside. Nothing but weeds. Matthew chapter 13, look at uh verses 40 and 40 through 42. He says, so just as the tares are gathered up and burned with fire, so it shall be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks, and those who commit lawlessness, and will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Weeping and gnashing of teeth. The pain is just unbearable. That 's what depart from me means. It means to be cut off from all light, peace, joy, blessing, reward forever. And experience God's darkness, wrath, torment, curse, and punishment. And it doesn't stop. There's no end to this. And what I find so shocking about what Jesus says back in Matthew chapter 7 about these people that are cast away is that he says that everything that you've done is lawlessness. You practice lawlessness. Same phrase used over in Matthew 13 for those that are cast away. Lawlessness. You workers of iniquity. And think about that. I mean, what did these people do? They prophesied. They cast out demons. They performed miracles. What's lawless about that? These are people who called them Lord, Lord. What's lawless about that? And no doubt these people by external experience, they they they seem to live live upright lives. I mean they're not like out here just, you know, living a reckless Life. I mean, is that lawless? Being a law-abiding citizen? Is that lawless? And the answer is yes. The answer is yes. Think about it. Because there's no substitute for simple obedience. No matter what the sacrifice might be. Think about it. Numbers chapter 20, Moses is leading the nation of Israel through the wilderness. Remember that? Leading the nation through the wilderness? Numbers chapter 20, verse 8, God says, Speak to the rock that's before their eyes, that it may yield its water. Thus he shall bring forth water for them out of the rock, and let the congregation and their beasts drink. But what does Moses do? He strikes the rock. God says, speak to it. Moses, I'm going to strike this rock. Strikes the rock. But the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, because you have not believed me. To treat me as holy in the sight of the sons of Israel. Therefore ye shall not bring this assembly into the land which I have given them. Moses is shut out of the promised land, cast off Why? Because he fail to act obedient. Simple obedience. I said, speak to the rock. Simple obedience. All the signs and wonders that he was able to perform did not allow Moses to enter into the land. Cast out. 1 Samuel chapter 15. Saul is leading the nation of Israel, his king. God calls him to punish a disobedient people for their treachery, the Amalekites. 1 Samuel 15, 2-3, thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way while he was coming from Egypt. Now go strike Amalek , utterly destroy all that he has. But what does Saul do? He brings back the king and the best of the of the livestock for himself. Simple obedience. And you know the story. Samuel said, Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of lambs or rams. For rebellion is as the sin of divination and insubordination as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has rejected you from being king. Cast off, cast aside, his line rejected from the throne forever Simple obedience. That's what he was asking for. Simple obedience. And here there's the people that appear before Jesus Christ on the last day. Lord, Lord, look at all that we've done. Cast out demons, we prophesy, we did many wonderful works in your name. They did everything but what God asked them to do. They did everything but what Jesus asked of them. They didn't repent. They didn't believe. They didn't follow Jesus came preaching in Mark chapter 1 verse 15, saying the time is fulfilled, the kingdom is at hand. Repent, believe Believe in the gospel. But instead of repentance and belief, they want to offer these supreme words of devotion. Lord, Lord Instead of simple obedience, they want to offer up supernatural works, spectacular signs. Look at all that we've done, Lord. If you bring with you supreme words and supernatural words, but you don't bring the Savior's words, you'll be shed out of the kingdom forever. Shed out of the kingdom forever. It's lawless. It's not simple obedience. And it's also lawless because until you do the first act of obedience, you can't do any other act of obedience. You're unable to please God until you first believed and repented. You can't do it. That's why Romans 8, verse 7, it says the mind that's set on the flesh is hostile toward God. It does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. You can't. You can't obey God unless you've done the first thing. Until you repent and believe, nothing else matters. Everything else is lawlessness. Everything else is disobedience. And it might take you a while to wrap your mind around this one, but. Until you believe, until you obey the command which is first in line, repent and believe, you can't obey any of the other commands down the line. So it's it's just like this is a poor example, but we'll listen to it anyway. It's like if if I were to give everybody an exam in here. Everybody gets an exam, but the first instructions in bold letters. It says, this exam will only be accepted in red ink. This exam will only be accepted in red ink. And you pull out your Sharpie and it's like, what in the world is he talking about? And you start, you know, going forward, you know, writing your answers down. Say to yourself, you know, my Sharpie 's better than red ink anyway. I like black and blue ink. I like my pencil. You know, why should it matter how I take this test? And you just go on and start to write your answers in, fill your answers in. It doesn't matter what you do from that point on. You fail to do the first thing. This exam will only be accepted in red ink, but you want to come out and pull out your own writing utensil. That's the picture of lawlessness. Until a person is willing to do the first thing, repent and believe, nothing else is accepted Until you come with the red ink of the blood of his son, nothing else is accepted. Nothing else Isaiah 64, 6 says, For all of us have become like one who is unclean. All our righteous deeds are like filthy garments. Nothing I can bring is acceptable. It's all filthy. It wouldn't matter if you did the works of Mother Teresa. If you haven't repented and believed the gospel, none of it counts. None of it counts. And people are so quick to say, you know, of course, this person is safe. Look at their sacrifice. Look at how much they've sacrificed. But if you haven't done the simple obedience, it matters nothing. Just to ignore the gospel. The gospel says that we're all unworthy. Not that some people with supernatural acts and sacrifice are worthy. We're all unworthy. It doesn't matter what you write on the test. You haven't done the first thing. So imagine a circle where everything you do is rejected by God. Everything. That's the circle you exist in before you repent and believe the gospel. That's where you exist. Now imagine another circle where everything you do is accepted by God. You know what that is? That's heaven. That's heaven, where everything I do is acceptable. From uh by God. But then there's this kind of circle in the middle, the transition, and this is where we live as believers. Everything that we do isn't acceptable to God, right? We know that. That's why we still grieve the Holy Spirit, it says in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30. That's why we make it our ambition to please God in 2 Corinthians 5. So we believe we we live as believers in this kind of temporary third circle, a transition between now and future glory. But we're a new tree. And we can produce a good fruit. We can do things that please God, and we can simply obey, because we've been given the ability to obey. So the question is: where are you today? Where are you? Is there evidence of a changed life that's characterized by obedience to the Word of God? And if there is not, you need to know that as harsh as Jesus' words are, this is mercy to you. This is mercy that you'd hear these words. This is mercy from God. Like I said, better to be struck by a thousand lightning bolts than have Christ just turn his head away and say, depart from me. And just one more observation before we close. You might have noticed that Matthew chapter 7, verse 23, in some of your Bibles, it's in part of the verses in all caps. Actually says that it's a quotation from an Old Testament passage. Why don't we flip back to it? Psalm 6. Psalm 6 Psalm 6 is uh considered a psalm of penitence. It's a psalm of distress because of the persecution of the wicked. David here is asking for deliverance from the wicked around him, from wicked people. In verses 1 to 7. We experience the anguish of evil people along with David, and in verses 8 to 10 we receive the answer for evil people, the answer to prayer. But look at uh Psalm 6. This is fascinating to think about. First of all, we have this prayer that's offered. Psalm 6, O Lord! Do not rebuke me in your anger, nor chasten me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am pining away. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are dismayed, and my soul is greatly dismayed. But you, O Lord, how long? Return, O Lord, rescue my soul, save me, because of your loving kindness. For there is no mention of you in death, and Sheol, who will give you thanks? I'm weary with my sighing. Every night I make my bed slim. I dissolve my couch with my tears. My eye is wasted away with grief. It has become old because of all my adversaries. So here 's David. He's just pouring out his heart to God. God, how long is this going to be? How many adversaries am I going to have to face? How many wicked people am I going to have to endure? My soul is dismayed. My couch is just dissolved with my tears, with his weeping over those that attack him. So he offers his prayer, but look at what the answer is. Verse 8, depart from me, all you who do iniquity. For the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping. The Lord has heard my supplication. The Lord receives my prayer. All my enemies will be ashamed and greatly dismayed. They shall turn back. They will be suddenly ashamed. Psalm 6 is the prayer. Matthew chapter 7 is the answer. Psalm 6 is the prediction. Matthew chapter 7 is the fulfillment. David prays, Lord, let the wicked depart from me. Lord, how long? How long? Matthew chapter 7 is God's answer. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. That the answer to David's prayer is the departure of all who don't trust and follow Christ. Where basically it's like they're they're they're being rid of for all of eternity The answer to prayer that you'll be cast away if you haven't repented and trusted in Christ. Our prayer, you know, we pray for for God's name to be hallowed, for his kingdom to come, for his will to be done. Part of the answer to that prayer It's not only that people come to Christ, but that the people who refuse to follow Christ will be cast away. That's part of the answer to that prayer Depart from me, you who work iniquity, you workers of lawlessness, you who refuse to bow the knee, depart from me. You're castaway forever. When Jesus says, depart from me, you workers of iniquity, will that be an answer to prayer to see you go? Will it be an answer to prayer to see you go? Does Jesus know you? Will Jesus accept you? Does he acknowledge you? Ruthana Metzgar, a professional singer, tells a story that illustrates the importance of having our names written in the book. I've heard this a number of years ago. It says several years ago she was asked to sing at a wedding of a very wealthy man. According to the invitation at the reception, the reception would be held on the top of two floors of Seattle's Columbia Tower, the northwest tallest skyscraper. She and her husband Roy were excited about attending. At the reception, waiters and tuxedos offered luscious hors d'oeuvres, exotic beverages. The bride and groom approached a beautiful glass and brass staircase that led to the top floor. Someone ceremoniously cut a satin ribbon draped across the bottom of the stairs. They announced the wedding feast was about to begin. Bride and groom ascended the stairs, followed by their guest. At the top of the stairs, a Matre D with a bound butt greeted the guests outside the doors. May I have your name, please? I'm Ruth Anna Metzger, and this is my husband Roy. He searched the M's, not finding it Would you spell it, please? Ruthana spelled her name slowly after searching the book. The Major D looked up and said, I'm sorry, but your name isn't here. There must be some mistake, Ruth Anna replied. I'm the singer. I sang for this wedding. The gentleman answered, It doesn't matter who you are or what you did. Without your name in the book, you can't attend the banquet He motioned to a waiter and said, Show these people to the service elevator, please. The Metzgers followed the waiter, past beautifully decorated tables laden with shrimp, whole-smoked salmon, magnificent carved ice sculptures adjacent to the banquet area. An orchestra was preparing to perform, the musicians all dressed in dazzling white tuxedos. The waiter led Rathan and Roy to the service elevator, ushered them in, and pushed G for the parking garage. After locating their car and driving several miles in silence, Roy reached over and put his hand on Ruth Anna's arm. Sweetheart, what happened? When the invitation arrived, I was busy, Ruthna replied. I never bothered to RSVP. Besides, that was the singer. Surely I could go to the reception without returning the RSVP Ruth Anna started to weep not only because she had missed the most lavish banquet she'd ever been invited to, but also because she had suddenly had a small taste of what it would someday be like for people as they stand before Christ and find their names are not written. In the Lamb's book of life. At that point, uh, what she probably would would want is an advocate, right? Somebody that comes out and says, I I know her. The question for you is, is will Jesus be able to say, I know you enter into the joy of your Lord. Just take a couple moments um to think about uh what we've heard. First of all, I want you to think about yourself. This is a call for self-examination. All of us need to examine ourselves. This is a call for self-examination. I want you to examine yourself And uh the second thing that I want you to do after you've examined your own heart is to think about those that that you know that that might not know Christ. People who are sitting on the fence, people who who proclaim words about Jesus but but don't follow Jesus in simple obedience We have a mission to reach out to the lost, and this is the perfect example. Jesus gives us the perfect example of how to reach out. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you God, and Father, it's uh it's frightening to think about that there's many That sit under the teaching of your word week to week. There's many that open the Bible, that pray, that give themselves in service to church and activity, only to hear these words at the end. That I don't know you. Depart from me, workers of iniquity, workers of lawlessness. Father, I pray that that's not true for anybody in here. Father, I pray that we all know you. And better yet, that we're known by you. That Jesus Christ has a relationship with us because we've repented of our sins. We're trusting in Christ. And that we continue to follow Jesus in obedience, simple obedience. Father, I pray that that's true of everyone. And if there's anyone that's here that doesn't know Christ, Father, I pray that today would be the day. Thank you for the warnings of Scripture, and we recognize that those warnings are a mercy to us. So Father, I pray that that each one would examine themselves and Father that uh this same process of of examination, Lord, would continue, uh, that it's not just for today. But that we would continue to look back to the scriptures and examine our lives against what the scriptures have to say. And Father, we pray for our friends, for our family. Uh for neighbors, for for many people that we know, uh Father, who claim to know you. So many people claim to know you, God. So many people say Lord, Lord. So many people talk about their church attendance and all that they've done. But Father, how many of those people will be cast away for eternity? Father, I pray that you'd help us to live sober lives and that we would reach out in mercy to To those that claim to follow after your son , that they would examine themselves. Lord, that we would call on them to examine themselves against what the scriptures have to say. Father, I pray that we take this seriously because we know eternity is forever. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.