The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you open up your Bibles with me to the book of Matthew? Book of Matthew, we're back in Matthew chapter 7 this morning. And um This passage is a is a clear call to self-examination. And uh just as uh as as John uh uh even uh so eloquently uh uh spoke about All of us need to go through that same process of self-examination. And my fear is that that's for some of you you might tune me out for the next hour because in your mind you've already got this covered. You've already got the doctrine of assurance nailed down, and you've been through that passage at least, you know, what, 800 times already, you know, Matthew chapter 7. It's all familiar territory. You could probably walk through the text, you know, walk through it frontwards, backwards. But if if you'll you'll listen to what the Lord has to say , This is exactly the kind of person that he has in mind. The kind of person who thinks that that they already have it all down People who don't think that they they need it. And when I prepared uh this message, I had to fight that very same temptation myself, which was to apply the message to others and not apply it. to my own life. So what I'm asking you to do, I've I've already done it myself. It's I'm not asking you to do anything that I haven't done uh for my own self. And uh if you can walk away from a passage Like what we're about to read, if you can walk away from a passage like this without any concern for your own soul, you're the person that needs to be the most concerned about your soul. Remember when uh Jesus made that announcement during the Last Supper that one of one of you, one of my disciples, you know, the one that I've walked with for three years, says, one of you is going to betray me. And in Matthew's account in Matthew chapter 26 and verse 22, it lets us know that each one of the disciples became deeply grieved and began to say to himself, surely not I, Lord? Surely not I. And the only person who didn't grieve on that night, at least at that time, was the one who was betraying them. Judas grieved later on, but by that time his grief was already too late. And my prayer is that you'll grieve now so that you don't have to grieve later. Genuine believers will examine themselves. Genuine believers will examine themselves. They'll check themselves out. As believers, there's nothing more precious to us in all the world than salvation It's the the pearl of great price, it's the treasure worth losing everything in order to gain it, like we find out in uh Matthew chapter 13 As believers, it's commanded that we examine ourselves. As we pointed out last time, there's a consistent call given to believing communities to examine themselves. It's all over the scriptures. It's in Galatians, Corinthians, Ephesians, Hebrews, Peter, and everywhere you look, the writers of Scripture are telling us to examine yourself. One commentator says it's the means that God uses to encourage his children to persevere. It's like the warning that keeps us in check, you know, keeps us moving forward. when we examine ourselves. And as believers we also respond when the shepherd speaks and we hear his voice and It's the shepherd that speaks these words in Matthew chapter 7. So let's take a second look at Matthew chapter 7, starting at verse 21, and we'll read down to 23 again. Matthew chapter 7, 21 down to 23. Such not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name cast out demons and in your name perform many miracles? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we. Come before ye once again, my father, as we approach this uh somber text. My father, a text that's uh that's terrifying, a text that's fearful. A text that that even in my own meditation, Lord, has uh caused me to examine myself. Uh a text that that brings me to tears when I think about the implications of what it means. Now, Father, I pray that you'd use these verses, Lord, in the lives of those who hear. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument, especially today, Lord, to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Martin Lloyd Jones calls these words the most silent words ever uttered in this world. And uh what makes this even more sobering is to realize that this is a prophetic word. about the future. This is a prophetic word about the future. Jesus doesn't say that this might happen, that this could happen. He says this is what will happen. This is what will happen. And the right question that you should be asking is, Lord, is it I? Could it be me? Could it be me? Verse 21, it says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom. Verse 23, many will say on that day. Verse 23, then I will declare. He's speaking prophetically. This is what will happen. Many will say, then I will declare. Jesus is giving us a prophetic preview of a future day. He's describing reality before it happens. You could read this like a script and just kind of watch it play out before you because this is what's going to happen in the future. You're reading about a future event in exact detail. And when the date on the calendar reaches that day, there's nothing that's going to happen that's we're going to be able to do to stop it. And there's reason that Jesus doesn't give us really any kind of description of what that day is. He just says that day, as if you know what that day is. And it's because the phrase that day was a well-known phrase in Old Testament literature. It referred to the day of the Lord, the great and awesome day Sometimes it was just known as the day. It's the the period of time when Christ will judge the world and will judge every man. the period of time when Christ will judge the world and will judge every man. For example, if you look back in Isaiah, which I'm fairly certain has the most occurrences of of this phrase. We find a terrifying description back in Isaiah chapter 13. Isaiah chapter 13 starting at uh verse 6 We read a description about that day. Isaiah chapter 13, starting at verse 6. Wail, for the day of the Lord is near. It will come as destruction from the Almighty. Therefore all hands will fall limp, and every man's heart will melt. They will be terrified, pains, and anguishful. Take hold of them. They will writhe like a woman in labor. They will look at one another in astonishment. Their faces aflame. Behold, the day of the Lord is coming. Cruel! with fury and burning anger to make the land a desolation, and he will exterminate its sinners from it, for the stars of heaven, their constellations will not flash forth their light, the sun will be dark when it rises, the moon will not shed its light Thus I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. I will also put an end to the arrogance of the proud and abase the hauginess of the ruthless. I will make moral men scarcer than pure gold, and mankind than the gold of Ophir. Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken from its place at the fury of the Lord of hosts in the day of his burning anger. Joel chapter 2 and verse 2 says this about that day. It says, there has never been anything like it, nor will there be again after it to the years of many generations. Zephaniah chapter 1 verse 18 says, Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them on that day, on the day of the Lord's wrath. And all the earth will be devoured in the fire of his jealousy, for he will make a complete end, indeed a terrifying one, of all the inhabitants of the earth. Your money will mean nothing. There's nothing that you can do to barter with God on that day. It's described as a period of global wrath and fury and death. And all of that is only the foreshadowing of what is the most frightening experience. That's not even the most frightening. The most frightening experience Is what is to come, which is to stand one-on-one before the Almighty Judge. That is the most frightening thing. To stand one-on-one before the Judge of the Universe Himself. Revelation chapter 6, verses 16 and 17 says, people would rather have the mountains crush them than to have to stand before the ultimate judge. Revelation 6, 16, and 17 it says, and they said to the mountains into the rocks, fall on us, hide us From the presence of him who sits on the throne, from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? It's the same thing that Psalm 1 verse 5 predicted. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. This is a terrifying thing. Terrifying. And the world and every person in it will be judged, and nobody will be able to postpone this date. But this period of time will not be known as a horrific experience for everybody. If you want to turn over to Jeremiah chapter 30, turn ahead to Jeremiah chapter 30. Starting at at verse seven, there's a there's a different story for some. Verse 7, it says, Alas, for that day is great, there is none like it, and it is the time of Jacob's distress, but he will be saved from it. It shall come about on that day, declares the Lord of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off their neck, will tear off their bonds, and strangers will no longer make them their slaves But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. Fear not, O Jacob, my servant, declares the Lord, and do not be dismayed, O Israel. For behold, I will save you from afar and your offspring from the land of their captivity, and Jacob will return, and will be quiet and at ease, and no one will make him afraid. For I am with you, declares the Lord, to save you. For I will completely destroy, destroy completely all the nations where I have scattered you. Only I will not destroy you completely, but I will chasten you justly and will by no means leave you unpunished. Isaiah also adds this in Isaiah 4, verses 2 to 3. It says, In that day, the branch of the Lord will be beautiful and glorious. And the fruit of the earth will be be the pride and the adornment of the survivors of Israel. It will come about that he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy, everyone who is recorded for life in Jerusalem. Zachariah continues to paint a bright picture of peace when it says, And the Lord will be king over all the earth in that day. The Lord will be the only one, and his name the only one. In chapter 3, verse 10 of Zechariah again, it says, In that day declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to sit under his vine and under his victory. It's this picture of peace that he also paints. And the ancient hope of Israel was that they would receive the deliverance and peace and blessing when the day of the Lord came When it came time for the Lord to judge the earth, when it came the time for the Lord to judge every man, that they would have received peace and blessing from the Lord. But how could they be sure? How can you be sure? What could they do to know that they would inherit eternal life instead of the coming fury and wrath and judgment of God? What could they do to know? How could they know that they would inherit eternal life? And those who perceived that Jesus was a prophet and heard words from God and had something, some kind of connection with God, those who perceived that Jesus was connected with God They came to Jesus and asked this question. If you remember a number of times in the scriptures, the rich young ruler, remember that? Came to Jesus in Matthew chapter 19. You know, what should I do to inherit eternal life? The lawyer, a religious leader, acts in Luke chapter 10, what can I do to inherit eternal life? Nicodemus didn't ask. He had it in his mind. Jesus answered the question that he had on his mind And Jesus says to him, you know, truly, truly, I say to you, you need to be born again. You want to know how to inherit eternal life. I know why you're here. And Jesus answers that same question for his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. And like I said last week, some would have said that, you know, basically you're just born into it. Basically, you're just you're just born into it. And they they just kind of checked out. You know, there's no need to examine yourself. You know, we're born of the stock of Israel. Our father is Abraham. We're just kind of born into it. We're okay Jeremiah 30 verse 7 says, it is a time of distress for Jacob, yet he shall be saved out of it. If you're part of the family of Jacob, you know, forget about it. Just forget about it. We're all part of the family. We're okay. We don't have anything to worry about. But Amos warns people who trusted in their birth or where they lived. In Amos chapter 5, verses 18 to 20, alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, they're looking forward to it. Looking forward to the day of the Lord. This is going to be a time of peace. Prosperity, blessing for us. He says, Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, for what purpose will the day of the Lord be to you? It will be darkness and not light. As when a man flees from a lion and a bear meets him, or goes home, leans his hand against the wall, and a snake bites him. Will not the day of the Lord be darkness instead of light, even gloom with no brightness in it? You're looking forward to the day of the Lord? For what? You think this is going to bring peace and prosperity for you? You've got the wrong idea. You're trusting in your birth. You're trusting in where you were born, where you live. It's not going to cut it. Some might have said, well, all we need to do is just call on the name of the Lord. Doesn't need to call on the name of the Lord. I mean doesn't Joel chapter 2 verse 31 say that the sun will be turned into darkness, the moon into blood before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes? And it will come about that whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be delivered, for on Mount Zion and in the Jerusalem there will be those who escape, as the Lord has said, even among the survivors whom the Lord calls. And some might have just checked out, assuming, you know, I I've called on the name of the Lord. Yeah, I say Lord, Lord. I I I say his name. I I recognize who the Messiah is But here in Matthew, Jesus says that people can call on the name of the Lord and even correctly identify the Messiah as the Lord Jesus, but still not enter the kingdom of heaven. There's a kind of calling on the Lord that the Lord doesn't recognize. There's a kind of call that you can make to God that He won't pick up the phone and answer. So what if what else can it be? In Matthew chapter seven it says that it's those who do the will of God So if it's uh the will of God that's necessary, how about how about supernatural works for God? How about just extreme, supernatural, you know, extreme works for for God? And if we were able to to work any of the miraculous gifts That these people could work in Matthew chapter 7, I'm sure we consider ourselves safe from the judgment of God. Look at what Jesus has to say back in Matthew chapter 7. Verses 22 and 23 says, Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy? In your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me. Depart from me. Out of my presence. Prophecy, exorcism, miracles. And Jesus says it's all insufficient. And this is a shocking passage of scripture, isn't it? This is shocking. Verse 21, we're shocked to hear the revelation of the Master that not everybody enters. Verse 22, we're shocked by the claims of the people who are being cast away from the Master's presence, all the things that they're saying they can do. Supernatural works. And then finally we have the shocking confession in verse 23 that I never knew you. I mean, what do we even do with that? Are the works real? What are these people doing? What are they into? Are these real works using Satan's power? Are these real works using God's power? Are these fake works that they just kind of pulled out of the hat like a rabbit and some kind of magic tricks that they did and try to present that before God? I mean what what what are we to do with this? First of all, could these be fake works that they just kind of pull out of their own power? We know that uh plenty of that goes on today in the name of Christ, doesn't it? A lot of a lot of magic shop stuff is going on in the name of Christ. You know, little you know, the the kind of gumb gumball machine kind of games and shenanigans is going on. Sleight of hand. In the in the zany world of uh TBN, people like Benny Hinn, this happens all the time. Justin Peters writes that there has yet to be discovered one single airtight documented case of a healing miracle that had no explanation other than a divine act. Basically he's saying that there hasn't been any real miracle. There hasn't been any documented documented case of a real miracle. In his book, Christianity and Crisis, Hank Hanagraph examined three so-called proofs of the healing ministry of Benny Hinn, and in each case the proof was found to be flawed when put under scrutiny. In in one case where uh he claimed that colon cancer was was healed The medical records reveal that the tumor was surgically removed along with the appendix and eight lymph nodes. It's all on the record. Any claims that, you know, just presto changio, you know, it's gone. You know, be healed. Catch it. These are people who are liars. They're liars and they know they're liars. I mean don't don't don't get get twisted with that. They're liars and they know they're liars. And I don't think this is who Jesus has in mind, and my reason is that the way that they phrase their appeal in Matthew chapter 7 and verse 22, when they say, Lord, Lord, did we not? Did we not? The way that they phrase that expects that Jesus is going to give a positive answer. That's the way that the Greek construction is here. They're expecting Jesus to say, yeah, yeah, you did. And uh nobody's going to be showing up before the throne just bold face lying. They're not making this up, okay? They're not making this up. So these people who are pulling their tricks out of the hats and all that, you know, the little bag of tricks, when when judgment day comes, they they know who they are, okay? So we're not, I don't think we're talking about people who are just kind of making it up, just kind of false, you know, sleight-of-hand stuff. The second option is maybe they're doing these works under the power of God. Maybe they're doing it with God's power. But I'm not convinced of that one either, because the purpose of signs in Scripture was to be a witness to the messenger. A witness to the messenger. Flip over to John chapter 10, real quick. John chapter 10, Jesus points this out about his own miracles when the Jews. question him about whether or not he was the Christ. Look at what he says over in in John chapter 10 starting at verse 24. It says then the Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered them. I told you, and you do not believe the works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me, but you do not believe because you are not of my sheep. He says, the works that I do testify of me. Look at verse 37. He says, if I do not do the works of my father, do not believe me. But if I do them, though you do not believe me, believe the works, so that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I in the Father. He's saying that these works that I'm doing are a testimony from the Father about who I am. Why would the father give testimony to a false prophet? I don't believe that these are people doing it with the power of God. He says the same thing over and John chapter fourteen, verses ten and eleven. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own initiative, but the Father abiding in me does his works. Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father is in me. Otherwise, believe me because of the works themselves. Why? Because the works bear testimony of me. Why again, why would the Father give testimony and bear witness to a false prophet? I don't think that that's the case. In addition to that, the Bible says that Those that uh that live in iniquity, that God closes his ears to their prayers. In John chapter 9, verse 31, it says, We know that God does not hear sinners, but if anyone is God-fearing and does his will, he hears him. Also in Psalm 66, 18, if I regard wickedness in my heart, the Lord will not hear. So the Lord is not responding to the prayers of false prophets. And if they speak truth in their ignorance, it's not because God is responding to their prayers and answering their prayers. You know, like they say, you know, a broken clock is even right twice a day. Which leaves us with, I think, only really one option that I believe is the right one. I believe these are people who are performing supernatural works under the power of the evil one. Jesus says that in Matthew chapter 24, verse 24, for false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. These are false signs. Worked by the power of the evil one. We have all examples, examples of all three of these supernatural works done by the power of the enemy. Prophecy has a counterfeit in the demonic world. It's called fortune telling, which is really nothing more than supernatural guesswork by demons, because they they really don't know the future, but they can predict it pretty well. They can predict it Acts chapter 16, if you remember then, uh Acts chapter 16, if remember there was a uh a slave girl? Acts chapter 16, and in verse 16 it says, It happened that as we were going to the place of prayer, a slave girl having a spirit of divination met us, he's talking about Paul here, who was bringing her masters much profit by fortune-telling. Following after Paul and us, she kept crying out, saying, These men are bondservants of the Most High God, who are proclaiming to you the way of salvation. Here she is, doing what? Telling the truth. These men are bondservants of the most high God. She was saying exactly what was right, 100% accurate. Telling the truth. From a demon. And she continued doing this for many days. I mean, she's just on the bandwagon. Many days. But Paul was greatly annoyed and turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out at that very moment. Why would Paul want to align himself with her practice? You know, here's this slave girl who's speaking by a demon, saying, These are men of the Most High God, and they were. And what is she gonna do? She's gonna go right back to her fortune telling. Now it's gonna seem like Paul is lined up with what she's doing. And people are saying, well, if I can listen to him, I can listen to her because, you know, they speak the truth. She speaks the truth and you know It's all the same thing, isn't it? And Paul says, enough of that. You're not going to be lined up with me. We don't have any association with each other. Come out of her, you foul demon. But when her master saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the authorities. Here we have prophecy by demonic force. Exorcism also has a counterfeit in the demonic world. In Matthew chapter 12, verse 27, Jesus acknowledged that the Pharisees were doing some casting out of demons themselves. Uh which is kind of more like musical chairs. You know, you just kind of switch one demon for another. We'll move you out for a while and sweep the house and then we'll bring in, you know, seven more that are worse. Matthew chapter 12 acknowledges that. But Jesus said in Matthew 23, verse 15: Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte. And when he becomes one, you make him twice the son of foul as yourselves. They weren't doing any good for these people You know, they're make maybe cast out a demon, but they're going to bring in another one. They're going to make you twice as bad off, you know, after they're finished with you as when you started out. Matthew 12, 27, it says, Jesus says, if I by the elderbolt cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? You're gonna call me a a Lord of the Demons, which is what Beelzebub meant. Who do you think you guys are? What do you think you guys are up to? Who's really at work? And you're then you remember in Acts where uh you had those uh seven sons of Skeva? It's hilarious if it wasn't so sad. Acts chapter 19, but some of the Jewish exorcists who went from place to place attempted to name over those who had the evil spirits the name of the Lord Jesus. Here they are even using Jesus' name. Using Jesus' name, attempted to name over those who had evil spirits, the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, I adjure you by Jesus, whom Paul preaches. Why? Why do they say the one whom Paul preaches? Because they know they didn't have any relationship with them. I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches to come out. It says, seven sons of one Skeva, a Jewish chief priest, were doing this. And the evil spirit answered and said to them, I recognize Jesus and I know about Paul, but who are you? Who are you? Hallelujah. And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them. Leaped on him, subdued them all, overpowered them so that they fled out of the house, naked and wounded. Playing around. Playing around with the demonic. And then you have signs of uh a counterfeit nature from the demonic world. Jesus acknowledged that even these would come. And in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 9 it says that the man of sin, talking about a future time, who will appear in the end time will come after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying, lying wonders. But he's going to have power. It's going to be a false power. It's going to be a lying power, but it's going to be power. And he's going to produce signs. And all this is to say that supernatural works, even if they're done in the name of Christ, say absolutely nothing about the condition of your soul. Absolutely nothing. Somebody gets on TBN and you find out that, you know, hey, what they actually said happened. You know what you should say? So what? So what? It says absolutely nothing about the condition of your soul. People don't get fooled by this. Don't get fooled by this stuff. None of these things say anything about whether or not regeneration has taken place in your life. Whether or not you're a new creation, whether or not you've become a tree that now bears good fruit. It says nothing. Where did Jesus ever command any of these things in the Sermon on the Mount? You think about that? Put that together. Where did Jesus ever command that we do any of this stuff? Where in the Beatitudes do you find? Blessed are those who prophesy great things in my name, and they come to pass. Blessed are those who cast out demons in my name and watch the demonic world flee at their presence. Blessed are those who perform dazzling signs and wonders, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Nowhere! You don't find it anywhere. There's not a peep of any of that. Actually, do you remember when the 70 disciples were sent out? They came back rejoicing. Remember that? Rejoicing that the demons are subject to us, Lord. Jesus, this is fantastic. You know, here they are celebrating. You can just imagine it, right? You know, Simon the Demon Slayer. You know, I'm back, Lord. You know, I've been taking care of business. Thaddeus the devil chaser. We're out there. The demons are subject to us, Lord. Look at this. This is great. But in Luke chapter 10, what does Jesus say? Luke chapter 10 verse 20. Listen to this. Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this that the spirits are subject to you, but what? Rejoice that your names are recorded in heaven. Don't don't don't get worked up about you know a devil left a person. A person got exercised. The devil left because I I prayed and I did this and I did that. He says, don't get worked up about that. What you should get worked up about is that your name is written in the book of life. That your name is written in heaven. That's what you should get worked up about. That's what's important. And here's the great temptation that so many of us face is that we would rather prove our loyalty and our connection to God in some kind of spectacular way. That's the temptation that we have. I read my Bible twice all the way through last night I prayed 40 hours yesterday. I faithfully attend church service every Sunday at every church in Baltimore City. I grew enough food to feed the world. And I fed them myself from my own hand with the spoon that I made. I gave my life to be burned and I lit the match But guess what? God didn't require any of that. God didn't require any of that. And I'm not criticizing spectacular sacrifice. I'm not saying that if you make spectacular sacrifice for God, that's not a good thing. But if somehow that becomes your gauge For whether or not you know God and have entered into eternal life, you totally fit the category that Jesus is talking about here. If you think that some spectacular thing you do, oh look what a servant of God I am. I go door knocking every week and you know I give money and look at all the stuff that I do. If somehow you think that's the reason why you're getting in, you fit the category. You're looking for some kind of spectacular work to commend you to God. Listen, there's something that is so spectacular. And so supernatural that no false prophet alive can duplicate. Something so spectacular. Do you know what it is? Repentance, belief, and simple obedience. Repentance, belief, and simple obedience. The false prophet cannot duplicate it. Can't! Can't It's impossible for them to duplicate it. Remember what Jesus said in Matthew 7. 18? A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. A bad tree cannot produce that kind of fruit. A bad tree can't do it. The closest parallel to that tree is found in Matthew 3. 8. Matthew 3. 8 and uh uh Matthew 7 uh both speak about the bad tree being cut down and cast into the fire. And John is pretty clear what the what the the the good fruit is. Matthew 3 verse 8, John the Baptist says, therefore bear fruit in keeping with what? Repentance. He says, this is the stuff that the false prophets can't duplicate. They can't do repentance. They might be able to prophesy. They might be able to call down some fire or do some spectacular work. They might be able to cast out a demon, but they can't repent. Your repentance is a more spectacular work. than calling down fire from heaven. Your repentance. It's more of a sign that God is at work in your life than if you were to cast out a demon. Repentance. It's what the false prophets can't do. They can't repent. They can't believe. They can't follow Christ. It's against their nature. There's no power in any man on earth and no demon in hell to accomplish that. And the Bible lets us know that there's something so corrupt and so decayed, so utterly destroyed that nothing could repair it. And you know what it is? It's you. So corrupt and decayed, nothing could repair it. Flip over to Romans chapter 3. I know you know about this, but let's take a look at it again. Romans chapter 3. See what the Bible says about humanity without Christ. The Bible says that this is what's true in the heart of every man. The seed for all of this is in all humanity. Romans chapter 3, look at verse 10. It says, as it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There's none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There's not even one. Their throat is an open grave With their tongues they keep deceiving, the poison of asses under their lips. Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their path, and the path of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. It's what the Bible says about humanity. The Bible says that we're all what? Dead. Spiritually dead. Colossians 2. 13, it says, you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh. Ephesians 2. 5, when you were dead. And your transgressions. And you were unable to please God. It's going to do it. Unable to please God. Romans chapter 8. 7 and 8 says, Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able, no ability. Not even able, not able to do so. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Can't do it. So do you know what the greatest test of new life is? God says, please me. God says, do my will. God says, follow Christ. God says, let go of your sin. God says, deny yourself. You know why? Because you can't do that on your own. It's the greatest test of new life. If you're able to please God, then what does that say about you? Then I I must be born again. I must have been given new life. Because I can't do that. I can't work that up. The only possible way that you can do that is if you're born again. It's a work of God that's greater than prophecy, exorcism, working, great signs and wonders. Your regeneration is greater than all the charismatic gifts combined. It's amazing to think about it. You could perform all the supernatural wonders in the world and be cast away from God's presence for eternity. But the smallest act of obedience and faith would be enough to outweigh it all, because that's the sign of a true child of God. It says that something's changed about me. False prophet can duplicate it. You have to be made alive to do that. Ephesians 2. 5. And even when we were dead in our transgressions, he made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Colossians 2. 13, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. And when you look at the uh the three examples that I gave you earlier where people came to Jesus and asked about eternal life, in each case, in each case, Christ pointed them back towards repentance. Think about it. The rich young ruler in Matthew 19 came with all this stuff. You know, came with this prestige and everything else. Jesus instructs them, turn away from trusting in your riches and trust in me. Come follow me. You know what is it was the call to deny himself. Repent. Turn away from this stuff and follow me That's going to be the true test. The lawyer, the religious leader asked Jesus about eternal life, Luke 10. Jesus told him the parable of the Good Samaritan, basically to let him know you need to give up confidence and doing it on your own. You think you're gonna match this on your own? You need to give it up. Trust in me. It was a call to deny himself. Nicodemus, he didn't ask, but Jesus answered the question that he had on his mind anyway. Nicodemus was the teacher of Israel, the equivalent of having degrees upon degrees upon degrees. He's the teacher. This isn't a person who's involved in some kind of scandalous lifestyle. His occupation is to study the law of God, but you know what Jesus tells him? You have to be born again, Nick. Just forget it. Forget all that you've done. It's worthless when it comes to eternal life. If you're going to have eternal life, you need to start from scratch. You know what is a call to do? You need to deny yourself. You need to deny yourself and trust in me. And until you repent and trust Christ, you're not even at square one. And what the false prophet can't do is deny himself. That's what he can't do. He can't deny himself. But for the child of God, this is how we live. Now, of course, we don't do it perfectly. That's why we still mourn over our sins, right? That's why we still hunger and thirst for righteousness. That's why uh Martin Luther said that the child of God comes in. repenting and continuing to repent, right? That's that's the lifestyle. We just keep coming back, keep coming back, keep coming back, Lord. Because we know that we can't do it on our own. Lord, I need you. I need help. Denying myself, I'm trusting in you. I'm denying myself, I'm trusting in you. It's just like a constant lifestyle for a believer. But it's our nature. It's our nature to love God, to love what he loves, to hate what he hates. We have fallen out of love with ourselves and we've fallen in love with the Savior. And that's the believer That is the picture of the believer. And my question for you is, does that describe you? Do you please God? Do you do as well? Do you follow after Christ? Do you let go of your sin? Do you deny yourself? Because that's the sign of true belief. That's what the false prophets can't do. And that's what only believers, you, that's only what you can do. And if you can't do that, how do you know that you're really alive? Like I said, it's uh It's easy to kind of push this off to other people and say, uh, you know, this assurance deal is for like the new believers. You know, everybody else needs to examine themselves. This is for every one of us. This is for every one of us to do. How do you know that you've been given the gift of faith and repentance if you can't say no to sin? How do you know? If you can't follow God in obedience, if you can't follow Christ, how do you really know that you've been given new life? That's the one thing that, like I said, a believer can do that an unbeliever can't. How do you know if you can't follow Christ? You know what the answer is? You don't. You don't know. How do you know you'll receive deliverance and peace and blessing when it comes time for the Lord to judge the earth? How do you know you'll receive that instead of the fire and fury of his wrath? You need to be prepared to examine yourself, right? And to use biblical criteria to examine yourself instead of your own criteria. You know, Lord, I did this and I did that. Look at all that I do. I serve the church. Head spinning like crazy all the service that I do. I did this, I did that, I did that. God's not impressed. False prophets can do that. But what they can't do is just follow me. They can't turn away from their sin. They can't trust in Christ. They can't do that. Simple obedience. They can't do that. They can do everything else, but they can't do the simple obedience. But that's what you as a believer, that's what you can do. And if you walk away from a passage like this without any concern for your own soul, then like I said before, you're the one who likely needs to be the most concerned. This is not just a lesson for beginning Christians. This is not just a lesson for new believers. In April of uh 1988, Ivan Lester Maguire, a 35, year old veteran skydiver from Durham, North Carolina, with 800 jumps under his belt, agreed to videotape a private lesson given by an instructor to a single trainee. He attached the video camera to his helmet so that it would uh capture the entire day of instruction and the supporting power supply and recorder were in a heavy slat satchel slung on his back. The group went up in the plane and the instructor led the enthusiastic beginner through preparations for his first jump. Ivan carefully documented the lesson for the record's sake. And when they reached the jump site, Ivan jumped from the back of the plane and filmed the student and instructor jumping from the front of the plane. A few heartbeats later, tape still running. Ivan realized that he had been so focused on filming the jump that he had forgotten to strap on his own parachute. An FAA spokesperson said that the video equipment strapped to his back may have been mistaken for the parachute. And the footage salvaged from the camera and spliced together, the student and instructor are shown in a free fall before they Pull the ripcords and recede rapidly from view. Then the cameraman's hands reach for his own ripcord when Ivan realizes that he has no ripcord, which means that he has no shoot. His hands are seen to flail about wildly, then the camera pans downwards towards the approaching earth, and he fell 10,500 feet to his death. True story. Looking at all the beginners. Hey you guys, you know, make sure you guys got your insurance. Make sure you guys got your backpacks on. Make sure you're all strapped up. Yeah, I've I've done this 800 times before. Got nothing to worry about. I'm a pro at this. Sings slings the satchel on his back thinking he's got a parachute on. Don't think to yourself, I've read this passage 800 times before. What do I need to be worried about? It's all familiar territory. Assurance isn't my problem. That's for the new believers. Every one of us needs to make sure that we're strapped. Because there's nothing more important than your salvation. And as believers, we're commanded to examine ourselves. And these words are the words of our Lord. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for This opportunity we've had to look at these verses one more time, my Father, I pray that you'd use these words in every one of our lives. Father, I pray that none of us would walk away thinking that somehow that we don't have to examine ourselves. We've already got this all covered. We already know that we're saved. Nothing to think about. Without checking our lives for repentance and faith. Submission to Christ, simple obedience, the simple obedience that's asked for. And how easy it is to jump past the simple obedience and try to do the hard things. Let me really sacrifice myself for the Lord. Not knowing that none of that, none of that. demonstrates that we have genuine faith. Father, I pray that you'd uh allow this message to sink deep in our hearts Knowing what a fearful day it will be to have to stand one-on-one with the ultimate judge of the universe, God. Father, I pray that you'd help us to take it seriously. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.