The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. We'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. For those of you who don't know, Nate Graham over here. Nate Graham is the pastor of Berean Community Church. Guys. Milford, Delaware. Milford, Delaware, yeah. Milford, Delaware, and you want to tell them where Milford, Delaware is, for those who don't know Really? Is that like up lower? What is that? That's uh southern Delaware. So Dover's right in the middle and we're about thirty minutes south of Dover. All right. And uh real quick, can you tell them a little bit about the uh um counseling program that you have? So we um are an ACBC counseling center. So it used to be called NANC, now it's ACBC. And uh we're in a probationary period, but we are graduating two certified um Counselors, so that makes us an official counseling center. So if you've ever had a desire to uh become a better counselor, better biblical counselor You don't have to drive far, far away. You can come, you know, a couple, you know, hour and a half or so to Milford, Delaware, and every summer we do uh counseling training. So and how long have you been pastoring there? Twelve years. Twelve years. All right. Fantastic. Well, very glad for uh uh for you to be here tonight and looking forward to hearing more from him uh tomorrow. And uh Tell me about uh a little bit about the the Master Seminary as well at uh Springfield. Uh that's been going on for how many years now? We're in our third year now. Um At our church location we have a master seminary. It's a four-year Masters of Divinity program that trains men to be pastors. We're going to graduate our first class this year in May. Five graduates. We've got 18 students. Gil is one of them. And yeah, it's a full-time master divinity program for pastors. All right. Well I've got a a couple questions and uh you guys can be writing down if you have any questions uh out there and we'll try to collect them like I said and try to answer as much as we can. Thank you, appreciate it. Well I've got a couple questions just to kind of open our time together. And if we have any other questions that are floating around out there, we'll try to get to those as well. But the first question I have is this is what's the difference between the charismatic movement and the word of faith movement? Is it important that we make a distinction? If not, why not? So Any one of you guys can can take that one. Well, in general the charismat the charismatic movement has historically been an attempt to normalize apostolic gifts. So they're all gonna do it. Um different um to a different degree than maybe uh another person, but it's a it's a general seeking to normalize the apostolic gifts. Whereas the word of faith is a little more specifically, and I'll get into this tomorrow, but um starting with Kenneth Hagan and the spoken word and speaking things with authority that comes with comes from a a new age kind of thinking, but has increased in its heretical nature in that it's not just speaking things with authority. It's that God's actually surrendered his authority and you're God's only hope for his his kingdom work here on earth. So it's kind of evolved. Um I would think it's a it's a good distinction to make um because the word of faith movement is uh far more dangerous and far more uh heretical than um general misunderstandings that characterize typical charismatic churches. Anything you want to add to that? Great answer. So um I'll and I'll I'll ask this other question as well. Like would you look at charismatic movement as maybe a slippery slope or would you s you know not use that kind of language because I'm not aware of any church that is word of faith, you know, uh part of the word of faith movement that isn't also part of the charismatic movement, you know, also believing in the the continuation of the spiritual gifts. So Is there a relationship between the two, or should we just make a clean break? Well, this is one and this is another I think the relationship is in open revelation and prophecy. So once you believe that God still continues to give revelation , So you have a different understanding. So many charismatics who believe that, you know, there's only 66 books in the canonical scriptures, they'll put prophecy uh New Covenant, New Testament prophecy, kind of on a lower level, but it's still prophecy and it's still extra-biblical revelation. And historically, if you look throughout church history, whether it's the Montanists or whether it's the Jansen's or what um Whether it's uh the Commissars, whether it's the Anabaptists, whether it's the Holiness Wesleyan movement, historically when you leave the door wide open to extra-biblical revelation, It is just a small step from there to some very uh dangerous um heretical understanding. So it doesn't automatically lead to heresy, but if you're looking for a slippery slope, it it definitely h history has proven that it definitely does. Right. Another question, is the uh the doctrine of sola scriptura, you know, the belief in the the authority of of scripture, you know, scripture is the final authority, is the doctrine of uh sola scriptura compromised? by the charismatic movement. So can you hold the sola scriptorum on one side and and in the other hand I also hold to the continuation of the the gifts with the with the other. So How long you got now? Um I think a good passage to turn to is Jude chapter one and verse three. which refers to the faith as once and for all handed to the saints. And the once and for all is used by Peter. Forget us that if that's uh 1 or 2 Peter where it refers to Christ being crucified once and for all. So we would oppose the Mass because the Mass is a re-crucifixion of Christ. And so we should, on the same grounds, oppose extra biblical revelation because Jude says the faith has been given to us once and for all, the same terminology that terminology that's used is Jesus' once and for all crucifixion. So the Bible talks about the finality of the of giving revelation and giving this body of knowledge. So whether or not a person wants to admit it, if they believe in extra biblical revelation, they don't believe in the finality of that knowledge. So it automatically, I think, competes with um the sufficiency of scripture or sola scriptura. So so do you believe that a uh a person who says, I believe in the continuation of the the gifts and ongoing revelation But I also believe in Sola Scriptura do you think they're contradicting themselves un unwittingly, just kind of speaking out of both sides of their mouth, but you know, not really understanding that one implies something about the other. Yeah, I don't think they can be consistent. They have to redefine New Testament prophecy versus Old Testament prophecy, which is how they they try to get out of that problem. But if they're going to be biblically consistent and say prophecy is prophecy, you know, scripture is scripture, revelation is revelation, then you can't maintain solo scriptura and extra biblical prophecy at the same time. George, what do you say to someone who tells you I believe in prophecy, but I just don't think it's inerrant or infallible like it's you know, I think the ravens are You know, my prophecy is the Ravens are probably gonna win this year. Uh-huh. What do you what do you say to somebody who says something like that? I I I tell 'em that they don't understand what prophecy is. So I I think that'd be inconsistent with their definition of of prophecy if they were to say that um I b I believe infallible prophecy. I I try to take them back to scripture and say, well, well how does scripture define prophecy? Because they're using that word in a way that the scripture wouldn't recognize. So um I I definitely believe that a lot of people who who speak about prophecy uh today um aren't using biblical definitions just like people who speak about tongues today is, you know You spoke about they're not using biblical definitions of you know what that word meant, you know, languages. Um so when even when they talk about revelation, you know, a lot of times what they're talking about isn't biblical you know, uh a biblical use of the word for revelation. It's you know, some kind of impression, this is my feeling, um, rather than an actual word from God that's infallible. So yeah So how about uh and and I'm asking the question so it's not I wanted to wait in a little bit see what I can wait with. No, that's that's good, that's good. Uh another question. If the miraculous gifts of the spirit are no longer in operation, how should people interpret their experiences or the experiences that others have? So Oftentimes what'll what'll happen when you get into a conversation about spiritual gifts and you might even might even show four points of why I believe in cessationism, right? And uh you try to explain biblically, this is why I don't believe in the spiritual gifts, you know, kind of case close, look at my verses. And they'll say, well, that's that's what the Bible says, but This was my experience. This is what happened to me. Yeah, I was at church. Uh I never spoken this language before and this is this is the language that I started speaking in. Um I I somebody told me that something would happen and and it actually came to pass. Uh you know, so I believe in, you know, the ongoing uh you know uh gifts of of prophecy or Um, you know, I came in, my back was aching, uh somebody prayed over me, and and I walked out of there, you know, standing upright and and feeling great, um, you know, without without any kind of medication. So I had this experience. You know, you can't you can't argue with my experience. So I mean I tell someone like that there's a whole different list of questions to go through. And the first would be Let's assume everything that you have experienced, or oftentimes in my scenario, it's usually my friend, you know. And then when you dig down a little bit more, it's actually my friend's friend read online that, you know. But let's assume the story is exactly true as delivered. I think the category of providence is big enough to cover most of that And so you have um a dream or an impression or whatever and that happens. I'm totally comfortable saying that in God's providence He uh you know gave your experiences that day that gave you that impression or gave your experiences that week that formed that that kind of vision in your mind. But that's that's in that's in the world of providence. It doesn't require a supernatural or a spiritual gift. And can you give a a brief definition of providence? Yeah, the way that God uh maintains sovereign and meticulous control over the details of the universe and his creation. And so even so much of what we think of as dreams and impressions come from experiences. You know, they're they're external to us. And God directs things that that way. You know, I went to Panera Bread today. I could choose between Panera Bread and Starbucks, but I don't go to Panera Bread anymore. There's one by my house, so I kind of kinda old of it but I haven't been in a while so I went to it today. Like all those details that led to me going to Panera Bread, that's that's under Providence There were different experiences I've had there and different, you know, when I ate today and when I didn't. It's all providential that lead me to have a conversation with somebody at Panera Bread and then to think about that later. That's providential. You work that way internally too Um and so assuming that the whole story is true, providence covers way more than we often give it credit for. We have a low view of providence because people don't believe in the sovereignty of God over all things, so they think if God is sovereign sovereignty is seen in X and then Y then that has to be one of the supernatural gifts because they don't generally see a connection between X and Y. But God has meticulous sovereignty over everything, every X and every Y. They're all connected in his mind, even when we don't see it. And the second thing I would say is if you don't think Providence covers it, Then ask yourself, uh could it be a miracle? Could it be, you know, I went to the guy and he prayed and God healed my back. Well that's answered prayer. Praise God. That's not the gift of healing. And then thirdly, if you get down to your experience, if it's not providence and it's not a miracle, your experience is not a valid guide for truth. I've had lots of experiences that I misremember or that uh I don't get right and I definitely don't interpret right. I mean I'm the worst person to ask about myself. I don't interpret anything right about me. um for sure, and uh much less about about others. The heart is deceitful above everything. Um and so I'm not a good guide to my own experiences. I don't trust myself and I definitely don't trust your experiences. That that hypothetical person experiences. So uh anything you'd like to add to that? No, that was great. That was very insightful. Alright. So, and you you kinda answered this a little bit, but um the role that the uh the Holy Spirit has in the church today. Um, you know, uh often the the criticism that that people have for for churches like ours is, you know, you guys don't believe in the Holy Spirit. You know, you even mentioned that a little bit. Um you know, the the kind of uh the spirit filled Baptist church or whatever. You know, you don't want to be the guy that says, Well, we're not spirit filled, but then you don't necessarily want to advertise that you are the spirit filled because people have all kinds of interpretations on what it means to be uh spirit filled so um uh I guess I just asked like what what what what would you say is the uh the evidence or what should people be looking for as the evidence of the of the spirit filling a person's life or the spirit being active in a church, what should we be be looking for? Well, a big hint would be, what is the proper title of the Spirit? Holy Spirit So it's not just a description of the Spirit. It's actually the name of the Spirit is Holy Spirit. So I think his dominant quality in the church, his dominant evidence is sanctification, is holiness. And I think if we were to tabulate the effects of the Holy Spirit upon the church and how much room the Scripture devotes to it, we would find Most of the territory in Scripture is devoted to the holiness that the Holy Spirit brings to the individual in sanctification. So if you want to know if a church is spirit-filled, get to know them and see if it's marked by men and women, young people who walk with personal holiness, because that's his primary job is to make us walk in holiness. Galatians chapter 5 But that's you know that's the daily drudgery of sanctification. That's not um you know those aren't dreams and visions and you know unusual and exciting things. Those are the things that that people by nature gravitate to. But what God wants in us, I think the crowning jewel of the Christian is holiness. Amen. Amen. Um, yeah, and I'll also add uh you know the Ephesians five, you know, uh talks about the uh what it means to be filled with the Spirit, you know, also uh Galatians, you know, five as well, you know, speaks about that. Um, you know, just some of the evidences that we should see in a in a life that's, you know fully devoted to to the Lord as well. You know, talks about the the deeds of the flesh are evident, you know, and which are these and you know goes on to list those and then talks about the uh uh the the spirit filled you know life and what that looks like. So um but that's fantastic. Love that. Another question. One of the objections that that people also often give is uh you know the the the Bible says that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. You know, how can you say that you know these gifts of cease? Shouldn't we expect you know uh there to be a consistency until Christ comes back, you know, he did it before, he can do it again. Um, you know, this is how he's uh you know worked in the past. Why wouldn't we expect him to to work that way in the in the present? Um so you know people you know would would kind of take that first and say, well, you know if Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever We should expect the things that we see in the Bible to also be present in our lives today. One question was Why does the Bible talk so much about spiritual gifts that cessationists say have ceased if they're not applicable to the readers of the completed Bible? So You look at at scripture and you know there's rules for how people are to speak in tongues and um how to interpret tongues and you know how those gifts should be used. So why are those things present? if that's not what we should be expecting to you know discern or to live by or you know expecting to see you know kind of displayed before us in our churches today. So I'll give that one back to you. uh Jesus is same yesterday to forever because that closes out the book that begins with the God in previous times spoke in these ways. And so the word dispensation is a great word for this. You know, the God is outside of time. Um God is not a creature bound by time. He's not a creature in any respect. He makes creatures. He's not a creature. He's not in in time. He You know, he orchestrates time. So that's what it means that Jesus is the same yesterday and today and forever. Nevertheless, there is change in time, including with Jesus, who takes on a second nature in his incarnation. He adds to himself humanity. And so for to say that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever means that the Spirit operates in the same way. It doesn't even I mean it messes up theology proper because it places God in time. It messes up Christology because it denies the second nature of Jesus. And it messes up pneumatology because it's attributing Jesus' nature to the gifts of the Spirit So that that kind of logic just is an attack on the entire Trinitarian concept of God, I think. Better to say that all three members of the Trinity are apart from time but interact with creation. And in creation there are changes. You weren't saved. Now you are saved. The Holy Spirit seals you. That's not denying that God is the same. Yesterday and say and forever. That's how I would deal with the first one. Right. Uh 'cause it's I mean yes. So his nature is unchanging, but the way he interacts with people, he can choose to interact differently during different Right. His nature, the nature of the second person eternity is unchanging and eternal, and yet there's a second nature added to it at the incarnation. And he will keep that second nature forever. Um if you want to be even strict about it , I mean what's yesterday when Paul's saying that? What what is he talking about? Um I think he's talking about eternity past, eternity future, about the eternality of Jesus Christ. But to tie that into the gifts of the Holy Spirit that were previously distributed according to his will, beginning at Pentecost doesn't make any sense of the question. That's not what he's talking about there. And it's it's actually, you know, uh an objection that I've I've heard frequently. You know, people use the you know the verse in Hebrews to To say that, you know, Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever. So why shouldn't we expect, you know, the things that we've seen in the the Bible to be happening today? He raised the dead before. Why why isn't he raising the dead now? The other way I would say it is that he is going to in the future. So those gifts, you know, jumping at, I'm sure this is another question, but Acts 2, in the last days these will happen, that verse is picked up uh in Revelation. I mean we're talking about the dreams and visions that you'll see again in Revelation 11 and 12. I mean that is still going to happen in the future. So it's not saying God can't do this. It's saying those gifts affirm the apostles and their identity for a brief period of time. And but Jesus is unchanging. I mean in a sense it's like 1 Corinthians 13 style, that those gifts are there. Maturity, we've grown and now they're gone, but God has been the same throughout it all. He doesn't mature with us Right. And uh since you brought it up, I'll go ahead and uh and read the the passage there in in Acts uh that you referred to that's you know also mentioned in Joel. But in uh Acts chapter two Acts chapter 2, uh, and this is another question that was uh posed was Acts chapter 2 uh starting at verse 16. Well, I'll start at verse 15. Uh for these men are not drunk as you suppose, so this is on the day of Pentecost after um uh you know the the the believers there, the hundred and twenty that are gathered, you know, they're filled with the Spirit, speaking in other tongues. It says here, for these men are not drunk as you suppose, for is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken of through the prophet Joel. And it shall be in the last days, God says, that I will pour forth of my spirit on all mankind, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see see visions. And your old men shall dream dreams. Even on my bonds, both men and women, I will in those days pour forth of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. And it goes on to talk about wonders in the sky and so forth. But somebody would might take a look at this passage and say, you know, well, uh this is an evidence of the Spirit, uh, that the pouring out of the Spirit uh was uh evidenced by uh prophecy, by visions, by dreams. Um if I have the the Holy Spirit, if uh the church still has the Holy Spirit, why shouldn't these things still be present in the life of uh of the church? So how would you how would you answer that question? If this is this is an evidence of the Spirit here, the pouring forth of the Spirit, that this is what follows, the pouring out of the Spirit, why shouldn't we expect to still see these things today? Well, this is um this is one of those very challenging passages, so it's hard to to summarize it, but if you just look at Acts chapter 2 and verse 20. the sun will be turned into darkness, the moon into blood. There's going to be great signs and wonders in the sky. And you're obviously asking the question Well, where are those things? Those things didn't happen on Pentecost. And when you go back to the original context of Joel chapter 2, the this There's no other way to see it in Joel chapter 2. It's ultimately talking about the second coming of Christ and the establishment of the millennial kingdom. So I believe what's going on here is a foretaste of the establishment of the millennial kingdom, a foretaste of the coming of Christ. Which is appropriate because it's the dawn of the new covenant. And many of the Jews have thought the new covenant isn't going to begin until the earthly reign of the Messiah. But here's the surprise that the new covenant is dawning right now. This is the mystery of the church age. And so there were there was uh a sampling On Pentecost, birth of the church, there was a sampling of the signs and wonders that will explode and be in full blossom. in the inauguration of the millennial kingdom. That's why when you look down at down through this text, you only see some of the signs and wonders taking place in Pentecost. And especially if you go back and read Joel chapter 2, you realize the majority of the things Joel prophesied, there's no mention of that in Acts chapter 2 And so a logical understanding would be, well, this is this is a foretaste. And Jesus did that a lot in his earthly ministry. He was giving them a taste, a foretaste of his earthly millennial kingdom and the and the nature of his ministry, the nature of his healing, various things he would say. So it's supposed to remind people of the the glorious uh messianic kingdom to come, but this is not meant to be the kingdom of God has come. This is meant to be a foretaste of it with a sampling of the signs and wonders that will take place. So if they take that And they want to just normalize all those signs and wonders, then we have to ask, where's the blood, fire, columns, smoke, and all the other things that go along with the prophecy? Good. Uh two more questions and then uh uh we'll go ahead and close our time for tonight. But uh one question is um What is the the practical benefit of believing in cessationism? So, you know, there's one church that, you know, we we're still open to the gifts, we still believe in the continuation of the gifts. You know, we love Jesus, you know, we love Scripture, you know, we're we're living our Christian lives. You guys, you know, don't believe you know in the continuation of the gifts. You know, what's what's the big deal? You know, we're we're we're both We 're brothers in Jesus, you know, uh should it should it really you know make a difference? You know, how how would it make a difference in my life if I were to believe like like you believe? How would you answer it Well, uh language of Hebrews too. If you are in the experiential world, you're looking for you're relying on those experiences to feed your faith. You're always going to need more experiences. And there's the law of diminishing returns where I mean it that leads to a crashing and burning of your faith. If your faith is fueled by the experiences, then those experiences run out. They no longer thrill like they used to. They no longer give you the confidence. There's no confidence. in experiences. There just there just isn't. There is confidence in the Word of God and in the unchanging nature of Christ. And so again, Hebrews 2 begins with don't let your Don't drift, drop your anchor into Christ, drop your anchor into the Word of God because He is the same, chapter 13, yesterday, today, and forever. So be anchored there, not in your own experiences. So that opens you up to a life of maturity where you're digging into the word more than into your experiences. That's how I see the main the main benefit of this. I think one of the things that makes me passionate and burdened about this topic is, and I'm sure you guys could agree, but is uh my private counseling ministry as a pastor where um you know we'll have people from the community that will come in for counseling and I remember counseling this couple who literally went totally financially bankrupt because they were husband and wife, they were pastor leaders at a church, and the leaders above them told you have to lead by example by how much money you give. And so they gave so much they didn't even have any left over for groceries, but they were giving all in faith, and they ended up losing their house. And they still m maintained and held to that theology that destroyed them. And they still linked it back to um their lack of faith or or something like that. And that might be more of an extreme example, but um Counseling people over the years who very much rely on receiving a word from God have been some of the most difficult people for me to counsel pastorally. Because you can't talk anyone out of what they think they've heard. And there always seems to be a way to reconcile it with their strange interpretation of Scripture. And so they become the most difficult people to counsel, and they also become the people who are marked by the most turbulent life. Because they're just living from one experience to the next, the one spiritual high to the next, and and to get them to just settle in the faithful study and grounding themselves in the scripture. is just is just too much discipline involved in that. You know, they're they're looking for that next experience. So pastorally I I guess I I see um I see the confusion and I see the heartache always groping after, but never really finding that ultimate ecstasy they're they're promised in Christ. And so when I think of the practical effects of cessationism and believing in the most biblically consistent fashion, the close of the canon and being content with the revealed word of God I think of stability and I think of clarity and I, you know, in my experience I see it practically. Why did why did you choose this topic? Um well for for a variety of reasons. Uh I know definitely here in the the city of Baltimore. Um A lot of the churches that are right around us are definitely given over to the charismatic movement, particularly Word of Faith theology. Uh even here, you know, we're at a conservative uh seminary where we meet and uh I had somebody come to me in a in a group class and uh ask if uh if I'd be willing to promote uh Maryland Hickey coming into town, you know, word of faith teacher. And I'm sitting here like, what what in the world? You know, so so here we are at a conservative seminary that that holds to the Westminster Confession of Faith, and uh we've got people in here that are, you know, giving over to word of faith teaching. uh which is just totally inconsistent with you know the things that they're they're teaching here. So uh definitely had a had a burden. Uh many of the the folks from our church I know come out of that kind of background, have family that are still uh involved in that movement and um Definitely see the dangers. And I I guess I'd add um to to what you already said that um uh there's there there really a lot of people are are looking at the uh like a wrong path towards sanctification. You know, so uh you know, John seventeen, seventeen, you know, sanctify them through thy truth, your word is truth. Um a lot of people in the that are caught up in that movement they're looking for other means of of sanctification, you know, other means of growth in their life, other sources of authority. So there's just a a lot of uh destruction that's uh associated with that. I actually came out of the the charismatic movement myself. Both my wife and I were part of a of a church, Church of God of Prophecy. So you can kind of tell what a lot of what was going on by the name itself, Church of God of Prophecy. And uh I remember uh being involved and you know being excited and you know, we'd run around the church and people would, you know, be slain in the spirit and speaking in tongues and giving prophetic words and and I remember after coming coming home, you know, one night from this like kind of like high service where everything is, you know, oh, wasn't the Lord here? Didn't the Spirit move? And I remember coming home and uh just talking to Jennifer and I was like Is this it? Like is is this is this like the like what we're supposed to be looking for in Christianity? Like like have we reached the top? Like this is Just all that there is. Like you just go to the next service and the next service and you hope that the next service is better than the last service and is the spirit going to move today like he did last week kind of thing. It's like is is this really what we're supposed to be doing? Is this it And uh I'd actually look at the a lot of the lives of the people who were uh kind of the most active and uh you know the most enthusiastic and during the week it's like you didn't see anything uh that would characterize them as being filled with the spirit. You know, the way that they spoke, the things that they watched, the things that they were participating in, um the gossip and the backbiting and everything else, but then they'd be the first ones that are running around the church and being slain and It's like there should be some connection between what's happening on Sunday and what we're experiencing throughout the rest of the week. And I I just remember myself just feeling Like deflated, like you know, like kind of like having this uh this stick kinda held out, you know, the carrot on the end of the stick, but you can never get to the carrot. You know, so it's almost like, well, you know, if you just do a little bit more and if you can just praise a little harder and if you can pray a little bit more like, you know Life will change, but you know, you didn't see any evidence of uh of change. You know, I didn't see the evidence in my life and didn't see it at uh evidence in the in the lives of those that were around me. So Yeah, those are some of the reasons. One last question and then uh uh we'll let you go. We'll go ahead and close in prayer. I'll ask uh Nate if he closes in prayer after this one, but um Where do you see the charismatic movement uh this is one question that was posed to us? Where do you see the charismatic movement in the next twenty years? Like Fast forward twenty years from now, I know you're not not prophets. We've already kind of settled that already. Uh I'm not asking for a prophecy, but if you can kind of like look ahead and um just imagine like if things continue to go the way that they're going now in the church, in the charismatic movement in particular, and as you already mentioned that, you know, you look in any major metropolitan city and you know probably the the top two or three churches are going to be you know, your your charismatic word of faith churches. If things continue to go the way that they're going now, where do you see the charismatic movement? Um, where do you think it's heading? Any any uh ideas or thoughts about any of that? I think I think uhless you close afterwards, I think that in the United States you're gonna see a shift in the demographics of that because I think with um A skepticism toward religion and the sheer fraudulent nature of what goes on in those in some of those churches, you're going to see a decline in those churches. Um at least in kind of the middle class America, you're gonna see a decline. But those churches are you look at, you know, in Africa and in Asia and South America, those churches are growing hugely. And in twenty years they're gonna keep I mean it's gonna you're gonna see an increase in them. When people are leaving the Catholic Church over the scandals now, they're going to these kind of churches. Um and there's there's that abuse in those kind of churches as well. And so it's kind of a sad, sad story. And as immigration increases, you're gonna see those churches replenish their ranks in our states with with um those coming from other countries where that's normal, where it's it's mainstream. I mean e even in Ghana I was in Ghana recently. They view this still as an American phenomenon, this thing emulated there. So they're in their first generation of it there. You know, the last generation in Ghana it was all of the um Americans and Benny Hand Canadians going over and doing the thing. And now it's their own preachers that are doing it, walking in the American way. So they still have I mean, you look at that, it's another forty, fifty years before that same cycle you see in the States goes through and in Africa and it and it and it runs out its course there. So that I mean that's sad, but I think that's gonna it's gonna grow around the world and decrease in kind of middle class America is what I think. Any thoughts on that, Nate? Well if I answer your question theologically, where will they go theologically? I have to say I have no idea because So many of the things that of late within the last um fifteen, twenty years that have come from, there's been such, and I'm talking about more of the extreme movement, but such blatant blasphemy, you know, even ascribing Jesus with sin and saying that Jesus needs to be Born again and saying that Jesus ceased to be God for a time while he descended into hell. I mean sort of the The places that nobody, you know, you can have bad theology, just don't go there unless you're a Mormon or Jehovah's Witness or unless you're a heretical cult. They're going there. So You know, as you're asking that question, I'm thinking, you know, how much worse theologically could it get? And I'm and I don't know, because they've already seemed to push the envelope so much there, um, it's hard to know. How it could get worse. Well, would you mind closing us in prayer? Heavenly Father, I thank you, Lord, for um Bringing out your people tonight. I pray for the conference tomorrow, Lord, as we drill down a little deeper in some of the history of these things, and particularly the Word Faith movement. the uh false idea of that it's always your will to heal. Lord, I pray that you would protect us from just amassing ammunition to fire back uh at other people that you would prote uh uh protect us from um pride and a judgmental spirit and taking any uh sordid pleasure in it. I pray, Lord, that the things that we learn we'd be able to turn around and then warn those sheep, Lord, who are on a precipice and headed for danger, Lord, that we would have the tools to be able to come alongside them and help them. I pray for those who are questioning God, that their faith would be strengthened not in the words of man, but in the word of God. Lord, bring us back tomorrow. Strengthen us, make us alert, and uh thank you, uh, Lord, once again and always. for the gift and ministry of your Holy Spirit, who saves us and who sanctifies us and seals us until the day that our redemption is complete in you. In Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.