The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well uh uh what I want to do today is uh uh we approach the uh the Christmas uh season is uh uh to take a another break, and I know that saddens some of you, but uh we're gonna take another break from uh the book of of Romans. We will get back to that in the new year. But I want to take some time just to prepare our hearts as we think about Who is this one that we celebrate during this time of year? Not only during this time of year. I mean it should be somebody that we celebrate every day of every year. Amen? We celebrate the coming of Jesus Christ. And what I want to do is turn your attention to the Psalms. In the book of Psalms, we find many references to the Messiah. And uh often when we think about those particular Psalms that have reference to the Messiah, we might automatically uh think about Psalm 2. Uh Ask of me and I will surely give you the nations as your inheritance in Psalm two. We might think about Psalm 22, where we have those familiar words, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? A psalm that uh speaks directly about the crucifixion of our Lord. Or we might think about Psalm 16, where David says, You will not abandon my soul to Sheol, nor will you allow your holy one to undergo decay. And then Peter picks up on that same language in Acts chapter 2 and says David wasn't talking about himself. Because he's dead and buried, his tomb is with us until this day. He was actually looking forward to Jesus Christ. The one who was not abandoned, the one who did not decay. Or you might think about Psalm 110, where it says in verse 1, The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. But this afternoon, what I want to do is turn your attention to an important but often overlooked psalm. When we think about the Messiah and his future coming and reign on the earth. Psalm 45 is often neglected. We often don't think about Psalm 45 as included among those Psalms that we immediately think about when we think about the Lord, but it really is. Psalm 45 is classified as a royal psalm. It's a royal psalm because it gives attention to the rule of the king. But this psalm speaks about more than the reign of an earthly king. In fact, this Psalm is one of the many Psalms quoted in Hebrews chapter 1 and applied to the Son of God, which makes Psalm 45 not just a royal psalm, but a messianic psalm. And properly understood, this psalm has important theological implications for our understanding of Scripture, of God, of Christ, of salvation, of the reign of the Messiah, and also the use of the Old Testament and the New Testament. It's far-reaching, it's vast in its scope, and it's an appropriate text to consider today as we approach another Christmas season Psalm 45, if you're there, is introduced by a superscript that gives historical details about its setting, its type, its authorship, its purpose, its theme. And if you read the short introduction to this Psalm and just above the verse 1 in most of your Bibles, you'll find it there. Right above verse 1 it will say, for the choir director, according to the Shoshanim, a maskil of the sons of Korah, a song of love. And that those words there are actually included in the original manuscripts. This is part of your Bible. You might just kind of look over it as like an editor's comment, but no, this was meant to be here by God. This was inspired scripture by God for us to know the setting of the Psalm. So it starts out by saying it's for the choir master. The psalm is designated for the choir master, the the music director of ancient Israel, the superintendent, if you will. Which suggests here that there were psalms that were collected for special occasions and uh and used by uh a group of people that were singing it. You know, so so having a concert where we're having choirs is actually biblical. You know, there are groups of people that were singing songs of praise to the to the Lord, and a choir director was leading them in that effort to sing praises to the Lord It's also said to be according to the Shoshinim. In some of your translations, it might say according to Lilies, which is a possible translation or set to Lilies. which might have been the melody that accompanied the psalm. The music that the psalm was sung to is known as the courting to lilies or the Shoshanim The psalm is also categorized as a mascell. A mascell is a teaching psalm. The word masculine is a participle of a verb that means to make wise, to make prudent. To have success or skill, to teach to have success or skill. And uh this time is a mask goal of the sons of Korah And the majority of Psalms in this particular section of the Psalter were written by David, but at the end of Psalm 72, we actually find that the prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended, so it lets us know that the majority of those Psalms from 1 to 72 were written by David. But Psalms 42 to 49 are all ascribed to the sons of Korah. Uh one part of the Korahite family became temple doorkeepers and guardians. Another part became singers and musicians of the temple choir. These were Levites that had a particular role within uh ancient Israel and it was to to lead in worship, the worship of God, and particularly hear the music of the choir that was to give praise to God. And the title of the psalm is also unique. It's called A Song of Love, according to the superscript And the noun love is actually in the plural. It's used to express the intensity of love that's often found in marriage. And because of this Superscript, this psalm was often used in even the contents, this psalm was often used as a wedding psalm. It was a psalm that was recited during weddings in ancient Israel Solomon B. Friedhof, a Jewish interpreter, represents a majority of Jewish interpreters when he writes. Psalm 45 is a marriage psalm written in honor of the nuptials of the king and his royal bride. The first half of the psalm describes the ideal king, whose throne is founded upon truth and meekness and righteousness. And the second half of the psalm turns to the royal bride, bidding her to forget her parents, promising her children who shall become princes in the land. And there were many ancient and even contemporary suggestions for who that king could be. Some suggested that this king was David or Solomon or King Ahab or Jehoram of Judah. One ancient interpreter suggested that this is a reference to the scholars of the Torah. You know, we're talking about the scholars of the Torah, which is convenient because it was it came that suggestion came from a scholar of the Torah, you know. So here he is. Oh, the psalm is about us. You know, it's about those that interpret the the Word of God. But what baffles interpreters is that there is specific language in this psalm that seems to be too lofty to speak about any one of those suggestions. What am I talking about? And I hope you see this as we work through this. But there's something more about this Psalm, particularly when you get to verse 6. Your throne, oh God , is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. There's something more that's going on within the psalm that goes beyond just the ancient kings or whatever you know suggestions they could come up with. So let's take a look at the psalm. Uh we'll start at verse 1 and we'll read down Through verse 9 together, we'll just take a look at the first half of the psalm. We'll deal with the second half later on, but Psalm 45, starting at verse 1. Says my heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. Gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one. In your splendor and your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you, your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy above your fellows. All your garments are fragrant with myrrh and aloes and cassia. Out of the ivory palaces string, instruments have made you glad. King's daughters are among your noble ladies. At your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ofer Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and uh Father, we're grateful for this text, and uh we pray that you would open up uh the understanding of this to us. Father, that you'd help us to uh uh apply the things that we learn and uh that we'd have a correct understanding of who our God is. Uh Father, we're uh just so grateful for uh this word, and I just pray that you would use me as a weak instrument. to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a hymn that you'll find in your hymn books and one that we've sung often here at BBC titled Fairest Lord Jesus Ferris Lord Jesus. It's a hymn that's written by an anonymous German author. It's believed to be inspired in part by Psalm 45 and verse 2, which says, You are fairer than the sons of men. And the lyrics of that hymn, in the first line, it reads, Ferris Lord Jesus, ruler of all nature, O thou of God and man, the Son. Thee will I cherish, thee will I honor, thou my soul's glory, joy, and crown. And the question that we want to explore today is would the author of Psalm 45 be shocked to hear that his words would have been used as a reference to Jesus Christ? Would he be shocked to hear that? And more to the point, would the author of Psalm 45 be more bewildered by another anonymous author, the author of the book of Hebrews? Would he be would he be shocked? And bewildered to know that his book was also quoted in Hebrews chapter 1 as a defense for the superiority and deity of Jesus Christ. Let's flip over to the book of Hebrews really quick. Hebrews chapter 1. And just as a preview, we'll be in Hebrews chapter 1 next week for our message on uh for Christmas Sunday, but Hebrews chapter 1. Take a look at verses 7 to 9 It says, and of the angels, he says, who makes his angels wins and his ministers the flame of fire? But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions. Here we have the author of Hebrews making reference to Psalm 45 saying that this is God speaking to God. To the Son he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Righteous scepter is the scepter of his his kingdom. And the question again is, would the author of Psalm 45 be shocked to find that his words were used? To refer to the deity of Jesus Christ. And again, keep in mind that the author of Hebrews is writing to Jewish people that would have understood the Old Testament context of the Psalms. So they would have been reading the Psalms, and now they hear the author of Hebrews saying, Well, that's a reference to Jesus Christ. Would they be scratching their heads, saying, like, are you kidding me? That's just about marriage. It's just about a a a king, an earthly king, getting married and he has a royal bride, and that's all that that psalm is talking about. Or would they look at that psalm and say, No, there's something more going on in this psalm. There's something more that's going on. These words are actually referring to the one who is considered the fairest of all The fairest Lord Jesus, fairer than the sons of men, and superior to any earthly king. And today's going to be uh a little bit of a classroom, so I'll kind of pull you into uh some of the studies I've been doing for the last couple of weeks. But um Here we have this one who is described as having a throne, and this throne is a throne that lasts forever. Last forever. And I would argue that Psalm 45 has always been intended as a messianic Psalm rather than a reinterpretation by later writers. And the Psalm can be divided into two sections. Verse 10 provides the natural break in the Psalm, verses 1 through 9. Address the king. I address my verses to the king, it says in verse 1. And then uh verses uh 10 to 17, direct attention to the bride. And in verse 10 it says, listen, O daughter, give attention and incline your ear. So now it turns to the to the bride of the king. And we'll focus our attention on the first section of this psalm, the address to the king. And there's four points that are underneath this. Number one, the glorification of the king, verses one and two. Point number two, the victory of the king in verses three to five. Point number three, the exaltation of the king in verses six to seven. And then number four, the gladness of the king in verses eight to nine. So let's begin with the glorification of the king. Look at verse 1 again. Says, my heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of men, grace is poured upon your lips, therefore God has blessed you forever Again, this psalm has been identified as a royal psalm, a love song, a wedding psalm, but we could also say that this is a psalm of praise, right? It's a praise psalm. Because of the expression of the heart of the author, the son of Korah says, my heart just is overflowing as I'm about to write. Like I'm just about to burst at the seams here. And the the Hebrew word that's used for heart is often used for more than just the emotions of the individual, but it's a term that identifies the control center of your life. You know, you think in your heart, you reason in your heart, you make decisions with your your heart. You know, my my mind, the way that I think, and my will, my intentions, all located in the heart according to the Hebrew language. The heart is the innermost part of a person. And here this ancient worship leader is saying that the innermost part of who I am is just overflowing with the contemplation of this address that I'm about to give. And my address is given to the king. I'm overflowing with this. It's literally to be to be stirred, to be moved. It's a word that was used for a boiling pot or a a stewing pot, like like you know, rice when you you know add too much you know rice to your boiling water and it overflows some of you. Might have had some trouble early on. You're trying to boil rice. You know, you hear that that comment, you know, you can't even boil rice. I was one of those who couldn't boil rice, you know, put too much too much rice and maybe too much water, and uh before you know it, it's boiling over the pot And this is what the author of the Psalm is saying. He says, my heart is just like a pot that's boiling over, just overflowing as I'm thinking about this address to the king. And my my tongue is like the pen of a ready writer. Like just like the metaphor of the overflowing pot. Here he has the illustration of the easily flowing pen. My tongue is like a pen of a ready rider. My tongue is just overflowing with words of praise to this king. And just as easily as water flowed over the top of the pot, the words are easily flowing out of my mouth to speak about who this king is. One commentator remarks that this is one of the few places in Scripture where the process of inspiration is actually discussed. You know, when we think about like how did how did the you know what happened when these authors were inspired, you know, like what what they're They're not inspired, it's the text that's inspired, but God is using them to write down the inspired words of scripture. Like what's going on in their mind? Like this is actually telling you something of what's going on in the, as the scriptures are being written down, inspired on the page, that it's just like overflowing. Like I can't help myself. It's just it's just bubbling out. And I've I've got these words that just have to come down onto the page. And here he says, I'm just overflowing like a ready writer. The words are just coming easily. There's this is not difficult at all as I'm writing about this game. It's like a flood that's just overwhelming my spirit. And what would be the cause of this ancient worship leader bubbling over? Verse 1 he says, I'm overflowing with the good thing. I've got something good to talk about. In other words, I found a topic that that is so worthy of my adoration. That it's just it's just flowing out of me. It's worthy of my praise. And he's applying these words again to the king. I address my verses to the king. And think about this again, the Korhite family, as we talked about before, it was a family dedicated to the praise of ancient Israel. These are worship leaders, right? So so what this worship leader is writing, what's flowing out of his heart, is these verses to the king, and that word for verses, I found this interesting. The literal word is work. This is my labor. This is what I do for an occupation. So so like these verses that I'm writing to the king, I'm just doing my job. This is just me doing what I do for work. And where do we ever find worship leaders boasting in men? Is that your job to boast in men? You know, that I'm going to spend my time just to talk about how great we are, you know, how great thou art speaking about men? No, we don't do that. It's boasting like let no man boast in men, right? You know, Paul talked about that. You know, don't boast in men. You know, Psalm 20 and verse 7 uh speaks about not boasting in men, you know, people boast in people You know, just un un unregenerate people boast in people. We boast in our God. We boast in our God. We've been reading through the book of 1 Samuel together, and Israel was chastised for thinking too highly of their earthly kings, weren't they? You're trusting in your king to deliver you? You haven't rejected Samuel, you're rejecting me You know, you're thinking too much about this earthly king. He's the one that's going to win our battles. He's the one that we're going to trust in. No, we don't trust in man. You know, our trust is in the Lord our God. And the history of Israel and Judah are just filled with the records of kings who did evil in the sight of the Lord. And Israel was not to direct their praises to these kings. They were directed to pray for their kings, to submit to their kings, to honor their kings, but they were never directed to give praise to their kings. It was not the occupation of the worship leader to write down hymns of praise for an earthly king. But here, the son of Korah says, this is just part of my job. Like what I'm writing here in this Psalm is just part of my occupation. I'm addressing my verses to the king. I'm doing my work. I'm doing my job. I'm applying my skill to what it's meant to be applied to And just as the curtains of the tabernacle were the skillful work of a workman's hands, the words of praise and worship were the skillful product of the Korahite. of the ancient worship leader. And this is significant because if worship is the occupation of the sons of Korah and what he's doing is his work, then what he's doing is he's praising God. So Psalm 45 is a praise to God. Do you ever think about the praise of God as being your occupation? This is just what I do. You know, as as believers, that's that's just just what we do. to Romans chapter twelve, you know, whenever whenever that is. We'll we'll read in the first couple of verses of that chapter. Therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice. Acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service. That's your work. Service of worship. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable. What is good and acceptable and perfect in the sight of God? Your spiritual worship. That I would come before God and give to God my heart and worship because He is worthy of it. That's your job description as a believer. You know, you know, brother Michael, whatever, worshiper of God. You know, that's that's that's my occupation. That's what I do. I I'm a worshiper of God. And here he says, I'm just I'm just doing my job. This is this is what I do. And he's bringing glory to the king. Bringing glory to the king. Just as uh an introduction here, and I know a lot of this has been introduction, but it is what it is, all right? Part of this introduction here, you have this uh uh the king. He's being praised for his superior beauty, he's being praised for his abundant grace. And he's being praised as being the one who's blessed forever. First of all, this gang is superior in beauty. And that's communicated in the words, fairer. Verse 2, you are fairer than the sons of men. And this is a reduplicated form of the word for beautiful or fair. It's like saying beautiful, beautiful. You know, more beautiful than any any other of the sons of of men, and expresses the superiority of this king's beauty above all others And while this is a word that normally refers to natural beauty and attractiveness, the description that follows doesn't mention anything about the physical appearance If you read through Psalm 45, you won't find anything about the physical appearance of this king. As one commentator writes, it's not primarily any physical kind of beauty. with which he the author is concerned, it is the king's royal attributes and divinely approved functions which give rise to such celebrations So what he's really doing is he's celebrating the attributes. I'm celebrating the character of who this king is. And what follows is the king's actions. He's gracious in his speech. He's committed to truth and meekness and righteousness. His rule is with uprightness. He's loving. He's righteous. He hates wickedness. It's not a physical description of the king that that makes this this uh uh writer just overflow with uh praise. It's it's a description of the king's beauty in who he is. His attributes. What makes this king beautiful is not what we see with our eyes, at least not now. But what makes this king beautiful from our perspective on this side of glory are his words and his works. That's what makes this king beautiful. They're the attributes of this divine king that are worthy of glory. You know, when we think about God, when you think about your praise of God, what should you be praising God for? You're thinking about his attributes. God, this is your character. This is who you are. You're loving. You're kind. I mean, when we think about uh uh uh uh Moses, he's receiving this uh understanding of of who God is. Remember that in uh Exodus? uh uh 34 uh when he uh asked god if he could see his glory remember that and when god shows up what does he what does he show him he shows him his glory but then he also tells them about who he is Let me display myself before you. Who who am I? I'm I'm a God who's who's a God of of love and kindness and And full of mercy and grace and truth. And he's thinking about these attributes of God, and that's what he's praising him for. That's how God is displaying himself, and that's what this psalmist is saying. That's what I'm beholding. That's what I'm giving God praise for, for who you are. So it's not a physical description that we get, but we get a description about his attributes, and that's what should bring our hearts to overflowing because we're praising God for who he is and what he does. How often do you sit down to think about who God is? You know, when you sit down in your prayer closet or wherever you set aside your time for prayer, like what are you bringing before the Lord? It should be bringing before the Lord what he's already communicated to you about who he is. You know, I'm not making up attributes of God. I'm going to scripture, understanding what God says about himself, and then I'm bringing that before the Lord. Lord, this is this is who you've declared yourself to be. And I want to come before you and and declare you to be that guy kind of God. Because that's what you say about yourself. You know, so that's what we're doing when we're coming before the Lord. We're coming before him to uh talk about who he is, his attributes. So it's not a physical description, but these are the attributes of the divine king. And he says, And your beauty is fairer than all the sons of men There's no one like you. When I compare this king to any other king that I know, there's nobody that comes close to this king. And wasn't this the testimony of Jesus Christ that there was no one like him? No one liked Jesus. In response to Jesus and his miraculous power, his compassion towards the afflicted, the crowds testified in Mark 7. 37. It says they were utterly astonished, saying, He has done all things well. There's nobody like this one. In John 31, John 7 and 31, many of the crowds believed in him and they were saying, when the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than this man has, will he? I mean, there's nobody that's going to come that's going to come close to this. This has to be the one. And what's specifically mentioned back in Psalm 45 is the grace poured out upon his lips. Which is specifically speaking here, again, not about a physical description, but about the care that he extends to others through his words. This king, through his words, he's extending grace. It's pouring out from his lips. As one commentator said, the portrait could be discounted as a conventional flattery were it not for one king whom we similarly we can say these things about. What was the testimony of Jesus? What were the the words of Jesus like? Psalms Matthew 7, 28, after the Sermon on the Mount, it says, when Jesus had finished these words. The crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority and not as their scribes. His words are like nobody else. Matthew 13, 54 This is when he came to his hometown, began teaching them in their synagogue so that they were astonished and said, Where did this man get this wisdom? Where is he getting this from? These miraculous powers. Isn't that this the carpenter's son? You know, carpenters don't talk like this. Sorry for those of you who are carpenters here, okay? He says carpenters don't talk like this. This this is wisdom beyond what we found anywhere else. Where is he getting it from? Isn't this the carpenter's son? It's not his mother called Mary, his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas, which means that Jesus had brothers. You might not have picked up on that. That means that Mary was not a perpetual virgin. The sisters, are they not all with us? Where then did this man get all these things? He's got wisdom beyond anything that we've ever seen before. This doesn't come from carpenters. In John 7, 46, there were officers that were sent to arrest Jesus, and they said, Never has a man spoken the way that this man speaks. You know the the the uh the the the the religious leaders were saying you know where where is he? They came back empty-handed. It's like we we can't we can't arrest him nobody talks like that I'm not putting my hands on that guy you you go get him if you want I'm not taking them down. I mean his words were filled with grace, words like we read a couple weeks ago, where he says, Come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I'm gentle and humble in heart, and you'll find rest for your souls. My yoke is easy and my burden is light Gracious words that fell from the lips of our Lord. And then he's also identified as the one who's blessed forever. Back in Psalm 45. Says, You're fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured out upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. And this blessing is more than the honor that was typically given to kings. You know, often when people found themselves in the presence of the king, they say, Oh king! Live forever. Right? Live forever. I just wish that you would always reign. You know, oh king, live forever. We find that often in scripture, but this is different here. This is saying that this one is blessed forever. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. It's not a wish coming from an earthly servant. No, this is coming from God. God is saying that he is identified as the one who is blessed forever. And then look down at verse 17. Same same Psalm, Psalm 45, verse 17. I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations. Therefore, the peoples will give you thanks for ever and ever. Can that be said about a human king? That all the peoples are going to give him thanks forever and ever? I will cause this to happen. You're going to be remembered in all generations. This is something different than just an earthly king. What human king could be thanked forever and ever? This is something more than that. Number two, there's the victory of the king. Look at verses three to five. It says, gird on your sword, gird your sword on your thigh, O mighty one. In your splendor, in your majesty, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. Let your right hand teach you awesome things Your arrows are sharp, the peoples fall under you, your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. And here we find that this psalm reveals more about who this king is. He's not only a gracious speaker, but he's also a fierce warrior. This king is a fierce warrior. And Israelite kings were expected to be warriors to lead their troops out in battle. If you remember that's what people expected of David And that's part of how David got trapped because when the king, the time for kings were to go out to war, you know, during that time, instead of being on the battlefield, he's up on the top of his roof, checking out who's bathing beneath. And he gets caught up in 2 Samuel chapter 11. You know, it happened at the time the kings go out to battle. Part of the reason that he got caught up is that he wasn't where he was supposed to be when he was supposed to be there. But here the king is depicted as the ideal warrior. Girt your sword on your thigh, O mighty one This psalmist visualizes the battle before him and he anticipates a victory. This king is going to lead us out in victory. You know, don't wait till the battle's over. Shout now. Because you know in the end you're going to win, right? So he's here praising the king ahead of time. Like you you are going to be the one who's victorious. Put your sword on your thigh, Almighty One. We know that we're going to win if you're the one leading us out into battle. So he makes a request for this king to do battle now. Put it on now, Lord. Guard your sword on your thigh now, O mighty one. This word for mighty one is a mighty hero. It was often used to uh uh address those who are mighty, but uh we find it used in Isaiah 9 and verse 6 to talk about the mighty one who is the Lord Himself. The mighty one. And the sword on the thigh is a symbol of His His power to exert mighty deeds that inspire fear. Put your sword on your thigh. I mean, when you're girded up, I mean everybody falls flat. And he called on this king to act in splendor and majesty. And again, this is a word that was used to describe God. It's actually in a Jewish study Bible. I found this interesting. Jewish study Bible says splendor and glory are elsewhere divine attributes. This raises the possibility, again, this is the Jewish study Bible. This raises the possibility that the king here is viewed as divine. But this is the one with splendor and majesty. And we find this throughout the scriptures in Psalm 104, verse 1. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord, my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty. Psalm 96 and verse 6 says, Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Again, describing this king with these terms. That are reserved for God would have forced the reader to ask the question, who is this that we're talking about? Splendor and majesty are before him? Splendor, he's clothed with splendor and majesty. What what where else do we find this spoken of anybody else? He doesn't just ask the king to gird on his sword, but next he asks him to ride on. So it's gird, gird on, and now ride on. Ride on Verse 4, and in your majesty ride on victoriously for the cause of truth and meekness and uprightness. This is the call for the king to go forth to do battle successfully. To write on that this word that's used here, it's a word that's used to press forward, to break through. And it means to carry out anything successfully. You know, right on. An ancient Jewish commentator also understood this verse as a reference to the Messiah. There's some that did see this as a reference to the Messiah. And this is what an ancient Jewish commentator said, that the Messiah will ride on a unique and royal steed. That they were expecting the Messiah to come riding to conquer. Anyone remember another passage of scripture that speaks about one who's riding to conquer? Why don't you flip over to Revelation chapter 19? Revelation chapter 19. Revelation chapter 19, let's take a look at uh verse 11. Revelation 19. This is great. And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And he who sat on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and wages war. His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written on him which no one knows except himself. He is clothed with a robe dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God And the armies which are in heaven clothed in fine linen, white and clean, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp what? Sword. Girt on your sword. From his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations, and he will rule them with the rod of iron, and he will tr and he treads the wine press of the fierce wrath of God the almighty, and on his robe and on his what His thigh, he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. There's one who's coming to conquer, and he's going to be riding on a steed. Girding on the sword, which is actually the power that comes from his own mouth to conquer his enemies. And the cause that he fights for is a righteous cause. For the cause of truth and meekness and righteousness. And uh again, for those commentators who would read this and see this as a reference to the Messiah, they actually connected it back with Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 4. Or there's a similar description given of an ideal king. An ideal king is spoken about in Isaiah, who decides with equity. And if he decides for the meek, he slays the wicked with the rod of his mouth, that same mouth that speaks grace also slays the wicked And we have in Isaiah chapter 11 just another example of this king. I'll just read it for you, Isaiah chapter 11, verse 4. It says, But with righteousness he will judge the poor and decide with fairness for the afflicted of the earth. He will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, with the breath of his lips, he will slay the wicked. And then the rest of verses four and five. Now the request is for this king to fight on. Not only gird on and ride on, but now fight on. Look at the end of verse 4. It says, let your right hand teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you. Your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. And this has been described as this an impassioned description because the words are just flying out of his mouth at this point. You know, it's just, you know, one without one on top of the other without a lot of connection in between. You know, literally it's let your right hand teach you awesome things. Your arrows are sharp. The peoples fall under you in the heart of the king's enemies. It's just like I I almost can't catch up with my own thoughts. He's just getting it out, and it's a description of the victory of the king over the enemies of the king. Over the wicked, those who afflict the righteous, will be struck down, and it's a devastating picture. This is the only place where let your right hand teach you is used. And that word for right hand is consistently applied elsewhere to the old, in the Old Testament, to the miracles and the power of Almighty God, your right hand. Isaiah in Psalm 89 in verse 13, it says, you have a strong arm, your hand is mighty, your right hand is exalted. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Love and kindness and truth go before you. Exodus 15, verse 6. Your right hand, O Lord, is majestic in power. Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. Psalm 98 verses 1 and 2. Oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done wonderful things. His right hand is his holy arm. He's gained the victory for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. So here where we find the psalmist saying, let your right hand teach you, it was just his way of saying that God's power is on display. That the salvation for the people is on display. Your right hand, the power of God. The power of this king is the power of God. It's God's power over the enemies, and the power is devastating. The arrows are sharp, and they all hit their target. Your arrows are sharp. Scripture says, the peoples fall under you. Your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. This is devastating Devastating. Just like a you know a single arrow found his face in between the armor of King Ahab. If you remember that, Ahab went out into battle even though he was told that he was going to die, but he went out into the battle anyway You know, but he gets, you know, armored up and disguises himself. And somehow an arrow that was just pulled back at random Wasn't even aiming at him, just pulled back at random, happened to find that one little spot in his armor, and drove straight into his heart. Devastating. Devastating. When when God says it's your time, it's your time, right? And here we have the arrows of the Lord being used against his enemies. And he says, your arrows are very very sharp. And the peoples are just falling beneath you. Just as a point of application, if you're sitting here somehow thinking that I'm going to escape the judgment of God. That I'm going to defy this God and somehow I'm going to get away. That I'll be able to make some kind of excuse on judgment day. Let this be the warning to you. Let this be the warning to you that God is coming to strike down his enemies. Those that oppose him, those who stand against him, those who deny him, those who reject him. Those who say, I will not have this one to rule over me. What does Psalm 2 say? Kiss the Son lest he be angry with you, and you do what? Perish in the way. You either do homage to this king, bow the knee to this king, or you fall beneath this king. It's one of the two There's no in-between. There's no escape hatch when it comes to the judgment of God. The only escape that God has given to us is his son. We flee from the Son by going to the Son. That's how we flee from the wrath of God is by going to God. And then there's the exaltation of the king in verses 6 to 7, and we'll stop here. The exaltation of the king. Look at verses 6 and 7. It says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You've loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of joy above your fellows. And again, this is language that's more lofty than any mere earthly king would deserve. And uh the primary question that interpreters wrestle with is, who is this gang? Another question is, who is the bride? We'll get to that later. But first of all, who is this gang? And again, it's admitted even by Jewish sources that if the words of Psalm 45, 6 and 7 are taken in a straightforward way, it would point to a divine identification of the king. Listen to these quotes. These are quotes from Jewish sources. If this is taken literally, this sound would be unique in the entire Bible in explicitly depicting the king as divine. Another one. The Hebrew permits the translation, Thy throne, O God. Another one. Thy throne, O God, appears to be the obvious translation, but this doesn't suit the context. Why not? It says it's the obvious translation. The obvious meaning of these words is that we're talking about God here. And how people sought to handle this dilemma, according to one commentator and theologian Murray J. Harris. And he notes this in his excellent book, Jesus is God. He says that not a few scholars, daunted by what they consider to be insuperable Or conceptual difficulties in the text have resorted to various conjectural imendations. What does he mean by that? They just changed the text. They just say, well, this obviously can't be saying what it's saying, so it must be a mistake that it's there. And then they they they try to rearrange things and add things and take away things By saying like, well, well, maybe that word for God isn't really the word for God, or maybe the word for God got inserted there when it didn't belong, or you know, there's got to be something else. It's like leave your hands off the text, right? Just get your hands off it But here they go trying to rearrange things, change things, remove things. Harris concludes that the exegete may be excused for viewing any resort to inundation as an ill-advised council of despair Basically you're you're you're coming to the point where you know there's nowhere out, no way out. So it's like, well, I've got to throw up that there it's been inserted. Something's been changed here. But that's not what's going on here. And then Harris turns to five different ways of translating the phrase. Five different ways of translating the phrase. Number one, instead of saying thy throne of God, some say that it's your divine throne. And God here is called a genitive, but basically it takes it as being God's divine throne instead of the your throne, O God. And uh this view is is rejected. Uh one reason why is because uh uh the word throne would be qualified by two different types of genitives. I know it doesn't mean a whole lot to you. But it would be qualified by your and also by divine, and it's a construction that doesn't show up in the Hebrew language, okay? And at least in the Hebrew text that we have. So the construction that they're looking for doesn't show up anywhere else. So that view is taken away. Another view is that it's saying that God is your throne. I was actually surprised a number of years ago when I read through the uh the New World Translation, which doesn't deserve the title translation because it's not a translation. You know, it's the fabrication. It should be the New World fabrication, you know, by the Jehovah's Witnesses. And uh when I read the text in uh you know uh a New World Translation, this is the the the version that that they had. God is your throne. Instead of your throne, O God. God is your throne. Same thing that they do with Hebrews chapter 1. So they change it into another kind of construction. But again, This view is also rejected because we don't have anywhere else where God is referred to as a throne. God is not a seat that you sit on to get above. So it's not your God is your throne, like you're sitting on top of God to kind of boost you up. And we don't find that language used anywhere in Scripture. So that view is also eliminated. Another view that people try to put forward is your throne is God's throne. Your throne is God's throne. Or your throne will be a divine throne or a godlike throne. But this interpretation has to supply the word throne an additional time. Your throne is God's throne. There's not two thrones here, there's one God, God's throne, your throne, oh God. So that view is also rejected Uh there's another view. Your throne is like God's throne. And you can see there just it's just getting more desperate as we go on, right? Your throne is like God's throne. And the word like would have had to be inserted. Or you know, it's like, well it's not there, but it should be understood to be there But then you've got to prove that it would have been assumed to be there and that it was removed and that people would read that and say, well, what was removed really belonged there and I got it inserted. Again , there's nothing in the text that would lead you to that kind of conclusion. So what are you left with? Your throne, oh God. That's the traditional way that the Hebrew has been translated. But still, even though there's people say, well, yeah, that's what it says. But but for this verse, your throne, O God, now we're not talking about the king anymore And we're talking about just God. So so but before this we've been talking about the king, the king, the king, the king. And then for one verse we come in and say, well, now we're talking about God. And then we go back to the king, the king, the king, the king. So that's that's what they they say. But this is to disregard the w the entire flow of this text, the entire context, because every time your has been mentioned before a noun, it's always referring to the king. Listen to this. In verse 3, your sword. In verse 3, your splendor. Verse 3, your majesty. Verse 4, your right hand. Verse 5, your arrows. In verse 7, your God, your garments, your noble ladies, your right hand. All of these referring to the king. And now when you get to this verse uh six, oh your throne, oh now we're not talking about the king anymore We're talking about somebody else. We're we're we're talking now we're talking just directly about God. So what should we understand here? That when we're stick saying here, your throne, O God, he's still referring to the king. He's still referring to the king. And the king is God. The king is God. But even though people say, well, yeah, it says the king is God, but But this is really like honorific language. It's really not saying that this is deity here. It's just an illustration. That's all that it we're talking about. It's just an illustration. But what we have in Scripture, and I'll just go ahead and take you to where I'm going, in Hebrews chapter 1, that's not the way the author of Hebrews understood it. Right? Let's look back at uh Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews chapter 1. What we find in the book of Hebrews is the author is trying to Explain to these Jewish believers, you know, at least they're attached to the church, attached to Christianity. He's trying to convince them that you should not abandon Jesus Christ. Like like where else are you gonna go? You know, once once you leave Jesus, it's it's all downhill from there. You know, Jesus is is the top, he's the pinnacle, he's supreme, he's superior. You go to anything else, you're going down So, he lets them know in verse, well I'll start at verse verse four. Having become as much better than the angels, as he inherited a more excellent name than they, Jesus is better than the angels. And then he goes on to explain why For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son? He's never given them that kind of honor. Today I've begotten you, and again I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. Verse 6. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, And let all the angels of God worship him. Where do you find angels being worshipped? The angels actually worship him. The angels worship the sun. So he's giving another defense of the supremacy of Jesus Christ. And then in verse 7, he says, And the angels he says, and of the angels he says, He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says Your throne, oh God. We have God speaking to God. Your throne, oh God, is forever and ever And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. You've loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions. What we have here is a clear reference of God speaking to God. What we find here is language that would have blown the minds of those that say, you know, Hero Israel, the Lord thy God, the Lord is one. But what we also find is that the Lord who is one also has multiple persons within the one God. And that that's what's going on. We don't find the the the full explanation of that until we get to the New Testament of God speaking to God. How do we reconcile that? No, there's a Father and the Son. That's how we reconcile it, which is exactly what the book of Hebrews says. That there's a father and there's a son. The father speaking to the son says, Thy throne, O God, speaking to the Son. So now when the New Testament it's revealed, what's that relationship between God and God who's one God? It's Father, Son, and we also add to that the Holy Spirit, right? But here we clearly find God speaking to God, and it's the Father speaking to the Son. So that's what we find in the book of Hebrews. And again, like I said, it would have blown the minds of those that were reading this. And again From Jewish sources, they're saying, I I mean, it it looks like it's calling this king God. But that I mean, obviously that can't be what it means. There's got to be some other way around this But there's language that we find similar to this in other places in our Bibles, don't we? Why don't you flip over to Isaiah chapter 9? Isaiah chapter 9. This is speaking, I believe, about the same battle that we're talking about in Isaiah in Psalm 45. Where the king comes and girds on his sword and his arrows are piercing. Look in Isaiah 9. This is a prophecy about the future. It says, but there will be no more gloom for her who was in anguish in earlier times. He treated the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali with contempt, but later on he shall make it glorious by the way of the sea on the other side of Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. This is so fascinating. Because what we have here is a prediction that the Gentiles are going to be included in this future kingdom. This passage here is actually quoted in the book of Matthew in reference to Christ. Look at what it says in verse 2. The people will walk in darkness, will see a great light. Those who live in a dark land, the light will shine on them. This is the light of Christ. You shall multiply the nation, you shall increase their gladness, they will be glad in your presence as with the gladness of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoil For you shall break the yoke of their burden and the staff on their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor, as at the battle of Midian. So he's coming and he's crushing the enemies. For every boot of the booted warrior in the battle tumult, the cloak rolled in blood will be for burning fuel for fire. Why? For a child will be born to us A son will be given to us. And the government will rest on his shoulders. And listen to what his name will be. And his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. What? Mighty God. Eternal Father, Prince of Peace, and there will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom. to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. This is just consistent with the rest of the testimony of Scripture, isn't it? That there's coming a king who will conquer the enemies, and this king will be identified as God. We find it throughout scripture, and this is how the author of Hebrews 1 sees it. It's how also the author of Isaiah sees it It's the same thing that the author of Psalm 45, the sons of Korah, that's how how they see it. But there's coming one who will rule over a kingdom, who will defeat the enemies, and this one who will reign will be God. This is the one that we're talking about. This is the one who will come, the God who is righteous, the God who declares what's righteous, the God who demands what's righteous. The God who himself is righteous is the one who comes as the king, and he is the one who is fairer than all the sons of men. Ferris Lord Jesus, beautiful Savior, Lord of the nations, Son of God, and Son of Man, glory and honor, praise, adoration, now and forevermore be thine. We'll get to the rest of this next time, and I'll kind of combine it with Hebrews chapter 1. But uh what's our application for this? Uh number one, if uh you haven't yet trusted in Jesus Christ. You want to be on the side of his mercy and grace. Because Jesus will come with the sword, and Jesus will come with piercing arrows. And those arrows will be aimed at those who reject him, reject his rule, and there's no armor that you're going to be able to put on that his arrows will not penetrate. Turn to Christ before it's too late. Turn to Christ and find your joy in Him. Another application that we can find from this is this is a psalm of praise. We we should be those that are that are speaking about who this king is. Let me let me tell you about who my king Jesus is. This is the the the one who's who's the fairest among ten thousands He's the one who's the ruler of the nations. He's the Son of God and the Son of Man. This is the one that we should be praising. It's like the word should just be like pouring out of our mouth as we talk about who this Christ is. Amen? This is a psalm of praise, and that's what we should be doing. We should be praising God. And another thing that we should be doing is we should be praying, thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We should be saying that prayer just as the psalmist had the same prayer. Lord, gird on your sword. Lord, Lord, we're asking for you to come and take care of the enemies. My heart is just overflowing with this, but Lord, I know that you're the one who has to ride on victoriously. And that your right hand teaches you awesome things, that it's it's the po by your power that the peoples fall underneath you. And I'm praying, God, that you would come and that you would bring your kingdom. You know, gird on your sword, ride on King Jesus, and fight on. Fight on Jesus. There's that song, Ride On, King Jesus. No man can hinder me. Right on, King Jesus, right on. No man can hinder me, right? Jesus is the one who's victorious, and no man is going to stand in his way. Amen. Let's go to Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this passage. And Father, we pray that you would uh uh help us to understand uh these things, Lord. And uh Father, we're just uh uh encouraged just by the consistency of your word. that across multiple passages that it's the same message that's being given. It just reinforces the truth that we have, as Psalm 110 says, the Lord says to my Lord. In Psalm 45, God speaks to God. In Psalm 2, we have the same kind of language that's used of God saying, Ask of me and I'll give the nations to you as your inheritance. That he's the one who's praised, he's the one who the angels worship, that the Jesus that we celebrate, our Lord, is Himself, eternal God Father, I pray that we would never back away from that. My Father, that we would defend that, that we would clarify that. My Father, that we would have an understanding of that, of who this Jesus is. that he's very God of very God, begotten, not created, that he's eternal and has all of the divine attributes of the Father. And this is the one that we worship. This is the one that we adore during the season. This is the one who became flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.