The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well uh if you're here, if you're uh new here, if you're not a member here, we're glad that you're here. Um but uh today we're gonna have more of a family, family talk, family discussion. This week has been a difficult week for many of us here at BBC and uh as I was thinking about uh this Sunday's gathering My mind was drawn to a specific passage of Scripture that we've covered before, but I'd like to remind us of this again because of the season that we're in. And uh we do go through different seasons in this life, don't we? There's different seasons. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 1 to 4 say that it says that there is an appointed time for everything. And there is a time for every event under heaven, a time to give birth and a time to die, a time to plant and a time to uproot what is planted, a time to kill and a time to heal, a time to tear down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. And then when you look throughout scripture , There were times when the people of God were commanded to celebrate, to enjoy the bounty of the Lord, and then there were other times when the people were commanded to refrain from that kind of celebration and enjoyment. There's times for feasting and there's times for fasting. And it's important that we make a distinction between the two. And just by way of introduction. I find it fascinating that God actually commanded times of feasting. Feasting was a was a command. I'm not sure if you ever thought about that. There were times when uh the The Israelites were commanded to feast. Leviticus chapter 23 describes eight appointed times of feasting from the Lord and six out of the eight were uh described as these these feasts. And many of the feasts actually connected in some way with the agricultural cycle, the farming seasons. I'll just mention three of them. If you turn back in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 23. just uh to show you this. Exodus chapter 23. Take a look at verse 14. Exodus 23. Let's just know that there were three times during the year when all Jewish males were commanded to appear before the Lord at Jerusalem. Uh they were known as as pilgrim festivals when when they they had to to migrate from wherever they were uh to come to Jerusalem. And each one of these seasons, these times that they were to appear was connected with an agricultural cycle. Take a look at Uh Exodus twenty-three, starting at verse fourteen. It says three times a year you shall celebrate a feast to me. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread for seven days. You are to eat unleavened bread as I commanded you at the appointed time in the month of Habib. For in it you came out of Egypt and none shall appear before me empty handed. Also you shall observe the feast of the harvest of the first fruits of your labors from what you sow in the field, also the feast of the ingathering at the end of the year when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field. Three times a year all your males shall appear before the Lord God. So there are these these pilgrim festivals, these these feasts where all the Jewish males would gather together. There was the uh the feast of of uh uh of Passover. It's one of the most important uh feasts of the the calendar year for the Jewish people. Uh it was when they commemorated the angel of death passing over the firstborn. uh children of the the Hebrews uh in that uh slaughter that happened in Egypt that symbolized God's deliverance of Israel from his mighty hand And uh as believers, we also remember uh Passover as the the night that Christ uh took the bread and he broke it, which symbolized uh a great deliverance that would come from him, that it was his body that would be given to secure our salvation. But what you might not remember is that According to Deuteronomy 16, 9 through 12, that this Passover was also the beginning of the wheat harvest, also known as the feast of unleavened bread that we find right here in Exodus 23. In verse 15, you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. Not only was Israel to remember their great deliverance from Egypt, they were also to remember God's constant provision for them. God is the one who gave them their daily bread. God is the one who sustained them. God was their Savior as well as their sustainer Psalm 145, verse 16 says, You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. God is where we get everything that we have from. He sustains our lives. And God commanded them to celebrate with the feast. Pentecost was another time that the Jewish males were commanded to come together. It's called the Feast of Harvest in verse 15 and Exodus 23. It was a festival that marked the end of the grain harvest, 50 days after the feast of unleavened bread. That's why it's called Pentecost. Pentecost comes from a Greek word, penteconta, which means fifty, and fifty days after the beginning of the wheat harvest was the end of the wheat harvest, and they celebrated this again with the feast. So basically it was a harvest festival. It was a time for rejoicing when Israel recognized that the source of their prosperity was God. The grain, the fruit, all of it came from God. And Pentecost also has a significance for the Christian because you'll remember that that was the day that the Holy Spirit was given to the church. The church was born on the day of Pentecost. And there was a great harvest of souls. And think about it, it's no accident that at the time that Christ was crucified around the Passover. in the time that the church was born at Pentecost that all the Jewish males were actually there to witness it. I mean God's timing is perfect. This is on purpose that he wanted these people to be there during these different opportunities to see this connection of Jesus Christ. The point I'm making here is that these were times associated, again, with with feasting. It was the recognition that God is the one who gives the land, the rain, the fruitful seasons, and they celebrated it with a feast. And then there was one more that I'll talk about today. It's the Feast of Booths. Sukkot. It's also known as the Feast of Ingathering, Feast of Tabernacles. There in Exodus 23, verse 16, also the feast of ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field. Again, this time of gathering in the food, recognizing that God is the one who gives us all of this, and we're celebrating this with the feast, and it was a season of rejoicing. Why? Because all of your work was done for the year. And they celebrated it with a feast. God is the one who's brought us in this bounty, and we're going to celebrate this with rejoicing, with the uh celebrating this feast before the Lord. And it was actually a seven-day feast. Deuteronomy 16, verse 15 says, Seven days you shall celebrate a feast of the Lord your God in the place which the Lord chooses, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and all the work of your hands. so that you will all together be joyful. And these are just a few of the feasts that we find in Scripture. God commanded that they came together, that they celebrated with joy. God gave them their provision and food was associated with gladness. Acts 14 verse 17 says, Yet he did not leave himself without witness. And that he did good and gave you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. The food that we enjoy is part of the gladness that God gives to his creation. And it's actually one of the witnesses that even unbelievers have of the existence and attributes of God. You can remind that next time you're sitting with an unbeliever for lunch. That you know when you're eating that sandwich that that's an evidence of the existence of God. You know, the attributes of God are on display right here, you know Right sitting right here on your table, the attributes of God are on display. The God is the one who gives us everything that we have And actually, 1 Timothy chapter 4 says that food has been created specifically with an intention for believers. I don't know if you ever thought about that, but 1 Timothy 4, verse 3 says, God has created food to be gratefully shared in by those who believe. Food is specifically there for you as the believer. Yes, it's there for everybody else, but specifically God has intended that for you as a believer because you are the one who can gratefully share And what He has given, those who believe and know the truth. So when you pull up to the table, you should remind yourself that God has put this here specifically for me. For those who believe and know the truth. And God didn't have to put all the taste that he did into food, did he? I mean, why why doesn't why don't why don't vegetables taste like the dirt that they grow out of? You know, you pick a piece of fruit off of a tree. Why doesn't it taste like the dirt that it came out of? Like God has created all of these flavors. Unique taste from all these different fruits and vegetables. It's a gift of God that's been created for us to enjoy. And the variety of food is God's bounty to us. Think about this. The average adult has between 2,000 and 10,000 taste buds You don't just have taste buds on your tongues either. They're everywhere, from the roof of your mouth, to your throat, to your stomach. I didn't know that before, even down to your stomach. You've got taste buds all the way through. Picks up sweet, salty, sour, bitter, and possibly a fifth taste known as umami. I'm not sure what that is, but It's a fifth taste that they say it's like the pleasant or savory taste, umami. And even the smell combines with the taste buds to give it the flavor that it has. And if you gratefully partake in that meal, you can praise God for that, right? It brings glory to God. And for the unbeliever, it provides a witness that there is a God. There's a God who sustains your life, even though you don't want to recognize Him Even though you don't want to give him glory, there is a God who's left himself with a witness. Every time you pick up a fork, it's a witness. God is witnessing to you. Next time you share a meal, you can remind the unbeliever about that, that God is the giver of all good gifts, and I pray that one day you'll recognize that God is the one who gives you these things. And whether we eat or drink, the Bible says, whatever we do, do all to the glory of God. So as believers, we have a double blessing. We don't just enjoy the gifts, but we enjoy the giver of these gifts, right? And there's seasons to celebrate, and God is honored when we celebrate with with feasting, when we acknowledge him as our gracious provider, when we rejoice in his bounty and his favor towards us. And there's nothing wrong with appreciating those seasons. But then there's the seasons when life is hard, when the heart is heavy, when we're burdened by the weight of the difficulties of life. Those times when a doctor comes to your room and says that, I'm sorry, there's nothing else that we can do. Maybe you received news of a loved one who was in a tragic accident. Maybe you're being severely persecuted for your faith. Maybe even by your own family being persecuted for your faith. I've talked to some of you who've experienced that, even your own family members. Maybe you have an important decision to make and this decision is going to drastically affect the rest of your life. Alter, a life-altering decision. And you're wrestling through that. Maybe it's for you, maybe it's for somebody that you care for. Or maybe you're just being pressed and weighed down with the conviction of sin. Some kind of sin that you've been trying to break free from and you just keep getting pulled back in. Like the sin the Bible says that easily besets you. Why do I keep falling to this? You've read all the books, you've talked to all the counselors, and it's like there's nothing that's helping. Like, Lord, why am I here again? Desperate to see some kind of change in your life. And that's not a time of joy and celebration. It's a time of mourning. Weeping, desperation, urgency. And just like God makes a provision for your joy and your celebration and feasting, God also makes a provision for your times of mourning and weeping, and that's fasting. Fasting in Scripture was associated with times like these. And the response that Jesus gave to the disciples of John the Baptist was instructive in Matthew chapter 9, if you want to flip over there, Matthew chapter 9. Take a look at verse 14. Matthew chapter 9, verse 14. Says then the disciples of John came to him. To Jesus, asking, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? While the disciples were enjoying the physical, personal presence of Jesus Christ, this was not a time to mourn. A fast would have been inappropriate for a time like that. We're in the presence of Christ. I mean, he's right here. He's with us. That's not a time to mourn, to weep. Jesus was physically present with them. But Jesus says there's going to come a time when I'm taken from them. And then it's going to be appropriate to mourn. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. And today, Jesus is spiritually present with us. Lo, I'm with you always, even to the end of the age, right? But he is not physically, personally, bodily, visibly present with us. And that was the time that he was referring to. There's coming a time. when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. And that's the time that we live in today. And notice the connection that he makes between mourning and fasting. That during the times of fasting, it's also the time of mourning. They can't mourn while I'm here. And that's what a fast would have symbolized. It's the time of mourning. They can't mourn while I'm here. But when I'm taken away, that's the time to mourn, and that's also the time to fast. And the scriptures overwhelm overwhelmingly conclude that fasting is associated with periods of mourning. urgency, repentance, life-changing decisions, and that what a person was doing externally was really an expression of what was going on internally. emotionally. So this idea that fasting was just some kind of uh you know key to unlock your spiritual potential You know, this is the path to communion with God, that fasting is just your gauge of how hungry are you for the Lord is not backed up by the scripture. That's not what fasting is. Fasting is not some way that I can show how spiritual I am. Fasting is meant for these times of mourning, of sadness. Life-changing decisions. I mean, we should always be hungry for God, shouldn't we? But that doesn't mean that we should always be fasting. In fact, the teaching that I need to weaken my body in order to become more spiritual has more in common with Gnosticism than it does with Christianity. Somehow I just need to weaken my flesh so that my spirit can be stronger. My spirit needs to be set free so I just kind of weaken my body. That's not what the Bible teaches. Actually, flip over to Colossians chapter 2. Just want to show you this real quick. Colossians chapter 2. Take a look at Colossians chapter 2 at verse 20. One of these days we'll we'll go through the whole book of Colossians. Not today, don't worry. Colossians 2, look at verse 20. It says, if you have died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why as if you were living in the world do you submit yourself to decrees? Such as, do not handle, do not taste, do not touch. And these commands were the rules of these kind of pre-gnostics. No, those who are given over to this idea that the flesh is bad, material is bad, spirit is good. So the more spiritual you are, the less contact you have with material things. You know, so if you don't handle, if you don't taste, if you don't touch, if you keep yourself away from these prescribed things, that you'll become more spiritual. You'll become closer to God if you avoid these things. But look what he says in verse 22. Which all refer to things destined to perish with use, in accordance with the commandments and teachings of men. These are matters which have, to be sure, the appearance of wisdom It looks like it's wise. I mean, when someone tells you like, hey, weaken the body and the spirit will be strong. It sounds wise, doesn't it? Hey, don't touch these physical things and avoid this and avoid that and you'll become more spiritual. It sounds wise. It sounds like it's right It says it has the appearance of wisdom in self-made religion, self-abasement, severe treatment of the body, but listen to what he says, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. If if you think that, you know, hey, if if the the the way to to become you know holy is just by you know avoiding certain things. And I'll become holy if I just put the plate down like that's it. If that's what you're thinking, it's of no value against fleshly indulgence. It's not going to help you. False teachers in Colasse were teaching that the church. Had to get rid of some physical things to become more spiritual, and that's dangerous. Self-abasement, severe treatment of the body. was one of the ways that people you know sought to humble themselves by abstaining from food and the idea is that I can make my spirit stronger if I make my body weaker. But he says it doesn't it doesn't it's of no value against fleshly indulgence. So if you believe that only missing a couple meals will make you a more spiritual person, you've bought into a lie. That physical things is, you know, what contaminates you. Fasting wasn't meant for that. I'll just highlight a few passages that demonstrate this. This is all introduction, all right. We'll get to the text in a minute. What was fasting associated with? Number one, fasting was associated with times of mourning and grief. In 2 Samuel chapter 1 and verse 12, Israel heard that King Saul and his son Jonathan had been slain And it says they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and his son Jonathan, and for the people of the Lord and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. Fasting was associated with these times of mourning and grief. This devastation has happened to our nation. And we're going to gather together and cry out to the Lord, Lord, why is this happening to us? Our king has been slain, his son has been slain. Lord, we need you. This time of mourning and grief, you're grieving over this loss. Crying out to the Lord and fasting was appropriate. Fasting is also associated with urgent situations. If you remember when Queen Esther. Was informed that there was a plot to annihilate the Jews under the Persian Empire. Esther chapter 4. She says, Go assemble all the Jews who are found in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my maidens also will fast in the same way, and thus I will go in to the king, which is not according to the law, and if I perish, I perish. I'm about to go into this situation and it is urgent. I mean, only one word from the king and I'm gone. This is dangerous. I'm going into this dangerous situation. Fast for me. Pray for me David had the same kind of response when he heard that his son was about to die. Remember that? 2 Samuel 12, 16, and David inquired of God for the child. David fasted and went all and went and lay all night on the ground. David fasted for the life of his child, but also when God made it clear that his will was to take the child home. David stopped fasting. 2 Samuel 12, 23, he says, but now that he has died, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? And then listen to what he says here. I will go to him, but he will not return to me. And as a footnote here, I think That we underappreciate just how rich Old Testament theology is. You know, so many people think that, you know, it's just the New Testament where we have this hope of heaven and eternal life. The Old Testament tells us about the hope of eternal life. David himself had hope in eternal life. He had a hope in heaven. So when David is saying these words, it's not, you know, like in this kind of theological vacuum that I have no idea, you know, what that means, the afterlife. Like that's not what David is saying He's saying, I have a confidence that I'm going to go to him where he will be. And where will he be? Or mind you, that the David, it's the same David who wrote Psalm 23. Who says, surely goodness and loving kindness will follow me all the days of my life, goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for how long? Forever. I'm going to a place after I leave this life and I'm going to be there forever. For those of you who are still trying to put the pieces together, that's heaven. That's heaven. Where we'll be with the Lord forever. And David says, I cannot bring him back to me, but I will go to him. Where did David expect to go after this life? I expect to go to heaven. So where did he expect his son to go? Heaven I'll go and I will be with him. Eternal life. I will reunite with my infant son. We'll be reunited together after this life. I will go to him. And when the Lord made it clear that His son was going to go to him. He stopped mourning. He stopped mourning. Fasting is also associated with life-changing decisions. Remember before Paul and Barnabas were sent out on the mission field, Acts 13 and verse 3, it says that when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. In preparation for ministry, before we send you out on the mission field, we're going to lay hands on you and we're going to spend some time in fasting for you. It's an urgent situation. It's a dangerous situation that we're sending you out on. Same kind of thing happened with the appointment of elders in Acts 14. Even Christ fasted before he chose the twelve disciples. Fasted and prayed. Even before he entered into public ministry, he spent 40 days doing what? Fasting and praying. Associated with these life-changing, altering decisions. And lastly, fasting was associated with repentance from sin. Actually, the most common expression for fasting was repentance from sin. When Nineveh was informed that they were about to perish, what did they do? They fasted. And not only did they fast, they made their animals fast. It's like, sorry, JoJo, you're not getting anything today. We're all fasting in here, you know. Everybody's fasting. Jonah 3 verse 5 says, Then the people of Nineveh believed in God, and they called the fast and put on sackcloth. From the greatest to the least of them. What is sackcloth? It was this coarse, harsh, you know, itchy material that they put on their skin. That the way that I feel on the inside is what I'm going to feel on the outside. I'm not going to give my body any comfort during this time I'm not going to give my stomach any comfort. I'm not going to give my skin any comfort. We're going to lay ourselves before the Lord. This is urgent. And we want to cry out to the Lord. Verse 8 in chapter 3. It says, Both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God earnestly, that each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. I know you've been violent out there. You need to admit that before the Lord. Lay yourself out before him. Let him know that you're turning away from this lifestyle. Lord, I grieve over my sins. I'm mourning over this. And when you examine the scriptures, there was only one time that fasting was actually commanded, and it was in relationship to sin. Like I said, feasting was commanded of God for times of celebration, joy, and there were many times that there were feasts that were commanded. There's only one time that a fast is commanded. It was the day of atonement. Yom Kippur. Turn back to Leviticus 16. Leviticus 16. Take a look at verse 29. Leviticus 16, this is the most significant day on the Jewish calendar when the high priest once a year would enter into The presence of God, the Holy of Holies, to make atonement for the forgiveness of the sins of the people. Leviticus 16, look at verse 29. It says, this shall be a permanent statute for you in the seventh month. On the tenth day of the month, you shall humble or afflict your souls. And not do any work, whether the native or the alien who sojourns among you. For it is on this day that atonement shall be made for you to cleanse you. You will be clean from all your sins before the Lord. It is to be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, that ye may humble your souls. It is a permanent statute And according to Isaiah 28, or Isaiah 58, verse 3, and Ezra 8 and verse 21, the afflicting or the humbling of the soul was connected with fasting. I'm going to humble myself before the Lord by fasting. In Acts 27 in verse 9, it simply refers to the Day of Atonement as the fast. And when they spoke about the fast, everybody knew what they were talking about. The fast is coming up. The fast. It's the day of Yom Kippur, the day of atonement. We're going to afflict our souls. To show God that we're sorrowful over our sins. The regular fast that was commanded by God in the Old Testament in relationship to sin. And we could stop here and just ask an important question for all of us. Have you mourned over your sin? Have you ever felt So beat up by your sins that you were just desperate for God to do something? Have you ever felt the urgency of your situation before God? Even to the point where you've lost your appetite? Now, if if you've never experienced any kind of grief over sin, I question your salvation. Do you have no sense of your transgression against the Lord? That you'd never be brought to tears over your sin, to grieve over your sin? Second Corinthians 7 verse 10 says, For the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret. leading to salvation. That there's some kind of sorrow in the heart, whether it ever comes out from the tear ducts or not, that's not the point. But there there needs to be a sorrow in our heart over our sin before God. Have you ever felt a sorrow in your heart because of the sins that you've committed against God? When did God ever smack you in the face with your sinfulness? A conviction of your sin before Him. That's the step towards repentance, isn't it? Because what am I turning away from? If I'm not sorrowful over what I've been engaged in? You've got to turn from your sins. Matthew 5, verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. The most important The important thing that we should mourn over is our sinfulness. I mean, everything else only brings you closer to the Lord, doesn't it? If your sickness draws you to the Lord. Affliction draws you to the Lord. Even death draws you to the Lord. I mean, you go to the Lord, right? Everything else brings you to the Lord. It's sin is the only one that separates you from the Lord. And that's what we should mourn over the most, our sins that separate us from God. And again, I'm not sure where you are today, but. If you understand that you've sinned in the sight of your Creator, I pray that you would feel a sorrow in your heart. That the same one who gives you the breath that you breathe. I mean the oxygen, you can't even create the oxygen that you breathe today. The food that you eat that comes out of the dirt. And then you don't want to thank the God who made it? The God who gives you every day that you've lived and you don't want to turn around and recognize Him as your creator? Glorify Him? But if you if you come before him with a broken and a contrite heart, the Bible says he will not despise you. He'll not turn you away. And for the believer , we we have this God that we trust in, but it doesn't mean that life becomes easy. We still face times of mourning and grief, urgent and dangerous situations we face as believers. We have difficult life-changing decisions to make. We still sin and have a bitter conviction over our sin. And when that's true for you, fasting is the provision that God makes for us as an expression of what's going on on the inside. And just like feasting is a provision for gladness, fasting is the provision for sadness And this helps to give us a context for Jesus' words in Matthew chapter 6. So why don't you flip to Matthew chapter 6? And now we can start our message. Matthew chapter six. Take a look at verses uh sixteen to eighteen It says, whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your father who is in secret And your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do thank you, God, so much for your word. And Father, as we uh get into this passage, Lord, I just pray that you'd help us to understand these things. Father, I pray that you'd help us uh uh to apply these things into our lives. Father, that you would be honored and glorified, and I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen Fasting was to be an expression of the humility of the soul. And if fasting is to be an expression of humility, then why in the world would you put it on display? It's a expression of humility. You're not to to parade it around before people for the greatest audience to see. This direct contradiction to what fasting was in the first place. When the Ninevites fasted, they could care less what nations around them saw. Because they were desperate. They're about to die and they knew it. When David fasted, he wasn't interested in whether or not his servants saw how devout he was. He was doing this before the Lord. His son was about to die. And if you're busy tweeting about your forty day fast and posting pictures of an empty plate You've missed the point. You've missed the point. As we already saw, uh I mean there there are pagans that fasted, right? Pagans fasted. There were people who thought it was the quick path to spirituality back in Colossae. It's the way to elevate themselves. The Pharisees saw fasting as a way to parade themselves before people. The Pharisees used it to feed their pride. They fasted in order to feed themselves. Luke 18 depicts the attitude of many religious leaders. Luke 18, 11, the Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. Just think about that to himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other people. No, thank you for that. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even this tax collector. While he's praying, he's paying attention who's next to him. Or even this tax collector. Close your eyes when you're praying, right? What are you what are you doing looking at this other guy? You don't have to close your eyes while you're praying. But it does keep you from looking at the guy next to you though, right? Even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I pay tithes of all that I get. Now God didn't require that he did any of that. Does he have to fast twice a week? No? God didn't command that. But to many religious leaders, it became the badge of honor. I fast twice a week. What have you been doing this week? That's exactly the kind of attitude that this passage was meant to rip apart. You don't do this for men. The central theme of this text really comes from Verse 1 of Matthew 6, beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them. Otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. Your reward is somebody noticed you. That's all you get. You got noticed by somebody who can't help you in the first place. That's your reward. You got all that you came for But we're not to practice fasting in that way. Look down at verse 16 again. There's two main sections of this fastage. Verse 16, we see how we can miss a meal and miss God at the same time. And in verses 17 to 18, we're told how we can miss a meal and find God at the same time. Look at verse 16 again. Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do. For they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they're fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. The gloomy face, the neglected appearance, calculated, was all calculated to attract the attention of men. The word for gloomy only shows up in one other place in the New Testament. It was the same word used in Luke 24, verse 17, after the disciples learned that Jesus had just died. That's the only other place we find the word gloomy in the New Testament. It's a word that expresses mourning and grief. Somebody just died and they looked like it. They neglected their appearance. Actually, the word for neglect your appearance is literally to destroy their faces. It's like an explosion went off. There's many times when you grieve to that kind of degree, don't you? There's a reason people call it an ugly cry, right? Because you don't care about how you look anymore. And you don't put on a show with that. That's not for anybody to see. That's That's just an expression of the heart. But these people were doing it so that other people could see it. And just as the majority of your praying is to be in private, you know, secret prayer. Fasting was also to be in the same way, like hey, I'm not doing this for a show. This is secret. This is between me and the Lord. I'm not tweeting, posting, sharing. The only people who have to know are the people who have to know. You know, I'm sorry I can't join you for lunch today. I've got an appointment. And you're telling the truth. I've got an appointment with the Lord today. I've got an appointment. I'm sorry I can't join you for lunch. And then you just go and spend time with you and the Lord. He is your appointment. And this becomes your food right here, right? Just feast on the word of God and pray to the Lord. But you can miss a meal and find the Lord. Look at verse 17 and 18. It says, But when ye fast, anoint your head, wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men But by your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Anointing the head was an ancient custom practiced by the Egyptians later on by other nations where olive oil was mixed with different fragrances, spices, applied to the face, to the beard. sign of hospitality when you cared for a guest you'd anoint them with oil. Luke 7, 46, Jesus visited with Simon the Pharisee and Simon neglected to care for him by offering him any oil. Oil was soothing, it was comforting, it had a pleasant smell. You know, so when you fast, an application might be, where your deodorant? Iron your clothes, brush your teeth, chew on a piece of gum or pop a min or something. You don't need to let everybody know One of the signs of grief was when you didn't take care of yourself. It's like, no, if you're going to do this, take care of yourself so nobody else knows what's going on. And the idea is you're not drawing attention to yourself. Like I said, maybe a close family friend, you know, family or friends need to know, but this is this is a private thing. Like I said, fasting was associated with with this mourning, so a tear-stained face, you know raise questions, right? So it's like, no, I'm I'm gonna do that in in private. Genesis 43, you know, Joseph had to hide his identity from his brothers and he lost it, so he had to get away. And like I said, we've been brought to that as well, the tears. But fasting was the expression of that deep pain before the Lord. Pastor Don Green, he's served in a ministry with Grace to You. He says, Jesus taught us to go out of our way to conceal these acts of righteousness. I love this. He says, men cannot praise you for what they cannot see. By contrast, God who looks on the heart will reward you for what he alone can see. And that's the main point. Like I'm doing this for the Lord. I want the Lord to hear this. So I'm not drawing attention to myself. And when he addresses fasting, all he basically says here is, when you fast, he doesn't tell you How to do it, how often to do it, right? Whenever you fast. He tells you, you know, you're not to do it for a show, but he doesn't give you like a schedule for it. You know, prayer was supposed to be daily, but he didn't say, well, when you fast weekly, it's not the daily fast or the weekly fast. It's just when you do fast. Because there's an expectation that there are going to come times in your life where this is appropriate. And there's different ways that fasting was done. There's a fast from sun sundown to sundown, which is the traditional Jewish fast. Fast by picking a meal of the day that you're going to neglect. You know, fast for a day, fast for three days. We find that in scripture. I would just say that if you're going to fast for longer than that, you should probably check with your doctor, especially if you have a medical condition. But it's appropriate. It's appropriate to fast. And it's just when you fast. Because this isn't this isn't manufactured. It's not just like, hey, I just put this on my schedule. I just I just fast every you know month of this day. Because how how do you manufacture a trial? Right? This was a time of of trials, deep sadness. It's I'm mourning for something. I'm grieving for something. I've got this important decision to make. Like it's appropriate for those times. It's God's provision for those times. But you don't just manufacture that. Like I I just I just put it on the schedule. It's just what I do. I fast twice a week. But Jesus expects that you will fast. One commentator by the name of John Broda said, fasting is right only when your condition makes it natural. In a time of joy, fasting would be unnatural and could not express a genuine feeling. But persons who are in great distress are naturally inclined to abstain from eating. And fasting can deepen those spiritual impulses toward worship and devout meditation. It's appropriate for those times of grief, of sadness, of distress, like I said, life-changing situations. And this devotion to God during that time that I'm putting the plate down to devote myself to prayer. Don Green also adds this. He says, someone who casually pursues fasting. As a religious deity without a broken heart actually mocks the reason for its existence. Fasting naturally flowed from a profound spiritual urgency, desperation. It was not just the routine spiritual ritual. There are these times of desperation that, Lord, I 'm desperate right now. And if you're experiencing severe difficulty, fasting is God's provision, and it's a very natural and biblical way to cry out to the Lord. And as a church, when we experience significant trials, this is God's provision for us as well. It's God's provision for us. And there's a time for everything, right? It's a time for every event under heaven. A time to give birth, a time to die, a time to plan, a time to uproot what is planted. A time to kill, a time to heal, a time to tear down, and a time to build up, a time to weep, and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. And the same God who makes provision for your gladness is the same God who makes provision for your sadness as well. And this is one of the provisions that God has given to us. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for this time that we've had together. And uh Father, I pray that as we seek to apply these things in in our lives, Lord, that you would give us a proper understanding of all of these things. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who are going through difficulties. Lord, difficulties that would make things like this appropriate. Father, I pray that your provision, Lord, would be applied in those ways that they need to be. And Father, we're thankful for the clarity that Scripture gives to us. Father, you are God who is good, who does good. And Father, we thank you for just the ways that you care for us as your children. In Jesus' name we praise you, and we give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.