The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 6? We're returning this morning to our study of the book of Matthew and the particular section. Of the Sermon on the Mount, which teaches us how to pray. Teaches us how to pray. We've been uh studying this for the past uh couple of weeks, and uh We're not done yet. We're still gaining more as we uh kind of feast around the table. Uh so we're uh definitely thankful for what the Lord has been uh teaching us through this uh uh this portion of Scripture. And uh why don't you recite with me uh the the Our Father prayer? Uh we'll be using debts and debtors instead of uh uh trespasses and trespassers, we'll be using debts and debtors. And using the old King James version of the prayer. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this model prayer. Uh we thank you for what our Lord teaches us uh through this prayer, and we pray that uh you would open up our minds to uh to what's revealed here. Father, we uh pray that you would transform our lives as we uh uh learn more about what it means to uh to have a connection with you through prayer, uh that you speak to us through your word and we speak back to you uh through prayer Lord and uh Father you've invited us uh to have communion with you. Father we uh I pray that uh this morning that you would use me as a weak instrument to to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus name we praise and give you thanks. Amen Throughout the the Sermon on the Mount, uh Jesus has been helping his his followers make a proper distinction uh between what was perceived to be righteous and acceptable and honorable before God, and what was truly righteous and acceptable and honorable before God. And this teaching on prayer is is really no different. The disciples had been exposed uh to many examples, many prominent examples of of prayer uh that were impressive on the surface, uh but all of for all of the the attraction that a lot of these examples had for these men, there was nothing that God would have recognized or rewarded about the the prayers that Jesus contrast uh this prayer with. And uh there were two pitfalls of prayer that Jesus warned his disciples about. Uh first of all, there were the the hypocritical prayers These would be the prayers that were typically offered by the Jewish religious leaders. These were the prayers that waited for the curtain to open, uh for the light to shine bright as they walked walked out on stage for their performance. And uh, even though many of their prayers contained uh rich biblical truth and claimed to be addressed to God, uh the reality was that their their prayers were sent in a self-addressed stamped envelope. It was it was really coming back to them. It was really about their glory uh being served rather than the glory of God. Some of the most beautiful prayers uh that were ever uttered have done nothing more than boomerang right back uh to the person that was was praying it. Every attempt to elevate ourselves in the eyes of others is rejected by God. Rejected by God. If if you're in it for you. You know, that's rejected by God and how shameful uh will it be for people to stand before God on the last day, uh knowing that their supposed Prayers of praise and thanksgiving weren't even heard by God because it was really all about them. Prayers that are meant for the ears of others who don't reach heaven. Prayers that are meant for the ears of others don't reach heaven. They're not heard by God. That was the first pitfall, praying hypocritically. And uh the second pitfall that Jesus teaches them to avoid was praying ignorantly. Praying like the Gentiles, praying like a pagan. These were the kinds of prayers that were uh typically offered by the religious Gentiles. Gentiles were known in scripture for for both their spiritual ignorance as well as their religious fervor. They believed that that if their prayers were fervent enough and sacrificial enough and long enough that somehow God was obligated to to answer them uh for their their praying. And this is really the same kind of thing that uh characterizes a lot of churches today, a lot of charismatic churches today. Many people believe that if their worship is energetic enough And if they their speech is spiritual enough, and you know, usually if they can pray in a tongue, if that they'll be able to get a breakthrough to God. You know, if I'm just fervent enough and sacrificial enough and energetic enough and I praise God enough and worship enough somehow. I'll be able to break through to God and God will finally hear me. And God will finally give me what I'm asking for. That's not the kind of view of prayer that the Lord gives. It's really a false view of prayer, a poor understanding of who God is. Because if it if it really took that to break through to God, why didn't it Jesus teach us to do that here? W why didn't he say, you know, this is how you pray? You know, that that you really gotta you know work it up and and get into a fervor for it, you know, and be long and sacrificial and everything else in your prayer before you can finally break through To God, to get your breakthrough. That's not what he offers us here. He doesn't offer us a crash course on how to speak in tongues or a seminar on elevated speech. He doesn't give us any of that. The prayer that he offers, in contrast to all that, is simple, it's direct, but it's powerful and it's effective. Simple, direct, but powerful and effective. And if anyone would know what kinds of prayers were heard by the Father, Certainly it would be the eternal Son of God, right? If anybody knows how to get a prayer three to God, it would be Jesus Christ. And there are a lot of questions that the disciples have for Jesus. throughout the gospels, but uh there's only one time where the disciples ask Jesus, can you teach us to do that? Disciples have a lot of questions, but there's only one time where they say, Can you teach us to do that? And it was when it came to this matter of prayer. They never asked Jesus, you know, hey, can you teach us to do a miracle like that? Can you teach us to teach like that? But they did ask, can you teach us to pray like that? Somehow they they understood that there was this extraordinary communion that Jesus had with God and they wanted in. You know, can can I do that? That's what I want to be able to do. Can you teach us to pray like you pray? Somehow they they they knew that if they could pray like Jesus prayed, that maybe they could live like Jesus lived. They needed to connect with God the Father And in Luke chapter 11, when they ask Jesus again, they ask him about prayer again, Jesus offers the same prayer. The same prayer that we find in Matthew chapter 5 is the same, or 6, is the same prayer that we find over in Luke chapter 11. It's the same prayer. And in this prayer, what we really have is the essential framework for all prayers. It could be uh expanded, it could be extended, uh, but it couldn't be improved. And uh there are two main sections of this prayer. It opens with a focus on God, his name, his kingdom, his will. And then it moves on to address our needs, our provision, our pardon, our protection. It's really not complicated. Pray is about God's glory and our good. God's glory and our good, that's what prayer is about. Uh but this section of scripture has been uh so rich that we've taken the last six to eight weeks to chew on it Uh like I said before, and uh we're still not ready to leave the table yet. And uh it's been my prayer that the God would use this section of scripture to transform our lives and I and I truly believe that God is starting to answer that prayer for us as a church. And I know for me individually that God is starting to answer that prayer. And this morning we arrive at the fifth petition. The fifth petition in the prayer Where Jesus taught his disciples to pray, forgive us our sins. Forgive us our sins. This is a petition that's uh set apart from all the others. uh in a unique way. Uh this is the only petition that we know that Jesus did not pray for himself. Why? Because uh Jesus never had any sins to confess, right? This is the only prayer that Jesus didn't offer himself before God. Back in uh Matthew chapter three, uh we know that Jesus identified himself with our sins. We know that Jesus did that. uh when he was baptized by John the Baptist and uh Matthew chapter three and verse four if you want to flip back there uh real quick you have uh this dialogue between John the Baptist and and Jesus Christ. In chapter 3 and verse 4, 14, you have Jesus coming to uh to the Jordan to be baptized by John. But in verse 14 it says, But John tried to prevent him. Saying I have need to be baptized by you. And do you come to me? John understood that this baptism was a baptism of repentance. You know, what what are you doing here? You know, this this this baptism isn't for you. Why why are you here? Jesus was the perfect Lamb of God who came to take away the sin of the world. What was Jesus doing in the water? And Jesus replied That it was fitting for him to fulfill all righteousness. And the righteousness that was being fulfilled here was not for his own sake, but for whose? It's for our sake. For our sake. He stepped into the water to identify with us at our lowest point, at the point of our sin. And he's not ashamed to call us brothers. He identifies himself with us. It says in uh Romans chapter eight that he came in the likeness of sinful flesh as an offering for sin. He condemned sin in the flesh so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled. in us, that Jesus identified himself with us so that he might remove our sins from us. The only one who knew no sin, never committed sin, became sin for us so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. So this prayer is unique because Jesus identified himself with us, but this is a prayer that he couldn't actually utter himself. This prayer is also unique to forgive us our sins, to forgive us our debts, because it's the only one that set apart by the qualification uh that's set apart by a qualification, as we forgive our debtors You know, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. There's no other uh prayer in this uh section that's qualified uh by that. And uh furthermore, this is the only request that's given an additional explanation at the close of the prayer. Uh look back at uh Matthew chapter uh six again. We have uh Again in verse 12, forgive us our debts. And then if you look down into verses fourteen and fifteen, after the prayer is already concluded, it says, For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your heavenly Father will not forgive your transgressions. There's there's no other request that receives an additional explanation at the end. This this request again, like I said, it's set apart. So this is uh Definitely something that the Lord wanted to emphasize to make sure that we didn't overlook the significance of it. So this prayer is definitely set apart. But it's also connected to the rest of of the prayers as well. It's connected by the word and uh uh actually in the in the Greek it's connected by the uh the word and verse 12 and forgive us our debts. And Jesus reminds us by this connection that bread isn't the only daily provision that we need. There's another daily provision that we need. We need to be daily cleansed from our our sins. daily cleanse from our our debts and uh to restore the intimacy and communion with God. There's not a there's not a day that goes by that you don't need this prayer. To to pray, you know, forgive me for my debts, forgive us our debts as we forgive our our debtors. I don't I don't care, you know, how much you think you knocked it out the park that day. You know, it's like, man, I'm I'm doing pretty good. I don't think I have anything to confess You know, you might want to confess to that statement that you just made, right? You know, I don't care what you think you're you're doing. Our our words, our actions, our thoughts are shot through with sin. We can't escape it. We can't escape it. Every day we need to come before God and offer this prayer before Him. Father, forgive me of my debts. Forgive me for my sins. This connection also teaches us without the pardon of God, all the good things in life will benefit us nothing. You know, so just before he talked about praying for this daily bread, praying for daily provision, but all that means nothing if you don't also have daily forgiveness. A. W. Pink said this that a man in a cell on death row may be fed and clothed, but what is the dainiest diet and the costliest apparel worth to him as long as he remains under the sentence of imminent death? All the stuff in the world doesn't make up for the sins that we commit. If we have provision but we don't have provision of forgiveness, you know what sense does it make? What is the profit of man if he gains the whole world and does what? Loses soul. What what difference does it make if my sins aren't forgiven? I don't care how much food I eat, right? Matthew Henry adds this word, he says our daily bread Love this. He says, our daily bread only fattens us as lambs for the slaughter if our sins be not pardoned. This connection also reminds us that our sins, which are so many and so grievous, that we don't even deserve one mouthful of food. Jacob prayed in Genesis 32, verse 10, he says, I'm not worthy of the least of all the deeds of steadfast love and all the faithfulness that you've shown to your servant. I'm not worthy of this. So we pray for food and then as soon as we ask God for our daily provision we recognize that I'm not I'm not even worthy of what I've just asked for. I'm not worthy of any of the the just the least of the blessings that you've given me. And then finally, we're made to trust in God for provision for our bodies, just as much as we're to trust in God for provision for our souls, right? I trust in God for my daily daily bread, you know, to feed me every day, to sustain me. But I'm also trusting in God that He would forgive me, that He would bring me into closeness and fellowship with Him. Just as much as we trust God for one, we trust God. for the other. We look to uh to God for for both. He's the source of of both. And we'll look at this uh prayer in three sections. First of all, The words forgive us, which let us know that it's impossible to pay God what we owe him. It's impossible to pay what we owe to God. Second, we'll look at uh the word our debts, which lets us know that it's impossible to escape what we owe to God. And then third, we'll look at the phrase, as we also have forgiven our debtors, which lets us know that it's impossible to avoid what we owe to others. It's impossible to pay what we owe to God, impossible to escape what we owe to God. And impossible to avoid what we owe to to others. First of all, it's impossible to pay what we owe to God. Forgive us. Forgive us. Back in 2008 Bernie Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison for running the biggest fraudulent scheme in U. S. history. Uh Madoff was a well-respected stockbroker and advisor who convinced thousands of investors to hand over their savings, falsely promo pro promising and uh this kind of view of uh uh profits and and returns. He was caught in uh December 2008 and charged with eleven counts of fraud, money laundering, perjury, theft. Madoff con investors out of $65 billion. $65 billion. And went undetected for decades. He used what was known as the the Ponzi scheme, which lures investors in by guaranteeing unusually high returns. The name originated with a guy by the name of uh Charles Ponzi. Uh who promise fifty percent returns on an investment in only ninety days, you know, you give me your money, in ninety days I'll be able to return at least a fifty percent uh profit to you and and the way it works is uh is basically like this. Like I could promise a hundred people, you know, if you invest a dollar with me, you know, next week I'll give you two. And and it'll work as long as only fifty percent of the people ask me for two dollars back, right? I'm not making any money, I'm just redistributing it. You know, so it looks like when I receive two dollars, it's like, hey, it works, right? So you get enough people to say that it works, and then uh you kind of tell the other people, hey, you you just need to hold off, let your money grow a little bit more. You know, it's coming to you. And uh that's how the the Ponzi scheme works. And in Madoff's case, uh things began to deteriorate after clients requested a total of seven billion dollars back in returns. And unfortunately, Madoff only had 200 million to 300 million left to give. The day of reckoning came and the jig was up. Flip over to Matthew chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18 tells us about a first century Bernie Madoff. And the significance of this story is pretty chilling when you understand what he's talking about. Matthew chapter 18 Look at verse twenty-three here. Matthew chapter eighteen, verse twenty-three. Jesus says, For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children and all that he had in repayment to be made. uh that's used here for for talent. It was a uh a word that originally meant a balance. Uh it was the the word for scale And uh then it came to mean anything that was weighed on the scale, and then later it was used for about a 30 kilogram weight on the scale, and uh finally it came to be used for an amount of money. uh indicating like the amount of gold or silver or copper that equal about thirty kilograms of of weight. So uh when you see that word talent, that's what it was was used for. It's uh the weight of uh and particularly here it would be silver the weight of silver in uh 30 kilogram units and uh The talent would have been worth 6,000 denarii. That might not mean a lot to you, but a day's wage, according to Matthew chapter 20, and verse 2, then what you earn for one day was one denarius You'd have to work six thousand days to get one talent. Six thousand days to get one talent. Uh day's wage, like I said, was uh one denarius if you do the math 10,000 talents, to earn 10,000 talents, would be the equivalent of 200,000 years of manual labor. 200,000. If he could work 50 years in a lifetime, he would have to live 4,000 lifetimes to repay back the debt that he owed to this king. Madoff had nothing on this guy. But look what he has the nerve to say in verse 26. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. Are you kidding me? You've got 4,000 lifetimes to pay this off? And am I going to wait around for 4,000 lifetimes to get paid? You understand how ridiculous this is? Just give me some more time and I'll pay it back. It's impossible to pay back what he owes. It's impossible. And this is the same condition that all of humanity finds itself in before God. You have a debt that's impossible to pay back to God. Impossible. What Jesus is talking about here is the debt of sin before a holy and a righteous God. And here's the kicker for it. This is what we deserve if we only committed one sin. James chapter 2 verse 10. If we've broken one, it's just like we've broken it all, right? Every one of us is burning mad off spiritually. We don't have the have a monetary debt, we have a a moral debt before God. And your moral debt is the worst crisis you'll ever face in your life. If you if you think that uh you know losing sixty-five billion is bad, what's it like to lose your eternal soul? There's no way we can esc escape. No way we can pay this debt off. It's not like the king thought he was going to get his money back by selling his his uh his whole family into slavery. He wasn't gonna get the money back. That's just punishment. I'm not going to get the money back. I'm just punishing you for what you've done. And then somehow people come up with these uh ridiculous ideas that somehow we can pay God off. There was a Jewish rabbi by the name of Rabbi Akiba who was fond of describing God as a great shopkeeper who kept an enormous ledger in which he carefully recorded a person's debits, their bad deeds, and their credits, their righteous deeds. Akiba warned that God would send out his collectors to collect payment for the debts at the appropriate time, whether or not the debtors were prepared to pay. Akiba warned that God warned that God's people needed to make sure that they performed more good deeds than bad deeds. Ever hear that one before? You know, you gotta balance it out. You know, do more good than bad, and you know God will accept you. Do more good than bad. Ensure that your account is in the black rather than in the red. And this is the basic hope of all false religion. That somehow there's something that I can offer God that's going to be good enough that God is going to just let me go. And He'll sweep everything else that I did, you know, under the rug. God's going to let me go. I'm not that bad of a person. I call it this uh the the do-it-yourself religion. You know people trust God like uh like Home Depot, you know. You can do it, we can help, right? They they think that somehow I I can do it, I can fix that. I can fix it And I'm I'm a fixer. You know, there's uh you know a few projects I have at home that that I'd like to fix, but you know, after a couple days and a couple trips to Home Depot, you just say, you know what, I can't fix this. You can't fix sin. You can't fix sin. There's no way you can pay it off. And what's so and this is what what's so damning about the doctrine of purgatory. Our Catholic friends have bought into some kind of payment plan that doesn't work. The Catholic Church teaches that temporal punishment for sins after baptism can be expiated. by the works in this life or following death in purgatory, that somehow you can pay it off. But what's the sad reality about that? You'll never pay it off. Forgiveness is something that you you can't work for. You can only ask for. You can't work for forgiveness. You have to ask for it. Because I can't earn it. The word forgive means to send away, to leave alone, to permit. Basically it has the sense of to let go without a sense of guilt or obligation. Matthew 1827 summarizes it well, and the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him. You've been released. You know, there's no payment due. Forgave him the debt. Can you imagine that? Now when you know what what kind of payment was due, to just forgive them, release them, let them go Jeremiah 31, verse 34 speaks of our sins being forgiven. I will remember their sins no more. 1 John 1 verse 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This is what God does. Flip over to Psalm 103. Psalm one oh three, look at verse twelve. Passage we often often quote. You almost wonder where to where to stop. It's just all over. Let's let's start at verse 8. The Lord is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in loving kindness. He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us according to our sins. nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love and kindness toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. Released. It's over. You don't have to deal with it anymore. And uh one of the interesting things and uh You know, not that it's uh you know a point that was you know trying to be made here in in the sounds, but uh when you think about it, like if you start at the South Pole, right? You know, take a globe, start at the South Pole, and you start traveling north After you hit the North Pole, what starts to happen? You're going south, right? Now think about the same globe. When you start going east, at what point do you start going west? You don't. It's not north and south where the points connect. It's east and west. As far as the east is from the from the from the west. You go east, you keep going east. You go north, you eventually start going south. You go east, you keep going east. You go west, you keep going west. The Lord has removed our transgressions from us. And think about the enormous debt that we owed God. And uh here's the here's the thing that's that's really staggering when you when you think about this, is that When the believer is forgiven, it doesn't mean that the debt disappears. There's still debt. It's just that somebody else pays it for you. And it's infinite grace. God doesn't demand satisfaction from us, but he freely gives us his son and accepts the satisfaction of his son on behalf of those who trust in Jesus Christ. And this is true for people even before the cross. Even before the cross. In uh in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 9, verse 15, it reminds us that even the blood of bulls and goats could never take away sins. They were never, you know, took away the sins of the people. Everybody in the Old Testament before the cross was forgiven on credit because the payment wasn't made yet. The payment came when Christ came. That was the payment. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 15, it says, For this reason he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that since the death has taken place for the redemption Listen to this, of the transgressions that were committed under the first covenant, that his death paid for the transgressions that were committed under the law. Those who have been called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance. It was the death of Christ that paid for it all. Before the cross, after the cross, it was all Christ. Forgiveness comes through Jesus Christ. The sacrifice of Christ covered the sins that were even committed under the first covenant. How could God forgive sins before Christ died? It was because Christ would die. So back in Matthew 6, when Christ teaches his disciples to pray, forgive us, when Christ teaches his disciples to pray that, you know what he's actually saying? You know what he's actually saying when he says, you know, pray forgive us? He understands that the answer to that prayer is going to be me. The answer to that prayer is going to be my own crucifixion. Pray forgive us and I'll take the debt. That's what Jesus Christ does for us. Without the shedding of blood, there's what? No forgiveness. No forgiveness. MacArthur said that the most essential, blessed, and yet most costly thing God ever did was to provide man the forgiveness of sin. It's the most essential because it keeps us from hell, gives us joy in this life. It's the most blessed because it introduces us into eternal fellowship with God. And it is most costly because the Son of God gave up his life so that we might live. And this is what we come before God daily for, to remind ourselves of our desperate need of forgiveness. A Puritan saint of many generations ago said this. He says, Grant me never to lose sight of the exceeding sinfulness of sin, exceeding righteousness of salvation. Exceeding glory of Christ, exceeding beauty of holiness, and the exceeding wonder of grace. Do you ever like lose the wonder of grace? The fact that you're actually forgiven, that you're pardoned of your sins? I mean people can you know rejoice over you know hitting a sixty five million dollar uh you know lottery or something like that, right? Or billion in the case of Madoff. Sixty five billion they can rejoice over that, and you can't rejoice over your sins being forgiven? Which is so much greater. By this prayer we acknowledge our sin, we long for forgiveness, and we exercise our faith that the satisfaction has been made. That's number one. It's impossible to pay what we owe to God. Don't worry, we're not going to cover all three, all right? Number two, it's impossible to escape what we owe to God. Our debts. Uh four Greek words are typically used for uh sin in the New Testament. Uh Hamartia, which is the normal word for sin missing the mark. Paraptoma, which is uh the word for false step, misstep, uh uh paraphasis, which is uh stepping over or across the line. And uh anomia, uh, which is where we get our anomia means law, ah, anomia , without law, lawlessness, uh, utter disregard for the law. And uh everywhere else the uh uh that we find uh you know words for sin, you know, words like these are used. But here's the the only time that the word debt is used The the word for for debt. Ophelemah. It's uh used in Greek for monetary debt. Everywhere else where you find this word, it's used for monetary debt. This is the only time it's used for moral debt that we have to God And uh really when we think about that that biblically, uh, we're debtors to God in at least two to three ways that we can't escape. Okay? Think about this with me. Uh first of all, we have a debt of obedience to God. Okay? You have a debt of obedience to God's righteous standard. God's your creator, he's your owner, he's your ruler, and uh by virtue of you being a creation of God and him sustaining your life, you owe him obedience. You owe obedience to God. And maybe this is why the prayer for daily bread came before daily forgiveness, because once we recognize that God is the one that created us and sustains us, I owe God. I owe God obedience because of that. In uh Genesis chapter 47, when the people of uh Egypt realized that they couldn't sustain themselves any longer, they came to uh to Egypt and to Joseph who was in charge and says, Hey, we're we're your slaves. You know, you you're the one that sustains us, we belong to you. You know, you're the one that feeds us, uh you we we owe you our lives They understood there was a connection there between the one that sustains you and the one who uh who you owe obedience to. We're we're debtors to God because of our creation by him and his uh sustaining of us. We're also debtors to God by virtue of our salvation. Our salvation. In Romans chapter 8, it speaks of this obligation we have before God. Flip over to Romans chapter 8. In Romans chapter 8, in uh verse 10, it uh talks about this this obligation that we have before God because of of our salvation. Romans 8. 10 it says, if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. So then, brethren, we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, but to the what? To the spirit. We're not under obligation to the flesh, but to the spirit. Why? Because we've been given salvation through the spirit of God So now we're under obligation because of our salvation. And 1 Corinthians 6. 20 says, you've been bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body. And uh even if we've done everything that God called us to do, uh Luke 17 and verse 10 says that we're still unworthy slaves. You've you've only done what you ought to have done. You were obligated to that. You haven't stored up any treasury of merits. You know, you ought to have done that. That's what you ought to have done. We owe God obedience. That's the first way we're debtors to God. But there's another way we're debtors to God. When we fail to obey, now we're debtors to justice. Debtors to justice. Man's first debt is obedience to God, and when that debt's not paid, it's followed by the debt of sin, the debt of justice. In Deuteronomy 27, verse 26, when Moses was reiterating the stipulations of the law in Deuteronomy 27, 26, this is what he said. Cursed is he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them. And all the people shall say, Amen. You know, this is what the whole nation of Israel said. Amen. There's a curse on us if we do not obey all the law and they just sign their own death sentence. We're going to obey everything. Amen. The law was binding to them, to all their descendants that followed them. And not only were were Jews obligated, so were Gentiles, not because of the written law of God, but because of the law that was written on their hearts. You're obligated to God. And when you violate that law, there's punishment. We're debtors to justice. Debtors to righteousness, to obedience to God, debtors to justice because of our sin. And uh here's the third way we're debtors to God. We're debtors to grace. Debtors to the grace of of God. As believers in uh Romans chapter 8, verse 10, it says, There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Remember that? No, no condemnation. Price has been paid. So how are we still in debt to God? And the best way I can think of to put this is that we're we're debtors to grace. And we recognize that every time we say this prayer. Every time we come before the Lord in this prayer, because the first two words of the prayer are what? Our Father. Our father. We come to him and ask for forgiveness, not because we're we're uh um coming before uh a judge as an enemy, you know. We're coming before a father as a child. There's a relationship now that we have before God. And I love what Lloyd Jones says this. He says, who is the man who can pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors? He is the man who already has the right to say that, say our Father. And the only man who has the right to say our Father is the one who is in Christ Jesus This is the the children's prayer. It's not a prayer for anybody, but only for those who have become children of God and the Lord Jesus. And uh sometimes people try to argue that, you know, hey, if if you're already in Christ, you've already been forgiven, why do you have to ask God for forgiveness anymore? You ever heard that? You know, why do you have to go out for have to ask God for forgiveness? If you're already his son, you're already his daughter, all transgression has been removed, there's no condemnation for you. Why do you have to come before God and ask for forgiveness? And they completely miss the point. Because we're not coming before God as uh you know enemies to a judge. We're coming before God as children to a father. Children to a father. The prayer for forgiveness is not to be cleared before a judge, but to enjoy the intimacy and communion of God as our Father. Although our sins have been forgiven in the past, present, future. Sin still has a way of disturbing the intimacy that we have with God, right? Still has a way of disturbing that intimacy. It interferes with our intimacy. When we sin, our personal relationship with God needs to be restored The the sins of my children don't get them kicked out. You know, you don't you don't get kicked out of the family because you sin. Uh but it sure does break up the intimacy, right? You know, we might be close in another way. It it breaks up the intimacy. Same kind of thing what happens when we when we come before before God. We come before God as as children before a father, and we're we're asking for that restoration of the of intimacy and communion with God. So so in this sense we're we're debtors to grace. And uh just a Illustrate that a little bit more. Turn back to Matthew chapter 18 where we we were before. Matthew chapter 18. Go back to the first century Bernie Madoff here again. Verse twenty seven. Actually start at verse uh 26. It says, so the slave fell to the ground, prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, I'll repay you everything. The Lord of that slave felt compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt. But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, and he seized him and began to choke him, saying, Pay back what you owe. Uh this word for for choke I actually it means to to actually make blood gush out. I mean this guy was Like literally going after this guy. Choking him. Pay back what you owe. So his fellow slave fell to the ground and began to plead with him, saying, Have patience with me and I will repay you But he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved and came and reported to their lord all that had happened. Then summoning him his lord said to him, You wicked slave I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me? Listen to verse 33. Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you? You know what he's saying? You're a debtor to grace. I had mercy on you. What should you have? Mercy on others. You're a debtor to my grace. It's not because you owe the money anymore, right? That's been forgiven. But now you're a debtor to my grace. Because I've had mercy and compassion on you. You owe mercy and compassion to others. You're a debtor to that now. Impossible to avoid what we owe to God. It's impossible to pay back what we owe to God. And it's also impossible to avoid what we owe to others. We pray that God would forgive us as we've forgiven others. And uh and that's what we'll look at. the next time we we get together. Because prayer is nothing but a formality and hypocrisy if we we pray with malice and spite in our hearts against our brothers. So we'll save the rest of that for For next time, because there's a lot to talk about here. Amen. Heavenly Father, we I thank you, God, so much for this opportunity that we uh have to come before your word again. Uh Father, our sins are many Uh the the debt that we uh owe to you is is great. Um but Father, you've you've forgiven us of our debt. You've cleared us uh from our our debt legally. Uh there's there's nothing to uh to give in in that sense But Father, we still owe you our obedience. And Father, we're still betters to your grace because of your lavish grace that you've poured out on us. Father, we owe obedience to you and we owe forgiveness to others. Father, I pray that you'd help us to remember that, that we remember just how great our sin was against you, and that we would um uh never lose the uh the sense of wonder that you've uh given us your grace. Father, we uh I give you all uh praise, honor, and glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files