The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're going to continue in our exposition of the book of Romans in chapter 7. As a congregation and as a church body, we've been working our way through the book of Romans, and right now we're in the middle of a section in the book of Romans that discusses the Christians' pursuit of holiness. or the believers' growth and godliness. And that's the goal that we as Christians are to be pursuing every day of our lives to look more like Jesus Christ. And this is the goal that's found all throughout Scripture. In Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 15, it says, but speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into Him. And who is the Him? Even the head, Jesus Christ. We're growing in Christ's likeness. That's what our goal is, to grow into the likeness of Christ. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 18, it says, But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image, the image of the Lord Jesus, from glory to glory. Just as from the Lord the Spirit. It's the same goal that the Apostle John longed for, 1 John chapter 3 and verse 2. Beloved, now we are the children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. Every day, your life as a believer is to look more and more like Jesus Christ. Is that the goal of your life? Is that the prize that you're trying to lay hold of? Is that the treasure that you seek? If you're a Christian, that's what's true about you. You're fixed on that. The hymn writer captures it well, Be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Naught or nothing be all else to me, save that thou art thou my best thought by day or by night, waking or sleeping, thy presence my light We want to be like Jesus. One song we used to sing, Oh, to be like Jesus. Oh, to be like him. How I longed to be like him. And it's the resurrection of Jesus Christ that enables us to walk in a newness of life and pattern our lives after Jesus Christ. In Romans chapter 6 and verse 4, it says, Therefore we have been buried with him through baptism into death, and that baptism into death is not talking about a water baptism, but it's talking about our spiritual union with Jesus Christ by faith, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. Because of our spiritual union with Jesus Christ by faith, his physical resurrection to life has enabled me to now walk in newness of life So now as believers, we're not the same people that we used to be. Our old self is now crucified. We're no longer the slaves of sin. And we're to consider ourselves as alive to God Romans chapter 6 and verse 11 says, even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. We're to consider ourselves to be dead to sin, and why is that true? Why are we consider ourselves to be dead to sin? Because that is what is indeed true about you. If you're a believer, you are dead to sin. And why is it true that Being dead to sin and thinking about this and considering this to be true, why does it seem like, even though I am dead to sin, that I can't seem to get rid of it? Have you ever wondered about that? Why can't I completely remove sin from my life if I'm dead to sin? If my old life is crucified with Christ, if I'm no longer the slave of sin, if I'm alive to God. Why does it seem that every time I want to do good, that sin is right there present with me? Can't seem to shake it. Romans chapter 7 verse 21 says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. Last week we mentioned that sin is like a dangerous predator. It's not a delightful pet, it's a dangerous predator. And this week we'll see that sin is not an invited guest, it's an unwanted intruder. It invades everything that's sacred. John Owen, in his book, Indwelling Sin writes about sin and he says, it it always abides in the soul. It is never absent. There is constant residence is in habitation. If it came upon the soul only at certain seasons, if it was, you know, only an occasional visitor. Much obedience might be perfectly accomplished in its absence. But the soul is its own. Wherever you are, whatever you are about, whatever you are doing, this law of sin is always in you. In the best that you do and in the worst that you do. Men little consider what a dangerous companion is always at home with them when they are in company, when they're alone, night or by day. All is one. Sin is with them And then he goes on to say this. There's something more in that expression more than just indwelling. This is worse than just dwelling there. A roommate might dwell in a house without constantly interfering with the owner and what he's doing But it is not so with sin. Do you wish to pray? Sin is right there. Do you wish to hear? Sin is there Do you wish to give alms? Sin is there. Would you meditate? Sin is there. Would you wish to engage in any duty requiring faith in God, love towards Him, to work righteousness, to resist temptations? If so, this troublesome, perplexing indweller will still more or less force itself upon you and be present with you so that you cannot perfectly and completely accomplish what is good. Sin is an unwanted intruder. It's a constant tormentor of the soul. And apart from all the textual arguments and theological arguments that we could give, To say that Romans 7 describes the life of a believer, Christians would have to agree something about the practical arguments as well. Romans 7 just describes our experience. Sin is present in us. And isn't that what 1 John 1 and verse 8 teaches? If we say that we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us. We have this dangerous companion, this troublesome meddler, as one commentator says, the farther men advance in the Christian life. And the more mature their discipleship, the more painfully sharp their consciousness of the distance between what they ought to be and what they are. So this is where we live. And that gap between what we ought to be and what we are. So happy resurrection Sunday. But what Romans 7 does is it helps us to address the gap between what we ought to be and what we are. So let's jump back into Romans chapter 7 and I'll start at verse Verse 12 for the sake of context. Romans chapter 7 starting at verse 12. So so then the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Therefore, did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be, rather it was sin, in order that it might be shown to be sin by affecting my death through that which is good. So that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of flesh sold into bondage to sin. For what I am doing I do not understand. For I'm not practicing what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. So now no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I am doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. But I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. Wretched man that I am. Who will set me free from the body of this death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then on the one hand, I myself, with my mind, am serving the law of God. But on the other, with my flesh, the law of sin. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. Now, Father, pleading with you to help us every time we approach your word, Father, we need your help. So Father, I pray that you would open up this text to our understanding. And Father, that you would help us, those of us who are believers in Jesus Christ's Lord, that we would fight against sin. Father, that we would recognize the resources that have been granted to us to fight against sin. And Father, I pray that if there are any among us, Lord, who have not yet joined that fight, Who have not yet trusted in Jesus Christ by faith alone. Father, that today would be the day of salvation for them. Father, that you would do the work that only you can do, that you would awaken them to their condition. A fearful condition to be separated from the living God. And Father, I pray for those of us who know you. Father, I pray that we would see just the glory Of the resurrection and what the resurrection has done for us. So, Father, we pray that you would be honored and glorified through the preaching of your word, and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. What we ought to be according to Romans chapter 7 is what's found in the law of God. In Romans chapter 7 and verse 10 it says, And this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me. That to try to follow the law of God in order to gain salvation only provides death. That we're not able to obey the law of God sufficiently to enter into eternal life. In fact, everything that we do is actually considered sinful. Apart from faith, it's impossible to please God, the Bible says. And everything that we do, apart from faith and trust in Him, It's useless. It's worthless. And all of it does, all it does is just compound and add up the judgment that we would face on the day when we stand before the living God We can't obey the law in order to enter into eternal life. The law did not bring me life. What the law did is it killed me. The law killed me. This commandment which was to result in life proved to result in death for me. The law killed me. The wages of sin is what? Death. The soul that sins shall surely what? Die. Galatians chapter 3, verse 10 says, For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. If you think that you can get to heaven based on your law-keeping, you have to keep every single one of the laws of God. You can't pick and choose. This isn't baskin' and robins. You know, pick your flavor. Every one of the laws of God has to be obeyed. And not only does every law have to be obeyed, it also has to be obeyed perfectly. And all of us fall short. There's none of us who are righteous. No, not one. So if anybody is going to be saved, it's going to be apart from the law. It's not going to be because of my law-keeping that I'm saved. Romans chapter 3 verse 21 says, but now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Not through your law-keeping, but the righteousness of God is manifested. And where is it manifested? It's manifested in his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the righteousness of God. He's the one, the only one who could live perfectly underneath the righteous law of God. And when he died on the cross, Again, he did not die for his own transgressions. He died there as a substitute for us. Voluntarily, he gave up his life for sinners. The just for the unjust, so that we might be reconciled to God. That's what Jesus Christ has done for us. And that's one of the reasons why we celebrate, especially on this weekend, celebrating the death of Jesus Christ and the crucifixion and celebrating his resurrection. proving that he had power over the grave and that he gives eternal life to all those who would repent of their sins and trust in him. It's good news. It's good news, and I pray that if you haven't yet received that good news, that uh you would come to know that today. But Paul wants to make it clear that the law was not the problem. Even though it's the law that brought the judgment, the law that brought the condemnation, it wasn't the law that was the problem. It was us who were the problem. We're the problem. And that's our first point from last week. And just to organize our thoughts a little bit, I'll call it the response to the question, did the law cause my death? And the response is no Verse 13, chapter 7. Therefore, did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be. Rather, it was sin. Sin is the villain. The law is the conduit. But it's not the cause of my death. The law was the innocent tool used by sin for my death. You can't blame the law for putting to death the murderer The law is innocent, the law is righteous, the law is good, but sin uses that good law to bring about the death sentence. The law was just the means to put me to death. And if you do not trust in Christ, God's law still hangs over your head. And there's nothing that you can do to stop that law of God from dropping down upon you at any moment. The law of God will be satisfied, and it will either be satisfied in your condemnation, or it will be satisfied in the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ, that He's the one who satisfies it in your place. And we covered that last time. But having answered that question about the about sin's role in our past condemnation, Paul now turns the corner in verse 14 to speak about sin 's ongoing impact in the life of the believer after conversion. And there's a definite shift in the way that Paul describes his condition moving forward. Starting in verse 14, he doesn't speak about himself in the past tense anymore, that this is what did happen, this is what was now he purposefully switches to the present tense to say that this is what is. Beginning in verse 14 he describes his present condition And Paul gives us four reasons why our sin after conversion does not become the cause of death for us. And then he draws the conclusion in the review at the end. So we're really talking about just to organize our thoughts a little bit, you know, we're we're talking about the response uh to that question, you know, is sin the cause of death? We're giving reasons for why even after salvation sin is not a cause of death. And then he wraps it up with just a review at the end. So number two, big uh uh point to you is the the reasons why our sin after conversion does not become a cause of death for us. What's the first reason why? That I may be confused, but I'm not cut off. When you read the language of verse 14 and 15, it just seems confusing. Like I don't understand what I'm doing, Paul says. Verse 14, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I'm the flesh sold into bondage to sin. For what I am doing I do not understand, for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I am doing the very thing I hate. So the law is clearly described as coming from God. It's spiritual, it's good, it's righteous. And then he contrasted with Paul, and he says, but I'm fleshly. He says, I look at myself and I'm a flesh. And notice that he does not say that I'm in flesh. He says I'm of flesh, and that's significant. Because to be in flesh would have been used by Paul to speak about the realm, the domain, like in the kingdom of the flesh. But to be of the flesh is just to say that there are still vestiges of my fallen condition that still reside in me And that part of us will never change, even after faith in Christ. The flesh will always fight against the Spirit's control. It doesn't give up. Galatians chapter. five and verse sixteen says, But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh, for the flesh sets its desires against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that ye may not do the things that ye please. That's why we're not called to tame the flesh, that unredeemed part of us. We're taught to kill it. Kill it. Be killing sin or sin will be killing you. But there's this bondage that we have to sin because we can never completely get rid of it. It's like bound to us. And that's why we're said to be sold into bondage to sin. Sin is the tenant that will refuse to get evicted no matter how hard we try. In verse 17, the end of verse 17, it says, sin dwells in me. In verse 18, it says, For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. Verse 20, sin which dwells in me. The middle of verse 21. Evil is present in me. Verse 23, but I see a different law in the members of my body. Waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin, which is in my members. He's saying this is this is in there. It's lodged deep. I can't get rid of it The bondage that Paul describes is not primarily a bondage to the power of sin, but a bondage to what? It's the presence of it. I can't get rid of it. It's in me. I can't get away from it. Everywhere I go, I'm still there. You know, sometimes people think they'll be sanctified by a change of address, but you still show up wherever you go. You know, that's one of the problems with the monastic life. You know, you can separate yourself from society go to live in a desert somewhere, but you just took your greatest problem with you when you went. You took yourself. And sin with you And sin is the tenet that I can't evict. I'm bound to it. But would you also notice that Paul doesn't describe this bondage to sin as the bondage of his will to it? And that's significant. Sin is not a master over his inner self. His mind, his desires, his will are described as experiencing freedom. Because he says, even though I fall into sin, I don't understand what I'm doing. Sin doesn't make sense to me anymore. He doesn't enjoy the evil. Verse 15 he says, For I'm not practicing what I would like to do. This is not what I like anymore. I don't like the taste of sin anymore. It's not enjoyable to me. I don't enjoy it. I actually hate sin now. The new man hates sin. And he doesn't agree with it. He says in verse 16, I agree with the law. I don't agree with sin. I'm confessing that the law is good, and the word for good could be translated as beautiful, morally excellent. So I'm no longer making excuses for my sins. There used to be a time when I defended my sins and saying, you know, that's just how I am. You know, you just got to deal with it. Used to be a time when I stood up for my sins. Used to be a time when I celebrated my sins. This should be a time when I celebrated the sins of others. Hey, you know, you gotta do you You know, everybody's gotta, you know, be his own, you know, to each man his own. Who am I to tell you not to enjoy that? But once we're converted, it's like I can't do that anymore. I don't celebrate sin anymore. I don't approve of sin anymore. And when I fall into sin, I hate it. This is the last thing that I want to do. We hate our sins. That is the sign of a believer. That I reject that. I agree with the law of God, and even when I when I fall short of it, I don't blame God, I blame myself. Romans 3 verse 4 says, May it never be, rather let God be found true, though every man be found a liar, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. So yes, I uh I might fall into sin, but but this is not this is not what I desire to do. This is the very sin that I hate But I'm not cut off because of those inconsistencies in my life because God has made me a new man. I've got a new mind. I have new desires. I have a new will. And I may not be all that I ought to be, but thank God I'm not what I once was. And because of that, sin is not the unbroken pattern of the believer. We no longer present ourselves as slaves to sin. We're not showing up for duty and giving ourselves willingly over to sin anymore. That's not our pattern of life. Romans 6 and verse 16. It says, do you not know that when you were that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience? You are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness? Are you wearing sin's uniform? No. Showing up for work, you know, this is just what I do, this is me, this is my occupation, or send something that you resist Because I hate that. That's not me anymore. I'm not a slave to sin. I I fight against sin now. There's a wrestling that happens in my life now. There should be something different about you as a believer. And like I said, we covered that last time as well. We may be confused, we may be conflicted, but we're not cut off. Number two, I may be corrupted, but I'm not cast away. Look at verse 17. It says, So now no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. For the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. And here where Paul says, you know, so no longer am I the one doing it, there are some who would argue that Paul is trying to disassociate himself from his sins, as if he's not really responsible. Hey, don't blame me. I'm not the one doing it, you know. That's not what Paul is saying. He's not like Aaron, you know, the brother of Moses standing at the bottom of Mount Sinai. You know, Exodus 32, he said, uh, you know, hey Moses, I don't know how this golden calf got here. You know, I I just all I said is whoever has any gold, let them tear it off, and they gave it to me, I threw it into the fire, and out came the calf. Like I'm not the one who did it. So it's like of course you did that. And that's not Paul saying, like, hey, you know, don't blame me, you know. Yeah, there's a sin over there, but like who who who did that? That's not what Paul is saying. Down in verse 24 he says, Wretched man that I am does that sound like somebody who's trying to avoid responsibility He's not promoting this idea that like I'm disassociated from my sins or this kind of Gnostic idea that we can do what we want with our bodies, but our spirits are still good. You ever hear anybody say that? You know? It's like he's got a good heart Yeah, no, the the Bible says that your heart is desperately wicked, right? And you're working out what's going on in your heart. So so you can't say, well, hey, I I've just got this good heart, but like, yeah, I I just I'm just doing things that are contrary to that. That's not what Paul is saying. But what he's saying is that when I do fall into sin, that that does not represent the truest part of who I am anymore. That doesn't represent the new me that God has created me to be. Which is why he says in verse 17, so now no longer Am I the one doing it? He's making a logical connection. In verse 16, he has just said that I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. That represents the truest part of who I am. That's who I am And if that's who I am, that this is what I desire, that this is what I long for, that that's not something that I could create myself. It's a product of God's work in my life, that He's regenerated me, that He's made me a new person. But I'm not the old man that I used to be. Back in Romans chapter 3 it says there's none who understands, there's none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they've become useless. There's none who does good, not even one. And he says, that that old me that didn't seek after God, that didn't desire God, that old me is dead. I'm not that person anymore. That old me died according to Romans chapter 6 and verse 4. Now I possess a newness of life, and that newness of life doesn't dwell with sin in the same way that I used to anymore. And now I've been freed so that I can please God. Romans chapter 6, verse 4, it says, therefore we've been buried with him. through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead, through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in a newness of life. I've been freed to walk in a newness of life. And according to Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 10, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. I've been freed. So that I might now do good works. We've been resurrected with Christ. Now I've presented myself to him Presented as that who that person who is now alive from the dead and my members are now instruments of righteousness to God. So when Paul says I'm no longer the one doing it, he's not blame shifting, he's not trying to protect himself. He's not trying to protect his image. He's just trying to say that I want to honor what the Lord has done in me. Like I'm a new self. God has created something new in me, and that new me wants nothing to do with that old life anymore So what is associated with those actions? What is at home with sin? It's that sin which dwells in me. There's something else going on in me Leon Morris writes, this sin that lives in him, though it is not the real Paul, is what produces the acts, which the real Paul hates so much. Sin is out of character for the believer. There's this part of me that sin takes advantage of, and that part that it takes advantage of is in my flesh. And that's what the apostle identifies with sin. It's in the flesh. Look at verse 18. For I know that nothing good dwells in me. That is where? In my flesh. Where does sin dwell? It's in that old hideout. That remains in our earthly physical bodies that's still in opposition to God. Even though we're new creations, there's this unredeemed aspect of who we are that still craves the way that things used to be And it's been described like uh like when an evil dictator is overthrown and a new government comes into place that there's that group of rebels that are still hiding out in the the the the the bushes saying like, I like the way that things used to be. And they practice their guerrilla warfare, still trying to take out the new regime. They're not going to win, but they just don't like that somebody else is in charge. And that still remains within us, there's something that just doesn't like the gods in charge. Somewhere deep inside of us, somewhere in the flesh, something just doesn't like the gods in charge. Even though, like we agree with the law that it's good, we hate evil, we desire to do good, Paul says that the willing is present in me. That will to do good, it's a good thing. But he says, that's not in my flesh. My flesh remains the flesh. It's in opposition to God. So Paul clarifies what he means when he says, nothing good dwells in me. What I mean is in the flesh. That's what I'm talking about. Nothing good is in the flesh. And sin takes advantage of that weakness of my flesh and keeps me from doing what I truly desire to do. You know, like Jesus said in Matthew 26, 41, the spirit is willing, but what? The flesh is weak. The flesh is weak. And these old attitudes and habits don't reflect the new man that God has created me to be. Real quick, flip over to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians chapter 3, this is another passage where Paul is speaking about the same idea , the members of our body. That used to be given over to sin, to still crave the way that things used to be. Colossians chapter 3, take a look at verse 5. It says, therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. For it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience. Those who are described as sons of disobedience. Those who are committed to these sins, those who are the sons of disobedience, they're described by disobedience, the wrath of God will come upon them. But as far as you consider that dead to you now. And in them you also once walked. That's where you used to live when you were living in them. But now you also put them all aside. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth. Do not lie to one another since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices. You're a new self now, and you've already laid aside the old self with its evil practices. and have put on the new self who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. A renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jew circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, and free man, but Christ is all and in all. The flesh is corrupted. That means we'll never be able to rid ourselves of the sin that resides there. It's not like we can cut off a hand or pluck out an eye and all of a sudden we'll be fixed. The flesh goes much deeper than that. So it's not just talking about your physical members. It's not like, you know, if I cut off two fingers, I'm like, you know, two steps closer to holiness, you know. You can lose an eye or a hand and still sin in your mind, right? It was reported by a church historian Eusebius that while uh Origen, the church father, was teaching in Alexandria, that he did something that gave proof enough of his young and immature mind. But also of his faith and self-control, he took the saying, There are those who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake, in too literal and absurd a sense, and he was eager to fulfill the Savior's words. And also to forestall any slander on the part of unbelievers, for despite his youth he held forth on religious matters before women as well as men, so he quickly carried out the Savior's words. What did he do? He castrated himself And this is the guy who's known for spiritualizing so much of the Bible, it's like, why not spiritualize that one? You know, if you're going to spiritualize something and make it a metaphor like that, that that would be like a metaphor for me, you know. But we can't fight the flesh with the flesh. A surgery is not going to take care of your problem with sin. It's by the Spirit that you put to death the deeds of the body. So the flesh remains corrupted, but even though I'm corrupted, we'll see that we're not cast away. But even though we still walk around with this flesh and You know, these sinful desires that we're putting to death, constantly putting to death, that God does not cast us away because of that Number three, underneath our second point here, I may be convicted, but I'm not condemned. Look at verse 19 It says for the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I am doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me This word for at the beginning of verse 19, for the good that I want, I do not do, he's connecting it back with verse 18, where Paul has just admitted that Though the willing is present in him, the doing of the good was not. Like I I have this will to do what's right, but but sin keeps tripping me up Verses 19 to 20 are an explanation of that. So, Paul, what do you mean that the good, the doing of the good is not present with you? What he means is that I'm constantly hindered from the good that I desire. And as a believer, you understand that, don't you? Like there's good that I desire to do, and I I constantly get tripped up. Like maybe you plan to really focus on prayer and dedicate yourself to setting aside times for prayer. But as soon as you get to that place of prayer, your mind starts to wander in a million different directions. All of a sudden it's like it's it's kinda hot in here, you know. I really need to redecorate this room. I never really liked the paint of that, the color of that paint anyway. It's like all of a sudden it 's is it just me or it's like Like, is anybody cooking downstairs? I think I smell it's like all of a sudden everything comes into your mind when it's time to pray You want to be loving. Maybe it's towards your spouse, towards your children. Maybe it's a friend, a brother and sister here. It's like, you know, I just next time I see them, I'm I'm gonna let whatever that is go. I'm just gonna love and you even prepare what you're gonna say to them. But then the next time you see them, all of a sudden it's like There they go again. I just every time I just can't just like all of a sudden you're irritated again. Like you can't get past it You want to trust the Lord for a trial, but then the anxious thoughts start flooding your mind. What about this? What about that? You put a new setting on your phone so that you won't view any inappropriate images Maybe that you won't go to a a store that makes you shop impulsively. You know, I'm not gonna make that come to my inbox anymore. I'm gonna block this or block that. But then It's like something you see just makes you I wonder what I wonder what that is. I I heard somebody talking about that. I just I just gotta see what it is. And all of a sudden you're right back to where you started And sometimes we don't have to repent of our wickedness, we actually have to repent of our righteousness. What do I mean by that? There's an old period in prayer that says, my best prayers are stained with sin. My penitential tears are so much impurity. I need to repent of my repentance. I need my tears to be washed. Like even in the best that we try to offer God, it's still stained. Like it's like I can't I can't just do something like just completely right. Like there's always something in it The revival preacher George Whitfield in a sermon entitled The Method of Grace, listen to what he says. He says, after we are renewed, yet we are renewed but in part. I'm not complete yet. Indwelling sin continues in us. There's a mixture of corruption in every one of our duties so that after we are converted, we're Jesus Christ only to accept us according to our works, our works would damn us You understand what he's saying? E even after I'm a believer, my works are never righteous enough to get me to heaven. So so even though I'm I'm a Christian, I'm saved, like, even in the best that I have to offer, it's still not matching the perfection of God. And he says this, I do not know what you may think, but I can say that I cannot pray but I sin. I cannot preach to you or any others, but I sin. I cannot do anything without sin. And as one expresses it, my repentance wants to be repented of, and my tears to be washed in the precious blood of my dear Redeemer. Our best duties are as so many splendid sins. There must be a deep conviction before you can be brought out of your self-righteousness. It is the last idol taken out of the heart. I mean like even when you're doing the right thing, it's like somehow the thought gets into your mind, it's like I I really I mean it's like almost breaking your breaking your arm trying to pat yourself on the back for what you did, you know? I wonder if somebody saw that. I wonder if someone did anybody hear that? I mean I was out there preaching the gospel. I mean, man, I almost got saved off of that one. Did did anybody did anybody did anybody overhear that? And that's all the reward that you'll receive, right? Did somebody hear my prayer? Did somebody congratulate my preaching? Did somebody see the way that I serve? And we want somebody, did somebody notice And sometimes it's not just what you do that you hope people notice, sometimes it's the stuff that you do that you hope people don't notice. Right? Because you want people to think better of you than you are. I hope nobody saw that because. Like I want to present myself better than that. We need to repent of our wickedness, and we also need to repent of our righteousness. At every turn, sin dwells in me, even though I'm convicted. I'm still not yet by this condemned. Because there there's something else that's going on in my heart. Because God is doing a work And the last reason the law is not the cause of my death is that even though I may be held captive, I'm not held captive continually. Look at verse 21. It says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. But I see a different law in the members of my body waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members He says, I'm held captive. There's a war going on against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner, holding us captive. Paul says in verse 21, I find then this principle, literally, that reads, I find then the law. I find the law. And what's the law? The law is that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. It's always there. As MacArthur writes that the continuing presence of evil is so universal that Paul refers to it as a common reality. It's always there. John Owen writes this, a law here is an inward principle that moves and carries us to its own ends. And in this sense it's called the law. It's like the law of gravity. It's always bringing us down to the earth. It's like the strong undercurrent that pulls you away in the river or in the ocean, you know, carries you away before you know it. It's constantly moving, constantly working. It's powerful, it's effective, and what makes it worse is that it's inside of us. Like we're carrying it around. The enemy is carried around with us. And how did Paul find this law at work inside him? It's because he took the pains to study his own heart Like trying to understand what's going on in there. Like why why do I keep tripping up like this? You know how how many of us are more concerned that our condition is not better, you know, that our finances aren't doing better, that our health isn't doing better, and we're not concerned that our heart is doing any better. So concerned about the things that Or of lesser importance. But Paul here, he's examining his own heart. He wants to do what's right. He puts the spotlight on his heart. John Owen again in his book Indwelling Sin he says it's one thing to hear a discourse about a disease and what causes it. It's another thing for the man to find the sickness in himself. And that's that's what Paul is doing. He says, No, that's in me. Speaking about the virus that's on the inside, he says, I find in this principle, evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. And what is the evidence that he wants to do good? Verse 22. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. That word joyfully concur To joyfully concur with shows up only here in the entire Bible. It means to rejoice over something. It's a compound word, to rejoice together. Joyfully concur is the way that it's been translated. And it's a reference to Paul saying that I agree with what God has to say. I agree with God. I confess that the law is good. I rejoice in it. So it's it's not just saying that that's right. It's no, I I rejoice in what's right. My heart rejoices And the goodness of God. As David says in Psalm 19, that the love for God's word, he says they're more desirable than gold. Yes, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. Is that the way that you look at God in His Word? Like my God, I desire this. This is sweet. This is more precious than gold. Psalm 19 and verse 14, it says, Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. This is the meditation that I need to have. Psalm 119, verse 16, I will delight in thy statutes, I will not forget your word. Verse 97, Oh how I love your law, it's my meditation all the day. Verse 111, Thy testimonies are my heritage forever. Yes, they're the joy of my heart. And notice where the joy comes from. He says it's in my inner man. That's what I'm doing on the inside. The inner man is only used two other times in the New Testament and both times used for believers. 2 Corinthians 4. 16, Ephesians 3. 16. It's a reference to the new man, the spiritual man that's been created by God for good works. And the truest and deepest part of who Paul was rejoiced in the law of God. And there's this battle that started taking place internally between the law that he loved, the law that he delighted in, the law that he embraced. And the law of sin, which was like gravity, continually pulling him back, pulling him down. The law of my mind That Paul references references here is the same as what he confessed as good. I confess that the law of God is good. The morality of God's law is good. I love it. I delight in it. But I'm unable to walk in it unopposed. It's like a constant warfare. And if you're not engaged in a fight for your life, you're probably floating dead downstream. Is there a fight in you for holiness? John Owen says that he that swims against a stream finds it to be strong. But he that rolls along with it is insensible to it. Are you just kind of like going through life insensible to what's going on around you? Or or do you find like, you know, just every day it's like I'm just battling every day? Because I I desire holiness. I I want to I want to be Christ-like. I want to look more like Jesus. Like that's the desire of my heart. Is that what's going on? Or are you just kind of like rolling along? You know, the light life is just kind of taking you for a ride. The true believer is engaged in a warfare. We're called to fight. J. C. Rowell in his volume on holiness says the true Christian is called to be a soldier. And must behave as such from the day of his conversion to the day of his death. He's not meant to live a life of religious ease, indolence, security. He must never imagine for a moment that he can sleep and doze along the way to heaven. He will find no countenance for these notions in the Word of God. If the Bible is the rule of his faith and practice, he will find his course laid down very plainly in this matter. He must fight. Scripture describes the Christian life with terms like war, battle, striving, agonizing, struggle, fight. We're in a battle for our lives. We're fighting against sin every day. And and even when we're we're seeming to gain ground, it's like sin tries to rustle us, pit us down to the mat and take us hostage again. It's like we're just let me breathe. I want to do what God tells me to do. Like we're in constant battle with sin. And sin is trying to make us its prisoner. Take us hostage. That's the word that's used here. Taking us hostage. Same word used in 2 Corinthians 10 and verse 5. Taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. It's like sin is trying to take us captive to disobedience to Christ, and we're out here trying to take captive every thought in obedience to Christ. It's it's in this opposition. Again, Galatians 5. 17, for the flesh sets itself against the spirit, spirit against the flesh. These are in opposition to one another. It's a constant clash. And the flesh is fierce, it's relentless. We can't get away from it. It abides in the soul, as John Owen says. It's never absent. Constant resonance. Came upon the soul of only certain times, you know, we might be able to perfectly accomplish obedience. But it's always there, always nagging at us. And men little consider what a dangerous companion is always at home with them. And after all this, Paul just cries out, oh wretched man that I am. I am so sick of this. And it's not sick of you know, oh wretched man that you are, like I'm sick of you. No, he points it at himself. I'm sick of me. I'm tormented by this. It's miserable. I'm distressed with this. He's not distancing himself from a sin. He's confessing it. Lord, I know that I'm a wretch. I know I'm responsible. But that new person that you've created me to be hates this sin. And I love what Paul says here. Look again at Verse 24, he says, Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? Paul doesn't say, who will set me free from the wrath of God? Because that would have been the penalty of sin. He doesn't say, who will set me free from my slavery to sin? Because that would be talking about the power of sin. What he says is, who will set me free from the body of this death? Who will set me free from the presence of sin? That's the cry of the believer. The unbeliever has more to be worried about with the penalty of sin, not the presence of it So he's saying, who's going to set me free from the presence of this? The body of this sin? This flesh that I'm walking around in. It's the believer who's concerned about the indwelling sin. And the solution is found in a person. He doesn't say what will set me free, but who? Who's going to set me free? And if it wasn't for Jesus Christ, we would have no answer for this. No one else can save us from the presence of our sins apart from Jesus Christ. And it's at this point that Paul stops using the first person singular, you know, I, me, my, and he brings us in and he says, our. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ, our Lord. Like we're now included in this. How does that salvation from the presence of sin come to us? It happens through Jesus Christ our Lord. And do you know when it happens? It happens when we're finally released. From his fleshly body. That's when the war will finally be over. Is anybody else just tired of sin? Tired of dealing with it? There's coming a day when it's going to be over. When we'll be released from it. And that's why Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5:8, we are of good courage, I say, and prefer rather to be absent from the body. And to be present with the Lord, to be at home with the Lord. Like, because that's that's victory day. Like I'm absent from this fleshly body that keeps dragging me down, and I'm finally released into the presence of the Lord. Like I'd prefer that. It's why in Philippians chapter 1, verse 23, he says, But I'm hard-pressed from both directions, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ, for that is very much better. That's that's the longing of the the believers. Like like I just want to be done with sin, to be separated from that which drags me down, to be in the presence of my Lord where I can serve him faithfully and perfectly Because the true believer's desire, the ambition that the believer has, is to be pleasing to him. I want to be pleasing to God. I want to be like Jesus Christ. And it's when we're released from the body that we finally gain the treasure that we've been seeking all of our lives. To look like Jesus. He's the treasure that we seek. Philippians chapter 3 verse 12 says, not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect, but I press on, so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. What what's that what's that goal? What what is he reaching for? Verse 13, brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Being called up. What's the upward call? Well you got two choices. It's either the rapture or departing to be with Christ, you know, when you die. But either way, you're going up. It's the upward call. In 2 Corinthians 3. 18 it says, but we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image, the image of the Lord, from glory to glory. Same goal again that Paul, that uh that Apostle John had, 1 John 3T, beloved now we are the children of God, and it has not yet appeared as yet what we will be, but we know that when he appears we will be like him. Because we'll see him just as he is. And what does that have to do with the resurrection? It's the resurrection that makes that a guarantee. It's the resurrection that makes that a promise. That believer, one day ye will be freed from the body of this death, and that you will be ushered into the presence of the Lord. Romans 6 verse 5 says, For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing that this, our old self, was crucified with him. That's the past. In order that the body of sin might be done away with. That's the future. And when we receive our glorified bodies, guess what? There's no longer going to be any struggle with sin. Any remains of that old flesh, the vestiges of rebellion against God, are finally going to be over with. We'll have bodies that are fit for glory, fit to glorify God. And we should have a longing for that. But until we lay this body down, sin is still going to be an unwanted tenant. And that's just the truth. It's just the truth. And we we fight from now all the way until glory. And that's what we're called to do. We're called to fight. So we we keep fighting. And you'd expect this chapter to end on a high note, you know. Like verse 25, you think that, you know, they just Paul would just stop in the middle. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. You know, let's close up that chapter, get right to chapter 8. But that's not what he does. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then On the one hand, I myself, with my mind, am serving the law of God, but on the other, with my flesh, the law of sin. Can't get away from it. Can't get away from it. Even though I I know that this is coming, that my change is coming, that one day I'm going to be free from this, the the body of this death will one day be over with. But until then, I know that there's just this serving of of sin at some times, serving the law at other times, and and I'm still fighting, I'm still wrestling, we're still in the battle And that's what we do. But one day we will be saved to sin no more. And that that is that is the glory of heaven, isn't it? I love what McCarthy says. He says, you know, people talk about, you know, heaven and talk about, you know, I can't wait to see the streets of gold. Can't wait to see the pearly gates. You know, can't wait to see this one or that one. He says, you know what I look forward to in heaven? I look forward to what won't be there. My sin. My sin won't be there anymore. I'll be perfected in glory. Because when I see my Savior, then I'll be like him. That there will be no need to hide my face from my Savior. That there will be no need to seek forgiveness of sins anymore because there won't be any. But there won't be that struggle and repentance continually from sin, the repentance of my repentance and my tears that need to be washed. Because I'll be in the presence of Christ. And when I see him, I'll be like him. And that's what the believer desires. Is that what you desire? That I would be in the presence of my Lord, that I would be like him. We'll save the sin no more. Again, the the words of William Cooper and his words of uh there is a fountain filled with blood. Listen to what he says in his hymn. Talks about being saved to sin no more. Dear dying lamb, by precious blood, shall never lose its power. To all the ransomed ones of God. Or all the ransomed church of God be saved to sin no more. Ever since by faith I saw the stream, thy flowing wound supply, Redeeming love has been my theme and shall be till I die And when this poor lisping, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave, then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy power to save. Jesus Christ has granted us salvation, not just from the penalty of our sins, not just from the power of our sins, but from the very presence of sin. that the body of sin will one day be done away with. We'll be in his presence, in perfection, and in glory and in his likeness. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh your word. Uh Father, we thank you for the truth of it and uh for the hope that it gives us of uh the future glory to come. Father, that one day we'll be saved to sin no more, that there's a salvation that's coming to us in the future, that we we have been saved, that we are being saved, and that one day we will be saved. No, that there's a future salvation that's also to come, that we'll be saved from even the very presence of sin, and that this body of sin will be done away with. So Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to long for glory. And Father, that you would remind us that the resurrection of Jesus Christ guarantees this future glory for us. And Father, I pray that you would be glorified and honored, Lord, as we think about these things, Lord, and as we appropriate these truths to our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.