The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh open up our Bibles to the Gospel of Matthew or in Matthew chapter seven this morning? We're uh returning to our study of the Gospel of Matthew. And as Jesus draws the sermon to a close, he's Leaving his disciples with a series of illustrations that are really extremely sobering to consider. As we mentioned last time when we were here in Matthew, there's three pictures. that Jesus gives us to consider in verses uh uh 13 through 27 of uh chapter 7. And really what makes these images so uh serious is the choice between the the two gates And the two trees and the two buildings is that one ends in life and the other ends in damnation. And uh once you arrive at your destination, it's fixed. Uh it's irreversible, there's no return flight. There's no transfer, there's no appeal. Once you arrive at your destination, your destination is fixed, and um there's a gate that ends up in destruction. There's a tree that ends up being cut down and in the fire, and there's a house that ends up in a trash heap in uh in this chapter. And each one of these pictures is a picture of eternal judgment. And what determines your destination is your response to Jesus Christ. What determines your destination is your response to Jesus Christ. And that's really what this chapter is all about. Look at verse 24 of chapter 7. It says, Therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on a rock. And then as you look at verse 26, everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house. on the stand. Your destination is tied to your response to Jesus Christ. So the key question that we all need to be able to answer is, how have I responded to Jesus? How have I responded to Jesus? And the last time in verses 13 to 14, Jesus presented us with the picture of the two gates, and uh we observed there that uh Part of what makes the path to eternal life so difficult to choose is that the entrance is small. In verse 14, it says for the gate is small. The word for small there is the Greek word stenos. It's a word that means constricted, it's tight, it's compressed, and you pass through this gate with difficulty. And those who enter this gate have to abandon their rights at the door. This is the way of self-denial. You don't enter through this way and keep your options open at the same time. All the other roads have to be denied, all other claims, the truth have to be rejected. There's no way to enter this gate and forge your own path at the same time. It's also difficult because the uh the path, uh the way is is narrow. In uh verse 14, it says uh the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life Not only is there a difficulty at the entrance, there's difficulty all along the road to eternal life. Later on in Matthew 13, Jesus will speak again about the different responses. to his word and he indicates in the parable of the soils that many will not embrace his word because of fear of affliction, fear of persecution. Or the desire for riches and comfort. We learned that in uh the parable that he gave in Matthew 13. So Jesus doesn't guarantee that this is going to be an easy road. It's not going to be an easy life for the followers. And uh for some people that's too much to handle. For some people it's too much. We're immediately placed in conflict with our own sinful desires, the schemes of the enemy, with the devil, and it's a fight. Christianity is a fight, and often throughout the scriptures we find that the uh the life that we live as believers is uh considered a conflict, it's a wrestling, it's striving. It's not easy to walk the road that we're called to walk. In Acts chapter 14, verse 22, Paul said, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. It's not going to be an easy road as a believer. And the third thing that makes this way difficult is that the company is scarce. In verse 14, it says there's few who find it. There's a definite break from the crowd. In uh Luke chapter 12, Jesus spoke of his disciples as a little flack. You know, just a little flack. Don't be afraid, little flack. You know, he understood that uh his disciples would only be a small group of people. So following Jesus is not a path to popularity. Jesus said in John 15 and verse 19, he says, if you were of the world, the world would love its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you. We shouldn't fool ourselves into thinking that, you know, if the world just gets to know us and uh really sees what we're like, that you know everybody's just gonna like us. You know, if they really get to get to know us, they'll they'll see that we're not really that bad. We're kind of cool, right? You know, we we shouldn't live with that kind of uh thought in our minds. If the world gets to know us, they will do to us what they did to Christ. They're not going to have an affection for us and hate Jesus. You know, that's not the way that it that it works. And just the fact that you break away from the crowd when you become a Christian is a rebuke to the world. There's no happy common ground in the middle, somewhere in between, where you and the world can just get along. uh knowing that your master is Jesus Christ. There's no place where Jesus is not offensive. And there are people who reject Christ because they they want to be accepted by by people. And what a foolish trade that is to make, you know, to be accepted by the world and rejected by Christ. But these aren't the only obstacles that are along the narrow path because uh beyond our our sinful hesitations, you know, to enter through that that narrow gate and uh the internal wrestling and personal striving to kind of walk along the the narrow path, you know, putting aside our desires for the desire of our king There's another challenge that we're faced with, and it's found in verses 15 to 20, and it's uh it's really this that we have to push our way through the crowd of travel agents who are selling tickets down the Broadway. There's a bunch of people pointing in the opposite direction saying, this is the way. This is the way to life. This is where you go. A bunch of travel agents selling tickets down the broad path. And not only is the path to life hard to find because the gate's small, it's hard to find because there's so many false prophets that are pointing people in the opposite direction and they're dangerous, Jesus says Look at Matthew chapter 15, chapter 7, verses 15 down to 20. Look what he says here. Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? So every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then you will know them by their fruits. Let's bow our head for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you uh so much for this text. We thank you for the warning that Jesus gives, uh, that we're not left in the dark as far as uh who we should follow. uh where we can find the path to eternal life, and that you've left that open to us, and Jesus Christ points the way. And he also warns us about those that would try to lead us off the path. Now, Father, we thank you for the clarity that the scriptures give, for every promise of your word. And Father, I pray that this morning that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The role of prophet, we've learned about the prophets here, the role of prophet would have been familiar to the Jewish audience that uh Jesus spoke to on this day that he gave the Sermon on the Mount. The Old Testament prophets would have been well known to the disciples and to the crowd that surrounded the disciples who heard the sermon. And the job of the prophet was simply to speak the words of God. That's the job of the prophet. To speak the words of God Whatever God communicated to him, he was then to communicate that same message to the people God directed him to. And those who received a word from the Lord. and communicated that message were considered the the prophets of the Lord. So for instance you have people like Abraham was actually considered a prophet according to Genesis chapter 20 and verse 7. Moses spoke the words of God. He was considered a prophet. Deuteronomy chapter 34 and verse 10. David, who wrote the words of Scripture that we find in the Psalms, he was considered a prophet in Acts chapter 2, verse 30, as well as the many other prophets that we find in Scripture who were the authors of Scripture. And as you can imagine, there were strict limitations around the office of prophet, because God didn't want just anybody claiming to speak for him. Not just anybody was going to be his representative And it was a dangerous thing to say that God spoke when God in fact had not spoken. It's a dangerous thing. show you this. Even as early as the the exodus from Egypt and the entrance into Canaan, God warned the Israelites about messages that would be reported to come from God. And he gave tests for how they could determine if that message was genuine. And Genesis, excuse me, Deuteronomy chapter 18. Look at verses 21 and 22, Deuteronomy 18. It says, You may say in your heart, How will we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? How do I know if somebody's giving me a fake message? How do I know the message that the Lord has not spoken? Verse 22. When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true, that is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him. First of all, there was the test of confirmation. The test of confirmation. Could the words of the prophet actually be confirmed? If they said something was going to happen, did that thing actually happen? Could could could their their words be confirmed? That was one of the tests for a prophet. And if they didn't pass the test in uh Deuteronomy 18 verse 20, it actually lets you know what you're supposed to do with that prophet, at least what they were supposed to do under the old covenant. In verse twenty, it says, But that but the prophet who speaks the word presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die It was a serious thing to claim that God has spoken. This is what God has said. This is the message from the Lord when God had not spoken. There's a second test, and there was the test of consistency. I call it the test of consistency. Look back at Deuteronomy chapter 13. A couple of chapters earlier, Deuteronomy 13, and verses 1 to 3, there was another test. You know, was the new revelation consistent with what came before it? Deuteronomy 13, look at verses 1 to 3. If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, and the sign or the wonder comes true. Concerning what he spoke to you, saying, Let us go after other gods whom you have not known, and let us serve them, you shall not listen to the words of that prophet Or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to find out if you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. So here you have an instance where there's a prophet or a dreamer and he says, such and such is going to take place. And then it actually takes place. It actually happens just like the supposed prophet said it would happen But after this supposed miracle comes true, he says, well, you know, this is an indication that we need to follow after another guy. There's another way to follow. It says, even if if their words did come true, you shall not listen to them. It has to match the test of consistency. And there was also instructions for what they were to do with these prophets. Look at verse 5. Deuteronomy 13, verse 5. But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death. Because he has counseled rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery, to seduce you from the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk, so you shall purge the evil from among you. If we were practicing this Old Testament covenant today, this old practice today, there'd be a lot of TV preachers that we'd be off the air. A lot of TV televangelists that would be off the air. The false messengers would be off the air. And uh even today, the the false messenger is not to be entertained. It's not to be given a hearing. It's not to be provided a platform. It's to be rejected, dealt with swiftly. And we no longer live under the Old Testament legal system with the law, and the law has been fulfilled in Christ. We understand that But the principle remains the same. God 's supposed to deal lightly with people who say, Thus says the Lord and the Lord isn't spoken. You don't deal lightly with people like that We're not to be nonchalant, kind of casual in our approach when people claim to speak for God. They're to be identified, they're to be warned, and the followers of Christ are to beware of these people, beware of people who claim to speak for God. when God has not spoken. And the consequences of this kind of uh teaching, you know, false prophecies was uh was really dangerous. And think about this. False prophets, they're guilty of bearing false witness against the Lord. Bearing false witness, lying to the people of God. They're breaking the ninth commandment, right? Breaking the ninth commandment. Thou shalt not lie. Here they are lying about what the Lord has said. They also take the name of God in vain. They use the name of God in an unholy way. Use the name of God in a way that He has not ordained for them to use it. Claiming the God has spoken, attaching God to their prophecies when God has not spoken. They're taking the name of the Lord in vain And when they direct people to another God, when they point people in another way, another direction, they're guilty of both idolatry and placing another God above the Lord. They're breaking the first and second commandment. False prophecies, at least break four of the commandments. Just false prophecies alone. And uh throughout scripture, the word of God is elevated and spoken of with the same kind of glory and reverence that we used to speak of of God. If you flip over to Psalm uh six Psalm 56 It actually talks about the kind of reverence that we're to give to the to the word of God because the word of God bears the character of God. You understand that, right? The word of God bears the character of God in Psalm 56. Look at the way that it speaks of the word of God. Psalm 56, look at verses 3 and 4. It says, When I am afraid, I will put my trust in you, in God. Whose word I praise. In God I have put my trust. I shall not be afraid. What can mere man do to me? So here you have this praise of God coupled with the praise of his word, because his word bears his character, it reflects his character. You also have a similar statement down in verse 10 and 11. And God, whose word I praise, and the Lord whose word I praise. In God I have put my trust. I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? And then over in Psalm 19, you have just a few A few Psalms back in Psalm 19, you have this majesty and glory of the Word of God that's described here in verses 7 down to 11. You might remember the song might might even have it memorized. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. But just think about this. Think about if that word was a deceptive word. Think about if this word that we we praise, this word that we glory in, was a deceptive word, a false word from the Lord. How would the Psalm read? We would read something like this, the law of the Lord is imperfect, destroying the soul. The testimony of the Lord is unsure, misleading the simple. The precepts of the Lord are wrong, distressing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is impure, darkening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is polluted, changing forever. The judgments of the Lord are false, they are wicked altogether. And then in verse 11, moreover, by them your servant is deceived, and keeping them there is great destruction. That's the false word. That's a false word. But we understand that the word of the Lord is perfect. The word of the Lord is sure. The word of the Lord is right. It's pure. It's clean. It endures forever. But a false word, a false word doesn't have the character of the true word of God. So there is really no greater crime than to tamper with the word of the Lord. And it's what Satan did. In the very first temptation in the garden, right? Very first temptation, and what's every false prophet has done since then. You know, God says this is right, and Satan says, Well, I think this is right. You know, Satan presents an alternate word. God told Adam in Genesis 2:17, From the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat it. From the day that you eat from it, you shall surely die. And what did Satan say to Eve? You will not surely die. You'll not surely die. First Kings chapter 22, God was against King Ahab, the king of Israel. He was uh Uh Ahab was planning to to go to war against Ramoth uh Gilead, a territory that Israel owned at one time, and uh There's a uh a word from Micaiah, a prophet, who warned Ahab against going along this route in 1 Kings 22, verse 23. He says that the Lord has proclaimed disaster against you. You know, this is the wrong move. But there were 400 false prophets who were also there who spoke to the king in verse 6 in 1 Kings 22. And it says the the king, then the king, the king of Israel, gathered the prophets together, about 400 men. Four hundred false prophets and said to them, Shall I go against Ramoth Gilead to battle or shall I refrain? And they said, Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king. Everything's good, King. Don't worry about that word. You know, four hundred prophets all agree. Jeremiah. God predicted destruction through Jeremiah because of the rebellion of Judah. But there were false prophets who proclaimed peace. Everything's well. All is well. Jeremiah 6, verse 14, it says, They have healed the brokenness of my people superficially, saying, peace, peace, but there is no peace. And it's the same way with every false prophet. Don't worry about it. It's all as well. Don't worry about the way that you're going. It's going to end well. It's going to end fine. God is with you. Peace, peace. When there really is no peace. And in Matthew chapter 7, Jesus gave us this warning about the broadway that leads to destruction. Broadway leads to destruction. And the only way to reach eternal life is through trusting Him, submitting to Him, denying yourself. And what do you think the false prophets are trying to sell in the place? In the place of the message that Jesus gave. It's all the same thing. You surely will not die. Surely the Lord will give the kingdom into your hand. And they try to heal the brokenness of people by saying, peace, peace, everything's well. When there is no peace. I was looking at in an article that pointed out some of the common traits in the prosperity gospel, you know, the prosperity preachers of today. Listen to this list. The core of their messages is always God's desire to bless everyone. There's little, if any, mention of Jesus' words about self-denial, taking up our crosses, denying our flesh. Almost all their teaching focuses on the gratification of fleshly desires. It's all about now. The speaker rarely attempts to any type of real biblical teaching that does not support the continual message of positivity and blessing. The only attributes of God ever mentioned are love and generosity. Scant attention is given to his holiness, justice, righteousness. The wrath of God against sin in the coming judgment is hardly ever mentioned. The only sins that are discussed at length are negativity and poverty and a person's failure to believe in themselves. Forgiveness is emphasized with little explanation of repentance that was so important to Jesus and the disciples. And the prayer of faith is often referred to as the means by which humans leave God no choice but to bless me. That's what it's all about. You know, the main message that we're hearing From supposed Christian teachers is all peace, peace, blessings, blessings. It's all positive. And they're right in line with the rest of the false prophets of scripture. And there's no more serious crime than to tell somebody that you're on the road to life when you're really on the road to hell. There's nothing worse. There's nothing worse. I mean, you want to talk about hate speech, right? I mean, that's hate speech. Telling somebody, this is the right way, you're okay, when all along you're on the road to hell. And what Jesus does in this passage is he provides us with one additional test to identify a false prophet. We already had the uh the test of uh uh the them being able being able to uh uh be consistent uh with uh previous revelation and being able to confirm their words. But there's also the third test, it's the test of character. False prophets are not only known by whether their words would be confirmed and whether their words were consistent with previous truth, they're also known by their character as well. And this is what Jesus is getting at in this passage back in Matthew chapter 7 The character of the false prophet can't remain hidden. Look at Matthew chapter 7 again. Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly are ravenous wolves. And the first picture of the false prophet is of a dangerous wolf that devours the flock. The dangerous wolf that devours the flack. And the second picture That's given to us is the of the false prophets is of a diseased tree that destroys the crop. A diseased tree that destroys the c the crop. It says a uh so every good tree in verse 17 bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. This is the disease tree that destroys the crop. And uh in both pictures the true character of the the prophet can't remain hidden and in both pictures the end of the picture is is death. You know, a dangerous wolf who's left to kind of roam free, you know, in the sheepfold spells certain death for the sheep, right? And a diseased tree that's left untreated will eventually uh affect any fruit that it tries to grow on its branches and could even infect the other trees around it. The end is death. And that the picture of the false prophet is a dangerous wolf in a diseased organism, a dangerous predator in a diseased organism. And what a picture that is of the false prophet. And Jesus' exhortation here is to beware. Look out. It's not something that you ignore or play around with And the danger associated with the false prophet, we're not left in the dark about who they are, what kind of threat they present. Jesus clearly identifies them, what their intentions are. And the first picture, like I said, is the dangerous wolf, the dangerous wolf that devours the flock. Look at verse 15. Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. On the surface, they don't appear to be that dangerous. You know, they they look just like the rest of us. And uh this is the first time that Jesus uses the image of the sheep in Matthew, but sheep were a common metaphor for the people of God in the Old Testament 2 Samuel chapter 5, the tribes of Israel came to David and said, and the Lord said to you, You will be my shepherd Israel, and you shall be ruler over Israel. You know, the people of God are described as sheep. In Jeremiah 23, verse 2, it talks about the people of God as sheep. In Micah 5, verse 4, it also talks about the people of God as sheep. So it was just a common metaphor for the people of God. And actually in Micah 5. 4, it was a reference to the Messiah who would come, who would arise and shepherd the flock in his strength, you know, a reference to Jesus Christ. So here the sheep were God's people, but everyone who tries to pass for a sheep doesn't have the character to match it. And that's one of the reasons why Jesus opened up this address with an identification of who his sheep really are. Who are his sheep? How are a sheep to be identified? Uh actually back in chapter 5 in the Beatitudes, this is where Jesus identifies who the sheep are They're the ones who are identified by being poor in spirit, mourning over sin. They're gentle. They hunger and thirst for righteousness. They're pure in heart. They're peacemakers. They're persecuted for righteousness. These are the people that he Said blessings over. These were the blessed. These were the ones who belonged to him. And the character of the kingdom citizens When you look under underneath, it's the character of a tender sheep. But that's not what you find underneath the wall of a false prophet. When you look beneath the wall of the external rituals, you know, on the outside, they might pray, they might give, they might fast. But when you look underneath the wool of the false prophet, there's a greedy appetite of a wolf underneath. The word that's used here, ravenous, underneath is this ravenous wolf. The word ravenous, it's an interesting word in the Greek. It's the Greek word uh harpox. which is actually defined as uh destructively vicious. And interestingly, it's it's a word that's translated everywhere else that it's used as uh with the word extortion Taking advantage, taking advantage of others. And the idea that's that's communicated here is that at the heart of the false prophet What's really motivating the false prophet is this desire to take advantage of others. It's not to lay his life down for other people, it's to take advantage of other people. His main concern is not, you know, what can I do for the sheep, but what can the sheep do for me? It's not how can I benefit others? It's what's in it for me They don't seek to uh seek the advantage of others, but they they seek to take advantage of others. And sadly, that's what many so-called uh prophets of Christianity are are marked by A faithful minister like Jesus in John chapter 10 and verse 11, it says, I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd does what? He lays down his life for the sheep. He sacrifices himself. But a false prophet lays down the life of the sheep for himself. A faithful minister is one who's not fond of sordid gain, the scripture says. He's not fond of uh he's not giving over to filthy lucre, you know, just just you know greedy for money. It talks about that in Titus 1. 7. Uh but the false prophet, on the other hand, uses his position as a means to gain money. It's a means to get rich, gain wealth. They see godliness as a means of gain. 1 Timothy 6. 5. A faithful minister seeks to care for others, right? For example, according to 1 Timothy 5 and James 1 and 27, it talks about the uh the ministers taking care of the widows, you know, those who are disadvantaged. There's actually a list of widows that were to be taken care of in the early church. But Jesus pointed out over in Mark chapter 12 that the scribes and Pharisees put on a show for the widows, hoping to be profited by them. And it's like, how how low can you get? You know, people people who are without, people are disadvantaged, and now they're looking to take advantage of even the weakest among them. In Mark chapter 12 and verse 38, it says in his teaching he was saying, Beware of the scribes who like to walk around in long robes. They like respectful greetings in the marketplace. Chief seats in the synagogues and places of honor at banquets, who devour widows' houses. For appearance's sake, they offer long prayers. These will receive greater condemnation. These are the the false prophets, the false teachers. I recently saw a video of a church service where the congregation was uh bringing money up to the to the podium where the preacher was was preaching. you know, during the service bringing money up and throwing it on the stage. And then two two of the ministers got out and started dancing on the money. It's ridiculous. What what in the what in the world? And these are supposed to be people that are communicating, thus saith the Lord? Just dancing in the money as the congregation is up there throwing money up on the stage. My pastor, what big teeth you have, right? It's like, good grief. False prophets are dangerous wolves and they devour the flock. Look at their intention. What are they after? What are they after? But not only that, false prophets are also known as diseased trees that destroy the crop. Diseased trees that destroy the crop. And uh twice in this passage, Jesus gives us the assurance that we don't need to be deceived by false prophets. You don't need to be deceived. Why? Because they will be known by their fruits. They will be known. They're going to be made obvious. It's mentioned in verse 16. They'll be known by their fruits. Mentioned again in verse 20, you will know them by their fruits. And fruit is a common metaphor that's used throughout Scripture for a variety of uh of different reasons. It's used to refer to converts to Christianity in Romans 1 and Verse 13. It's used as a metaphor for praise. It's given to God. It's called fruit in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 15. It's used of the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians chapter 5, but most frequently it's used for the fruit of repentance. fruit of repentance or obedience to God, the fruit of righteousness. And this is how it's already been used in in Matthew. If you look back at uh Matthew chapter 3 John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Jesus Christ, back in Matthew chapter 3, and look at what he says, start at verse 5, Matthew 3. It says, then Jerusalem was going out to him, to John the Baptist, and all Judea and all the district around the Jordan, and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with what? Repentance. Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children of Abraham. The axe is already laid at the root of the trees, therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Same language that Jesus used. Same exact language that Jesus used. This is the closest parallel to Matthew chapter 7. What Jesus is talking about is the fruit of repentance. The fruit of repentance, turning away from sin, turning to God in faith and obedience. So how would I identify a true prophet of God? Jesus says his life will be characterized by repentance. Repentance. Obedience and righteousness. And the the argument that Jesus presents us with is really so simple. I mean we could bring our kids in out of the kids' classes and ask them some of these questions and ask them to make some of these observations. It's just so simple, isn't it? So simple. The first argument that Jesus makes is that plants produce according to their kind. Simple argument. Look at verse 16. You will know them by their fruits. Grapes are not gathered from thorn bushes, nor figs from thistles, are they? Anybody can answer that question. Anybody can answer that question. Nobody expects a plant to produce fruit against its nature. And Jesus uses this simple illustration to make his point. You don't find men gathering grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles, do you? Of course not. Of course not. And the sentence is constructed in such a way where it expects the negative answer. It would be ridiculous to see men trying to gather grapes from thorn bushes. And the the words for it for thornbush and thistle they're it used for a variety of uh prickly plants that that don't yield any crop Uh they're a nuisance to travelers, so people would actually use them as fences, you know, around their their territory, you know, leave the the thorn bushes out so nobody would try to cross through because they were such a nuisance. to pass through. You remember that that uh term, you know, hedge of protection? You know, it's like leave the thorn bushes out so nobody wants to come in because they don't want to deal with these thorns. No one took care of thorn bushes. You don't you don't water them. You know, you don't make sure that they have enough nutrients and light. Nobody cares about the thorn bush. It was considered wasted space. It used up the ground. The only thing that it was good for is when it dried up that you use it for fuel for the fire. You know, start a fire with the thorn bush. Nobody expected to gain anything from the thornbush. And in the same way, we're not to expect any benefit from listening to a false prophet. It's not like uh you know if you give him enough water and sunlight that somehow he's going to produce something good. You know, the the false prophet is not going to produce anything against his nature. He's not going to give you anything good. You don't look to a false prophet to gain any kind of spiritual wisdom. And when Jesus used this term thorns and thistles It would have immediately reminded his disciples about another time that those terms were used together. , Thorns and thistles. Where else do we find that? Where else does the Bible talk about thorns and thistles? It was used for the curse on the earth. When Adam and Eve fell in the garden of Eden, it said that the ground started to bring forth thorns and thistles. It's an example of the curse. False teachers are a reflection of the curse on mankind. We're not to expect to be nourished by them. But not only do plants produce according to their kind. The second observation that Jesus points out is that plants produce according to their condition, according to their kind, and according to their condition. Look at verses 17 and 18. So every good tree bears good fruit. But the bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot produce bad fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. It just makes sense, right? Bad trees produce bad fruit. I mean just ask anybody. Like I said, you can bring the kids out. What do bad trees produce? Bad fruit, right? It's just simple The word bad that's used here in the phrase bad tree, you know, producing the bad fruit, the word bad that's used here, it could be better translated as diseased or rotten. It's not the normal word that's used for uh for bad. It's the word uh sapras, which means a decayed, unusable, putrefied It's about the fruit that you can eat. And we'll come back to this idea next time, but to explore it a little bit more in depth. But what Jesus is saying here is that there's a kind of character That's true of his followers that cannot be true of a false prophet. They're not able to produce the character that God gives to his followers. It takes the Spirit of God to produce repentance. Takes the Spirit of God to produce poverty in spirit, mourning over your sin, gentleness, hunger and thirst for righteousness, purity in heart, being a peacemaker. Strength to not just be persecuted, but but to be persecuted for righteousness' sake. It only comes from God. Unbelievers are not able to produce that kind of fruit. Not at a deep spiritual nature. They can't do it Unbelievers may suffer from a low self-esteem, but that's not poverty of spirit. Unbelievers may mourn over the consequences of their sin. That's different from mourning over sin before a holy and a righteous God. Unbelievers cannot produce the fruit of the Spirit. They cannot do it. Verse 18 says, a bad tree cannot. It uses the Greek word dunami. It's not able to. You're not able to produce the fruit. It's impossible to produce the fruit of righteousness. And that's not to say that false prophets don't do kind and charitable deeds. You know, they can do good things on the surface. But the kind of virtue that Jesus is talking about here is only true for believers. Only true of believers. And the opposite's also true. The kind of rotten, useless And diseased fruit that's characteristic of the false prophets can't be true of a true believer. Can't be. Can't be And that's not to say that we as believers don't do unkind things or sinful things, but it's saying that the kind of rebellion and rejection of God that's characterized, that the false prophets are characterized by is impossible for a believer. It's impossible. And we'll talk about this more next time, but Jesus says you're clearly on one tree or the other. You're clearly one tree or another. You're not both. It's not some kind of hybrid tree. It's either one or the other. Plants produce according to their kind. Plants produce according to their condition. And number three, plants are treated according to their crop. Look at verses 19 and 20. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. So then you will know them by their fruits. And here what Jesus does is he extends his discussion beyond the false prophets and he sweeps everybody up in his evaluation. He says, every tree. Every tree, that's a reference to every individual. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire And Jesus is not here advocating some kind of salvation by works, you know, like what you do, you know, earns you the right to enter into eternal life. That's not what he's saying. You know, Romans chapter 3, verse uh 20. Let's us know that by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. We're not saved by our works. Romans 4. 5, it says, But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. What Jesus is saying is that if you've entered through the narrow gate of salvation, there will be fruit or evidence of it. There's going to be some kind of fruit or evidence of entering through the narrow gate. There's something dramatic and transforming that happens to you the moment that you are converted. And it's not just your external practices. It's more than just what you do on the outside. There are people who according to the sermon, there are people who prayed, people who gave, people who fasted, and they were all lost. Those were all just the external practices that they could imitate. There's people who present themselves as if they're followers of God, but they all base it on external performance. But Jesus says that. On the inside, they could still be dangerous wolves and diseased trees. But there's something that's changed about a believer's attitude and his motivation and his desires. He's no longer excusing his sins before God, but he's presenting himself as unworthy before God. He's not presenting himself as worthy of God's favor and satisfied with the world's acceptance of him. He makes his ambition to please God. It's all about God He's broken before the Lord, and like the publican, he cries out, oh God, be merciful to me, the sinner. This is what changes in a believer's life. Changes his direction. This is what happened to the thief on the cross, right? He couldn't do anything. Both of his hands were nailed. He couldn't go anywhere because both of his feet were nailed. But what did he do? What did he do? Couldn't perform a physical work. But what did he do? He recognized his sin and he cried out for forgiveness, for mercy, humble before the Lord, and instantly was changed That was a good fruit. And every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down, Jesus says, and is cast into the fire. The thief on the cross had good fruit. What was it the fruit of? It was the fruit of repentance. The fruit of being humble, recognizing a sin for what it was, turning to the Lord, that was the fruit. Every tree that does not bear that kind of fruit, the fruit of repentance. It's cut down, cast into the fire. That's the same picture that John the Baptist gave. Matthew 13, Jesus talks about this same fire. Verses 41 and 42, Jesus says, The Son of Man will send forth his angels, they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks, those who commit lawlessness, and will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's a picture of hell. Everybody who doesn't have fruit of repentance is cast into the lake of fire, Jesus says. Look over in Luke chapter 13. Luke chapter 13. Listen to what Jesus says here Luke thirteen and verses five to nine. He speaks about this kind of fruit that he's looking for. In verse 5, he says, I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. And he began telling this parable, a man had a fig tree, which had been planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, and did not find any. And he said to the vineyard keeper, Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, without finding any. Cut it down. Why does it even use up the ground? And he answered and said to him, Let it alone, sir, for this year too, until I dig around it and put in fertilizer, and if it bears fruit next year, fine. But if not, cut it down. And here Jesus is looking for fruit in Israel, the fruit of repentance, and uh talks about the destruction. That unless you repent, you'll all likewise perish. And he gives this story to talk about the repentance that he was looking for in the nation of Israel, and that he really looks for in all of our lives. He's looking for the fruit of repentance in our lives. It's a lot more comforting to to bring a different kind of message than that though, isn't it? You know, this this is a difficult message to to bring, you know. You don't get much airtime preaching a message like this. You know, the message that the people want to hear is, you know, surely you will not die. Surely the Lord will give the kingdom into your hand. Peace, blessings, comfort, joy. God's got your blessing for you. That's the message that people want to hear. But are those the words that come from a true prophet of God? Are those the words that come from a true minister of the cross? And how do you even verify those words? Let me tell you how you verify it. There's one who spoke these words whose every word was confirmed. Jesus in John chapter 2 verse 19 said, destroy this temple and in three days I'll raise it up. Could you confirm those words? Absolutely. Jesus rose from the dead just like he said. True prophet, that's you passed the first test, right? There's one who is absolutely consistent with everything that came before him. Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill Everything that Jesus spoke was in perfect conformity to everything that came before him. I didn't come to abolish it, but to fill it. And there was one whose character was impeccable In John 8, verse 29, it says, And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Jesus passed every test. Every word was confirmed. Every word was confirmed, every uh practice and teaching was absolutely consistent with what came before, and his character was impeccable. His name is Jesus, and he's much more than a prophet. He's the living word of God, and he says, enter through the narrow gate. There's no other way. There's no other one to follow. And the question is, is uh whose word are you listening to? And who are you directing other people to listen to? There's only one that brings us eternal life. Only one. Only one. Every word is confirmed. Amen? Let's pray. Bow our heads together and pray together. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. We thank you that every word of his was confirmed. Praise you that he was absolutely consistent with everything that came before him, and that his character was absolutely impeccable. And Father, I pray for those that are tempted to follow after false prophets, those that say that they're speaking for God when in fact they're not. Those that give false words, words of peace and comfort as they lead people down the broad road to destruction, people who don't talk about repentance from sin. People who don't talk about a narrow path to walk, about difficulty, that even through much tribulation we entered the kingdom of God. Now people whose character, as we've seen in too many cases, is uh nothing but but rotten fruit Father, I pray that uh you would deliver men and women from uh people like that. And we know that the scriptures say that there will be many, many false prophets, many false teachers. Father, we thank you that the Lord has given us the way to distinguish the true from the false. We thank you for the way that the Lord pointed out to us and that we would know who these false prophets are. Because of his words, that we can judge everything based on his words. God, I I pray that uh you would allow us to be a faithful uh church, a faithful uh congregation, and that every word that's spoken from this pulpit would be in conformity to your word. That we would uh hold your word high because it's your word that we uh glorify, that's your word that we praise because it represents your righteous character that's unchangeable. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.