The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your uh Bibles with me and open to Matthew chapter 19? Uh we're back in the the book of Matthew, which I'm excited about, and uh I've heard from some of you that you've been looking forward to jumping back into the flow of the gospel and uh the consecutive exposition through it. So uh just want to let you know that that's my heart as well. Definitely excited to to jump back into to Matthew and um As you're turning there, I just want to give you an idea of where we are in the book of Matthew and just the book of Matthew as a whole. Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends the truth that Jesus is the Messiah. the king of Israel. From the very first verse, the opening verse of the book of Matthew, Jesus is declared to be the son of David and the son of Abraham. And as the son of David, he has the right to sit and rule on the throne of David, according to 2 Samuel chapter 7, and verse 13, and as the son of Abraham He could fulfill the covenant promises to Abraham that through his seed all the families of the earth would be blessed. And Jesus is the fulfillment. of that. The book of Matthew can be divided into two sections, two major sections, the presentation of the king from chapters 1 through 10, and the rejection of the king in chapters 11 through 28. And in chapters 19 through 20, uh we're following Jesus on his final journey to Jerusalem. This is Jesus' final journey to Jerusalem. Where Jesus is about to be betrayed, he's about to be condemned, and he's about to be crucified to give his life up as a ransom for many. And uh Jesus already predicted that this would happen uh back in Matthew chapter 16 after Peter's confession that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the living God, Matthew chapter 16 and verse 21, it says, From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised up on the third day And instead of avoiding the place of execution, like Isaiah chapter 15 and verses 7 to 8 says, he set his face like flint. Knowing that he would not be ashamed because of the one that he trusted in. The one who vindicates him was near. And so he was determined to go to the very place where he knew he would be crucified. And Matthew chapters 19 to 20 follows this journey of Jesus to Jerusalem. In verse 1 of chapter 19, it lets us know that he departed from Galilee. into the region beyond the Jordan. In verse uh fifteen it says he departed from there, and in chapter twenty, verse seventeen, it lets us know that he was heading to Jerusalem. He's on his way to Jerusalem. And as Jesus was uh determined to go uh to Jerusalem uh and like I said to to give uh up his life as a sacrifice for sins. As he's on his way to Jerusalem, he's interrupted on on the path, on the journey to Jerusalem, he's interrupted by a man who wanted to know how could he attain eternal life? So here this individual walks up to him. Actually the the text says that he ran to him in a parallel passage. He ran up to him, knelt before Jesus, and asked, How may I obtain eternal life? And uh like I mentioned the last time we were here, you know, this this would be the kind of of person that any of us would love to talk to. You know, please, like Lord, let that be me. I want to talk to somebody who wants to know how to have eternal life. Well I'm like Trying to get people to that conclusion that they need eternal life. Here's a guy he's already convinced that he needs it. You know, what can I do to inherit eternal life This guy is earnest. He ran up to Jesus and he knelt before him in Mark chapter 10, 17. He's respectful. Calls Jesus good teacher. And uh he's also religious. He understands that that there's a heaven, there's a hell, there's eternal life, he's spiritually sensitive, he's moral, he doesn't say, you know, what evil thing can I get away with? But what good thing can I do? He's humble. He's coming to Christ for the answers. He admits that he doesn't have the answers. And he's young and he's rich. He owned much property. But most importantly, he was still lost. Still lost. He thought too little of God. He thought too much of himself. He thought too little of the treasures of heaven. And he thought too much about his treasures on earth. And it's one of the saddest exchanges in the entire scriptures. He looked at his stuff, then looked at the kingdom, then looked back at his stuff, and he says, I'd rather have my stuff. I'd rather have my earthly belongings than have eternal treasure. He's like what Jesus says in chapter, uh Luke chapter nine and verse twenty-six, that no one after putting his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. He proved himself to be unfit for the kingdom of God. He was like Lot's wife who couldn't keep herself from turning back to Sodom, even as she was being rescued. You know, the very path of deliverance was before her But she had in her heart this longing after Sodom. He was like Esau who exchanged the covenant blessings for a bowl of stew in Genesis chapter 25. He was like the children of Israel who preferred the leeks and the onions of Egypt over the milk and honey of the promised land in Numbers chapter 11 and verse 5. And he sought after this present world instead of looking for a better in a heavenly country. So this is it's it's really a sad exchange. This is a sorrowful exchange. And as he walks away, sorrowing, the disciples are astonished. And on the surface, this man appeared right for the kingdom. Like he's right there. Like all you had to do is just breathe on him. Just blow in his direction, he'd just kind of fall over the line into the kingdom. He was that close. But he walked away, and the disciples discovered That you might be earnest, you might be respectful, you might be religious, you might be moral, you might appear to be humble, you might be young, you might be rich, you may consider yourself to be blessed and highly favored of the Lord. But you could still be lost and walk away grieving because you consider the treasures of this present life more important than the treasures that God has to offer. And what I find fascinating in this uh this passage that we uh uh that we take a look at here is that the disciples have these these two questions for Jesus, two follow-up questions. And the the first question is, then who can be saved? Who who who who is gonna be saved? I mean if this guy doesn't make it in, like who who who is possible is gonna make it in? And this is what they what they asked uh Jesus as they as they come before him. It's like You know, who's going to be saved then if this guy can't be saved? He grieved because he had much property, and Jesus said to his disciples that it's it's hard for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. In verse twenty five, the disciples were astonished. They said, Who who then who can be saved? You know, they would have expected that this guy above all people would have been right for the kingdom. And if we can't lead a guy like this into the kingdom, you know, we might as well just throw in the towel and call it a day. The movement's over. Like if if we can't even get a guy into the kingdom that's like begging us, like running up and kneeling and begging to be in the kingdom, like who who who will be in the kingdom? So that's the first question that Jesus answers in verse 26. And he lets them know that with people, this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. So he lets them know that you need to leave the results up to God and his sovereignty. You know, with men it's impossible. It's not about your tricks, your gimmicks, you know, your persuasion. Leave it up to the Lord. It's not your responsibility. The faithfulness is your responsibility. Bring the message and leave the results up to God. And the second question that's on their mind is what we find in verse twenty seven. It says, Then Peter said to him, Behold, we have left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? What then will there be for us? And this is the second question. Let's go ahead and read the entirety of the context here just to get our minds around it. Matthew chapter 19, starting at verse 27. Then Peter said to him, Behold, we have left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man Will sit on his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And every one who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms For my name's sake will receive many times as much and will inherit life. But many who are first will be last and the last first. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, and uh we're just so grateful for another opportunity, Lord, to uh spend the time in the text, uh Father, to hear from you, and uh Father, I pray that you would speak to us. Now, Father, we thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ who is exalted in every page of this book. And Father, I pray that we would humbly submit ourselves to Him. Father, I pray that we would increase in our love and admiration for Jesus Christ. And our Father, I pray that you would uh help us uh Lord this day, uh Lord, that we would pay attention to these words that we read and not just be those that that hear, but those who are faithful doers. And our Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This is this is really an exciting passage. And uh unless you pay attention to the context, the the flow of the the context here, you might not understand what Peter's question is all about. But once you once you see the the entire passage uh really makes sense, once you see the context, the entire passage really makes sense So the question is, why is Peter asking Jesus, what will there be for us? You know, what what prompted this this kind of question? If you look back into the context You'll discover that Peter asked the question because Jesus had just promised this rich young ruler that we talked about earlier. He just promised this rich young ruler that he only met just a few minutes ago. He just met this guy. And he promises this rich young ruler, you know, if you wish to be complete, verse 21, go sell your possessions, give it to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come and follow me. Jesus had just offered this stranger treasures in heaven. Just offered this stranger treasures in heaven. And what I find interesting about that is that we don't find the same kind of offer being made anywhere else in the Gospels up until this point. When the disciples were called, they were told that they would be, you know, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Matthew 4. 19. They were told that they would find life. Matthew 16, verse 24. They were told that they would inherit the kingdom of heaven, Matthew 5, verse 3. They were told that the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure, but they have never been offered, hey, follow me, and I'll give you treasure. But here he's talking to this stranger that he's only met a few minutes ago, and he's already offering this guy treasures. For the first time that we know of, the disciples are told that there's treasures in heaven, above entering the kingdom, above finding life, that there are treasures in heaven, and these treasures have just been offered to the stranger. So if you're one of Jesus' disciples and you're overhearing this conversation as Jesus is offering the sky treasures, what's going through your mind? Hey, hey, hey, Lord, like What what about us? You know, you're you're offering this guy treasures like what about what about me? What about us, Lord? Did you forget somebody here? Matthew chapter 19, verse 27, Peter said, You know, behold, we've we've left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? So Peter says out loud what everybody else is already thinking in silence. You know, these disciples left their fishing businesses, their tax collecting posts. They sacrificed time with their families. They gave up opportunities to follow after Jesus. How could Jesus offer treasures to this stranger who he had just met? And Jesus' first response to this question is what we find in verse 22, where uh verse 28, I'm sorry, where he talks about the position of the disciples. So Jesus said to them, after Peter asked this question, he said to them, Truly I say to you that you have followed me, you have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne. You also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And it continues on to say this, and everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or farms for my sake. will receive many times as much and will inherit eternal life. And what we learn about here is uh in just this this verse, and uh really taking a look in verse 28, first of all Is that we learn that there's going to be a regeneration, okay? Some of the things that we we learn about in this verse. There's going to be a regeneration. It's uh literally Though literally the word regeneration means to be born again. It comes from uh a word polyganacea, which uh is from the the words again and birth, so it's uh to be birthed again, to be born again. And it's only used twice in the Bible. She's here in Matthew and also in Titus chapter 3 and verse 5. In Titus 3, verse 5, it talks about the spiritual rebirth, where it talks about us being renewed, regenerated by the Holy Spirit. And then it's used here in Matthew where it speaks about a renewal, a regeneration of the entire creation. The physical creation is going to be regenerated. And uh even though this particular word only shows up, you know, twice in the in the Bible and the physical concept only shows up here. It's really spoken of all throughout the scripture, right? You know, this kind of rebirth of the of the even the physical earth. The physical planet will one day be born again. You know, we talk about uh you know us being born again. The physical planet will one day be born again. Nature itself will be made new, this world will be taken over by new management. This is what the prophet Isaiah referred to in Isaiah 65, verse 17. For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things will not be remembered or come to mind. That's what Peter referred to in Acts chapter 3, verse 21, the period of restoration of all things, about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from ancient times. It's what Paul referred to in Romans chapter 8 verse 21, where it says the creation itself will also be set free from its slavery to corruption. uh into the freedom of the glory of the children of God, for we know that the whole creation groans and suffers pains of childbirth together until now. So this kingdom to come is spoken of all throughout the Old Testament prophets, and here Jesus makes reference to it, that this physical earth is going to be reborn, regenerated. And you're going to have a position in it. So this rebirth of the kingdom is what uh of the earth is what's being talked about, this ushering in of the kingdom. And the Old Testament, the kingdom is uh described as that which is characterized by redeemed people, uh righteous standards, the establishment of peace, uh social justice among every race, ethnicity, class of people The physical creation itself is going to be recreated. There's going to be an end to physical deformities, disease, and sickness. Isaiah 33, verse 24 says, No resonant will say, I am sick. The people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity, and the land itself will be changed to become fruitful. And the miracles that Jesus performed were just like a preview of what was to come. You know, every time Jesus touched somebody and they were healed or he created food, this was all just like a preview of what the kingdom would look like and the regeneration, which was proof that he was the Messiah who was going to bring about this regeneration. So this is what's spoken of first, that there's going to come this regeneration. And second, Jesus says that he's going to reign over this regeneration. Look at verse. 28 uh again. It says, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, He's talking about a time when he will reign. If you flip over to Matthew twenty-five with me, it'll speak again about this glorious throne And makes it crystal clear that he's talking about reigning as king from this glorious throne. Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 31. Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 31. It says, but when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, and he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Then the king, so so what is Jesus doing on this glorious throne? He is reigning as king. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. And then he goes on to talk about uh what he will uh communicate to these people here. But but here we have this glorious throne connected with this reign as king, that Jesus is king, he reigns from this glorious throne. You know, sometimes I talk to people who uh who talk about you know we're trying to usher in the kingdom or we're advancing the kingdom, uh, but that's not something that we have the power to do. Jesus has to come to usher in the kingdom. It's Jesus who brings the kingdom to to pass. Only Christ is able to do that. And uh when he sits on his glorious throne, all these things will be made a reality. And uh Second Thessalonians Chapter 1 and verse 10 it says, He comes to be glorified in his saints on that day and to be marveled at among all who have believed. Jesus is the King. And in uh Daniel chapter seven and verse fourteen it speaks of the Son of Man, and it says that he was given dominion, glory, a kingdom that all the peoples, nations, and men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. So we learn about this kingdom. Jesus is going to reign. But then, as I pointed out as well, the disciples are going to judge. The disciples have a position within this kingdom. The disciples judge the twelve tribes. during this regeneration. So in answer to the question, you know, hey, hey Jesus, what is there going to be for us? Jesus gives them the answer right here. He says that you who have followed me shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So the disciples have been given promise, positions of authority and power over a regenerated Israel. The word judge that's used here in the Greek is an old used in the Greek Old Testament for governing and ruling. So those who don't acknowledge that there's some kind of future for Israel I'm not sure how you make sense out of this passage which specifically talks about the twelve tribes and the twelve apostles reigning over these twelve tribes. So I I'm not sure what you do with that, but there's only one way that the disciples would have understood this, and it would have been that there's a future for Israel, and that we have some kind of role in this future plan of God, that Israel has a role in the plan of God, and that we also have a role in Romans chapter 11, verse 26 lets us know that there's a time that's coming when all Israel will be saved. There's a remnant that will be saved. Just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. And it speaks about the salvation of Israel and a future plan for Israel. And these disciples who follow Jesus Those who followed Jesus, which is an important distinction to make, the twelve out of those twelve who followed Jesus, because there is one who wasn't following Jesus, uh, who was Judas, as we know, Uh he was a devil from the beginning, and uh he was replaced by Matthias in Acts chapter uh one and verse twenty-six. But out of those who follow Jesus they would be honored with positions of leadership in a regenerated kingdom. So there's this specific role that Jesus sets apart for the disciples. And I'm sure This would have filled the disciples' hearts with wonder and anticipation. And uh even just this week it it struck me, um, you know, how would how would this really change our lives if we if we really considered that there was a kingdom to come. That if we if we really thought about that, if we really knew that there's a future for the children of God, how would that change the way that we live and even perceive ourselves even now? How would it change your perspective? How would it change your perspective on life if you lived in anticipation of the kingdom? A kingdom that's characterized by redeemed people and righteous standards and the establishment of peace and social justice, you know, which is a big topic today. It's gonna come But it's coming in the kingdom. I mean everything that we desire is going to be a reality in the kingdom. And how would it change our perspective if we knew that this is the kingdom that I will participate in? That I I I don't have to try to fight and claw for everything right now, that the kingdom is to come and Jesus has promised me all of this. How do you think it would change the way that you live? If if you considered this more often, would the sacrifices that you make for the kingdom be worth it? If if you really knew that this was coming with with the sacrifices that should make be worth it, would it change your attitude? Would would you tell more people about the kingdom If if you really kept this in the front of your mind that, hey, this is a reality, it's gonna come, Christ is coming back, he's gonna change everything, would that change the way that you even communicate about the kingdom, that you don't want to miss this? Please enter into the kingdom, have life. Would you pray for it more? You know, as uh Jesus taught us to pray, your kingdom what? Your kingdom come. Would we pray for it like anticipated? Like I'm longing for the kingdom So this is the what Jesus speaks to these disciples about as they're saying, you know, hey, what's there going to be for me? He starts to tell them about the kingdom. The kingdom is coming, guys. You know, don't don't worry about what's going to be for you. Everything that's going to be for you will be reserved there. It's reserved there and you will be preserved for it. So the kingdom is coming. And so Jesus honors these men with positions of leadership. But then he quickly adds that the rewards of the kingdom and the eternal life are not just the treasures for the disciples. This is something that's going to be shared with everybody who follows after Jesus Christ. Look at verse 29. It says, and everyone who has left houses, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or children, or farms for my sake, will receive many times as much and will inherit eternal life. Everybody who follows after me. So it's not just the twelve who make the sacrifice that Jesus recognizes. He says, every disciple who makes the sacrifice, every disciple who follows me will receive many times as much As well as eternal life. He talks about the treasures for every disciple. Back in Matthew chapter 16, verse 24 , Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. And there's times when following after Jesus Christ means that you might lose relationships, right? Why don't you flip back to Matthew chapter 10 just real quick It's a passage we've covered before, but just to remind you of what it says here again, back in Matthew chapter 10, verse 32. It says uh Jesus talks about those who confess him. He says, Therefore everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny him before my Father who is in heaven. If you drop down, it talks about some of the consequences that may arise because of confessing him. Verse 36, it says, and a man's enemies will be the members of his household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me, and he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. And what he's talking about is like if you're ashamed to confess me before your family Like, you're really not trusting me. You're really not following me. You y you're you're ashamed of me if you're unwilling to confess me before your family members. And sometimes confessing Christ before family will make the the members of your household your your enemies, you know, because they will turn against Christ and turn against the the proclamation of Christ and your testimony of him. So sometimes we have enemies because we confess Christ. We might lose the support of family. We might lose our job. We might lose our home. Many first-century Christians even lost their lives for the sake of Jesus Christ. But what we receive back from Christ is far more. So he says, anybody who's lost these things, you know, family or houses or farms or whatever, you're going to receive much more. You know, I'm going to give much more back to you. Whatever you lost, you'll receive much more in exchange. And as believers, we understand that we inherit a spiritual family, right? Even if we lost temporary family, the Bible lets us know that whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother and sister and mother, right? You know, Matthew chapter 12 and verse 15 As believers, we inherit a heavenly home. If even if we might have lost our home in this life, John chapter 14 and verse 3, uh Jesus says, If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself that where I am, there you may be also. You're you you're not homeless. You're not without a home. You've got a place. You know, Jesus offers you that place and he says, I'm preparing this place for you. And whatever we lose in earthly riches For Christ is stored away in a heavenly safe where nobody can get to it. You know, Matthew chapter 6 and verse 19, it says, Don't store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither mouth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there where you'll will your heart be also Many of us have uh heard the words by uh Jim Elliott, uh who was a missionary to the Auka Indians in Ecuador. He lost his life on the mission field, and uh he had this quote that said, He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep in order to gain what he what? He cannot lose. You know, what I have in heaven, I can never lose it. What I've given over to Christ is safe. Like it can never be taken away from me. It's all worth it. I I recently heard uh heard a story about a man by the name of uh William Borden. And uh he was one of the most celebrated missionaries in the 20th century in the uh student volunteer movement, and uh Many of you might not know the name William Borden, but I'm sure that many of you have heard of the the company borden, the dairy company borden. I I remember even as a kid I used to drink those little cartons of milk with the little uh had a cow on the front, you know, a smiling cow, Elsie the cow. Uh that was uh that was his his family's company. His family's company owned owned board in Borden milks and and dairy. Uh so many of you might remember that, but William Borden was uh he was set up to inherit his entire family's fortune. He would have he was a millionaire. It would have been just handed over to him. He would have been a millionaire. And uh instead of taking the family fortune William Borden made a decision to pledge himself to missionary service to Muslims in China. Instead of receiving the fortune that would have been his He pledged himself to missionary service. His father tried to get him to rethink his decision. A friend encouraged him, don't throw your life away. But he wrote this note in the leaf of his Bible, no reserves. You know, I'm holding nothing back. He enrolled in Yale to prepare for ministry. In his freshman year, he gathered 150 classmates into weekly Bible studies. As a sophomore, he established the first rescue mission in New Haven A visiting British theologian was asked uh one time, what did he find most impressive about America? And he says, the sight of that young millionaire Kneeling beside a homeless man at Yale Hope Mission. That is the most impressive thing that I find in America. That this man who's a millionaire would would give his life away to homeless people and kneel on the dirt next to a homeless man At the end of his senior year, Borden turned down a number of very lucrative job offers, and he wrote this phrase in his Bible, no reserves. No retreats, no reserves and no retreats to encourage himself about what he was intending to do. After Yale, Borden spent three years, the next three years at Princeton Theological Seminary. He studied under Jay Gresham Machin, who uh uh some of you might not know is actually a Baltimorean, uh actually has his uh grave right here in uh in the city But he studded studied under Jay Gresham Machin, began teaching Sunday school to an African Methodist Episcopal church, and he started to learn Arabic so he could go on the field. After graduation, uh. he was ordained at his uh home church in Moody, Chicago, a Moody church in Chicago, and on December 17, 1912, he set sail for Cairo, Egypt. In order to learn Arabic and to gain more knowledge about Islam so he could reach the people who are part of that religion, the newspapers tracked him and said, millionaire gives up all. After arriving in Cairo, he chose to live with the Syrian family, and while living among the people of Cairo, three months into his stay, he contracted spinal meningitis, and nineteen days later, he was dead. So this this man who was, you know, in line to be the next millionaire, the next owner of this company, who had like just the world on a silver platter set before him. He decided to turn against all of that so he could give his life in missionary service. And the last phrase that Borden wrote in his Bible during his final days as he was suffering on his deathbed were the words no regrets. No regrets. And today the inscription is on a tombstone in Cairo, no reserve. No retreats. No regrets No regrets. You know, that that that I didn't waste my life. You know, that giving my life over to the Lord and in service to him is not a wasted life and uh is Jesus says everyone who's left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or farms for my sake will receive many times as much and will inherit eternal life. There's treasure for every disciple. Everybody who who gives up things in this life for the sake of the kingdom will receive many times as much by the hand of God. Jesus also makes this statement at the uh at the end of chapter 19, but many who are first will be last and the last first And this is the same thing he repeats again in chapter 20 and verse 16. He says, so the first, so the last shall be first in the first last. So Jesus adds this statement, and you might wonder, you know, what's what 's what's the statement about? You know, and what the statement really is, it's uh it's explained in the parable that he offers in verses 2 to 15. And just like the earlier parables that Jesus told, this is a uh an illustration that Jesus uses. It's a common one. The disciples would have been familiar with uh landowners and day laborers and vineyards. So Jesus offers this simple story. And uh we started off with uh the owner's choice. Let's just take a look at this parable together. It says, but many who are first will be last and the last first. Chapter twenty, for the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius for the day, he sent them into his vineyard. So here we start with the owner's choice. The owner of the vineyard has a choice. The vineyard in in Israel, they're generally planted on hills, on these steep slopes. Uh Jennifer and I have actually been to Israel and saw you know some of these uh vineyards planted on the on the sides of the the mountains, kind of cut into the mountains like like these staircases going up the mountains. These vineyards are planted there and it would have been the same way during this time Uh so so working in the vineyard wasn't like strolling through a meadow. It was like like climbing a mountain. You know, that's that's how working in the vineyard was. Uh and this is probably harvest time because that would have been the time that landowners would have needed a lot more help you know, tried to get some more help for uh uh for their labors. Um and uh the the weather would have still been been hot. They they harvested grapes in July. So that the landowner goes out early in the morning to find extra help The harvest would have needed more help than normal to save the grapes, to save the crops. So he leaves early in the morning to find this temporary help. So it says the kingdom of heaven is like a landowner, went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the laborers for denarius for the day, he sent them into the vineyard. And day laborers, if you understand what's going on here, day laborers would have been a step above a beggar. You know, so uh it would actually been been better to be a slave instead of a day laborer. Because at least as a slave you know you're gonna eat today, right? As a as a day laborer, you have no idea if anybody's even gonna hire me. You know, so so here you have these uh uh these these day laborers. You know, the difference between day laborers and beggars were were beggars like had no opportunity to work. You know, they were blind or lame or or lepers. The the difference between them and and day laborers is that day laborers didn't have an income, but they could work. You know, so they're kind of both in the same boat. You know, none of them can make money. You know, one is begging because he can't work, the other is pretty much begging because like, hey, I I need a job, I can work. Like, could somebody hire me please? So they didn't have a regular means of of income. So so this landowner goes out and finds these unemployed men, likely unskilled, and offers them a day's work for a generous wage, a denarius was the same wage that a a Roman soldier would have received for a day's worth of work. So this was a generous offer. You know, you're you're getting kind of like top of the line what a Roman soldier would receive. This is what's being offered by this this day laborer. So Jesus is is Telling the story, and really you got to connect this to the answer to Peter's question, and we'll show you how that how that works out. So you have here these laborers for denarius for the day, sent them into his vineyard. Verse three lets us know that he went out about the third hour and saw other standing idol in the marketplace. And just to explain the timing here Early in the morning would have been about six six a. m. That's when the the Jewish work day started, six a. m. in the morning. Uh so uh that gives you an idea what what Jesus meant by early in the morning. So probably before six o'clock, before the work got started, he's out looking for people to to join him in the work. And uh it says in and uh it goes on uh to say that he uh he agrees for the scenarios and and uh and then he uh uh goes out and finds other laborers out here in verse 3. It says that he went out about the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. And uh again, these these men aren't idle because you know they have better things to do, but they're just choosing not to do it. You know, these men just can't find any any work. So here they are. Still in the marketplace and uh and and this landowner goes and offers them a position as as well. Three hours into the workday, men still looking for work. Goes on and and finds these men and and tries to to put them to work, standing in the in the marketplace would have been like equivalent to uh, you know, uh uh having your your your resume ready and uh looking for an interview. You know, it's not like you're idle. You're actually looking for for work at this point. So the landowner sends them out into the fields as well and just promises to give them whatever's right. Verse 5 lets us know that uh the same story is repeated. Verse 5, again, he went out about the 6th and the 9th hour, did the same thing, so the 6th hour would have been 12 o'clock Uh uh the the ninth hour would have been three, three o'clock in the afternoon. Then look at verse uh verse six. Look at verse six. It says, and about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing around, and he said to them, Why have you been idle standing here all day long? And they said to him, Because no one hired us. He said to them, You go into the vineyard too. The hour that he's talking about here, the eleventh hour, would have been 5 PM. So here you have guys that have already started 6 a. m. in the morning and the landowner is still out 5 p. m. and he's still picking up laborers for his vineyard, which one thing tells you how great this vineyard was. Uh but again about how generous this uh this landowner was. And here he finds this these guys at five PM and he puts them to work as well. And it would have been likely that the people still left out at five PM, like these are the guys that are weak You know, these are the guys that everybody's looked over, you know, like they don't really look like they could do the kind of job. Uh so people that would have been outcast, elderly, the weak. People who who didn't look like they could climb the mountain, but he picks them anyway. So this landowner sends them into the fields as as well. So you have uh you have this uh uh this landowner who goes out and and and collects these people for for service And then you have the workers' compensation in verse 8. Look at verse 8. It says when evening came, and uh evening here is 6 p. m. and we know that because the the last group who started at 5 only worked for an hour, according to verse 12. So the landowner calls these laborers together to pay them their wages. And according to Leviticus 19 and 13, The law commanded that employers pay those who work for them before the end of the day. Don't hold their money over overnight. Leviticus 19, 13 and Deuteronomy 24, 15 says, You shall give him his wages on the day before the sun sets. So here you have, here you have this laborer receiving this compensation before they leave for the day and the owner of the vineyard lines them all up. Starts from the end of the line, you know, who came in the last on purpose. It starts with them and works his way to the people who started first. And the owner is making this point. He's trying to try to make a point by starting at the end of the line. And these last workers received uh uh this compensation and and and and look at what what's going on here and look at look at what they received. Verse 8. Says when evening came the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last group to the first. When those hired about the eleventh hour came, each one received a denarius. And think about the graciousness of this offer. A denarius, like I said, it would have been a full day's wage for a Roman soldier. And he's given a full day's wage for somebody who's only worked for an hour, you know, barely an hour. of the day, in the in the cool of the day. And he gives them a full day's wage. And you can just imagine, you know, how how how how how happy these guys would have been. Just the graciousness of this landlord. They could have hardly picked up a basket before quitting time. And they understood that that what they They received was all of grace. This is completely of grace. This is merciful. This guy is generous. The owner gave me more than what I needed. He gave me what I didn't deserve. And that's what the Lord does for us, isn't it? Gives us more than what we need. He gives us what we don't deserve because he is a gracious God, right? John chapter 1 verse 16 says, For of his fullness we have all received and grace upon grace. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 6, it says to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. So they got the message. You know, this is gracious. There's no complaint here, you know, that he's a gracious landowner. But as the landowner started to work his way down the line, this what was initially received as a generous and a gracious gift Started to be grumbled over. Look at look at verse 10. It says, when those hired first came, they thought that they would receive more Because each of them, but each of them also received a denarius. So you just do the simple math. If somebody worked for an hour and got a denarius, and I've worked for 12 hours, what should I get? What's a good twelve denarii, right? You know, at least twelve. Like come on here. You know, what's what's what's the problem? So it's the simple math. You know, one if one hour receives one denarii denarius, you know, twelve hours should receive twelve But they received the same amount as the last workers who came. So these last workers, they sign their petitions, they register their complaints, you know, they hold up their picket signs, you know Shame on the landowner. You know, we want fair pay. When do we want it? Now, right? We want fair pay. When do we want it? Now So here are these these these these workers, they're grumbling against the landowner. Like this is wrong. And he uses the Greek word uh gangza, which which I'm told it's it's a word that sounds like what it's describing You know, like if you uh you know describe the the gripping of a faucet, you say drip drip drip. You know, you describe the barking of a dog, it's like woof woof woof You know, you describe the the grumbling of a people, it's gangutozo, gangzu, ganguzo. You know, it's like this kind of grumbling, this muttering under your breath. I can't believe what he did. Can you believe what he's doing to us? So here you have this grumbling of the people And they come to the landowner and they have their complaint. Look at what they say. When they received the verse 11, they grumbled at the landowner, saying, These last men have worked only one hour. And you've made them equal to us, who've borne the burden and the scorching heat of the day. We've borne the burden, literally, we've we've borne the weight, the heavy lifting, the scorching heat, the burning heat. And we've been at it for twelve hours. Twelve-hour workday. And not too many of us have a twelve-hour workday in the scorching Palestine sun. These guys had it rough. This is hard work. Twelve hours up and down this mountain in the scorching heat of the day, we've borne the burden. And some of you are thinking, you know, I think they got a point here. Like that's not right. It's not fair. It's not right. And if if that's you today, it's because you don't understand what grace is. You don't understand what grace is. I I remember I was sharing the gospel with uh this one guy on my my job a a number of years ago and No, sharing the gospel with him, and he's like, so if I understand what you're saying right, you're telling me that a guy can live a horrible life. You know, he could be like a serial killer. And if before he dies he repents of his sins and he trusts in Jesus Christ, that that guy's going to go to heaven? Is that what I'm hearing you say? I'm like, if if he's truly repented of his sins. If he's truly regenerated, he's going to heaven. That is what you're hearing me say. He says, Well, I'm not interested in salvation. I'm not interested in salvation because if if I have to like if if I can like believe in the Lord and trust in him and I have to live a life of obedience and some other guy who's a crook and a murderer and a rapist can get in because he just says a prayer and repents of his sins before he dies, like I don't want to be in the same place with that guy. You know, that's that's that's what he told me, and I told him, well that's that's because you don't understand what grace is. And you have really no concept about how bad you really are, right? You know, how fall how how far short we fall of God's of God's standards. You know, so so here this guy says, I don't if that's what what grace is, I don't want any part of that. Because I don't want to be in the same place with the murderers. I don't want to be in the same place with, you know, the fornicators and everybody else. That's that's just not fair. If I have to live like this like this to get into heaven, you know, and and that's what I'm doing for heaven, then then I can't stand to be next to somebody who's who's doing something less And again, it's not understanding grace because you haven't worked for it in the first place. You don't work for it for eternity. And what you have is uh, and really like you have the classic example is the thief on a cross, right? You know, a a guy who who was on the cross, rightly so. He he told the the other thief, like, hey, we're here because we deserve it We're supposed to be here. You know, this man has done no wrong. He understood that he didn't deserve God's grace. And as he turned to Jesus, he says, Can you remember me when you come into your kingdom? And what did Jesus turn and reply to him? Today you'll be with me in paradise. Like that is God's grace. If anybody got in at the 11th hour, it was this guy, right? You know, the thief on the cross. Grace by definition is undeserved. It's it's generous, it's unearned. You know, that's what grace is. The Bible says that we've been saved by grace in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 8 Romans 4, 6, it's by grace. It's no longer on the basis of works. And even though in this parable you have these men who worked in the field, you have to remember that the landowner was not obligated to pick them up in the first place. He could have left him out there. He wasn't under any obligation to pick him up. He wasn't under any obligation to pay him what he paid him. This was really all of grace. It was all of grace. And if you pay attention to the context here, you know, as as uh as Jesus is telling this disciple uh this um this uh parable about those who've borne the heat of the day and those who are grumbling, you know, about what the landowner is given to somebody who's just showed up. What does that remind you of? It reminds us of what Peter had a problem with. Like, Lord This guy just showed up, like, today? And you're already offering him treasures in heaven? Like, what about us? Like, what do we get? Like, we've we've been with you for over two years. Like we've left our our family businesses. We've left our tax collection practices and fishing and lost opportunities. We spent time away from our family for for you. Like we've borne the heat of the day It's not fair that this guy would get treasures and you're going to give the same thing to us. Like that was Peter's kind of reasoning here. And Jesus uses this story to point that out because Peter is in the position of the grumbling servants. He's in the same position saying, Lord, it's not fair. It's not fair that we would bear that the heat of the day and this guy comes in at the last moment. So Jesus uses this story to really address the heart behind Peter's question. He understands that Peter's asking this question because he's jealous of what Jesus just offered this other guy. Like, Lord, why would you offer him treasure in heaven? And like, like, what about us? Like, what do we get? But if you understand this, there's uh that there's really nothing that you deserve, and everything that we receive is God's grace in the first place, you can't blame God for being unjust, right? The only thing that you can say is that this landowner is what He's generous. He's gracious. Like look at how gracious this guy is that somebody who worked one hour of the day would get the same thing as the one who worked 12 hours of the day. That's all you can say is that he's gracious And the landowner uh uh replies, verse 13, and he answers him and says, uh friend , I'm doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me, Fordinarius? Take what is yours and go, but I wish to give to this last man the same as to you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what is my own? Or is your eye envious because I am generous? He says, friend, I'm not doing you anything wrong. And actually the the word that he uses for for friend here is is a rare word for friend. It could be translated something like, hey buddy, let's listen to this. Like like you're I'm not doing you any wrong. I'm not doing anything wrong to you here. When the disciples became followers of Christ, they knew what they were signing up for, right? When they came to follow Christ, they were told that you're going to be made fishers of men That you're going to find life, that you're going to inherit the kingdom, that the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure. They were told that they were going to have to deny themselves and pick up their cross and follow after Christ. They already knew what the work involved. Like like that, Jesus was up front with them. None of that changed. Jesus didn't change anything. He he didn't he didn't offer uh he didn't uh change the agreement, he didn't uh uh you know uh switch the contract on them. It's like you know what I offered is what I gave you, right? You know, so I'm not doing you any wrong. Take what is yours and go. But if I wish to give to this last man the same as to you, like what is that to you? You know, basically it's the the same kind of uh question that that Peter asked in uh John twenty-one when uh uh Jesus told him in what manner he was to die, and then he immediately turns around and does what? Hey wha what about him What about John? Are you going to leave him alone? Like why do I get the why do I get the crucifixion? What about him? And he says, if I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you? What like what business is that of yours? Can I do what I want with what's my own? And it's the same kind of response that this landowner 's given. Can't I do what I want with what belongs to me? Is it not lawful for me to do what I wish with what belongs to me? And salvation belongs to who? Salvation belongs to the Lord, right? In uh uh Psalm 3 verse 8, salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessings be upon your people. Psalm 113 verse 3 115 verse 3, but our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. So what he points out is that you're you're actually envious Because you know what you would have preferred and what you wouldn't complain about at all is if things were switched the other way around. Like if I got the hour worth of work And somebody else had to bear the twelve, like, hey, you know, aren't you so glad for how gracious the landowner is? Like, this is fantastic, you know? You wouldn't have had any complaints at all. But now that it's the other way around, I get the 12-hour day and you get the one-hour day, it's like, this isn't fair. You know, look at this landowner and start to grumble and complain against the landowner. It's only because things are switched around, Peter. Like if if if you were the other way around and you got offered treasures at the you know the same moment, it's like, hey, this is fantastic. But because it's the other way around, now your heart is envious of the person that I've offered this to And the the question that we need to ask ourselves is uh, are we envious at all? Do do we have the same kind of heart in our own, uh same kind of attitude in our own hearts? Do we ever look with envy at what another brother or sister has in Christ? What somebody else receives, you know, I I remember uh going through through seminary, it was kind of difficult because uh, you know, I was married, had three kids, had to work like thirty hours a week on top of a full seminary schedule. with twenty-one hours that you know at one point, and doing ministry, and then I look at these guys who are like fresh out of college, you know, mom and dad have paid for everything and they're just like, hey, you know, isn't this great, you know You know, bright and cheery, I'm I'm studying Greek until the late hours of the night 'cause like nothing else to do. And you know, it's like I'm struggling over here. I'm trying to like, you know, read my Greek cards on my steering wheel as I'm driving from like three hours away. And it's just like, Lord Like I'm bearing the heat of the day. You know what I mean? Like that's the kind of attitude, but um like there's the temptation to become envious when somebody has something that you don't Like they've they've got an easier life. You know, maybe maybe somebody has more opportunities than you do. It's like Lord, why do they get it easy? Why do they get the opportunities that I don't? Why does somebody have privileges that haven't been offered to me? Why do they receive honor that I don't? You know, they get recognized or mentioned and I don't What if they get placed where where I don't get placed? What if I have to bear the weight and the heat of the day? Do I look with envy on other people who have been offered the same thing that I have? or or seemingly get away with uh with less than than what I have to to experience. And the question is, is if isn't it God's right to be gracious to whom he will and to give what he wants to whom he will? And what is that to us if God allows some people to have it easier than than we do? What is that to us? God has done us no wrong. If we've received eternal life, I think we've got it pretty good, right? If we have that offer of inheriting the kingdom of heaven, I don't think we have anything to complain about. These men had nothing to complain about before the landowner. You've given me everything that I need for the day, more than what I need for the day. I have nothing to complain about. And this is the same way it should be with us. Why would I complain? And would I complain if it was the other way around? You know, you you'd hardly find the guys who worked for one hour a day saying, that's not right. I want to work 12 hours. You know, this just isn't right. Don't send me home with this money. That's not what you're going to find. You're going to find it the other way around. So it's like it's it's When people talk about things not being fair, it's not because it's worked out in their favor, right? It's because it hasn't worked out in their favor. The Bible lets us know that we're we're saved by God's grace, and it says right here in the concluding statement, it says that the last shall be first and the first shall be last. And what does that mean? In the context, it means if the the first or last and the last are first, then everybody's the same. Everybody's the same. Everybody gets the same. In the parable, that's what the point was Everybody gets the same thing. Everybody gets eternal life. Everybody gets treasures in heaven. You know, we might have different positions, and uh the Bible talks about that, but everybody Is in need of the same grace and everybody receives the same eternal life. Like we all get the same eternal life. You know, so Peter, what are you complaining about? You're getting eternal life just like I'm offering to anybody else. Like you, I'm not doing you any wrong. You know, so that's basically the point of what Jesus is saying here. So we might have uh, like I said, different positions, but uh we all need the same grace. So a couple things that that means is that uh you can't look down on anybody as if they're untouchable. You know, like they're beneath me. Uh James chapter 2 talks about that, showing partiality. You know, looking down on people because they're poor or they have less opportunities, like you can never look down on anybody. N nobody's beneath you And it also means that you can't look up to anybody as if they're somehow untouchable, like, oh, I can never be in their category, I can never be in their presence, oh I'm not worthy, not worthy. Like you can't do that either. Because who are they? Like if they're believers, they're nothing more than servants. That God has given grace to, right? Look, like uh Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 5, he says, what is Apollos? What is Paul? Servants through whom you've believed, even as the Lord gave opportunity to each one. So you never put somebody so far above you, you never put anybody way beneath you. And it also means that you need to have an accurate view of yourself as well And have you ever considered this, that um that you are treated the same as the most eminent and godly saint? That you're treated the same? That you have the same access to God that they do? That you've been given the same blessings that they have, that you have the same eternal life that they have, the same inheritance that they have? Like we all have the same thing before God. None of us needed more of God's mercy, and none of us needed less of God's mercy. We all needed the same It's not like you know hey you need more grace to save you than this other guy. It's like no we all needed the same grace. It's not like you know some people needed Christ Christ to die, but some people only need you know Christ to get a paper cut. You know what I mean? It's like we all needed the same death. Everybody needed the same death. Everybody required the same price. So we're all the same when it comes before God. So you're not better than anybody else? And uh you can be glad that your name is just written in the Lamb's Book of Life, right? Uh instead of saying, you know, I need all these accolades and praise and recognition, it's like I'm I'm just glad that my name's in the book You know what I mean? We should just be happy that our name's in the book and uh get to work, right? Just get to work, be happy with what the Lord's uh giving you, he's giving you an opportunity to serve him. Serve him with gratefulness because you don't deserve it You don't deserve to be in the service of the King, but uh God's given us that gracious privilege. Amen. Let's uh pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you for uh this opportunity that we've had to uh uh look at your word and Father, we pray that uh you'd use your word to uh uh instruct us, that you challenge us, Lord, that you convict us if uh uh there's areas that we fall in short, uh, Lord, even in um in our hearts against uh other brothers and sisters in Christ. Uh some of us uh might very well struggle with envy uh because uh people are mentioned when when we aren't or uh uh their their life seems to be easier than than ours is or They're in a different position in life than we are. Father, I pray that you would free us from that. Father, I pray that you would uh guard us against uh partiality, against looking down on people who are not like us or and don't have the blessings that we might have And Father, I pray that we would understand that we're all equal at the foot of the cross. And even today as we uh celebrate the uh the Lord's table, it's uh Reminder to us that we all benefit from the same life and that we're all equal. We all equally need the life of Jesus Christ. So Father, I pray that that would be just something that we reflect on, that we consider, and that we practice in our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.