The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. And uh we're grateful for what the Lord is doing here and uh shepherding the the people that the Lord brings to us is uh uh remains a priority for us, a focus of our leadership and our equipping hour classes are growing, new ministries are being developed, and we're in new territory. And for me, it's a great reminder of our need for prayer. We have a great need for prayer. And I want to direct your attention to one of the prayers of the Apostle Paul found in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 21. Ephesians chapter 3 Verses 14 to 21, and you can uh turn there with me. Martin Lloyd Jones, uh the great Welsh preacher of the last century, uh wrote this about Ephesians chapter 3. He says, however long you may live in this world, whatever order may arise, you will never hear anything equal for eloquence, for elevation of thought, for profundity of language. It is undoubtedly one of the great mountain peaks in Scripture. Indeed, there are many who would say that this is the highest peak of all in the entire glorious range of Scripture, truth, and divine revelation. And for those of you who think that I'm a slow preacher, when Martin Lloyd Jones preached through Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 21, he took 17 sermons to do that. So uh I'm I'm a little bit quicker than him, so you know I should I should be you know receiving some kind of you know congratulations or something, you know Tom Pennington pointed out that uh Charles Simeon, who's considered to be a father of the evangelical movement in England, he made this prayer, Ephesians chapter 3, uh verses 17 to uh 14 to 21, the foundation of his life and ministry. It was that important to him. This Paul, this uh prayer of Paul, it's not his first prayer in the book of Ephesians. We find the first prayer back in Ephesians chapter one. Verses 18 to 23. Paul prays that the eyes of their hearts would be enlightened. That's what he prays for back there. And we can summarize that by saying that Paul prays for understanding, that they might know. But in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 21, Paul prays that God would grant them, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with power. He prays for power. He prays for their strengthening. And this prayer was a necessary prayer for this church, and it would have been necessary for them to hear this prayer as an encouragement to this church because Ephesus was a pagan and godless city. It was one of the richest and most important port cities in the west coast of modern-day Turkey. It boasted one of the seven wonders of the world. It was located in uh that was located in Ephesus, the temple. of Artemis, also known as the Temple of Diana , was the Greek goddess of hunting and wilderness and wild animals and nature, vegetation, childbirth. And people traveled from all over the world to see this great temple to Artemis. It was central to their economy. Actually, if you remember back in Acts chapter 19, verse 28, they they raised this This cry up in Ephesus, great as Artemis of the Ephesians. It was central to their economy, so important for them Ephesus was an important political city, educational city, commercial city. It was named among cities like Alexandria and uh in Egypt for its importance, but in comparison to all the pomp and circumstance of the city of Ephesus There was in Ephesus a church that was small, insignificant , infant kind of gathering of believers in the midst of this great society And by way of strength, they had very little in comparison to the city that they lived in as far as power. Even their their leaders had very little to show by way of power. Consider where where Paul is writing the book of Ephesians, the letter of Ephesians from. He's writing this letter from a house arrest in Rome. In Ephesians chapter 6, verses 19 and 20, it says, Pray on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth, to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel. Listen to this, verse 20, for which I am an ambassador in chains. So here you have a preacher who's bound in chains and he wants to write to the Ephesians and talk to them about power. He doesn't even have the power to free himself. Seems like a contradiction. But the contradiction is only an apparent contradiction because what you see is not always the reality. It's like the sign in the rear view mirror that says objects may be closer than they appear. And the reality about Paul and the church in Ephesus was Much more significant than what first appeared. Because in this small, poor, seemingly insignificant church in Ephesus, there was actually the most powerful presence in the city. And even though Paul is bound by chains and he's confined to a house arrest in Rome, his voice was the most powerful voice in Rome. And all of this becomes a reminder to us that the reality can be much greater than what we see with our natural eyes. And so much of Ephesians Chapter 3, verses 14 to 21 reflects that. So why don't you follow with me as I read Ephesians chapter 3 starting at verse 14 Tis for this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith And that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge That ye may be filled up to all the fullness of God, now to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think According to the power that works within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. And all God's people said. Amen. In my office, right above my desk, I have a picture of the entire faculty of the master's seminary with all the professors who taught me in the year that I graduated seminary And outside of the the picture, in the the mat, there's a mat outside of the picture where I I had all my professors uh sign their their signature and and they wrote words of encouragement for me as well. And one of my professors wrote these words I pray that the Lord will bless your ministry with such fruit that it will be clear that He is the one who accomplished it. And Paul is going to pray things in this prayer that are so audacious and beyond us that the answer to these prayers will make it obvious that it was only God who could accomplish it. Paul is going to pray for things like power beyond their capacity , comprehension beyond their knowledge, that they would be filled beyond what they have the ability to contain. And each of these requests seems like Paul is asking for the impossible. He's asking for the unthinkable. But isn't that what he also acknowledges at the end of the prayer? That the things that I'm asking for are things beyond human ability. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we can ask or think, that this is this is a prayer that goes beyond. Paul is acknowledging that I'm praying for the impossible, but that's okay because he's talking to the God who can do the impossible. He's talking to a God who can do anything that he desires, anything that he purposes to do. And in Genesis chapter 18, if we remember, the Lord informs Abraham that he and Sarah would have a child in their old age, and Sarah left. Why did Sarah laugh? Because she thought it was too difficult. This is impossible. But what does the Lord say? Is there anything too difficult for the Lord? Jeremiah chapter 32, verse 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for you. And this is a prayer that demonstrates that Paul believed in the God who could do the impossible. That there was nothing too difficult for this God to answer. This prayer is a demonstration of that belief. It's a magnificent prayer. The prayer before us can be summarized in a number of ways. We could just describe all of verse 14 to 21 as Paul's prayer. We could separate it into two parts, as many of your Bibles do. There's 14 and 19, which is the content of the prayer, and then 20 to 21, which is the benediction of the prayer. We could break that down even further and say verses 14 and 15 give us the introduction, 16 to 19 give us the content, and 20 to 21 give us the conclusion. Or we could do what I'm going to do today, which is to separate the prayer by its introduction, the three main requests in the middle, and then the conclusion. So that's the structure that we're going to use today. We're going to talk about this prayer in five parts. And in each section of this prayer, Paul works his way through what on the surface appears contradictory, but it's not. And these apparent contradictions begin right up front with the introduction to the prayer in verses 14 and 15, where we learn here that we are a part of a family beyond all normal connections. Look at verse 14 again. For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name. There is a Father, and there is a family But it's a family beyond all normal connections. And as Paul introduces us to the father of this family, he says, I bow my knees before him And it's clear from the context that he's bowing before the Lord in prayer. I'm praying, is what he's saying. Bowing the knees was the common posture of prayer. Psalm 95, verse 6 says, Come let us worship and do what? Bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. It was a common posture of prayer. The prophet Daniel found praying right after an edict was signed that forbid prayer. to anyone but the king of uh of Babylon for thirty days, but how did they know Daniel was praying? Because he's kneeling, just as he did before, three times a day praying, giving thanks before his God, as he had been doing previously. So kneeling was a common form of prayer, but commentators are also quick to point out that bowing is not the only acceptable form or posture of prayer. Actually, the most common form of prayer, that the pasture for prayer, was actually standing with your arms outstretched to God 1 Timothy 2, verse 8, Paul writes, Therefore I want the men in every place lifting up holy hands without wrath and dissension. And Jesus in Mark chapter 11, verse 25, says, Whenever you stand praying, forgive. If you have anything against anyone, so that your Father who is in heaven will also forgive you of your transgressions. So Jesus assumes that prayers would be done while standing, but we find all kinds of postures for prayer. We find prayer standing up, kneeling down, face down, on the sea, in the sea, under the sea, in a den, in a jail, in a fish So this doesn't teach us that our prayers are not heard if you're not in a certain position or faced in a certain direction. The orientation of your body does not make your prayer more powerful. God does not hear you better if you're kneeling on a rug or standing with your face towards Jerusalem. But the position of your body can definitely say something about what's going on in your heart, can't it? And kneeling was a recognition of the greatness of the one you were praying to and the greatness of the request that you were asking. For example, in uh Philippians chapter 2, verse 10, it says, At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow. And of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth. The bowing was a sign of submission that I recognized that Jesus is over me, bowing before King Jesus And I've often said that if you don't have knees, God will create knees for you just so you can bow. Bowing recognizes the greatness of the person who I'm talking to. But in prayer, bowing was also a recognition of the greatness of the request. In Ezra chapter 9, Ezra realized the magnitude of Israel's sins. In chapter 9, verse 5, he says, But at the evening offering I arose from my humiliation, even with my garment and my robe torn, and I fell on my knees. and stretched out my hands to the Lord my God. He recognized that what he was about to ask was a great request in the light of the sins of God's people. And in Ephesians chapter three, Paul recognizes that I'm about to make a great request here. The greatness of the request. And he also recognizes the greatness of the person he's speaking to. He's talking to the Father. And we could take that term father as a general statement. Regarding God's creation of all things. In that sense, God is the Father of all creation. God is the origin of everything that exists. Without him, nothing exists. In Acts chapter 17, Paul speaks to the men of Athens who are not believers, and he says, uh he gave uh hims he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. He made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and their boundaries, their habitation. And then he says this in verse twenty-eight, For in him we live and move and exist As even some of your own poets have said, for we also are his children. He's saying that we're all children of God in the sense of creation. God has created all of us. But there's something that's more specific that Paul is wanting to get at. He's not just saying that God is the father of creation. He's actually saying that God is the father of a family. He 's the father of a family. And there's something distinct about being part of God's family, and that's supported by the context. Actually, if you look at verse 14 Chapter 3 it says, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father. But what was the reason? Where do we find the reason? And this is where you have to follow Paul's train of thought, because he actually started his prayer in verse 1. Back in verse 1 of chapter 3, it says, For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus, for the sake of you Gentiles. And then instead of going right into the prayer, he interrupts himself. And Paul often did this. He interrupted himself. It's like, oh, I've got a thought, you know, and he kind of trails off for a while and then, okay, let me come back to my original thought. He actually was going to start his prayer in verse 1. And as he says, for the sake of you Gentiles, he says, well, let me tell you about the ministry that I have for the sake of the Gentiles. And then he comes back to say, okay, now let me pray. So what he's doing, it's in the context of praying for the Gentiles. And what was Paul saying about the Gentiles back in chapter 2? Look back at chapter 2, verse 11. It says, Therefore, remember that formerly you the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by the so-called circumcision, which is performed in the flesh by human hands, remember that you were at that time separate from Christ. excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world, but now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace, who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. Drop down to verse 17, chapter 2. Look what he says here. It says, and he came and preached peace to you who are far away, and peace to those who are near. For through him we both have our access in one spirit to who? To the Father. There's the connection to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are of God's household. What does that mean? You're now part of his family You Gentiles are now part of the family of God. So what is Paul saying? Paul is saying, if you are in Jesus Christ, the barriers that divided our families have been broken down. Now you're part of a new family, you're in a new household, and we all share the same family name, and specifically the name that comes from the father. There's actually a play on words here in chapter 3. When Paul says, I bow my knee before the Father, that's the Greek word pater. We get our English word paternity from that word. You know, like a paternity test. And then 15, it says, From whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name, and the word for family is patria. It's from the same root. Patria or family Also is related to this word pater or father. But this family doesn't have the normal connections. You can't take a physical paternity test to see if you're related to God. You can't pull out a birth certificate to show that you've been born again. There's no written document to say that you've been adopted into God's family. No natural connection, no normal way to prove the connection. But that doesn't mean that your connection is not real. We have a real, vital connection with God, the father of this family. And because of our common salvation, we are his people who are called by his name. We're his people called by his name. And that's even symbolized in baptism, where we're baptized into the triune name of God. Go therefore make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We've been named according to this new family. The Scottish preacher Sinclair Ferguson said we can look at baptism as our naming ceremony because we've been given a new family name My name is George Lawson and my name comes to me from my father. I'm actually a junior. My full name is George Lott Lawson Jr. Don't ask me where the lot came from, but I got it from my father My identification came from my the the father of my family. My father received his name from the father of his family. And at some point down in the Carolinas somewhere there was an English family that gave my ancestors their last name And don't worry, I'm I'm I'm over that, okay? But beyond the English roots to the name Lawson, the connect that I'm also connected to a whole clan of people. There's a There's a whole tribe up in Albany with the last name Lawson. And just to give you an example, my grandmother had 17 kids. And all of their kids had kids. So I have a large connection to the name Lawson. I'm happy for the last name Lawson and all the people that it connects me to. But regardless of your natural and normal connections If you're a believer, you've been connected to a greater family. You've been connected to the family of God. You are right now connected to those who are in heaven and on earth with the same family name. Which is why one of the most frequent designations for believers is the word brother. We're part of the same family. We're brothers and sisters now in Christ. And every family in Jesus is part of the same family. Our identification is connected to the father of the family. And we have a family beyond country, beyond complexion, beyond communities, beyond visible creation. Our family extends from heaven to earth, and every family that's connected to God is connected to me From Lusaka, Zambia to Baltimore, Maryland, we're all part of the same family of God. And it's beyond any natural connections. We're all connected. We're part of the family of God. And Paul here prays to the father of this family. But not only that, after this introduction, he starts to give his request , we also have a strength beyond all comparison. That's what he's praying for, for strength beyond all comparison. Look at verse 16. It says he's praying, he's bowing his knees before the Father, verse 16, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Following this introduction, Paul jumps into the content of the prayer. And the first request is introduced by the word translated that in English, but it's the little Greek conjunction henna, which means in order that And this begins the section of the prayer. It actually divides the sections of the prayer here. And the main request here is that these believers would be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man. And everything else hangs off of that request in this beginning section here. And would you notice that Paul's main concern is the inner man, not the outer man? There's not a prayer here for physical health. For wealth, for prosperity, the riches of God's glory are not mentioned here to usher the believer into physical wealth and riches Even in Philippians chapter 4, where it talks about the riches of his glory, in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 19, it says, And my God will supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. And it's been pointed out that he did not say that God will supply all your greeds. It's needs. And just for a moment, can I say this? That God is not a slot machine? That you don't put in your quarter of faith and pull the handle of prayer with the hope that financial blessings are going to somehow fall out of the machine into your container. And where did the church get this emphasis on wealth and health and prosperity? It's an unbiblical emphasis. It's an unbiblical emphasis. The idea that God promises Physical riches and prosperity is found nowhere in the Bible. But we do find promises for spiritual strength. And Paul prays for what is most necessary for these believers to have. In the midst of a godless society, they don't need money cometh the sermons. They need spiritual power sermons. What you need more than financial riches and success is spiritual power in the inner man. And the inner man is contrasted with the outer man. For example, flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Take a look at verse 16. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 16. Listen to what Paul says here. And here he contrasts the inner man with the outer man. Verse 16. He says, Therefore we do not lose heart, but though our outer man is decaying, yet our inner man is being renewed day by day, for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And according to this passage and the surrounding context, the outer man is this physical flesh and all that pertains to the earthly life. And our physical strength and health and appearance are all temporary. But there's something within us that we can't see, that can't be touched by momentary affliction, that's producing for us an eternal weight of glory. And that's what Paul is praying for. He's he's praying for that hidden man, that inner man, that spiritual man. And how does the spiritual hidden man get strong? I mean, where does the spiritual man get his daily dose of vitamins and minerals from? What's the chicken and broccoli diet for the inner man? One answer that immediately comes to mind is the inner man is strengthened by the word of God, right? Acts chapter 20, verse 32. And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. The Word of God builds us up, strengthens us. God's Word has the ability to build you up spiritually, to strengthen your inner man. 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 2. like newborn babies, long for the pure milk of the word, so that by it you may grow in respect to salvation. And that doesn't say that we are newborn newborn babies, but it says that we're to long for the the word like a newborn baby. You know, newborn babies are always looking for the milk, right? And that's the way that we should be with the word of God. It's like I'm always looking for it. You know, milk does the body good. But Paul shares a different emphasis in Ephesians 3. He doesn't talk about the Word of God. What's Paul doing in Ephesians chapter 3? He's praying. He's praying. He's praying for spiritual strength. The emphasis here is that God would grant the gift of growth through prayer. And there's a pattern of the Word of God that there's word and then prayer that are combined for spiritual growth. He teaches and then he prays. It's the same pattern that Jesus had with his disciples in John chapter 14 to 16. Jesus teaches his disciples, and then what does he do in John chapter 17? He prays for his disciples. He prays for them because without the Spirit of God, you're not even able to digest the spiritual food of the Word of God. You need God in order to be able to digest what He's giving you in the Word. So Paul prays for their spiritual strength. And listen to the Trinitarian nature of this prayer back in the Ephesians chapter 3. Who's the fountain, the source of every blessing? Verse 16 again. That he would grant you. Who's the he? The he is the Father. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power. The Father is the source of all blessings. He's praying that the Father, according to his riches in glory, Would grant this request. Which means that this this prayer is answered lavishly. The word according to, in this context, that he would uh grant you according to his glorious riches or his riches in glory In this context, it means according to the standard of his riches in glory. It's a gift that's according to the standard of the giver. You know, if I sent you a gift according to my riches, you know, I could give you a decent gift. But if I had musk money, you know, if I had billionaire money, some of you know what musk money is anyway. Some of you missed that. It's okay If I sent you a gift according to his riches, it would be a different kind of a gift, right? Because now it's according to a different standard. And God gives us gifts out of His standard. His standard of giving. But how and how does He send this gift to us? So it's a lavish gift. And how does He send this gift to us? It's through the Spirit of God. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man. We're strengthened with power how? Through his spirit. It's through the Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit is responsible for communicating to us, conveying to us spiritual strength. In the book of Ephesians, we learn that the Spirit of God seals us for the day of redemption. Spirit of God grants us access to the Father. Spirit of God fills us. And also here, the Spirit of God is delivering us spiritual strength from heaven. And what's the goal of this spiritual strength? Look at verse 17. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Every member of the Trinity is involved. Pray to the Father, comes through the Spirit, and its goal is that Christ may dwell in our hearts through faith, the Son of God, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, all mentioned. And the goal of this prayer is that Christ may dwell in your hearts, which seems to be a little bit out of order, doesn't it? How is Paul praying for spiritual strength for people who don't have Christ in their hearts? And I thought these people were believers. I mean, how can you be a believer and not have Christ in your heart? And is it possible to be a believer and lose Christ in your heart? I mean, what's going on here? The real key to understanding this language about Christ dwelling in our hearts is understanding what it means for Christ to dwell. What does that word dwell mean? The Greek word for dwell means to settle down in, to be at home in. To be an inhabitant as a permanent resident. And what Paul is saying is that he's praying for Jesus to be at home in your hearts, that he would fully occupy every part of your life. That Jesus would be fully present in every area of your life. And in many ways, this is similar to the filling of the Spirit. As believers, we are all indwelt by the Spirit of God, right? I hope you know that. Romans chapter 8 verse 9, if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. If you don't have the spirit, you're not a believer. You know, so there's no such thing as believers tarrying, waiting, I'm hoping for the Holy Spirit. Like if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not a believer at all. Okay? So all believers have the Holy Spirit, but all believers are not filled. with the Holy Spirit. There's a command to be filled. So yes, you can be indwelt by the Spirit, but it doesn't mean that the Spirit of God is controlling your life. And we all have Christ in our hearts as believers, but Paul is here praying that Christ would fully indwell us, that he would make his home in our hearts. I remember as a as an early Christian, I read this little book about making our hearts a home for Christ, and it pictured the aspects of our life like rooms in a house. It wasn't a theologically accurate book, and I don't recommend books that put words in Jesus' mouth, but it made the point for me early on that Jesus owns every part of my life. And in the book, Christ enters the library and he changes the literature. He enters the dining room and he adds the appetite for God's word. He enters the living room and makes it a place of communion with him. He enters the workroom and gives it a purpose. He enters the game room and he cleans up the mess. And then he says, What's in that closet in the hallway? It smells like something is dead in there. And the host says, this is too much. I can't give him the keys to the closet. But eventually understands that I have to give Christ access to every part of my life. Like I said, it wasn't necessarily a theologically accurate book, but the point is there. Is there a closet in your life that you're kind of tucking away and locking the doors? Like, I don't want Christ to have that part. I'll keep that part away. You know, he can have access to the living room and you know public areas, but that's that's private. There should be no private places in your heart from Christ. But Jesus should have access to every part of your life. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 15 speaks about what this looks like, you know, making our hearts a home for Christ. It's growing up into Him. It's becoming more Christ-like in everything that we do. Ephesians 4:15, speaking the truth in love, we're to grow up in all aspects into Him. Every part of your life is to be reflective of Christ. Romans 8. 29, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son. We need to be conformed to the image of Christ in all that we are. Galatians chapter 4, verse 19, my children with whom I am again in labor until Christ is formed in you. I want you to look like Jesus. That's the goal that we're pressing toward, Christ's likeness. We pray for Christ to make a home in our hearts by faith. That's the first request for power beyond all comparison and that Jesus would dwell in our hearts by faith. We need God's power in order to do that. What's the second request? A knowledge beyond all comprehension. Look at verse 17. Middle of verse 17. And that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge And here the second request is introduced by the little Greek conjunction again in order that adds a new section to the prayer. Second petition is for a comprehension which is beyond knowledge. So here Paul pushes us in this prayer towards a knowledge we don't have the capacity to understand. And he's describing here what he's describing is so far beyond our limits that he just says, I just have to pray for you. I mean, what I'm describing here is so far beyond you that you just, I just need to pray that you'd be able to understand this. But how can you be confident that these believers would actually start to comprehend some of the incomprehensible? It's because they've already been rooted and grounded in love. That you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend. The foundation that's here is love. And the love that's described is the love that we're rooted in, grounded in. It's the love that's outside of us. It's external to us. We've been placed into this love. In other words, this love does not come from us. You're taken like a plant and firmly planted down, rooted down in this love. You're like a building that's that's been constructed, firmly set on the foundation of this love, rooted and grounded both Passive participles, which means we don't act on ourselves. This is what happens to us. This is what happens for us. And both of these words speak about the stability and the foundation that rests underneath the surface It's what keeps the plant or the building from falling over. Rooted is an agricultural word. Speaks about the whole system that grows underneath the surface of the soil that nourishes the plant, keeps the plant from falling. While we were living in California, our family enjoyed visiting Sequoia National Park. There's these massive trees that can weigh up to 2. 5 million pounds. can reach as tall as 300 feet. And uh we saw a few uprooted trees and the massive root system that was underneath the tree And what's interesting about the root system is that even though it doesn't go deeper than maybe twelve, fourteen feet underground, that it's connected And can spread out as far as a hundred feet in each direction, and it connects itself to the other tree. So there's actually like a massive system of trees that are all connected together. And that's what gives it its stability. It's underground, all these trees connecting to one another that gives it gives it its strength. And it's just amazing what happens underneath the ground that connects these trees and keeps them stable. The word for grounded, it's an architectural word. Without a solid and deep foundation, a building doesn't stand a chance. 10 to 15% of a building is all that you can't see underground. Ten to fifteen percent of the building costs, all underground. The most important part of the building is what you don't see. And Jesus highlights that with the foolish man who built his house on the sand instead of the man who built his house on the rack. And the firm and stable foundation of our lives that's underneath our lives is love. Love is what we're rooted in, grounded in. So love is not some kind of squishy, sappy You know, just kind of hearts and flowers. Instead, love is this rock solid anchor for your life. And the believer is firmly rooted and grounded in the love of God. And this is a love that will not let you go. You know, sometimes the issue of eternal salvation is uh debated among believers. You know, can a true believer lose his salvation? Can a believer lose his salvation? The the better question is who is a true believer? That's the better question. But the question that we often hear is: can a true believer lose their salvation? But here's one of the ways that you can answer that question. If you are a true believer, Scripture says that you are firmly rooted and grounded in whose love? God's love. Christ's love. And what kind of soft soil do you think his love is? Do you think that he planted you in? And what kind of sloppy construction do you think God did when building your foundation that you could be uprooted and toppled over? What kind of sloppy construction project do you think God is working on? In Jude chapter uh, don't ask me, it's only one chapter. Verses 24-25. Now to him who is able to keep you from Stumbling. He's able to keep you from stumbling, from falling, and to make you stand in the presence of his glory blameless with great joy. The words for rooted and grounded, again, passive participles. It's what he does for you. And you've been rooted and grounded in his love, so you will not fall. You cannot be uprooted. God is the one who keeps you secure. And for those who've been rooted and grounded in love, what's the prayer? Verse 18, that you may be able to comprehend with all the saints. Everybody's included in this prayer. Comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. This is a prayer to comprehend the incomprehensible. It's describing the indescribable. It's like he ran out of ways to describe the love of God and he says, you know, breadth, length, height, depth. I mean, I can't really put it all into words. Because he's starting to give physical descriptions for something that's not physical. You got that? When my mother used to say, you know, I love you this much. Am I supposed to take out a ruler and measure from hand to hand? It's like, okay, that's that's the extent of it right there. You know, I love you this much. If if someone says, I love you to the moon and back. I don't pull out a book on a solar system and try to figure out the length of love, you know, from here to the moon, 238,855 miles, and back, you know, 400 and 477,710 miles. Yeah, I'll love you to the moon and back. You know, your love equals 407. No, you don't do that. You understand it's like I'm trying to describe something that I can't measure. I'm trying to describe something for you. I'm just trying to show you how great this is. Love is not a physical substance that you can measure. So Paul is here trying to describe the indescribable. And when Paul tries to describe the measure of God's love, he doesn't just move in one direction and back to the moon and back. He stretches it out in every direction. Breadth, height, length, depth, up, down, left, right, inside, outside, upside, downside. Happy all the time. It's like he's just, I'm trying to say something to try to describe this love. It's a volume that can't be described And then he adds this in verse 19, and to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge. This is so far beyond you. Do you know the love of God? Do you understand how great his love is to you? What's the expression of the love of God? John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son. And whosoever believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life. Where is the love of God demonstrated? It's at the cross. We sang about it earlier, didn't we? At the cross, at the cross. Romans 5. 8, but God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. Somebody should preach on Romans sometime, but anyway. James Montgomery Boyce, the late pastor of uh Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, he recounted this story. Listen to this. He says, in the last century when Napoleon's armies Opened a prison that had been used by the Spanish Inquisition, they found the remains of a prisoner who had been incarcerated for his faith. The dungeon was underground. The body had long since decayed. Only a chain fastened around an ankle bone cried out his confinement. But this prisoner, long since dead, had left a witness. On the wall of his small, dismal cell, this faithful soldier of Christ had scratched a rough cross with four words surrounding it in Spanish. Above the cross was the Spanish word for height. Below the cross was the word for depth. To the left of the cross was the word for width. To the right, the word for length. And clearly, this prisoner wanted to testify the surpassing greatness of the love of Christ perceived even in his suffering. And where did he see the love of Christ? It was on the cross. That's where I see the depth of God's love for me. Another author says, the love of Christ is broad enough to encompass all mankind. Long enough to last for eternity, deep enough to reach the most degraded sinner, and high enough to exalt him to heaven. This is the knowledge that's too wonderful for it. Like this is too much. You can't comprehend that. Paul says it surpasses knowledge. It's beyond what I can describe. But he's praying that we would still comprehend it. I want you to comprehend what you can't comprehend. It's again like a paradox. You know, I want you to go beyond what you're able to do. I'm praying for you to be able to go beyond And the last request that he asked, this third request, is definitely beyond. Because what does he say at the end of verse 19? That you may be filled up to all the fullness of God. And what does that mean? Filled up to all the fullness of God. This is the last request, the last section that's indicated here. Brief request, but it's a mind-boggling request. What does it mean to be filled with all the fullness of God? Let me first of all tell you what it doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that we're little gods. Isaiah 45, verse 5 says, I am the Lord, there's no other besides me, there is no God. Isaiah 46. 5, to whom would you liken me that I would be equal and compare me that we would be alike? Isaiah 46, 9, remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me As one ancient confession puts it, there is but one living and true God who is infinite in being and perfection a most pure spirit, invisible, without body, parts, or passions, immutable, immense, eternal, incomprehensible, almighty, most wise, most holy, most free, most absolute. There's only one. One God. And Jesus Christ is the only image of that invisible God. Colossians 2. 9, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God in John 1. So Jesus, the only begotten of the Father, shares all the attributes of deity. So then what does Paul mean when he prays that you would be filled up with all the fullness of God? And I think this is a helpful explanation here, John MacArthur. Writes this, he says the word plurato, which is the Greek word for filled, means to make full or to fill to the full, and is used many times in the New Testament. It speaks of total dominance A person filled with rage is totally dominated by hatred. A person filled with happiness is totally dominated by joy. To be filled up to all the fullness of God therefore means to be totally dominated by Him. With nothing left of self or any part of the old man. By definition, then to be filled with God is to be emptied of self. It is not to have much of God and little of self, but all of God and none of self. And this word used for fullness was used several times throughout Ephesians, which helps us to understand what we're talking about. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 1, look at verse 22. Says, and he put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. So right here, Christ is to be the church is to be filled with Christ. What does that mean? He's supposed to be in control of the church. Every aspect of the church is to be characterized by Jesus. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 5. We already know this one. Ephesians chapter 5. It says, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. What does that mean to be filled with the Spirit? You're to be dominated by the Spirit's control. You're supposed to have control over every aspect of your life. And then in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 19, it says that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God. And what does that mean? It means that God is in control of the family of God. Every aspect of the family of God is to be characterized by Him. So that doesn't mean that we become God. We don't become the Spirit because we're filled by the Spirit. We don't become God because we're filled with God. We don't bec Christ because we're filled with Christ It's just saying that you're supposed to be characterized, dominated, controlled by every member of the Trinity. And we're to grow up in Ephesians 4, verse 13. Says we're to grow up until all we attain, we're to grow until all we attain to the unity of the faith, of the knowledge of the Son of God, we're to grow into a mature manhood through the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. We 're to be filled up with God, filled up, controlled, dominated by God. But can we all agree that that's a capacity that's beyond us? I like what MacArthur said. He says, we're like the little boy who takes a trip to the ocean and he wants to show his friends what the ocean looks like. So he fills up a little glass jar and takes it home. To show his friends, this is the Pacific Ocean. You know, I got it in a jar. It's like it might be filled up with the contents of the Pacific Ocean, but that's nowhere close to the Pacific Ocean. And in the same way, it's like we're filled up with all the fullness of God. We're to characterize Him and all of our life, but it's like we're only like just dipping into the ocean and trying to show people a jar. Like we'll never reach this. Not on this side of eternity. But he still prays. I want you to be filled up with all the fullness of God. I I want your life to be fully characterized by God. That's what I'm praying for that you'd you'd reach after that And after making these bold, outrageous requests, what does Paul do? He reminds us of who he's praying to. I'm praying to the God who can do the impossible. This is the one I'm praying to you. And he has an ability beyond all conception. Look at verse 20. It says now to him Who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we ask or think, according to the power that works within us? To him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. And Paul here he actually interrupts himself again in verse 20. Now to him. And then verse 21, to him be glory. I mean he didn't finish his sentence and Verse 20, now to him it's let's it was now to him be the glory. I mean that's what he wanted to say, but he interrupts himself again. Now to him. I mean the the hymn. Let me talk about who the hymn is. It's to him who is able to do far more abundantly beyond all that we can ask or think. I mean, he's always interrupted himself. So here he interrupts this glory that's going to be given to God, but but what he does is he layers on glory on top of glory Like he's not getting away from it, he's just adding to it. So to him, to him be glory. That's the main idea of this last section. Glory to God. And isn't it obvious? If any of these requests are answered, who does the glory go to? It goes to God, because you couldn't do this. Only God can do this. That's the idea. All glory goes to him. Just like my professor wrote, I pray that the Lord will bless your ministry with such fruit that it will be clear that He's the one who accomplished this. If God answers this prayer, it's clear he's the one who accomplished this. Because we can't do this. So there's this Extended description of praise. Who is God? I love what John Stott calls it. He says this these are the seven expressions of praise to God. Number one, who is God? He's the one who is able. God has the ability to act. But not only is he able, he's all also able to do what we ask for. Because he can hear and answer prayer. But not only does he answer what we ask, he also answers what we ask or think. Because sometimes we have a prayer that we don't actually get out of our mouths. Sometimes it's just a thought. Sometimes we we wouldn't even dare to ask this request. That's just too much. But God says, I can do even what you're thinking right now. Not only can he do all that we ask or think, or what we ask or think, he can do all that we ask or think. Like we can have a lot of thoughts. Right? And and God says, I can I can do all that you ask or think. Not just what you ask or think, but everything that you're asking or thinking, because I can perform it all. But not only can I do all that you ask or think, I can do more than all that you ask or think. There's stuff that you haven't even thought of yet that I can do that too. His expectations are higher than ours. Not only can he do more than all we ask or think, he can do much more than all we ask or think. More abundantly than all we ask or think. And then finally, I'm able to do very much more, far more abundantly Beyond all that you can ask or think. Because I'm a God of superabundance. And Paul makes up a Greek word, puper ek peruso. What does that mean? I'm I'm just like adding stuff on to stuff. I mean he's just like making up words at this point. Immeasurably more, vastly more, infinitely more. It's this extended description of praise to God. He can do so far much more abundantly beyond that all we can ask or think that I just have to make up a word to try to describe what I can't describe. He can do so much far beyond, infinitely more. And not only do we have this kind of description of who God is, the description of God, but there's this extended declaration of praise. There's a power that is said to be at work in us. And this is the point that makes the prayer so incredible. And hard to believe. Because it's not just that God can do the impossible. It's that God can do the impossible in us. That's the point that's that's hard. It's not like God came and said, hey, Sarah, you know, uh next year somebody's gonna have a baby Yeah, that's not hard to believe, right? Yeah, somebody else out there, I know you can make babies and somebody out there can have a baby. No, what was hard for her to believe is that you're gonna have a baby. That's what made it hard. Now it's like, ha ha, what are you talking about? Don't you know how old I am? Don't you know how old my husband is? Like now you're talking about me? Like I can do that? Like, like that's that's what I'm saying. You Don't try to limit me in what I can do. I'm saying that I can do this miraculous power in your life. That's what makes it hard to believe. That's what makes it hilarious. The God of the universe who's saying that He can do all these things, the church, He can do that in you, the believer, He can do that in you, that God can be at work in your life to do the miraculous, to do the impossible in you. And then Paul does something that he doesn't do anywhere else in the Bible. He includes in his doxology the church. To him, verse 21 says, Be the glory where? In the church. And in Christ Jesus, that glory can be received to the Lord through the church. That God is going to do the impossible through the church. And what's the duration of this glory? To all generations forever and ever. Amen. And church, this is just the beginning. It's just the beginning. And if the God who can do the impossible answers this prayer, then who receives all the glory for it? God does Because he's the only one who can answer this. To him be the glory in the church, to all generations, multiple generations from now, that God would still be gaining glory for himself because he's still doing the same work. All generations, you know who that includes? That includes us. So when Paul is praying for this Ephesian church, you know who else he's praying for? He's praying for us as well. That this prayer of his would extend to all generations which we are included in right now. It's amazing. It's amazing. Prayer that the Lord would bless the ministry with so much fruit that it would be clear that only God was able to do it. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity that we've had to look at your word. Father, you are the God who can do far more abundantly beyond all that we can ask or think. And Father, it's amazing that you would do that work in us. Father, it's uh so many of us are like Sarah. Who doubts that you can do the impossible? Who believes that there are just some things that are just too far beyond the realm of possibility? But Father, how often do we forget who we're talking about? We're talking about the God who made the universe out of nothing. It was impossible for there to be a world until God said, Let there be. Well, so Father, the one that we believe in is the one who can do the impossible. Well, so Father, I pray that we would trust in the same God, that we would pray to the same God. That you, Father, today would continue to work in our lives, that you would continue to gain glory for yourself in the church and through us. And Father, I pray that as you answer these prayers, Lord, that we would be careful to bring back to you all the praise, because you're the only one who deserves praise for anything that's accomplished. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.