The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're back in Romans chapter 4, and uh Lord willing we'll be wrapping up chapter 4 today, so uh just in case you didn't think we were making progress. We got you. We're making progress in the book of Romans, so very grateful for that. And in Romans chapter 4, We're working our way through a section of scripture where Paul has been reminding us of the great blessing we have in our justification. Which is just so foundational to our salvation. Justification, it's the biblical teaching that sinners receive righteousness, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. And one of the questions that we began to work our way through the last time we were together in Romans is, who is that truth for? That truth that were declared righteous in the sight of God based on faith, who is who is that exactly for? Because even if you were convinced that the Bible teaches that salvation is for sinners who receive the righteousness of God through faith in Christ, you may still have the question, what kind of sinners? Maybe there are only certain kinds of sinners who can receive that blessing. And there are other sinners who are left out of that blessing. Is that blessing of salvation by faith only for those who have gone through some kind of religious ceremony? Is the the blessing of salvation for those who've been faithful to some kind of religious requirement? Or maybe the salvation by faith alone is for a certain group of people. Maybe salvation by faith is only for the Hebrew people. And to answer these kinds of questions, Paul takes us back to the progenitor or the father of the Jewish nation. What was true at the beginning? And in the same way that Jesus defines marriage, and he says, have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And he takes us back to the beginning of marriage. In the same way, Paul is taking us back to the beginning of the nation of Israel. Going back to the beginning of the Jewish nation. And he's essentially saying, have you not read. That he who saved Abraham did not do it by ceremony or by law or by lineage. And in this chapter, in chapter four, Paul is warning us against the thieves. Who would try to rob us of our confidence in salvation by trying to convince us that there's some kind of ceremony or law or lineage that we need to have before receiving this blessing by faith? First, he reminds us that it is not by ceremony. In Romans chapter 4 and verse 10, he says, How then was it credited while he was circumcised, speaking about Abraham, or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. And what does that mean? It means that his ceremony had nothing to do with his justification. Not even Abraham had to be circumcised before receiving the righteousness of God by faith. And if anyone comes to you with uh some kind of ceremony or ritual or service and saying that this is required in order for you to have a right standing with God, you can reject them as thieves and robbers. If anyone tries to convince you that worshiping on a certain day or refraining from certain foods or wearing certain clothing or participating in certain a certain service or being baptized in a certain way or making a pilgrimage to a certain place or being blessed by a certain priest or pastor or holy person who has the the special anointing. As if they have some kind of special connection to God, that that somehow is necessary for your salvation. They're thieves and robbers. So it's not by ceremony. Number two, he reminds us that it is not by law. Down in verse 13, he says, for the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law. It's not through the law that we're justified by faith. And again, this was the the argument of the Jewish people in Acts chapter 15 and verse 5. It says, But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed, so these were those who had claimed to have faith in Christ. They stood up saying, it is necessary to circumcise them, and them is the Gentiles, it's necessary to circumcise them, to direct them to observe the law of Moses. If they're really going to be saved, they have to become Jewish first. First, they have to be circumcised, then they have to obey the law, and then we can talk about this justification by faith alone business. But first let them become Jewish Paul rejects that as those who are thieves and robbers coming to steal the confidence that we have in Christ alone. Then down in verse 16, we also learn that the promise is not through lineage. It's not through lineage. It says, for this reason it is by faith In order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants Not only to those who are of the law, but also to to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. It's not through your lineage being able to trace your way back to Abraham that you can say, well, well now because I'm part of this group Because I share some kind of DNA that now I can be justified by faith alone? It's not through through the law. It's not through lineage. It's not through ceremony. It's through none of these things. And Paul says in verse 14, for if those who are of the law, speaking about the Jewish people, are heirs, faith is made void. If the blessings of salvation were only given to those who were lawkeepers, it would make faith empty and useless. It's through faith that we're saved. It's not through any kind of law-keeping, law-abiding. That's not how we're saved. The blessings of salvation are not given to those who are the law keepers. If that was the case, the promise would be useless. And it wouldn't even be a promise. It would be a promise that is built on something that we would have to do. And there would never be a time when that the requirements of that promise would be fulfilled Because we cannot keep the law. None of us can. If we were to obey the whole law and stumble in one point, we've become guilty of it all. So God Decides to save us not through the law, but outside of the law, we're saved. This is exactly what the scriptures teach us. And if salvation is not through faith, Then it's also not through grace. And there's this connection between grace and faith. Because what faith demonstrates is that I'm no longer trusting in myself That I'm going outside of myself. I'm trusting in someone outside of me to save me. So there's all these reasons that Paul gives to us why we need to trust in Christ alone, through faith alone. And it's because of his grace that we're we're saved, and it has nothing to do with us. But then I just want to cover this last point a little bit more particularly because we we kind of dropped off at verse 16 the last time we were together. But in verse 16, again, it says that we're not saved by our lineage. We're not saved by our lineage. But to those who are of the faith it speaks about in verse 16, so the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants. To all the descendants at the end of verse uh 16, middle of verse 16. So that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants, not only to those who are of the law. but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. And what does Paul mean by that? He's saying that the greatest connection to Abraham is not physical. There are descendants of Abraham who are not physical descendants of Abraham when Paul speaks about those who are of the law. That's a reference to the Jewish people. Actually, if you flip over to Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9. When Paul is giving a description of the Jewish people, listen to how he describes them. Romans chapter 9, look at verse 3. And this is speaking about his kinsmen according to the flesh, but look at verse 3. He says, for I could wish that I myself were accursed. Separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. So these are the people who share the same lineage as Paul does with Abraham. Who are Israelites? To whom belongs the adoption of sons and the glory in the covenants and the giving of the law and the temple service and the promises Whose are the fathers, which would have included Abraham? And from whom is the Christ, according to the flesh, who is over all, God bless forever. Amen. Paul says, I have this unceasing grief in my heart for them. Why Because they're not saved. They're not heading to heaven. So these Israelites, these kinsmen, according to the flesh. These are those who are of the law. These are the ones who've received the law. So when Paul speaks about those who are of the law, these are the people he's speaking about. And he's saying, I have this unceasing grief in my heart because they don't know the Lord, and I wish I could change places with them, which is one of those passages that always stops me in my tracks. Like when you really think that you love somebody, you should take a look back again at Romans chapter 9, verse 1. I'm telling the truth in Christ. I'm not lying. My conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit. Basically, Paul is saying, I know you're not going to believe me. But I'm telling you this. I'm not lying. My conscience is clear. I'm telling you this before the Holy Spirit. That I have this great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart, for I wish, for I could wish that I myself were accursed. What does it mean to be accursed? It means to be condemned to hell. He says, I wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ, for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. If I could change places with them. I would. If I could change places with them. That's the kind of sorrow that he has in his heart for his kinsmen according to the flesh, because he says that a lineage is just not enough. Just being able to trace your way back to Abraham is not enough. Abraham had two sons, and only one of them received the promise. Isaac had two sons, only one of them received the promise. Jacob had twelve sons, but not all of their descendants received the promise. And that's why Paul is saying, I've got this grief in my heart for my kinsmen according to the flesh, because some of them are not receiving the promise. John the Baptist warned the Pharisees against trusting their lineage. Back in Matthew 3 and verse 9, he says, Do you not suppose that you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father? For I say to you that these from these stones God is able to raise up children of Abraham, you're no better than a bag of rocks. You think that just because you can trace your family tree back to Abraham, that you're okay, that you're safe? God's able to raise up stones to Abraham if he wants to. Luke 16, Jesus told the story about the rich man in Lazarus. The rich man in Hades lifted up his eyes, being in torment in the flames. And in Luke chapter 16 and verse 24, he cries out and says, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water. and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame. And Abraham doesn't deny that the rich man is related to him by birth. He doesn't say, hey, what are you calling me Father Abraham for? I'm not your father. No, he doesn't say that. Yeah, we're related physically. And in verse 25, he calls him his child. But who ends up in the flames? Those that are related to Abraham. End up in the flames. Children of Abraham, related to Abraham by birth, but not by faith. And then over in John chapter 8, Jesus addresses the Pharisees again about their failure to believe in him. In John chapter 8 and verse 39, they answered Jesus and said, Abraham is our father. You know, hold on. You know, don't don't you give me any lip here. Abraham's my dad. And Jesus says, you are of your father the devil. You may be physically connected to Abraham, but spiritually, your father's the devil. You're not connected to Abraham spiritually. And you want to do the desires of your father, your spiritual father, because he was a murderer from the beginning. And what does all that teach us? They are not all children just because they're Abraham's descendants. Passing a DNA test will not get you into eternal life. There are people who believe they can enter into eternal life because they can spit in the cup and trace their DNA back to Abraham. I remember talking to a Jewish man who said that he was safe because he was a child of Abraham. He didn't have anything to worry about. I've talked to people who call themselves Hebrew Israelites who believe they're safe because of some unverified connection to Abraham. But a connection to Abraham only qualifies you to be a child of the devil. That's all it qualifies you for if you don't have faith in Christ. And more than that, it was always God's intention to bring the other nations into the promises of God. Back in Romans chapter 3 and verse 29, it says, Or is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not also the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of Gentiles also. Is the God that you serve so limited that he only deserves one nation? The God we serve is worthy of every nation. We just sang it earlier, didn't we? Is he worthy? Is he worthy? He's worthy of every nation. Not just one nation. And this is an idea that you can trace all throughout the scriptures. I won't have you turn to all of these, but you can jot them down. Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, 1-3. He's blessed so that the nations of the earth will be blessed through him. So it was a global impact. Moses, he encounters Pharaoh in Egypt, not only to free the people of Israel, but also so that the Egyptians would know that the Lord is the God over all the earth. Exodus chapter 9, verse 14. For this time I will send all my plagues on you and on your servants and on your people. This is about the Egyptian people. Why? So that you may know that there is no one like me in all the earth. God actually put the plagues on Egypt just so that they could know who's the true God. God was sending a message to them I'm the true God over all the earth. Psalms are filled with exhortations to proclaim the name of the Lord. Proclaim the name of the Lord to the nations. Call the nations to praise the Lord. The Psalms have actually been called One of the greatest missionary books in the world. Because it calls on everything that has breath to do what? Praise the Lord. It's a missionary. Kind of agenda here. We want the whole world to praise this God. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Psalm 117, verse 1. Praise the Lord, all nations, laud him all peoples. Psalm 67, verse 1. God be gracious to us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us. Why? That your way may be known on all the earth. Your salvation among all the people, the Gentiles are to know. Psalm 2 verse 8, speaking about the Messiah, ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance. That's the the lands and all the peoples in it. The very ends of the earth will be your possessions. The prophets who had a word for the Gentile nations, we have uh prophets like Amos and Micah and Isaiah who had words for the Gentile nations and who can forget the prophet Jonah you know took the the the the the the short fish the what is it short trip on a long fish Prophet Jonah didn't want to go to the Ninevehites. I don't want to go to the Gentile nations, but God sent them there anyway. Even if you have to be belched up on the shore, you're going to give the message. And the nation of Israel was given the divine responsibility of reaching their world for the Lord of the earth. Exodus 19, verse 5: The nation of Israel is told that they will be a kingdom of priests. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be to me a kingdom of priests. And what do priests do? They intercede on behalf of another. Isaiah 42, verse 6, says this of Israel, I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness, I will also hold you by the hand, watch over you, I will appoint you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations. You're to be a light. You're to point people towards me. And then we have the individuals that God saved like Jethro, Rahab, Ruth, Naaman the Syrian, and we could go on and on. God had a purpose even for the Gentile nations in the Old Testament. And then by the time we get to the New Testament, Great Commission, go therefore, make disciples of all the nations, nations ethne, ethnicities, all people groups. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And how does the missionary purpose in Revelation end? Revelation chapter seven, verse nine. After these things I looked, and behold a great multitude which no one could count. From every nation, all the tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne, before the lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands. God is going to save people from all the nations of the world. All the nations of the world are going to be before him, and that was his desire, and that's his design. So the next time you meet a Hebrew Israelite or any person who believes that salvation is exclusive to just one group of people, based on Scripture, you can ask them, how are they fulfilling the missionary purpose of the Scriptures? Because every nation is to come to the Lord. If you're blessed, it's to be a blessing to all. Salvation is not exclusive to any nation. And it never has been. And Abraham's promise was to be a father of many nations. Multitudes of nations. And because of that, he's the Father of us all. So who is salvation for? It's not for those who come through ceremony. It's not for those who come through the law. It's not for those who come through lineage, but it's for those who come through faith in the God who does the impossible. And all that was an introduction to Romans chapter 4. 17 to 25. So why don't you follow with me as I read Romans chapter 4, 17 through 25. As it is written, The Father of many nations have I made you, in the presence of him whom he believed, even God, who gives life to the dead, and calls into being that which does not exist And hope against hope he believed so that he might become a father of many nations. According to that which had been spoken, so shall your descendants be. Without becoming weak in faith, he contemplated his own body, now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, the deadness of Sarah's womb. Yet with respect to the promise of God, he did not waver in unbelief, but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully assured that what God had promised, he was able also to perform. Therefore it was also credited to him as righteousness. Now not for his sake only was it written that it was credited to him but for our sake also to whom it will be credited, as those who believe in him who raised Jesus, our Lord, from the dead. He who was delivered over because of our transgressions and was raised because of our justification. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, as we come to this text, Now, Father, we ask that you would open up these words to us, that you would help us to not only see what's here, Lord, but that we would be faithful to proclaim it. Oh Father, that we would be comforted by the truth that we find here. Oh Father, that you are a God who can do the impossible, and we know that's true because you did the impossible in our lives. So, Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The major theme of this new section in Romans is uh Is faith. That's the theme in this section. And it shows up in nearly every verse. In verse 17, it speaks about Abraham in the presence of him whom he believed. In verse 18, it speaks about how he had hope against hope and he believed. Verse 19, without becoming weak in faith. In verse 20, he grew strong in faith. In verse 21, he was being fully assured. In verse 22 it was also credited, and the it is faith. It faith was also credited to him as righteousness. And verse 23, it was credited to him, and the it again being faith was credited to him. And in verse 24, it will be credited. And again, the it is faith. And again, in verse 24, it's to those who believe. So you just find belief, belief, faith. Hope, I mean, just all these terms that are speaking about this confidence, assurance that we should have in God. The confidence that Abraham had, and the confidence that we're to imitate as well. Either faith or some reference to faith is mentioned in nearly every verse. But the kind of faith that we're talking about here in this section is a faith in a God who can do the impossible. In Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 1, it describes faith as the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. And in the case of Abraham, he was believing in God for things that no one had ever seen. It's not just that he had not seen them, but no one had ever seen them. He doesn't even have the books of Moses to rely on He believed that nothing was too difficult for God, and this is the kind of heritage we have if we're believers. It's a heritage of faith. And in this text we're introduced to six impossibilities or apparent contradictions in order to remind us that nothing is too difficult for God. And we believe in a God of the impossible. So first of all, and it's a point you might not have considered before, but Abraham was considered a father without children. A father without children. Look at verse 17. As it is written, A father of many nations have I made you, in the presence of him whom he believed. Even God who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which does not exist. Last time we were together, we mentioned that Abraham was given many precious and magnificent promises. The covenant promise that Abraham was given had global implications. It was not limited to a single nation, as we've said before. He was told that in him all the families of the earth would be blessed. In Genesis 15 and verse 5, God took him outside and said, Now look toward the heavens and count the stars if you're able to count them. And he said, So shall your descendants be. In chapter 17, verse 5, God says, No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I will make you the father of a multitude of nations. Abram means exalted father or father of many, but Abraham means father of a multitude. Father of a multitude But when Abraham was named, when God named him Abraham, called him a father of the multitude, God was speaking about that which did not exist. Back in Genesis 15, when God told Abraham, your reward will be very great, he responded, Oh Lord God, what will you give me since I am childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. God, I don't have any children. I know what you're saying about me, but you're calling me the spather of a multitude, but God, I don't even have one. Then in Genesis chapter 17, the only child Abraham has is Ishmael, who wasn't the child of promise, and God names him the father of a multitude. You're the father of a multitude, but he only has one, and that one wasn't the child of promise. Can you imagine having a name like Exalted Father, Father of a Multitude, but you only have one child? Donald Gray Barnhouse, the once pastored 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, he wrote, the scripture says that Abram was very rich in cattle and silver and in gold. When the caravans of the rich merchants came into the land, either from the north or from the south, they stopped at Abram's wells. The servants of Abram took good care of the needs of the camels, the servants of the traders. Food was sold to the travelers, and in evening time the merchants would have come to Abram's tent to pay their respects. The questions would have followed a set pattern. How old are you? Who are you? How long have you been here? And when the trader had introduced himself, Abram would be forced to introduce himself. My name's Abram, father of many. And it must have happened a hundred times, a thousand times, each time more galling than the first time. A father of many. Wow, that's your name. Father of many. How many do you have? And the answer must have been humiliating for Abram. None. Father of many, I don't have any. Many times there must have been this kind of concealed, and this is again with Barnhouse's writing, half-concealed snort of humor at the incongruity of the name and the fact that there were no children to back up such a name. Barnhouse goes on to say that he once knew a man named Wrench, and he said he automatically cringed every time he had to introduce himself. Because he knew that there were jokes to follow. He said he also knew a man named Mr. Meek, and he was asked many times, has he inherited the earth yet? You know, the meek shall inherit the earth. And here we have Abram, he's called the father of many, and he didn't have any. Father of many, he's not the father of one. And now, when he has Ishmael, he's only the father of one. But the one who gave him the name, Father of many, spoke as if it was already true. Spoke as if it was already true. A father of many nations, I have made you. Not I will make you, a father of many nations I have made you. Isaiah 46, verse 10 says that God declares the end from the beginning, from ancient times, things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, I will accomplish all my good pleasure. God can speak as if it's already done. It's already a past tense event. Isaiah 42:9. Behold, the former things have come to pass. Now I declare new things before they spring forth. I proclaim them to you. God speaks of things that are not as if they are. Over in Romans chapter 8, we have an example of this if you want to flip over there. Romans chapter 8 I love this. I love it all, but you know, you just gotta say that every once in a while. I love this too. Romans chapter 8, look at verse 28. It says, and we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. Everybody likes to stop at verse 28. But there is the question: what is the good? If God causes all things to work together for good, well, what is that good that He's working in all things towards? What's the good? Verse 29. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son. What's the good that God is working in all things? To conform you into the image of Jesus Christ. All things are bent towards conforming the believer into the image of Jesus Christ. That's the purpose here. So that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And these whom he predestined, that's the past, is also called. And these whom he has called, past, he's also justified. And these whom he has justified, pass, he's also, what? Has that happened to you yet? That hasn't happened yet. But God speaks that which is not , which is not as if it already happened Because all those who are called will be justified. All those who are justified will be glorified. If you're justified, you will be glorified, and God can speak about it as if it's already happened. Because if it's good, it's done. I believe and I will one day be perfected in his likeness. That's the truth that's found here. Over in Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2 has got another example of this. Ephesians chapter 2, look at verse 5. Actually, look at verse 4. It had to happen at least once. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. That's happened, right? By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him. We've been given new life, right? And seated us with them in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. I think we're all seated right here, aren't we? But spiritually, there's a union with Christ so that we can be set to be seated in heaven, but one day we will be, right? But he can speak about it as if it's already happened. Because of our union with Christ. God speaks about things that are not as if they were. And when it comes to Abraham, he can say, Abraham, you're a father of many. And Abraham's looking around like I I don't I don't have any here. But no, Abraham, that's what you are. You are a father of many nations in the presence of God, even though he would not be considered that in the presence of anybody else Before God. He trusted in God's words, and God can call him that which he is not. What else did Abraham have to believe in order to believe this word back in Romans chapter 4? What did he have to believe? First nineteen. Just without becoming weak in faith, he contemplated his own body now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old in the deadness of Sarah's womb. If you go back up to verse 17, it says, As it is written, A father of many nations have I made you, in the presence of him whom he believed. even God who gives life to the dead. Life to the dead? What is he talking about? It's what I just read in verse 19. He contemplated his own body and says, this body is as good as dead. He looks at Sarah, his wife, and the deadness of her womb. It's as good as dead. After a certain point in life, the reproductive organs don't function in the same way they once did. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, it speaks about the aging process. And in verse 5 of Ecclesiastes 12, it says that the caper berry is ineffective. According to the Standard Bible Encyclopedia, these berries were prized as a condiment to excite hunger, thirst, and were even used as a stimulant for physical intimacy. But at a certain age, even the caperberry is completely ineffective. Typically, women beyond their forties and fifties are unable to bear children. There's there are rare ex uh exceptions, but No one is on contemporary record as having a child in their 90s. Sarah gives birth at 90 years old. Deadness of Sarah's womb. Well beyond her physical capability, but Abraham had to believe that God can give life where there's death. That's what he had to believe. God can give life to the dead. And he believed that, he believed in God and said, God, if you said it, I believe it. And I like what uh RC Sprohl says, you know, that bumper sticker, God said it, I believe it, that settles it. He says, if God said it It's settled whether you believe it or not. God said it and it settles it. He says you're going to have a child, and that is what would happen. What else did he have to believe? He also had to believe that God was able to call into existence that which did not exist. And by the way, that is a characteristic of God to call things into existence. We do not speak anything into existence. Kenneth Hagan, who's often considered the father of the prosperity gospel, wrote this in his book, Write Your Own Ticket with God. You already know by the title, you should just put it back down, right? Write your own ticket with God. He says, the Lord Jesus Himself appeared to me and instructed me to pick up a pencil and write down 1, 2, 3, 4. If anybody anywhere will take these four steps or put these four principles into operation, he will always receive whatever he wants from me or God the Father. This is what Jesus is apparently saying. You know, pick up a pencil and write this down. You know, hopefully he had an eraser on the back end of that pencil. Say it, number one, do it, number two, receive it, number three, and tell it number four. According to what the individual says, that shall he receive. According to your action, you will receive. Receive it. Faith is the plug. Just plug it in. Tell it to others so that they may believe. And then you consider this having faith in your faith. You have the power to create your own reality. You can speak what you want into existence. Treflo Dowler writes this. He says, when we pray, believing that we have already received what we're praying, listen to this: God has no choice but to make our prayers come to pass. God has no choice. R. C. Sprohl writes, if God is not sovereign, then God is not God. Psalm 115 verse 3 says, But our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. You know what that says? God has the choice. God has a choice. And the only one who can speak reality into existence is God Himself. We believe God for what doesn't exist if He's promised that to us. But we don't write our own ticket with God as if God doesn't have a choice because I've written it down on the ticket. When Abraham believed God, it was because of what God told him he would do. It wasn't Abraham coming to God and says, you know what, God? I'm going to be the father of a multitude. God says, Well, I don't have a choice, you know? That's not what it was. It was God coming to Abraham and saying, I've made you the father of many nations. And Abraham didn't have the choice. That's the way it works. And faith is believing in what God has told me. God says it, that settles it. Whether I believe it or not, I need to struggle to believe. Lord, help my unbelief. But it's not because it's not settled. God communicated it and what was Abraham's responsibility? I need to believe what God has said. I believe it. Hebrews chapter 11 Verse 3, the language of speaking things into existence is used for God creating the world. Hebrews 11 3. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God, so that what is seen was made out of things which are Not visible? What is seen was not made out of things which are visible? God speaks the world into existence? In the book of Genesis, in Genesis chapter 1, let there be, let there be, let there be, and there was, and there was, and there was. God is the one who speaks things into existence, and you are not God. You're not God. And Abraham believed in God who can speak things into existence. God calls him the father of multitudes because God is the one who is able to bring that to pass. Even though you don't have a child yet, I'm telling you what is true. God is the God of the impossible. Number two, God can give a promise without hope. Look at verse 18. I know it sounds backwards, but you'll see what I mean in a minute. God can give a promise without hope in verse 18. In hope against hope. He believed, so that he might become a father of many nations according to that which had been spoken. So shall your descendants be. What what does it mean to hope against hope? That word that is used for hope, it speaks about an expectation, an anticipation. It's a word that speaks about something that you've set your heart on. They're anticipating this For example, in Romans chapter 5, we learn that there's an expectation for glory because of our justification. We have this expectation But what does Paul mean by hope against hope? The idea is that the hope that Abraham had was a hope that was based on promise. He's hoping Against hope, so that there's like this another kind of hope. A hope that's not based on a promise. So what's this hope in? It's according to that which had been spoken. Look again at verse 18. In hope against hope he believed, so that he might become a father of many nations, according to that which had been spoken, so shall your descendants be. So there's a hope that's based off of what the Lord said, and then there's every other kind of hope. And the hope that's true is the hope that's based off of what God has said. And there's other kinds of hopes that we have. It's a reasonable expectation. Like in, for example, in 1 Corinthians 9. 10, it says the farmer Plows in hope. What does that mean? He he works hoping that he'll get a crop. There's a reasonable expectation I'll have a crop. But that doesn't mean that that'll always happen, right? Abraham, when he first united with Sarah, he might have had a reasonable expectation that he would have a child, but that expectation wasn't met So now what is Abraham doing? Now I'm hoping against hope. Like the natural hope is gone. The natural hope is long gone. Like I have no hope in this natural kind of expectation. I have to hope against that hope. And my hope has to be based on the word of God. Once Abraham and Sarah passed their childbearing years, they needed a hope against hope. And that came according to what had been spoken. We hope in a God of the impossible And what he says he will do. We trust in the Lord of the impossible. Number three. Number three. Abraham believed in reproduction without life. Reproduction without life. Look at verse 19. It says, without becoming weak in faith, he contemplated his own body now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old in the deadness of Sarah's womb. Yet with respect to the promise of God, he did not waver in unbelief, but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God. We've already covered this to a degree, but the simple point here is that life cannot come from non-life. And Sarah and Abraham were as good as dead reproductively. There was no life there. But it says without becoming weak in faith, he's looking at his own body. He's looking at Sarah's body. I mean, there's nothing going on here. There's no life going on here. And we may wonder if this is overstating the point, but it says, without becoming weak in faith, that he's he's not becoming weak in faith, even though he sees the deadness of his body and the deadness of Sarah's womb, he's not becoming weak in faith. But then when you think about the narrative of Abraham, there's a couple times when he seemed to be weak in faith. Right? Genesis 15, Abraham becomes, seems to become anxious. When he comes to the Lord, he says, Oh Lord, what are you going to give me? Because I'm childless and the heir of my house is Eliezer. What are you going to do, Lord? He seemed to be weak in faith in Genesis 16, especially when his wife comes to him after 10 years, the promise hasn't happened yet. She's 85, or he's 85, Sarah's 75. They don't have a child, so Sarah says, uh Verse 2 of Genesis 16: Now behold, the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Please go into my maid, and perhaps I will obtain children through her. And this, gentlemen, is where you do not listen to the voice of your wife. What was that? That seems like a weak moment. She's saying, God has prevented me, so maybe you can do it this way. Instead of trusting in the Lord's word, we can do it by the flesh. But you have to pay attention to the text. Look at the text again. Look at verse 19 Without becoming weak in faith, he contemplated his own body, now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old. It gives a time frame here. It speaks about like as he's aging, he's growing in faith. There were times when he slipped and fell earlier on, but as he's aging, you know what? He's growing in his confidence, growing in his confidence, and now I'm not wavering in my confidence in the Lord. At 100 years old, it says he was about a hundred years old. By the time he's a hundred years old, there's no doubt in his mind. God's going to do what he says he's going to do. I'm trusting in the Lord. And pray to God that we have more old gray-haired men and women who can turn around to the rest of us and say, I've trusted in the promises of God. I'm not swayed at all by what's going on on the outside. I believe in my Lord. I believe in what the scriptures say, and I'm not swayed at all. And this as Abraham is growing older, he's growing in his confidence in God. In 1 John 2 and verse 13, it says, I'm writing to you, fathers, these are the older men, because you know him who has been from the beginning. Verse 14, I have written to you fathers, because you know him who has been from the beginning. There's a knowledge, and uh the word for knowledge here speaks about an experiential knowledge. I've I've walked with the Lord long enough to know that I can trust him. I know who my God is, and I believe in a God who does the impossible. And as Abraham is growing, he's growing in his confidence, and now he's fully assured. And this is the next point, the end of verse 20 into 21. There's an assurance without sight. Giving glory to God, he's growing strong in faith. Giving glory to God and being fully assured that what God had promised, he was able also to perform The faith of Abraham is described in two ways here. First of all, it's giving glory to God. And the second, he's being fully assured. The faith that we expressed in God gives glory to God. It gives credit to God, it gives honor to God, because it recognizes that only God can do this. When Abraham and Sarah had a baby, there was only one explanation that could be given. God did it The end of verse 21 says, He was able also to perform. It was the work of God. And he's fully assured that God is going to do this because I can't. Like he's at the end of himself. You understand that? I'm 100, my wife is 90. There is no way possible that there's anything coming from this It's not going to be based on the flesh. It's not going to be based off of what I can contribute. Everything is leaning completely on God. And what did that give to God? That gave God glory. Do you know why salvation is all of faith? We've talked about this before. Why is salvation completely a faith? Because it gives all the glory to God. It says, I deserve no credit for my salvation. Everything is about what he does. In the same way, when he's trusting in the Lord for this promise to be fulfilled, Lord, it's all you. Because there's nothing I can do. There's nothing I can contribute. It's all of God, and that's what glorifies God. To say that God does it. God does the work. We're justified by faith Because it turns us outward towards Christ, and it's clear that the salvation doesn't come from us. And secondly, faith is described as an assurance. It means to be fully convinced Fully convinced. It's the same word that's used over in Romans 14, 5. Each person must be fully convinced in his own mind. Full conviction? And the remarkable thing about Abraham is that he was the the first to receive this kind of of promise, you know, regarding the uh the the the inheritance and You know, the uh the covenant that he was given. He was the first to receive that, but he had a full assurance that God was going to do what he said he would do. He was believing in God for seed when he didn't have any. He was believing in God for land when he didn't own any. He was believing in God for blessings when he didn't see any. And Hebrews chapter 11 lets us know that now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. He couldn't see it, but he believed it, and it's by this that he gained approval before God. God also Gives revelation without an audience. I love this. Look back in uh chapter 4. Look at verse 22. It says, therefore it was credited to him as righteousness. And again, his faith is being credited as righteousness. Now not for his sake only was it written that it was credited to him. But for our sake also to whom it will be credited, as those who believe in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead And this is where Paul begins to, and I know that might have been a mouthful, but this is where Paul makes the connection between what happened to Abraham and what happens to us. Because the primary audience in this case for what is written in this narrative was written for people who did not exist yet. Follow follow what I'm saying. This is written for people who did not exist yet. And this is fascinating to think about. The first five books of of the Bible are considered the law or the the books of Moses, right? This is written by Moses. New Testament refers to the first five books of the Bible frequently as the books of Moses. John 1. 17, Jesus says, for the law was given through Moses, the law being the first five books. Acts chapter 15, 21, James speaks to the Jerusalem Council and says, Moses is read in every synagogue in the synagogues every Sabbath, referring to the first five books of the law. But when Moses wrote that Abraham's faith was credited as righteousness, guess who wasn't around to hear that? Abraham Abraham wasn't there when Moses wrote that. Galatians chapter 3 actually says that the law came 430 years after the promise to Abraham. So Abraham is long gone by the time Moses writes, and his faith was credited as righteousness. So who was that for? Was that primarily for Abraham's sake? No, because he wasn't around. It was written about Abraham, so it gives honor to Abraham, but again it says it's not primarily for his sake. Verse 23. Now not for his sake only was it written that it was credited to him, but for our sake. Also to whom it speaking about our faith will be credited. It was to give us a message that faith is credited as righteousness. And you have to catch the parallel here. Abraham believed that God gives life to the dead. He believed that life would come from a dead womb, right? He believed that. But look at what it says in verse 24. That this was written for our sake also, to whom it, speaking about our faith, will be credited, as those who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. Abraham believed that God could bring life from the dead. Guess what we believe? The same thing. That God brings life from the dead That God is the one who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. Abraham believed that God could bring life from a dead womb. We believe that God brings life from a dead tomb. We're trusting in the same God who brings life out of death. And just like Abraham was declared righteous because of his faith in the impossible, We today are declared righteous by faith in a God who does the impossible. And that's why the scriptures were written. It was written for us, an audience that didn't even exist yet. It was written so that we would know that God credits faith as righteousness. It was not just written to give information about Abraham. It was written for an audience that didn't even exist yet So God gives revelation to an audience that doesn't exist. And only an infinitely wise God knows exactly what to reveal in his word to address audiences that would exist thousands of years after it was written. This is the word of a God who does the impossible. And finally, we have a savior without equal. We're given a savior without equal. Look at verse 25 back in Romans chapter 4. It says he was delivered over because of our transgressions and was raised because of our justification. Jesus is a Savior without equal. He who was delivered over It seems like a contradiction that the conqueror, the savior would be delivered over. You know, being delivered over seems like a recognition of defeat. It's when you can't run from the law anymore and you finally turn yourself in. It's like I'm delivered over. It's like when you're trapped between a rock and a hard place. You're overpowered by those who are pursuing you and you're delivered over. Like, what sense does it make to speak about a savior who's delivered over? The savior is the one who's not saved? Matthew 17, verse 23, 22 and 23, while they were gathering together in Galilee, the disciples with Jesus, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. Matthew 20, verse 18. Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem. The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death. Matthew 27, verse 1. Now when morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people conferred together against Jesus to put him to death. And they bound him and led him away and delivered him to Pilate the governor. And while it may seem like a defeat, Jesus is in complete control the entire time. Complete control. I love what he says in John 10 and verse 18. No one has taken it away from me, speaking about his life. Nobody takes my life from me. I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down. I have authority to take it up This Savior is unlike any other. Even when he's being delivered over, he's still in charge. He will be delivered over, but that's in order to deliver us He's not a defeated savior, he's a victorious savior. He's the conquering king. And this man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God was the one who would bring salvation to those who would believe in him. Who was the one who delivered him over? We can talk about Judas did this and Pilate did that and the Jewish people did that. But in Romans chapter 8, verse 32, it says, he speaking about God did not spare his own son. But delivered him over for us all. He became our substitute. He was delivered over. Why? For our transgressions. For our transgressions. It's because of our transgressions. And that also seems like an impossibility. Because how can you pay for the sins of somebody else? Deuteronomy 24 and verse 16 says that everyone shall be put to death for his own sin. Ezekiel 18 in verse 4 says the soul who sins will die. So how can anyone pay for the sins of somebody else? But in our mysterious union to Jesus Christ through faith, our sins become his sins, and his righteousness becomes our righteousness. We're connected to Christ. It's not somebody outside of us. It's because Jesus unites himself with us. So now he can say, I'll take your sins. And you can take my righteousness. He unites himself to us. This mysterious union. That's how we are able to receive the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And in Isaiah 53 and verse 5 it says, he was pierced through for our transgressions. It was for us that he was delivered over. He was crushed for our iniquities The chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are healed. That's not talking about your physical healing from the sniffles or whatever else. That's talking about a spiritual healing. That you've been made well, that you've been brought life because of the death of Jesus Christ. It's by his scourging that you are healed. And then finally, he was raised because of our justification. If Jesus stayed in the grave, your justification is a joke. 1 Corinthians 15, 17 says, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You're still in your sins. If Jesus stayed in the grave, he had his own sins to pay for. He can't take care of your sins if he stayed in the grave. But praise God for verse 20. But now Christ has been raised. He has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep. For since by a man came death, by a man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive. And God has done the impossible. He's done the impossible. He's done what we can't do. He did what Abraham can't do. And all these things seem like these contradictions. How can you have a father without children? How can you have a promise without hope? How can you have reproduction without life? How can you have assurance without sight? How can you have revelation without an audience? How do you have the Savior without an equal? How do you have a Savior that's delivered over? How does that work? But it's in this mystery of God, the God who does the impossible, I believe for what I can't see. I believe for what I haven't seen before. And if God said it, that settles it. That's all we need. We need the word of God. We trust in the God who does the impossible. And before we close our time together, there was someone else who was called to life from the death. Called to life from death, life from the dead. There's somebody else Who was called into existence out of non-existence? And do you know who that is? That's you. That's you. You were dead. If you're a believer here today, that describes your past life. You were dead. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins. In which ye formerly walked according to the course of the world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them too, we all formerly lived in the lust of the flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. But God being rich in mercy Because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together. With Christ, by grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness. Towards us in Christ Jesus. You were dead, and now you've been made alive. You were dead, but now you've been made alive, and you were also non-existent. 1 Peter 2, verse 9. It says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. So that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Listen to this, for you once were not a people. You once did not exist as the people of God. And as far as any kind of spiritual relationship, you did not exist. There was no registration for you. You didn't show up. You did not exist. You were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And what has God done? God has called life out of death. God has called into existence that which did not exist. And if you are a believer today, it's because God, the God of the impossible, has done the impossible in your life. There was nothing that you could do to save yourself. There was nothing that you could do to rescue yourself. I love what uh uh one one preacher said. He says it's not just that you're dead, you're dead at the bottom of the ocean and you're chained down. There's no way that you're getting up. There's no way that you can resurrect yourself. You're like the Ezekiel's dead bones. And Ezekiel looks over the dead bones and says, Can these bones live again? The question came to Ezekiel, can these bones live again? He says, What? You know, Lord. I can't do this. This is something that you have to do. Do you know what we're called to do when we proclaim the gospel of God? We're called to speak to a bunch of dead, dusty bones and preach life. And if the Spirit of God so wills That word will connect with that dusty, dry heart and change that heart into a heart of flesh where it will start to beat, and life will come out of death. And that is the work of God. He calls into existence that which does not exist. You once were not the people of God. Now you are the people of God. And it's all because of the God who does the impossible. And if he's done the impossible in your life, you have something to praise God about. And for those that are still lost and non-existent , in non-existence and dead, you can still pray for them because the God of the impossible is still the same God today, isn't he? And that's you know, talk about you know those those you know the the the faith churches. We need to be a faith church, okay? Not like the faith churches out there, you know, the name it and claim it churches. No, we're the true church of faith because we believe in the Word of God. We believe that what God says he can do, that he can do. I love what Donald Gray Barnhouse said. There is no contradiction in God That's the foundational fact. There is power in God. There is wisdom in God. There is majesty in God. There is glory in God. But there is no contradiction in God. And what God says he can do and will do, we can trust him for it. Amen. Let's believe and trust in the Word of God. Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and uh Father, we're so thankful. We're so grateful that we have this word We're grateful that we have all that we need for life and godliness found in your truth. And our Father, I pray that we would have a confidence in what you've said, not what we say. Not what we desire, not what we come to you with, but Father, with what you've already come to us with. Father, we we have we have a book that's filled with your promises We have a book that's filled with your principles, filled with your words, with your instructions. And Father, I pray that we would submit ourselves to what we find here, and that we would trust in these words, that we would speak these words. And Father, that we would trust that you can bring life out of death, that you can bring into existence that which does not exist, and that we can still trust in the God who does the impossible today. Father, we're grateful that you've brought us not because of our ceremonies, not because of our law-keeping, not because of our lineage. Nothing to do with us. You rescued us anyway, out of death, out of non-existence. You rescued us. And Father, you're still doing that same work today. So, Father, I pray that you would give us confidence in your word and your truth. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. So, Father, I pray that we would proclaim your word and that we would wait on you to do the impossible work. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.