The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Why don't you open your Bibles with me to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew chapter 17 this morning. And just to set the context before you. A little bit here beginning in uh Matthew chapter 16, uh Jesus began to reveal to his uh disciples uh that they were not going to travel the the easy and the direct route to the kingdom. Uh it would have been easy for them to assume that, you know, after the big reveal, after uh uh Peter finally understood that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the Living God uh that it would have been smooth sailing from from that point forward and that uh these disciples uh probably would have assumed that that now that Jesus uh has been revealed to them that things are going to get better You know, after they know who Jesus is, that He's the Christ, that He's the Son of the Living God, everything's gonna get better now because we know that Jesus is in charge I'm I'm not sure if you've uh ever heard of that show, The Undercover Boss. Uh but uh it's a television series where uh a person uh who's in kind of upper level management, maybe he's the CEO of the company, you know, he'll take like this entry-level position as an employee. and uh find all the faults in his company and then you know he'll reveal, hey, I'm actually the CEO and I can fix some of these things. And uh it might have been assumed that there was something similar going on here. You know, there's a show where there's a CEO of waste management You know, he comes in and he works in the dump for for a week, you know, just so he can find out what it's like to come in entry level, work in the dump. And he says, I can fix all these things, all these problems that I'm seeing within my company, I can fix all of this. And the disciples might have thought that, you know, hey, Jesus has come. Now he's revealed that, hey, I'm actually in charge. So now I can fix everything. All these problems that you guys have been dealing with. Guess what? I'm actually the Messiah. I own the ends of the earth and I can fix everything. So they might have thought, hey, you know, this is going to be great. We now know who Jesus is. The big reveal is up. Jesus is in charge of absolutely everything. From here on out, it's going to be smooth sailing because Jesus owns the ends of the earth But now that they know who Jesus really is, Jesus says things are going to get worse. Things aren't going to get better because you know who I am. Things are going to get get worse. And it's expected Like I said, that the disciples uh from their perspective would have thought that that Jesus would have made things better, but in chapter 16 and verse 21, Jesus began at this time. to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, that he must suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. And even after the transfiguration where Jesus revealed his glory, put on this display, this kingdom glory, he immediately speaks about his crucifixion again, back in Matthew chapter 17 and verse 9. As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man has risen from the dead, you got it right, I'm still going to die. After all that's been revealed to them. He calls it his departure, literally his exodus. Jesus is about to go away, leave his disciples, and he wants his disciples to be prepared. His disciples need to be prepared for what's ahead. There's going to be trouble on the road ahead of them, and they need to be ready for that. And that's really what Matthew chapter 17 is all about. It's about Jesus equipping and preparing his disciples for his departure. And Matthew in particular emphasizes this focus on the disciples themselves. For example, in the transfiguration in verses 1 through 9. was really initially for the disciples' benefit. Nobody else saw the transfiguration. He even told them not to tell anybody that they saw the transfiguration. So who was the transfiguration for? It was for them. It was to strengthen their faith, to encourage their faith about what was to come. The explanation that he gives them about who Elijah was in verses 10 to 13 and uh chapter 17 as well, that was for the disciples' benefit. And then the the healing of the demon-possessed son that we'll uh read about uh today in verses 14 to 21, uh the focus again remains on the disciples. Jesus is training his disciples. He wants his disciples to be ready. They need to learn how to trust God. Even when the path ahead of them is different and more difficult than they would have imagined, they need to trust in his promises, even though it's different than their experience, and uh even when his plans don't seem to bring any relief When his plans seemed to make things more difficult, they still had to learn how to trust God. So let's go ahead and take a look at Matthew chapter 17. I'll start at verse 1 and uh we'll read uh all the way through uh verse 23 uh just to set it before you here. Matthew chapter 17, starting at verse 1. So six days later, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, his brother. And led them up on a high mountain by themselves, and he was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as light. And behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them, and talking with them, Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will make three tabernacles here, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. While he was still speaking, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud said, This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell face down to the ground and were terrified. And Jesus came to them and touched them and said, Get up and do not be afraid. And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus himself alone. As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man has risen from the dead. And his disciples asked him, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? And he answered and said, Elijah is coming and will restore all things. But I say to you that Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished So also the Son of Man is going to suffer with their hands. Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. When they came to the crowd, A man came up to Jesus falling on his knees before him, and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and is very ill, for he often falls into the fire and often into the water. I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him And Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring them here to me. And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was cured at once. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not drive it out? And he said to them, Because of the littleness of your faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible to you. But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day, and they were deeply grieved. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and Father, we thank you for your word. Father, we thank you for the way that your word opens up our hearts, shows us what's really on the inside. Your word is sharp, it's powerful, it's quick. Father, your word discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart, shows us who we really are. And Father, I pray that we would not hesitate to bring ourselves to the blade of the Word of God. Our Father, that we would allow you to do your work in us, that we would submit to that work that you want to do in our souls. And our Father, I pray that this morning, Lord, as we look to your word once again, Our Father, that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, Father. Change us, we pray, into the image of your Son, Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'm not sure if you guys are uh familiar with that that bumper sticker that uh people used to put on the back of their cars. Cars a lot used to say that uh uh God said it. I believe that that settles it. I'm not I'm not sure maybe we might have even had a had a bumper sticker like that back in the day. Uh God said it, I believe it, and that sells it. And it's a and it's a good thought to have, but I I remember R. C. Sprohl, uh he said that that that the words are a little bit out of order. A little bit out of order because he said a better statement would be, God said it, that settles it, and I believe it. God's word is settled, whether or not you believe it. He's not waiting for your affirmation before he settles his word. In Psalm 119, verse 89. The psalmist says, forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven. Your word is already settled. I mean, we should believe it. We ought to believe it. But God's not waiting for your belief in order to make sure that He does what He's going to do. Like, hey, if they don't believe it, I can't get this word settled. No, His Word is already settled. I'm happy that you believe it, but his word is settled whether you believe it or not. Your word is inconsequential as to whether or not his word is settled Matthew 5, verse 18, for truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished Matthew 24, 35. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my word shall not pass away. 1 Peter 1 verse 25. But the word of the Lord endures forever, and this is the word that was preached to you. In Isaiah 40, verse 8, the grass withers, the flower fades, but what? The word of our God stands forever. God's word stands forever. And uh I've titled this message, God said it, that settles it, and I believe it. Because that's the way that the order should go. And here you have these disciples. As I said, they need to learn how to trust in God's word. They need to learn how to how to trust God even when the path is different than theirs, than they might have imagined. They need to trust in the promises of God, even though it might be different from what they're experiencing. They need to trust in the plans of God, even when it doesn't seem like God's plans are bringing them relief. Even when God's plans disturb them. They still need to trust in God's word. And the first point that we have to deal with here is, will you trust God when his plans look different than yours? Will you trust God when his plans look different from yours? As the disciples are traveling down the Mount of Transfiguration, probably Mount Hermon, which is one of the tallest mountains there in Israel, believe it might be even the tallest mountain. They're still thinking about all that they had just experienced. And I imagine that it would have been hard to think about anything else after an experience like the Transfiguration. You know, they they just saw Jesus light up as the sun, brighter than any light they'd ever seen. Even his clothes started to glow, the light emanating from his person. And I imagine, like I said, it would have been hard to think about anything else after that experience. And it probably wouldn't have been hard to talk about anything else after that experience, but they had to keep their mouths quiet. Someone asked me if I if I thought that the disciples actually listened to Jesus' words when he says, don't tell anybody about this. You know, did they actually listen to the word? I think there's good reason to believe that they did. Not only had Jesus commanded them not to tell the vision to anyone in verse 9, but they were also overshadowed by the glory of God in the cloud, the majestic glory. as uh second peter chapter 1 verse 17 talks about and the last words that God spoke audibly was listen to him if if i have the glory of god overshadowing me And the last words he says is, you better pay attention. Listen to him. And the first command that he gives is, don't tell anybody. I think I might want to keep my mouth shut. It's a frightening experience. Frightening experience as this cloud overshadows them and says, listen to him. And we don't have any record that they spoke about this to anybody else, but they were able to talk about it amongst themselves. So here are the disciples, they're coming down from the Mount of Transfiguration, and they're starting to talk about what had just occurred. And as they're coming down, one of the questions that they have is. A question that might not come up in your conversation, but it's a question that was on their minds. And the question they had is in verse 10, Matthew chapter 17, verse 10. It says, and his disciples asked him, Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first? Why was that a question on our mind? Why did the scribe say that Elijah must come first? You might wonder what's so significant about Elijah? If I was on the top of the mountain, I'm sure that would be one of the last questions I'd want to ask. You know, I might want to ask about the glory and everything else. You know, what did you mean about your departure again? You know, can you explain that? But no, they want to ask about Elijah. You know, why did the scribes say that Elijah must come first? And for the disciples, it was a significant question because the visit from Elijah was different than they had expected. Both Moses and Elijah showed up on the Mount of Transfiguration in verse 3. They both disappeared in verse 8, but they didn't expect Elijah to come and go. They'd expected Elijah to come and stay because that what was that's what was predicted about Elijah. Why don't you flip back to Malachi chapter 4, just one book back. Malachi chapter 4 The book of Malachi was the last book of the prophets to be written. And it ends with this prediction of a day both of judgment and blessing. And it predicted a day of judgment for the evildoer, but a day of blessing for the one who feared the name of the Lord. Look at Malachi chapter 4. I'll start in verse 1. The prophet Malachi says this, it says, For behold, the day is coming, burning like a furnace, and all the arrogant and every evildoer will be chaff. And the day that is coming will set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch But for you who fear my name, the Son of Righteousness will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall You will tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day which I'm preparing, says the Lord of hosts. So here you have this prediction of the day of the Lord that's to come, that's going to burn up the evildoers like Chav. But for those who fear the name of the Lord, the Son of righteousness will rise with healing in its wings, and you will go forth and skip about like calves from the stall. So there's a day of blessing and a day of judgment that's predicted. But then you have this other prediction that's made, another prophecy that's made if you look down at verse 5. Talks about what's going to happen before that day. Look at verse 5. Behold I'm going to send you to you, Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord. He will restore the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, so that I will not come and smite the land with the curse. So the popular expectation that the rabbis taught the people was to expect Elijah before this great and terrible day of the Lord, before this time of the Messiah, who was the one who would rise with healing in his wings. And there's even a tradition that's practiced even until this day among Jewish people where a cup of wine is set out, uh poured out for Elijah, the prophet, at the Jewish state or at the Passover meal. And the front door of the home is opened for Elijah. And Jesus acknowledges this kind of tradition and expectation and agrees with it. He says in verse 11, Elijah is coming. and will restore all things. So the scribes were right to expect Elijah. They're 100% right, but they're also 100% wronged. In the way that they expected him to come. Hundred percent wrong in the way they expected him to come. And it seems that the scribes expected some kind of resurrected or reincarnated form of Elijah to show up And uh that's kind of what's behind the question over in uh John chapter one, if you want to flip over there. Uh John chapter one when they're when they're wondering about John the Baptist, you know, asking about his identity, uh John chapter one, verse nineteen. It says, this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent to him priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? And he confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. They asked him, what then? Are you Elijah? And he said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said to him, Who are you? So that we may give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? And he said, I am a voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as Isaiah the prophet said. So here they come to Elijah and they're saying, you know Is is could this be Elijah? Is is this the the expectation here and uh the their their expectation of uh of Elijah was for some kind of reincarnated Elijah or some resurrected Elijah to show up. And uh and that was not to be the case. Elijah was accepted into heaven, 2 Kings chapter 2 verse 11. He isn't coming back to live his life over again in some reincarnated form. That's not a biblical idea of reincarnation is not biblical. But the scriptures do teach us that there are prophets who have the same spirit and power of Elijah. And we already have an example of a person who received the spirit and power of Elijah back in the Old Testament. And who was that? Elisha. Remember when Elisha came up? He was the prophet after Elijah, 2 Kings. chapter 2 and verse 9 when Elijah knew that he was about to be taken, 2 Kings chapter 2, verse 9, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, please let a double portion of your spirit be upon me. He wanted to have the same kind of ministry that Elijah did, the same kind of power that Elijah did. And that was granted to him. He was given that same kind of spirit, that same kind of power, but Elisha was not a reincarnated Elijah But he's an Elijah type figure. And that's who John the Baptist was. Turn over to Luke chapter 1. Luke chapter 1. When John's parents were promised a child. An angel informed Zacharias, John's father, of what kind of child this would be. Luke chapter 1, starting at verse 16. Take a look at verse 16 with me. Actually, I'll start up from verse 13. Why don't we start a little earlier up? But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zacharias, for your petition has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you will give him the name John. You will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he will drink no wine or liquor, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit while yet in his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the sons of Israel back to the Lord their God. It is he who will go as a forerunner before him in the spirit and power of who? Of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers back to the children and the disobedient to the attitude of the righteous so as to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And that's a quotation directly from Malachi chapter 4. John the Baptist was an Elijah-type figure in fulfillment of Malachi chapter 4. He's the fulfillment of that And what Jesus is saying here is that even though the scribes were 100% right in their expectation of Elijah, they were 100% wrong in their recognition of him. 100% wrong. All of their careful studying, all of their acute observations meant absolutely nothing when they were faced with the reality of the Elijah to come. Why? Because they refused to listen to them. Refuse to repent. Matthew chapter 21, Jesus confronted the chief priests and the elders in the temple. Matthew chapter 21, verse 25. He asked this question: He says, the baptism of John was from what source? Where did the baptism of Elijah come from? From heaven or from men? And they began reasoning among themselves and saying, Well, if we say from heaven, he'll say to us, why then did you not believe him? And they didn't believe him. They didn't believe John. They also said this over in uh Matthew chapter 21. Look at uh look at verse 26 if uh if you're already there So they also said this, but if we say for men, we fear the people. For they all regard John as a prophet. In answering Jesus, they said, we don't know. He also said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. You know, see here here they are. They're just lying. Well if we say this, this is how it'll go. If we say this, that'll how it'll go. So we'll just say we don't know. They're just bold-faced liars. They knew they didn't believe John, but they didn't want to admit that in front of the people, because then the people would disregard what they had to say. So they knew what they thought. They didn't believe John. They didn't believe him. Matthew chapter 3 and verse 7 and 8 it says when many of the Pharisees and Sadducees came from baptism, coming for baptism, God says to them, You brood of vipers? Who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? What are you doing here, you snakes? Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Don't come down here just to make a show for the people. Because you know it's not in your heart. You're just down here because you want the people to think well of you, not because you're really transformed in your heart towards God. So here are the scribes, they're teaching about the prophet to come. They're expecting a prophet to come, but they wouldn't know a prophet if he was standing in the Jordan in front of them, which John the Baptist did. When the prophet came, they ignored him, they rejected him, they did absolutely nothing when John was taken into custody by Herod, eventually delivered over to death, and that's why Jesus says they did not recognize him. But they did to him whatever they wished. They gave the impression that they honored the words of the prophets, believed the prophets, longed for the days of the prophets, but when they were sent a prophet, they rejected him Over in Matthew chapter 23, if you want to flip over there. Matthew chapter 23. Look at verse 29. Look what Jesus says. He says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous. You know, they wanted to make a big deal about where did the prophets lie. You know, they wanted to decorate the tombs of where the prophets lied. So if you make a big deal about the monuments, adorn the monuments of the righteous, and say if we had been living in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partners with them in shedding the blood of the prophets. So you testify against yourselves, that you are sons of those who murder the prophets. Fill up then the measure of the guilt of your fathers, ye serpents, ye brood of vipers. How will you escape the sentence of hell? And when Jesus mentioned that, you brood of vipers, it should have been a, it should have been like in the back of the memory thinking like, I think somebody said something like that to us before. Did somebody else call us a brood of vipers? Hey, you guys remember somebody calling us a pit of vipers? John the Baptist! It's like you you bunch of snakes When you do get a prophet, what do you do to him? You ignore them, you treat them harshly, you reject them, you let them be killed. You don't care about the prophets, you don't care about the word of the Lord Strong language, and they should have remembered that somebody else gave them that strong language. If they were living in the days of the Old Testament prophets, they would have shed their blood because they're living in the day of another prophet and they wanted his blood to be shed. Very same thing All their learning, all their study, absolutely worthless because their hearts were hardened against the Lord. And here they are, anticipating the day of the Lord, but for what? For what? Why do they want the day of the Lord to come? Back in the book of Amos, Amos chapter 5, verse 18 to 20, it talks about another group of people who are longing for the day of the Lord. Amos chapter 5, verse 18 to 20, it says, Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, for what purpose will the day of the Lord be to you? It will be darkness and not light, as when a man flees from a lion and a bear meets him. Or he goes home and leans his hand against the wall and a snake bites him. Will not the day of the Lord be darkness instead of light, even gloom with no brightness in it? You're not going to get away. You think you think the day of the Lord is going to be some kind of protection from you? Oh, I'm getting away from the line. I don't have to worry about the line. You're running right into the bear. Oh, I can go into my house. There's safety in my house. You lean your hand against the wall. I'm glad I'm done with that. And the snake jumps out to bite you. It's like you can't get away. You cannot get away. They rejected John the Baptist who was the Elijah-like prophet and now they rejected the Messiah who John the Baptist appointed him to And the suffering of John the Baptist was just a preview of what was about to happen to Jesus Christ. And they'll do to him whatever they wish. Just like they did to John the Baptist, whatever they wish. They rejected both of them. And the disciples were given eyes to see what the scribes couldn't see. Because in verse 13, back in Matthew chapter 17, it says, Then the disciples understood that he had spoken to them about John the Baptist. So the disciples got it. Maybe it didn't fit their expectation, but they got it. And it was a direct result of their trust in Jesus. And here we have that that first point that I mentioned. Will you trust God when his plans look different than yours Will you trust God? When things don't work out the way that you thought they were supposed to work out, you know, when the things that He talks about don't you know exactly fit what you had in your mind, are you just willing to say, hey, hey Lord, if that's what it is, I trust you I trust your plans over my plans. And here we have that hearing and knowing are not the same thing as understanding. So even though these these uh scribes they studied, they learned, they they read the scriptures, just hearing and knowing about the scriptures didn't mean that they understood it. Because understanding comes from a submissive heart to the Word of God, a submissiveness to the Word of God. And the question for you is, are you submissive to His Word? When God tells you something it goes against your plans, are you willing to just bow the knee and say, Lord, not my will, but your will be done? Whatever your will is, that's what's what's right. Do you recognize him? as your Lord and the one who who true revelation comes from. That's number one. Are you willing to trust God when his plans are different than yours? Number two Will you trust God when his promise is different than your experience? Will you trust God when his promise is different from your experience? Look at verse 14. It says, when they came to the crowd, a man came up to Jesus, falling on his knees before him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic. And is very ill, for he often falls into the fire and often into the water. I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him. And Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation. How long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring him here to me. And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon came out of him, and the boy was cured at once. And as we uh continue this descent down the Mount of Transfiguration, we come to another scene at the bottom of the hill, and there's this contrast between what MacArthur calls the glory on the top of the mountain. and the despair in the valley. There's this crowd that's gathered together at the bottom of the mountain, and it's clear that they're in a sea of commotion, just confusion. Luke tells us that the crowd was a great multitude. Luke chapter 9, verse 37. Mark adds that there were scribes among the crowd arguing with the disciples. in uh Mark chapter 9 verse 14. In the middle of all this, this great multitude, the scribes arguing with the disciples, in the middle of all this, there's this man who's desperate. Who's working his way out of the crowd in order to get to Jesus because he's so desperate to get to Jesus Christ. So you can just imagine the kind of confusion that's here. And when this man recognizes who Jesus is, he approaches him, he falls on his knees in reverence before him. And look at what he says in verse 15, Lord, have mercy on my son. For he's a lunatic. He's very ill and he often falls into the fire and often into the water. Now there's a lot that's not mentioned in that description and this really shows us some of the differences between the the gospel writers. Why don't you turn over to Mark chapter 9 with me? Mark chapter 9 What we really see is uh the the different uh emphases of the different gospel writers. We have in uh Mark's account We find that there's a lot of emphasis on the Father that's given in Mark chapter 9. There's really a tender scene that develops here between the Father and Jesus Over in Mark chapter 9, look at verse 20, where it just, like I said, just fills in a little bit more information here. Mark chapter 9, verse 20. Says they brought to him the boy, and when he saw him, immediately the spirit threw him into a convulsion. And falling to the ground, he began rolling around, foaming at the mouth. And he asked his father, how long has this been happening to him? He said from childhood, it has often thrown him thrown him both into the fire and into the water to destroy him. But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. And Jesus said to him, if you can. All things are possible to him who believes. And immediately the boy's father cried out and said, I do believe. Help my unbelief What we find out here is there's there's more emphasis that's given to the to the father in this story. You know, just to bring you through the to kind of drag you through the father's pain that he's feeling. You know, he obviously cares for a son The condition that his son suffered with requ would have required 24-hour care. He can't be left alone. He's a danger to himself. Any open bodies of of water would have been in danger. Fire was a danger to him. Any hard or sharp object would have been dangerous to him. Even the ground beneath him was used as a weapon against him as he slammed to the ground by this demon into convulsions. You can only imagine the kind of supervision that would have been required for this boy, the strain on the parents, the family members. So here's this father. He's just desperate. Losing hope. Seemed like the last little flicker of hope that he had was to come to the disciples. Maybe they can help me. And it seems like that last little flicker of hope is snuffed out because not even the disciples can do anything. It's like it's incurable. Nothing's working. So he finally comes to Jesus, it's like this last ditch effort. And that's hard, isn't it? Sometimes uh sometimes just by way of application, uh coming to the people of God can be discouraging, can't it? Come around the people of God expecting, you know, hey, this is where I'm gonna find some hope and relief and help. And here this father comes to the disciples, and the disciples can't even do anything. Middle of the people of God, and he can't get any help, and I pray that won't be said of us. The people won't be in the middle of the people of God and can't find help. But even when Jesus listens to this, he doesn't give him give them an excuse for doubting. Because when he says, if you can, do anything, you know, help us, Jesus says, if you can, if you can. All things are possible to him who believes. And what Mark emphasizes is the encouragement of the father's faith. The encouragement of this desperate father. And the sweet truth here is that even a weak and struggling faith is sufficient if you bring it to the right source. A weak and struggling faith is good enough if you bring it to Jesus. And Jesus can even help our unbelief. And that's what Mark kind of focuses on, you know, the Father. Over in Luke chapter 9, if you want to flip over there, the focus seems to be on the severity of the boy's condition. Over in Mark chapter 9. Mark chapter 9. Look at verse uh Look, Luke 9, Luke 9, I'm sorry, Luke 9. Luke 9 starting at verse 37. It says this, Luke 9, starting at verse 37. It says, On the next day, when they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him, and a man from the crowd shouted, saying, Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy. And a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly screams and throws them into a convulsion with foaming at the mouth. Only with difficulty does it leave them, mauling him as it leaves. I beg your disciples to cast it out, and they could not. And again, Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you and put up with you? Bring your son here The seizures it talks about here, and it kind of puts it in real time. You know, Spirit seizes him and suddenly screams, he throws him into convulsion, foaming at the mouth. All this is happening like just kind of in rapid fire. Like you can see the seizures happening right before your face. This violent self-mutilating as as the as the spirit mauls him, this this kind of self-mutilation. You can only imagine the kind of scars this kid would have as as he tears at his own flesh? As he's being slammed into any object that's around him? As he's thrown often into the fire, I mean what kind of scars would this kid have on his body? That's from I mean the repeated burning over and over again. Like what condition would his lungs be in as he as he throws himself into the water in order to drown himself? What kind of what kind of condition would this boy be in? And it's clear here that it's not just a physical condition. Every physical condition Does not have a demonic possession behind us. So we don't have to worry about, oh, if somebody has a seizure, it must be demon possession. That's not what the point is here. Here we have this unclean spirit who's the force behind us, and it's clear The unclean spirit was fighting against those who tried to help. The spirit reacted strongly to the presence of Jesus Christ. And the focus here seems to be on the marvel that it was that Jesus had such power to cast his spirit out. Look at look at uh at verse 42. It says, while he was still speak uh approaching, the demon slammed him to the ground. threw him into a convulsion, but Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father. And they were all amazed at the greatness of God. But while everyone was marveling at the time he was uh at all that he was doing, he said to his disciples, Let these words sink into your ears, for the Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men. But what we have here is this this focus on the marvel that it would have been that Jesus could clear up this kind of condition. The focus is again in in Luke, it's here on the boy. It's on his condition. And it's on the power of God in order to deliver him from such a condition. Mark, again, it's the focus on the father, his faith. Luke, it's the focus on the boy and his condition. What we have over in uh in uh in Matthew, it's just a very brief description Jesus isn't in this portion in Matthew isn't pointing out the the faith of the Father. He's not pointing out the condition of the Son as much. What we have is this this very brief description that's given over in Matthew chapter 17. Again , it says in verse 15, Lord have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and is very ill, for he often falls into the fire, often into the water. It doesn't really talk about what the father struggle with. It doesn't kind of draw out the explanation of uh the son's condition. It's just a a very brief description. But what we have here is you have this This faith of the Father that's recognized because he recognizes the Lord as as the the only the only source of help that he has He comes to the Lord and he addresses him as Lord, which in this context could be a polite form of address, but his plea for mercy might indicate that he believes much more about Jesus than that he just deserves respect. He comes and he calls him Lord and he he kneels at his feet. Again, it might indicate that he believes Jesus is not just worthy of respect, but worthy of worship itself. And we also don't have a lengthy description of the boy's condition, but he said to be a lunatic. It's actually a word that means to be struck by the moon. To be moonstruck. It's a an old word. If you uh flip over to Psalm 121, I just want to show you a case where uh a similar word is used, Psalm 121. There was a false, an ancient belief that that staring into the moon, especially into the full moon, could cause people to go crazy. So they called them moonstruck. It was a synonym for madness. Look at Psalm 121. Psalm 121, look at verse 5. That's about I'll just read the whole thing. You get to these verses it's just like just read the whole thing, right? Psalm 121. Let's back up here. I will lift up my eyes to the mountains from where shall my help come? My hope comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not allow your foot to slip. He who keeps you will neither slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun will not smite you by day, nor the moon by night. And you stop right there and it's like, well, what's wrong with the moon hitting me at night? I understand like, you know, getting smitten by the sun, you know, you get burnt, you get dehydrated, you could fall out. Well what's what's the big deal about the moon? They they they included this here because there was this belief that the moon could make you go crazy So so the Lord is the one who will protect you from what? From going crazy. The Lord will protect you from all evil. He will keep your soul. The Lord will guard your going out, your coming in, from this time forth and forever. The Lord is the one that protects you. So here you have this idea of being moonstruck again. It was like a synonym for losing your mind And back over in Matthew chapter 17, there was the son who was a lunatic. Lunatic actually comes from lunar for the moon, a word for the moon. Lunatic, he's a lunatic. He's crazy. He's out of his mind. He's very ill. Like I said, he falls into the fire, he falls into the water. And the nine disciples, because the three were up on the mountain with uh Jesus, the nine that are left down at the bottom of the mountain, they couldn't do anything. They couldn't cure him. I mean nine guys. You think you have a little hope with nine of them, right? So here it is, these nine disciples on the bottom of the mountain. It's an embarrassment. It's a discouragement to the Father. It's an embarrassment to the disciples. And it and it's more fuel for the fire for the scribes. You know, see, I told you These guys are phonies. They're fakes. I told you they couldn't do anything. This movement is a fake. You can't believe in that, Jesus. So this whole scene is It's kind of playing itself out before Jesus, and Jesus just comes down and he is nauseated with the whole thing. Just sick of it. And you can just sense the exasperation in his words. Look at Matthew chapter 17 and verse 17. You unbelieving and perverted generation. How long? How long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring them here to me. You faithless and twisted generation. The word perverted is uh from the Greek word diastropha, which means to be misled, to twist, or to corrupt. So he says, you perverted people. And there 's something that was crooked, that was out of line in what was going on here. Not in a sexual or immoral sense in that way, but it's something that's twisted, it's out of line, it's out of sync. It's not right. And the question is, who is Jesus talking to when he says, you faithless and perverted generation? Who's Jesus talking to? Is he talking to the Father? Is he talking to the son? Is he talking to the scribes? Is he talking to the crowds? I think it's pretty clear who Jesus is talking to. Who are the group of people who had the boy? The disciples. And he says to them, Bring the boy here to me. Who had the boy? The disciples did. They're the ones who are trying to work on him, trying to exercise the demon. The Father's coming to Jesus alone. He's bowing down before him. Who had the boy trying to cast out the evil spirit? It was the disciples. And when Jesus' disciples fail to trust his word here, they're being faithless and twisted. And in this context, it has to be the disciples who are being rebuked. for not having the faith to cast out the demon because they were the only ones given the authority to cast out demons They're the only ones. Flip back to Matthew chapter 10. Matthew chapter 10. We went over this earlier. Matthew chapter 10. When Jesus commissions his disciples for ministry. He gives them some pretty specific instructions about what they're given the power to do. Look at Matthew chapter 10, starting at verse 7. Matthew chapter 10, look at verse 7. It says, And as you go, here he's talking to his disciples, and as you go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand, heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, and do what? Cast out demons. Freely you received, freely give. I'm giving you, my disciples, the power to cast out demons. Mark chapter 3, verse 14. He appointed twelve so that they would be with him and that he could send them out to preach and to have authority to cast out demons. Luke chapter 9, verse 1. He called the twelve together, gave them power and authority over all demons and all diseases, all of it. And they actually did cast out demons. Mark chapter 6, verse 12 says they went out and preached that men should repent, and they were casting out demons, were anointing with oil many sick people and healing them. The only people who were present who had the authority to cast demons out were the disciples. So who is he calling faithless? It's the disciples. Because you guys should be able to do this. I'm not looking to the scribes to do this. I'm not counting on the crowds to do this. I'm not looking to the father or the boy to do this. Disciples, you are the ones that have been given the authority. You're supposed to do this. The only people who could do it. But in this case, the power they demonstrated before was gone. It's like they were, you know, Samson after his hair was cut. You know, he kind of thinks I'll just shake myself and do it like I did it again. But here it's like the power is gone. And Jesus is like I said, he's not rebuking the crowds or the scribes for not exercising authority over the demons, because they didn't have any authority over the demons. He's talking to his disciples. You guys have authority over the demons. How long am I going to put up with this? How long? There's only a few instances in scripture where Jesus is amazed. Number one, it's when people have great faith where they shouldn't have any faith. Jesus is amazed by that, like the Gentile centurion Where faith shouldn't have existed. And he has this great remarkable faith. You don't even have to come to my house. I know you can heal with just the word. And he's just like, what? Matthew chapter 8, verse 10. Now, when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. This is amazing. The Gentile Canaanite woman, remember her? Matthew 15, 28, Jesus said to her, O woman, your faith is great. It shall be done for you as you wish. And her daughter was healed at once. This great faith where it shouldn't exist. It amazes Jesus. Like Jesus marvels at great faith. But we also find Jesus amazed when there is little or no faith where it should be great. Like the villages in Nazareth, where he grew up, where people should have known him. Mark chapter 6 it says he wondered at their unbelief. And he was going around the villages and teaching. He's saying, like, what is wrong with this place? I spent 30 years of my life here and you guys still don't know who I am? You still don't believe? It's just like in shock. Like out of all people you should know And here he's amazed with the disciples. How long shall I put up with you? Bring them here to me. How often could Jesus say the same thing about us? How long do I have to put up with this? How long? I've told you to seek first the kingdom and his righteousness and all things will be added to you. Like how how long? Will it be before you actually believe me? I told you not to worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow's going to take care of itself. Like how long? How long? I told you that sin shall not be master over you. You're free. You're free from sin. You don't have to sin. How long is it going to be before you finally believe me? How long is it going to be? I told you that greater is he who is in you than he was in the world. Are you going to believe me on that one? You gonna trust me How long shall I put up with you? Just bring him here to me. Just bring him here to me. And when he was brought to Jesus, he was cured at once. And following this rebuke of the demon, we don't hear the crowd's response or the father's response, but we do hear the disciples' response because in Matthew, that's the focus. He's focusing on the disciples. So the disciples come to Jesus privately, verse 19. The disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not drive it out? Why couldn't we do this? And he said to them, Because of the littleness of your faith, for truly I say to you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible. For you. It was their lack of faith. The lack of faith was the source of their impotence. And there are a couple things to point out here that 'll save us a lot of misunderstanding as it relates to this verse. Number one, their lack of faith was related to specific authority that they were given by the Lord. Specific authority. So Jesus commissioned his disciples with a specific command to cast out demons. So their faith was to be placed in the command of Christ. And there are some kinds of people who want to claim that they have faith for all kinds of things that Jesus never commanded them. So here we have a specific command that they were to believe. It's not just believe the Lord for any and everything. You know, I'm believing God for that new Porsche. I'm going to walk around this house seven times until that's like, what in the world? When did Jesus promise you a Porsche? Jesus promised you a brand new house? Like like I I I don't know where that's found here, but you know, maybe it's in the black blank spaces at the back. Like where did Jesus promise you any of that? So it's connected to specific authority that they were given by the Lord. The Lord gave them this authority. So they're not exercising the authority that they were given. So it's important that we connect our faith to the Word of God. And not to some televangelist or some faith healer somewhere. We're connecting it back to the Word of God. Christ specifically gave them this authority. Number two, moving a mountain was a common metaphor for performing the impossible. This is a common metaphor for performing the impossible. It was never the desire of Christ that Christians just walk around throwing mountains around. You know, that that's not what I mean it's like the mountain's fine by itself. I don't need a decorator. You know, I don't need somebody to kind of decorate my world for me. Like I can do that fine on my own. So it's not for Christians just to walk around and they move Mount Ephraus, you know, move Himalayas. It's like what 's that for? It would kind of be like, you know, how how the uh the um uh the the scribes and Pharisees came to Jesus wanting them to perform some you know great miraculous event. You know, hey, prove yourself. You know, that's not what what Jesus is doing here. He's not giving them some ability to throw mountains around. Actually, there's one of those mountains that's pretty important because Jesus is going to come back down on the Mount of Olives. You know, what about the Christian says, move, Mount of Olives? Like, what are you doing? I'm coming back to that. You know, it's not for Christians to just throw mountains around. 1 Corinthians 13, verse 2. Uh Paul used the same kind of analogy. He says, if I have the gift of prophesying, know all mysteries and all knowledge, and I have all faith so as can remove mountains. So he's talking about like an impossible feat. But I do not have love, I am nothing. So again, it's just a metaphor for doing the impossible. And number three, where he talks about this mustard seed. The mustard seed was small, but it was powerful. Mustard seed was small, but it was powerful. The phrase, as small as a mustard seed, was a common expression in the ancient Near East for something that was tiny. But powerful. And it would have been equivalent to saying, you know, uh in our day and age, as small as a s as a speck of dust or you know, uh uh you know some other things that we might say, but but in this time, you know, uh the the mustard seed was the the smallest uh seed that they would actually plant, but it grew into the the largest garden plant that they had out of anything that they they planted. So it was small but it was powerful, and that's how Jesus used the phrase here, that the the smallest seed can produce a large effect. Very rapid growth, small seed, and your faith does not have to be large as long as it is real. As long as your faith is real, it doesn't have to be great. You don't have to have this great monstrous kind of faith. Is your faith real? Is it the real thing? Is it powerful? And they uh yeah, I kind of find it interesting that uh the Christians are called people of faith. But it's not really accurate because all people are people of faith, right? They just put their faith in different places. Where do you put your faith? I recently saw a bumper sticker that said science is God I know people who say that I only believe in science. But that statement makes no sense because you can't prove your trust in science through science. You ever think about that? I only believe in science. Well prove your belief through science. You can't do it. Yeah, I like to talking to some people like that and saying, do you do you love your kids? They say, oh yeah, of course I love my kids. Well prove that through science. You can't prove everything through science. You don't only believe in science. You know, don't give me that. So so so it's it's you can't put it in the test tube, quantify it, measure it out. You don't just believe in science. That's a bunch of baloney Our popular culture, they say they believe in stuff. They say believe in yourself. You just gotta believe. Just believe in yourself. How many times have you let yourself down? You know, I want to do this, I'm gonna plan I mean how many New Year's resolutions do you have to go through before you say, you know what, I can't trust in myself. You know, I went to the gym what twice? I was gonna go every day for what? You know, it's like you can't trust in yourself. Don't try to do it. I can't trust in my heart. The Bible says it's deceitful, right? I don't even know my own heart First Corinthians chapter 4, verse 3 and 4, it says, But to me it is a very small thing that I may be examined by you, or by any human court. In fact, I do not even examine myself, for I am conscious of nothing against myself. Yet I'm not by this acquitted, but the one who examines me is the Lord. Like I I can't even examine my own heart. I can't trust to myself This this week uh I visited the 9-11 memorial, listened to some of the audio that was recovered from uh you know the different flights. um that went down. United Air Airlines Flight 93 that was driven into a field in Pennsylvania. And it's reported that the terrorist as the plane is going down, he's calling out, Allah is great. Allah is great. He had faith, but it was a wrong faith. It was a misguided faith. Faith is only as good as the object that you place it in. And your faith, even though it might be small, if it's real. And if it's directed toward the right object, it's effective. And our faith as Christians is directed towards Jesus Christ. That's where our faith goes. And somewhere along the line, these disciples got misdirected. And their faith was no longer founded upon Christ in his word. Somehow they started trusting in themselves. As if they had some kind of authority, as if they had some kind of power. It's kind of like uh you know Peter as he's you know walking on the on the the waves, remember that? And all of a sudden it's like the wind starts kicking up and you see some large waves and it's like, oh, I can't can't deal with that one. Like you could deal with walking on the water in the first place You know, forget about the big waves. I'm scared about the little ones if I'm relying on me. But here you have these disciples for some reason. It's like they they got this impossible case with this young boy who's foaming at the mouth and slamming himself down and he looks grotesque just because of the burn marks and everything else and it's like, hey, this is too much for me to handle. As if like there's another demon that you can, you know, spar with. You're not dealing with any of these demons. It doesn't matter what the case is. You can't do this on your own. You always needed faith in Christ in order to deal with what you're dealing with. So here you have these disciples. Somehow they got misdirected, and they're starting to trust to themselves instead of trusting in Christ and his word. And you'll probably find these words in uh verse twenty-one. It says, But this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting. You'll find it in italics in your Bibles or at least the footnote, which uh lets us know that it's not found in the better manuscripts. But you know, there's a there's a few times when a scribal note, you know, sometimes got copied down and inserted or Now you have uh sometimes it's quoted from from memory, but we have a similar verse over in Mark chapter nine and verse twenty-nine, which is original, it is found in the text, where he says to them, This kind cannot come out by anything but by prayer. And this indicates one of the clearest demonstrations of our faith is through what? It's through prayer. As we come before the Lord, we're relying on Him and not on ourselves. James chapter 5 verse 16 says it this way, the effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. And the point is that these disciples turn their focus off of Christ onto themselves, and as they saw this impossible case coming before them, somehow the severity of the boy's condition and they reasoned this is too much, too much, and they stopped relying on the Lord. But we we know what the scripture says, right? John 15, 5, for apart from me, you can do most things, right? I'm sorry. Apart from me, you can do some things. Apart from me you can do nothing. It's not small things you can do apart from me. It's nothing. You can't do anything apart from me. And somehow these disciples they they they they got off track. They they twisted things. It was faithless and twisted, perverted. And just in case we're left with the impression that, you know, as long as I have faith, I can just name it and claim it and everything's going to be smooth sailing. Look at how Jesus ends this. He ends it kind of the way he began it. After he talks about their their faith, if you if you had faith of the size of a mustard seed, you'd be able to say, to this mountain move from here to there, and it would move. Nothing would be impossible for you. But then he follows it up with this in verse twenty-two. And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day, and they were deeply grieved. And you might have expected the disciples to say, hey, wait a minute. You know, I thought like if as long as I had faith, I can move mountains. Can't you move the cross? Can't you move difficulty? Can't you move any kind of tragedy that might come in your way? But again, Jesus here understands that it's the purpose of the Father for him to go through the cross. So it's it's only the will of God, the things that we're trusting God for. The things that are revealed, the things that God has willed, are the things that we're trusting Him for. Not just for anything, not just for a life of ease, not for a life without tragedy. It's the life that the Lord has promised to us, and we trust him for what he's already promised us. That's what we're trusting God for, for his promises. So that's what the Lord says. Says it's going to happen. That settles it. That settles it. I hope you believe it. It's good if you believe it. But whether or not you believe his word or not, it's already settled. These disciples, as they're coming down from the mountain again, they were faced by something that didn't fit according to their plan, but it was God's plan. It was God's plan. Are you going to believe God or or not? Here you have these disciples, they're given authority. Are they going to believe God or not? Here Jesus also tells them about a day that he's going to be delivered into the hands of men, and he'll be killed and raised on the third day. And again, the question is, do you believe God or not? God said it, that settles it. Psalm 119, 89, once again, forever, Lord, your word is settled in heaven. And the question is, is do you believe? God? Do you believe God? Do you trust Him? Even when things don't seem to make sense? Even when things don't seem to turn your way? Even when things seem seem difficult, but you have the promise of God. Are you going to trust in what God says over your own experience? over your own uh uh intellectual thinking through things. Are you going to trust in the promise of God and be a person of faith, a true person of faith that uh trust in the the promises of the Lord. Amen. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, once again, for uh being able to look at this passage. Uh Father, we pray that uh you'd allow these words to sink deep in our hearts. Uh Father, that we would Be true people of faith, not just people who say that we believe, but those that act on our belief, those that trust in your word over our own words. Now, Father, I pray that we would hold on and hang on to every promise of your word. And Father, that we would bring ourselves before you, the God of all the earth, understanding that you are the God who does what's right. Let us bow before you, God. In Jesus' name we praise you. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.