The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Good afternoon. I want to give thanks to God for this opportunity we have every single Sunday morning just to be with Him and His people on the first day of the week to to worship him, to give our attention to him, to express our affection to him in worship, and to hear his word speak to us, as well as to partake in the Lord's table as we will do next week. But I also want to give thanks to everyone here for all your prayers and support during this very difficult time. th this past couple of weeks seemed like an eternity to my my wife and my mother and I um and uh I just wanna thank you so much for just your your prayers and support, your meals, um coming by to visit. It's been just a a a wonderful you've been such a wonderful a support system to all of us. And on behalf of my mother, Rhonda, my wife Samantha, and my daughter Eliana , we just want to thank you from the bottom of our hearts. Extremely grateful for your labor labor of love to us over the past couple weeks. I also want to thank Pastor George for the opportunity to come and share another one of my favorite psalms. And today we're going to look at One of David's most famous Psalms, and possibly one of your favorite Psalms as well, Psalm 139. So if you have your Bibles, turn with me to Psalm 139. Psalm 139. Reading from the Legacy Standard Bible, O Yahweh, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You understand my thought from afar. You scrutinize my path and my lying down and are intimately acquainted with all my ways. Even before there is a word on my tongue, behold, O Yahweh, you know it all. You have enclosed me behind and before, and you have put your hand upon me Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is too high. I cannot attain to it. Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there. If I li lift up the wings of the dawn, if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, even there Your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. If I say, Surely the darkness will bruise me, and the light around me will be night, Even the darkness is not too dark for you, and the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike to you. For you formed my inward parts. You wove me in my mother's womb. I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret, and intricately woven in the depths of the earth Your eyes have seen my unshaped substance, and in your book all of them were written the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was not one of them How precious are your thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them. If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with you. O that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of bloodshed, depart from me, for they speak against you wickedly, and your enemies take your name in vain Do I not hate those who hate you, O Yahweh? And do I not revile those who rise up against you? I hate them with utmost hatred. They have become my enemies. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts, and see if there be any hurtful way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for your word. Lord, show us your glory. Show us your character on these pages of Scripture. Shape us and mold us into the image of Christ. Let us not be the same. After this message, Lord, change us. Regenerate us, renew us, our minds and our hearts to focus on you and what you have to say to us in Jesus' name. No doubt as you've read through the Psalms, possibly during the morning scripture reading and Sunday worship, perhaps doing your own personal study, uh on your devotions. Hopefully you've noticed there's certain nuances and subject matters in each one of the Psalms that make them significant and and stand out in this altar, especially uh as well as the whole Bible. And Psalm 139 is such a psalm. The key theme of 139, if you didn't pick up on it already, is the attributes of God. One commentator said, nowhere are the great attributes of God, his omniscience, his omnipresence, and his omnipotence set forth so strikingly as they are in this magnificent psalm. And these attributes the commentator referred to, God's omniscience, his omnipresence, and omnipotence, are what we might describe as God being all-knowing, all-present, and all-powerful. There's no limit to his knowledge. There's no place where God is not present, and there are no boundaries to his power and his authority. These are referred to as God's incommunicable attributes, meaning that he doesn't share these attributes with man at all. Only God possesses these perfections. And in comparison to God, man is very limited in his knowledge and can only be one place at one time. Man's power is small and can only be granted to him by God. And for this reason, the psalm also highlights the vast difference between God and man. Though we are made in the image of God We are not like holy God and God is not like sinful man. And in the song we can see other attributes like God's providence, his his sovereign control and purpose set forth in creation and even in redemption. We also see on display the love of God and his care towards those who are his. And there's also a sense of man's culpability before God, that he is sinful and subject to God's judgment and justice. And in all these things, there's overwhelming evidence that man's life is controlled by and ordained by a holy and almighty God who governs all things and to whom all things are accountable to. And this is important for us to consider because our biggest enemy in our relationship with God is sin. And sin occurs by and large because of a lack of fear of the Lord. And when we sin, we lose sight of who God really is as he has revealed himself on the pages of Scripture And so understanding the limitless implications of God's omniscience and omnipresence and omnipotence should restore in us a healthy fear of God to guard us from sin. And that's what I trust David's words will do in our hearts this morning. And if you're taking notes this morning, we're going to walk through five aspects of Psalm 139 that I hope will enlarge our view of God and cause us to. to understand the significance of his perfections in the life of the believer. We have the omniscience of God in verses 1 through 6. The omnipresence of God in verses 7 through 12, the omnipotence of God in verses 13 through 18 The loyalty of David in verse 19 through 22, and the supplication of David finally in verse 23 through 24. So we begin with the omniscience of God, which again refers to God being all-knowing or having all knowledge. He knows all things because he created all things. He ordained all things. All things have been created by him, and they are under his sovereign control and almighty power. The Bible that you have in your hands is a prime example of this. It tells exactly how God created all things, how he unfolded his plan of redemption through the course of thousands of years, culminating in the last days when all things will come to an end. And God's people will be with him in eternity, while his enemies will meet him in judgment in the lake of fire. God knows it because he has spoken it. Isaiah 46, verse 10 says, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, My counsel will be established, and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. God's knowledge is unlimited. He's never learning, never providing new information to decode or decipher. Isaiah chapter 40 verse 13, God says, who has encompassed the Spirit of Yahweh or as his counselor has informed him? Furthermore, God's plan is fixed. He doesn't have any uh a contingency plan. No plan B. He doesn't need one In his book, in the book Essential Christian Doctrine, edited by John MacArthur, it says, in God's eternal mind are only actual things, not possible things. He does not he does know what would have occurred if circumstances had been different, but since in his mind and plan they would never occur, there are not possibilities Only what is in God's plan is possible because only that could ever become reality in time. End quote God understands his creation perfectly because he designed it and created it for his glory and he did it intentionally. Proverbs 16, verse 4 says, Yahweh has made everything for his own purpose. even the wicked for the day of evil. And while God's thorough knowledge is true on a a broad scale, on a macro level, it's also true on a micro level. a personal, individual, intimate level. And for example, the the first six verses here in Psalm 139, here we see the evidences and actions of God's Omniscience, his intimate and fully comprehensive knowledge. First, look down at verse 1. David says, O Yahweh, you have searched me. In other words, you have analyzed me or you have examined me closely. And next he says, you have known me. In other words, you understand me. Now let's be clear. Knowing is not the result of the searching because, again, God is never learning. And I say that because these tenses here and in the upcoming verses describe a knowledge that is not gathering information in real time as we know things, but rather in a perfect, complete sense. David here is saying that God has always known him more intimately than he has known himself, and that goes for all of us in here. This knowledge includes actions, but also what no man sees, the heart and mind of man. A few passages here to illustrate this. 1 Samuel 16, verse 7 says, For God sees not as man sees, but man looks at the outward appearance, but God looks at the what? The heart. 1 Chronicles 28, verse 9, Yahweh searches all hearts. 2 Chronicles chapter 6, verse 30. You alone know the hearts of the sons of men. Psalm chapter 7, verse 9. For the righteous God tests the hearts and the mind. Psalm chapter 44 , verse 21: For he knows the secrets of the heart. And of course we know Jeremiah chapter 17 verse 9, the heart is more deceitful than all else and desperately sick. Who can know it? No one can know the heart. But God says this in the very next verse, I, Yahweh, search the heart. I test the inmost being, even to give each man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his own deeds. This knowledge, again, is it's deep and it's personal. It's comprehensive and it's multifaceted. And David illustrates some of the nuances of that knowledge in verse 2. He says You know when I sit down and when I rise up. These are the mundane, everyday movements in life. God notices every movement that we make. You don't need to try to get his attention Every deed we have done have ever been or has ever thought about has been done before his eyes. Whether out in the open or behind closed doors, God knows and sees it all. Next, he says, you understand my thought from afar. Now, the the thoughts are probably the most intimate of all knowledge of a person God not only observes every single moment we do 24-7, he also knows what no man can know about us. He knows our very thoughts. He alone possesses the ability to know the very thoughts that we think. And this word thoughts here can also be expanded to include intentions or motives. 1 Chronicles chapter 28 again, God tells Solomon, for Yahweh searches all the hearts and understands every intent of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found, but if you forsake him, he will reject you forever. Thomas Watson, Puritan writer, says in his book, A Body of Divinity, he says, thoughts speak as loud in God's ears as words do in ours. God knows our thoughts, but he can also discern our motives. Turn with me to Acts chapter 5 for a minute. Very familiar story here. Church in the first century, it says in chapter five, verse one But a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira sold a piece of property and kept back some of the price for himself with his wife's full knowledge. And bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles' feet. Now Ananias and his wife Sapphira thought that their hypocrisy was hidden from everyone But they didn't factor in the all-seeing eye of the Lord. Look at verse four. Peter asked Well verse 3 he says, Peter says, Iananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back some of the price of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why is it that you laid this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last and great fear come came over all who heard Now, Ananias and Sapphira, unfortunately, they promised on their own volition to bring the full amount of the sale of their property to the church. However, they kept back some of their money for their own use Now, Peter is saying they could have done whatever they wanted with the property, but the sin was in lying and making it seem like they were given a full amount when in fact they weren't. This is also confirmed in verse 8. Now God judged not just the deed, but the motive behind it. And the motive was to deceive. Thomas Watson again says, Man judges the heart by the actions, but God judges the actions by the heart. Now most people will who fear God will be cautious on what they do before watching God and they should. And some may even watch what they say before listening God and they should But how often do you consider that the all-knowing God knows the very thoughts that you think? How careful are you to make sure that certain thoughts and imaginations and lusts and desires don't just want run wild in your mind. In Jesus' Sermon on the Mountain, Matthew chapter five, both the lust of sin the the the sin of lust and and anger work in the mind and are already regarded as sin before God. And that's why David says in Psalm chapter 19, verse 14, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Yahweh, my rock and my redeemer. All is in the sight of God, even down to the thought life. And David also says here that he knows our thoughts from afar. This refers to the foreknowledge of the thoughts of man. He knew it before it even occurred. Look down at verse 3 back to Psalm 139. David says, You scrutinize my path in my lying down. And this word scrutinized in the original refers to something being scattered or spread out to separate. The word pictures someone separating the the grain from the chaff, what's useful from what's unuseful. And in the spiritual sense, this is evaluating our lives and our works, which will be held accountable in the last day. 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 10 says we all For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. And the path and lying down here in verse 3 is similar to the sitting down and rising up in verse 2, referring to the actions of everyday life from working to resting. Stuart Perone says that this can also refer to our public and our private life, our life by day and by night, our social and our secret life. And next David says, and you are intimately acquainted with all my ways. Intimately acquainted is again describing the depth of this knowledge. That God knows us better than we know ourselves. He knows us inside and out. He knows not only what we think, he knows what we're going to think. He not only sees our response, he knows how we will respond Even down to what we will say. Look down at verse 4. Even before there is a word on my tongue, behold, O Yahweh, you know it all. God knows the words we speak before we even speak them. And this should indeed cause us to fear God because of the propensity we have to to sin that's involved in our speech. It's very easy to do, is it not? Proverbs 10, verse 19 says, When there are many words, transgression or sin is unavoidable. But he who holds back his lips has insight. Words from the mouth are a reflection of the heart, and it will be also held accountable to God in the last day. Matthew chapter 12 verse 36, Jesus says, But I tell you that every careless word that people speak, they shall give an accounting for it in the day of judgment. So, yes, it should cause us to fear God, but the fact that God knows our thoughts in the words that we say before we speak should also give us comfort. Should also give us comfort. Because we also speak to God in prayer, do we not? And Jesus says in Matthew chapter 6, verse 7 and 8, and when you are praying, don't heap up Don't use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose they will be heard for their many words. Therefore do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. And as we pray, we don't need a particular formula or type of verbose, flowery language to get God to hear us. He knows our needs, and he knows our needs better than we do. And I myself have had to clutch on to this fact many times in my life, especially over the past week, so overwhelmed with grief or anxiety that I was at a loss for words many times, even in prayer. But the Lord hears the cry of our hearts before they're even on the tongue. Is that not an encouragement to you? It definitely has been to me. Look at verse 5. He says, you have enclosed me behind and before. In exploring these nuances of the implications of God's knowledge. David expresses the feeling of being totally surrounded by God's unlimited knowledge. He feels like he's under divine surveillance. And he says, you have put your hand upon me. This this understanding produces a weight on David's mind and his conscience that the hand of God mentioned here is a different word that refers to the flat of the hand or the palm. And it adds to the imagery of David's feeling of being enclosed by God. It gives him a feeling of restriction, being controlled and examined so closely by an all-powerful and infinite creator And if this makes you uncomfortable, that's a natural reaction. Because it's one thing to say that God knows all things and sees all things, but it's another thing to know that the subject is you. If we're real with ourselves, we know we can control sometimes what people know about us and what w what we want them to see about us, right? We can be one way around our family members, another way around our friends, another way around our church family, and another way at work We can project versions of ourselves in front of people and give others just a highlight reel, right? The good stuff. But God's knowledge is beyond our control. God knows and sees what no one sees. And we know that there are things in us that are objectionable in God's sight. And knowing that makes us uncomfortable and self-conscious because we know our sins and what it deserves before the eyes of a holy God. And so for this reason, we who call ourselves God-fearing Christians ought to constantly be looking into the state of our own souls and living repentant lives. Because it's Him we're accountable to. Look at verse 6. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is too high. I cannot attain to it. The knowledge that David David is talking about here is not his knowledge of God, but God's knowledge of him. It's overwhelming. And when we think of the word wonderful, we usually think of something pleasant, right? But he's using wonderful to describe something that's full of mystery, enigma. In other words, it's it's incomprehensible. It's too much for David even to think about. He he can say you can say that the whole consideration of it is blowing his mind. He can't wrap his mind around it and he's not even going to try to. He says, I cannot attain to it. I mean, how can you understand the mind of the eternal omniscient God? As theologically insightful as this whole thing is, there's a sense where Where David acknowledges he's in over his head here. The water is too deep for him to swim in. And it's amazing too because David is known for his intimacy with God, his closeness with God. The relationship between a sheep and his shepherd. You remember Psalm 23? That basically encompasses David's intimate relationship with God. But yet David's familiarity with God can only go but so far. And such is the same with us. Some of us in here who love theology understand that we can never figure God out. Right? That he's un he's knowable, but only as far as he can be known. And I've struggled so uh mu much in my own study of this Especially the knowledge of God, it's it's amazing and it's wonderful and it's beautiful. But the close but it gets you closer to understanding the the limits of your own knowledge than it gets you to understanding even a fraction of God's knowledge. Which brings us to our next point, the the omniscience, the omnipresence of God. In verse 7, it says, He says, Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? Now some commentators have taken this to mean that David is seeking out ways to get away or to hide from God. Now I don't really see any indication of that here. It's more of a hypothetical crush question. I mean, he he already knows the answer to it, and he uses it to further illustrate his point. That there are no limits to God's presence. Can't get away from him In the next two verses, he uses these two contrasting extremes to illustrate this idea. Look at verse 8. He says, If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there. Two extremes, whether in heaven or in the grave. Or even for hell for that matter. Even in the eternal realms, God is still present. God will still live on even if David himself ceases to exist. God knows and he sees every soul in heaven and sustains their existence. And he also sees and knows every soul in hell is it and is in in actively involved in their torment. God is everywhere and all at once Look at verse 9. It says, if I lift up the wings of the dawn, if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, again, this is a hypothetical situation here. Two things that seem to be Vast with no end, the skies and the seas. They're both deeper than any human could ascend or descend to on his own No man has ever seen the extent of outer space or descended to the floor of the ocean. But even if David could travel to either one of these places, he would still be no distance from God at all. Look at verse 10. Even there, your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. I love this because God is not only present but active. God does not casually sit back and watch while life happens to us. God leads us and he guides us. He's with us. And this should again remind us of David Shepherd's Psalm, Psalm 23, where he says, Yahweh leads him and guides him, even though he walks through the valley of the shadow of death. For what? Because he says, Because you are with me. Regardless of how fearsome God's all-encompassing knowledge and presence is, it's for our benefit. It's for our security and our protection. And David says he can't escape from God's presence, neither can he hide from God's presence. Look at verse 11. Surely, if I say, Surely, the darkness will bruise me and the light around me will be night Even the darkness is not dark to you, and the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike to you. Now to the wicked, this is a threat because the darkness usually means safety for them. Sin operates best when it's hidden and not exposed. People that stay in the darkness find false security there because they assume God doesn't see their sin. But David says that God's view and perception cannot be blocked by any darkness. He cannot be hidden from all is exposed to God as if it was in the broad daylight. Hebrews chapter 4 verse 13 And there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are uncovered and laid bare to the eyes of him to whom we have an account to give. Nothing can be hidden or lost from God. Nothing can be overlooked or neglected in His sight. God is 100% there. This brings me to our next point, the omnipotence of God, the omnipotence of God. Look at verse 13: For you formed my inward parts, you wove me in my mother's womb. If you notice that the previous three verses that we just covered seem to refer to the end of life, heaven and Sheol. And then he described these distances, these the impossibility of getting lost in these vast spaces that seem to have no boundaries. But now David describes why his presence would always be with him, that God's knowledge of us and his presence with us did not begin just when we entered the world. But God, but but it it was even prior to us being born. In fact, he superintended our life even from the womb. David says that God formed him and wove him in his mother's womb. This speaks to God's handiwork as he created every single human being that has ever existed and will exist. And this is true even if they have never been born. God has created the soul as well as the body personally. And this is one of the clearest passages that show the personhood of a child begins at conception. His usage of the word wove in this verse is is impressive because he likens the creation of the body as beautifully and intricately woven tapestry. Look at verse 14. I will give thanks to you for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. This of course is everyone's favorite verse here. Someone's got it hung up in their kids' room right now. I think my daughter has a onesie with it written on it But this acknowledgement produces this thanksgiving in David's heart, knowing that God specifically designed and created him for his glory. He says that he is fearfully made. Just the thought of God creating and forming him in his mother's womb produced a fear and reverence for God, but also a response of thanksgiving. And it should do the same for us. I mean think about it for just a moment here. God created you personally. You're not a random product of genes and cells and strands of DNA You are an eternal soul, one that will return back to he who created you. In a sense of The simple concept of being a created being with with no say in our being born or entering the world should should give us goosebumps. We're not in control here. You ever thought about it like this, that right now, as we speak, your very heart beats and your lungs breathe air involuntarily? You're not in control of that, are you? No. Because God is the one in control of every single breath and heartbeat. And each one of them has a number on them unbeknownst to us. That alone is evidence that we only exist for Him. Then he says we that that he is wonderfully made. The word wonderful is a verb form here. The word wonderfully is a verb form here of the one that we saw in verse 6. And it speaks to the uniqueness and distinctiveness of himself as as God's creation. No one shares his individual characteristics or one-of-a-kind personality. And next he says, Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it very well. David here again uses the word wonderful to describe all the works and the acts of God. Which works? You might say David could be referring to all the works of Yahweh recorded recorded in the Torah, in the Torah. Now given the context, it seems that he's still talking about his own growth and development in the womb controlled by God. Again, something else that is beyond our full comprehension. And next he says in verse 15, he says, My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret, and intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Still keeping with the concept of God's superintendence over the complex birth process, and even there in the womb, God sees and controls our being. Now, because of modern technology, when my wife was pregnant, we got to see some images of our little baby as she was developing in the womb. We got to see her heart beat, but we didn't see when it started beating. We didn't witness all the other vital organs being created as well. We just couldn't see it. God was creating a human inside the body of another created human. And the word frame here refers to his skeletal structure. And skillfully wrought or intricately woven refers to this various system and functions of the human body that God designed. Even in the darkness and seclusion of the womb, God sees and works and designs every person individually. Look at verse 16. Your eyes have seen my unshaped substance, and in your book all of them were written the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were not one of them. Now, though the ancient world did not have the technology to monitor the process of childbirth, he correctly states that mankind begins without a shape or a form, which becomes formed later on in the process. However, God created the soul as well as the physical body. And he says that the Lord ordained or formed each one of the days of his life that he was going to live before he even lived them. That God marked out the number of those days and how many we would live and he set its limit. Job 14, verse 5 says, Since his days are determined, the number of his months is with you, and his limits you have set so that he cannot pass And this is important for us to understand. Because it impacts your life when you realize that your time here is short. When you think time is just abundant, you just tend to throw away the precious hours that you have. But when you understand that time is a non-replenishable resource, You tend to be a little bit more conservative and a little bit more wise on how you spend it, do you not? I mean, remember Moses in Psalm 90 says uh uh he says Teach us to number our days so that we may present to you a heart of what? Of wisdom. How would that mindset change the way you live if you adopted it? The relationships that you have, the time that you spend, the choices you make, the words you say, the places you go, the things that you work towards, how would it change? And I say that not to make you anxious because Jesus said in Luke 12, verse 25, and which of you by worrying can add a single cubit to his lifespan? It's not the intention. But I say that hopefully to make us just a little bit more conscious about time. About the time that we have Look at verse 17 through 18. He says, How precious are your thoughts to me, O God! How vast is the sum of them! If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I am still with you. God has a purpose for each individual he has created. They have been designed to glorify him. And this is especially true of his people. Those whom he has set his love on before he even created the world. I mean just consider the plan of salvation for a minute. That Before you were born, before your parents were born, before there was a soul on this earth, and even before he created the world, Scripture tells us that God had us on his mind and he had already planned out how to save and redeem us uh from the wrath of God for sins that we had yet to commit. Turn with me to chap uh uh uh uh uh Ephesians chapter one really quick Ephesians chapter one verse three. Blessed be the God and our Father of our and God God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, just as He what Chose us in him before when? The foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him in love by predestining us. to adoption as sons through the Lord Jesus Christ to Himself according to the good pleasure of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace, which He graciously bestowed on us in the Beloved He continues, he says, In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our transgressions, according to the riches of his grace, which he caused to abound to us in all wisdom and insight. making known to us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure which he purposed in him. For the administration of the fullness of the time, that is the summing up of things, all things in Christ, things in the heavens, and things on the earth In him, we also have been made an inheritance inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of his will, who works all things according to the counsel of his will. to the end that we who have first hoped in Christ will be to the praise of his glory. This foreknowledge, this This predestination here that God that Paul speaks of is purposeful. It's intentional, and it's individual to each person that he has created to join him in eternity with Christ. Before, again, before God created a speck of dust or drop of water on this earth, he planned for the second person of the Trinity. Jesus Christ himself to come to this earth that he had yet to create and for him to die in your place for the sins that you had not even committed yet. For him to be, for you to be on his mind to that degree is staggering, to say the least. That's a lot of consideration for people like you and I, right? And it speaks to the immeasurable and limitless love of God here. Look at verse 19. The loyalty of David Oh, let me go back. Verse 19. Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God. O men of bloodshed, depart from me. I know what you're thinking. This song took a heart left real quick, didn't it? That just came out of nowhere, right? What happened? We were talking about being fearfully and wonderfully made in God's precious thoughts to us and now we're pronouncing swift judgment on the wicked. How do we get here When can considering the infinite knowledge of God, his omnipresence, his providence, his love You're reminded that there are those out there who reject this obvious truth, that rebel against this holy and powerful one. And David calls them the wicked, and he refers to them as men of bloodshed. Keep in mind that David also referred to as the sweet psalmist of Israel. was a king and a military commander and has been a warrior since his youth. And he frequently called out the enemies of God in the song because David was a man who was constantly at war fighting against those who were opposed to Israel and who wanted to destroy God's covenant people But they not only acted violently towards God's people, but primarily spoke blasphemies against God Himself. This isn't just a personal vendetta here that David has. Look at verse 20. He says, For they speak against you wickedly, and your enemies take your name in vain. On top of their bloodshed or murder, David highlights their sin of taking God's name in vain. That when we think about taking God's name in vain, we we usually think of taking God's name flippantly Using it in place of a swear word or as an expletive. Now while this is true, this also refers to giving false testimony or swearing falsely. John MacArthur says to fail to perform an oath in which his name had legitimately been uttered was to call into question his existence. since the guilty party evidently had not further thought of the name whom he's used to improve his integrity. Now, while this is true of outsiders, this also applies to people who claim to know God and use his name in order to deceive. A very serious sin in God's sight. Who says in Exodus chapter 20 verse 7, You shall not take the name of Yahweh your God in vain, for Yahweh will not leave him unpunished who takes his name in vain. People who live with a low view and disregard of God produce a righteous indignation in the heart of David. And he says in verse 21 through 22, he says, Do I not hate those who hate you, O Yahweh? And do I not revile those who rise up against you? I hate them with the utmost hatred. They have become my enemies. They are the enemies of God, and the enemies of God become the enemies of God's people. And David here is affirming his loyalty to God by aligning himself as close as possible to him. Hating those who hate his master, speaking against those who speak against his Creator. And David's hatred to them is due to the hatred that they display towards God. Again, this is to show his loyalty to God. Now, bringing this into application to our world, the Lord Jesus says, remember that we are to love our enemies, namely the ones who express hatred towards us. But as God's people, we are still called to be loyal to God and to distance ourselves from people or things that are against God, that are in rebellion against him and are an affront to his holiness. 2 Corinthians 16 verse 14 says, Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? Or what harmony has Christ with Belial? Or what has a believer in common with an unbeliever? Or what agreement has in sanctuary of God with idols, for we are the sanctuary of the living God. Just as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Therefore, come out from their midst and be separate, says the Lord, and do not touch what is unclean, and I will welcome you. We need to consider the things that we do, the places that we go, the things that we allow into our minds, and the things that we are entertained by. To see if they are in uh are in alliance with anything that God hates in any way James chapter 4 verse 4 says, Therefore, who wit whoever wishes to be a friend of the world sets himself to be an enemy of God. So let us show loyalty to the Lord and let us maintain a distance and a separateness from those things which are against our God, especially if we say we are his people, so that we don't bring reproach on them. And the last two verses here are a very appropriate way to respond to that here in this closing prayer of David. He says in verse 23: Search me, O God, and know my heart. If you notice in verse 1 of this book, of this chapter, David tells God, You have searched me and known me. Acknowledging God's scrutinizing view into his life. But here in verse 23, he's inviting God now to scrutinize him To do an inspection in his heart. Again, back in verse 2, he says, You understand my thought from afar. And here in verse 23, he's saying, try me and know my anxious thoughts. He asked God who possesses intimate knowledge and can read his mind to run an investigation into his thought life. Why does he ask that? Look at verse 24. He says, and see if there be any hurtful way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way. David wants to align himself with God so to the degree that if there be any manner of life, any heart attitudes Any impure or disquieting anxious thoughts, anything that is not in step with the true faith in alliance to allegiance to God That in any way resembles the enemies of God, that he make it clear to David and to expose it. Of course, for the purpose of repenting from those sins. He says, lead me in the everlasting way. David wants to be known. He doesn't want to hide. He wants God to reveal what he knows about him today and to instruct him towards a life of pleasing God. Do you open yourself up to this kind of investigation to God? Do you try to hide and conceal your sin from God, or do you like David, ask God to search out and root out sin in your own life? A person who loves the Lord is not content just to see sin in others, but he's eager to see the sin in themselves so that they can repent. They ask God, let me see what you see. With your knowledge of me, let me see my sin and guide me and leaving it behind. And as an application, let us do the same with God. Every month we have the opportunity to share in the Lord's table, and before we t we partake of that of that table, we're given the opportunity to examine ourselves. to make sure that we're living lives that honor this fellowship with the Lord and the people that he redeemed. Let's not make a habit of waiting until we get to the Lord's table to examine ourselves. Let's do it now. Let's do it regularly. Let's let's ask God to examine us and examine ourselves against his word often so that we can be sure that we are walking in step and in the right relationship with him. Amen? I hope this was a great theology lesson for us all. But one that is not merely for head knowledge, but but that one that impacts the way that we live as it did David. Let's pray Father, I pray that we have enlarged our view of you. That You've given us a healthy fear of you, Lord, that we can live our lives, understanding and knowing that you see us. That you know us. That there's no such thing as secret sins or hidden sins. Everything is laid bare before you So Lord help us to constantly, consistently repent and turn from our sins and turn our attention to a way that is glorifying to you and honoring to you. As you have saved us, you have redeemed us, you've called us into this wonderful inheritance , let us be sure to walk in step with the gospel to which we've been called. And Lord, we just thank you so much for this time and you be glorified in us the rest of this day in Jesus' name. Amen You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.