The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew. Uh we're back in Matthew chapter seven uh this morning, and today we're gonna deal with uh A passage of Scripture that many people believe is the essence of the Sermon on the Mount, a particular passage that we've been studying, Matthew chapters 5 to 7. Many people believe that this is the essence of the Sermon on the Mount and really the essence of Christianity as a whole. The popular paraphrase of verse 12 of uh chapter uh seven is is this uh do unto others as you would have them do unto you. And uh many of us have uh known that since we were uh children. And it's uh understood by many to be really all that you need to know about the teachings of of Jesus or really any religion for for that matter. It's been uh pointed out that statements similar to what Jesus utters here uh can be found in the teachings of many other world religions. For example, in uh in Judaism, and uh uh obviously Jesus Christ is uh explaining and he's the best uh one to exposit the uh the Old Testament law. But in Leviticus chapter 19, verse 18 it says, Love your neighbor as yourself. I'm the Lord. So we find that in Judaism There was a popular rabbi named uh Hillel, and uh he was approached by you know one who wanted to be a disciple of Judaism, and uh he asked uh the the rabbi, he says, you know, uh I I I I want you to explain the the Old Testament to me, but I want you to do it while I'm standing on one foot. And you know, basically it's like, you know Don't don't spend a lot of time. I mean I I don't have long. I I need to know, you know, what is what's the essence of the the Old Testament law and uh uh the way that uh this rabbi Responded is this. He says, uh that which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is explanation. Go and learn it. So that's how this rabbi summed up, you know, what the what is the whole Old Testament law about? You know, don't do what's hateful to your fellow man. Confucianism, another another religion. Confucius says this, never impose on others what you would not choose for yourself. In uh Islam, uh there's a similar statement in uh Surah 24 in the Quran, it says, and you should forgive and overlook Do you not like God to forgive you? And Allah is the merciful forgiving. In uh Hinduism, uh there's a statement that says that one should never do that to another, which one regards as injurious to one's own self. This is in brief the role of the Dharma, other behaviors due to selfish desires. Buddhism as well has the statement, hurt not others in ways that you yourself would find hurtful. And because of of these different statements and different religions, many people uh come to the conclusion that that all religions are basically teaching the same thing. All religions are basically teaching us the the same truth. They're just different paths to the same place And as long as I'm treating people the way that I want to be treated, you know, everything's going to turn out all right for me in the in the end. But it's really impossible to come to that conclusion and take anything that Jesus says seriously throughout the rest of the Sermon on the Mount because Only a few verses later Jesus says this that the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life and there are few who find it. Few who find it. Not everybody. Not everybody kind of making up your own way to find it. He says, few who find it. And the golden rule is not some kind of one-size fits-all command. First of all, Jesus makes it clear in the broader context that those words only have direct application for those who are Jesus' disciples. That's actually this this verse applies to you in uh chapter 5 verse 1. It makes it clear that this message was given to his disciples, and uh to be a disciple meant that you were not only committed uh to the ethical teaching of the sermon on the mount, but you're also committed to the doctrinal teaching of the Sermon on the Mount. You're committed to Christ as well. And the disciples were bound to believe all that Jesus had to say, not just kind of pick what they thought was the most important thing that Jesus said. Secondly, the immediate context of where this verse is found makes it clear that this golden rule, you know, do unto others as you would have them do unto you, is uh really related to To those that are children of God. In verse 11, just before verse 12, where this is found, it says, How much more will your father who is in heaven Give what is good to those who act. This is a family relationship. The context of a family relationship, it applies to those who are sons of God. And how are you made? sons of God. Galatians chapter 3 verse 26 says this, for you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. There's no other way to be related to God as your father without faith in Christ Jesus. So the the golden rule is not some kind of substitute for entering into a relationship with God outside of faith alone in Christ. And also the golden rule has to be understood within the context of the rest of the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount. This is not an isolated passage. It's not an isolated teaching. And uh everything else that Jesus taught uh connects with uh what he has to say here, and hopefully we'll learn some more of that connection uh this morning. So let's go ahead and uh and read the context, the full context in uh Matthew chapter 7. I'll start at verse uh seven and read all the way down to verse 12. It says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened. For what man is there among you who when his son asks for a loaf will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he? If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? In everything, therefore Treat people the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for uh this opportunity to come before your word once again. Uh Father, we pray that you'd open up your word to us, Lord, that you'd uh help us to understand and uh more importantly help us to apply what we learn into our lives. My Father, that we wouldn't just be like those that see their face in the mirror and go away unchanged. My Father, I pray that uh our lives would be different as a result of of what we hear and understand, and uh that you would use me to be a blessing. As a weak instrument to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. As I've mentioned to you before, chapters five and six of Matthew. primarily deal with the the individual's personal response to the authority of the king, but as we cross over into chapter 7, Jesus addresses how do disciples respond to how other people respond to the king. You know, how do disciples respond to that, the others response to the king? And uh in uh in verses one through five we learned about you know how do we respond to those who sin against the the truth? You know, those that say they believe the truth but but they sin against the truth You know, we have to to deal with people who who walk in in contradiction to to what they say they believe and and we're actually called to help 'em out. We're called to be a help uh to others. And uh the only way that we can help is that we first must remove that that log of self-righteousness from our own eyes before we're able to reach out and help somebody else. And that's what verses 1 through 5 talked about. And uh verse six it helps us to know uh what to do with people who uh reject, you know, hostile uh against the truth. They ridicule the truth. How do we deal with people that trample on the the precious gift of the Word of God and and turn on the givers? of the the word of God. And Jesus says that we're not to cast our pearl before slime. Don't uh expose the word of God to further ridicule and and hostility. And uh that's a difficult, but it's a necessary uh judgment to make, and that's what we learned about last week. And then as we reach uh verses 7 to 12, there's some commentators who say that uh This passage has absolutely no connection with uh what just came before it. You know, there's there's some who say that this is just a random collection of of sayings, no order, no structure to it. Then there's others who say that Jesus, what he's doing here in verses 7 to 12 is he's actually leaping back to the Our Father prayer that was found towards the beginning of uh of chapter 6. That's what Jesus is attempting to do here. But I believe it's better to understand that Jesus hasn't abandoned the immediate context and that he's still giving his disciples instructions on how to respond. And uh that's what he's doing in verses seven to twelve. And really what he's doing is he's he's rooting that instruction in the goodness of God Himself. And prayer that the prayer ask and uh it will be given, seek and you will find, knock, and it shall be open unto you, is uh just an example of the goodness of God. That this is the kind of God that we serve. This is an example of the goodness of God. So what's really going on here is in verses 7 to 8, you have Jesus declaring to us the goodness of God, declaring to us that God is good. In verses 9 to 11, uh Jesus is defending that idea that God is is good, the goodness of God is um uh defended, you know, where he talks about if uh In verse eleven, you know, if if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask? He's defending the goodness of God. And then in verse 12, what Jesus is doing is uh He's saying that the goodness of God should also be displayed in our lives as well in the verse 12, in everything, therefore, treat people the same way you want them. uh to treat you. So uh what we really have is the the goodness of God declared, verses seven to eight, the goodness of God defended in verses nine to eleven. And then the goodness of God is displayed by us in verse 12. So these aren't aren't random statements that Jesus kind of throws out here without any connection to the context. They're a well-crafted argument. that Jesus uses to demonstrate uh why we should treat others uh in a in a way that's that's kind because this is the way that God treats us. Get that you get the picture? This is how we should treat others because this is how God uh treats us. So let's look at this uh together verses seven to eight It says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks. it will be open to us. And here we find the goodness of God. Charles Spurgeon, the great preacher, said that we must never tolerate an instant An instant of unbelief as to the goodness of the Lord, whatever else may be questioned, this is absolutely certain that God is good. That's one of the things that we understand as as believers in the Lord, that the God is a is a good God. And there's many ways that we could demonstrate the goodness of God and um we could demonstrate the goodness of God in his creation In Psalm 33 and verse 5, it says, The earth is the Lord's. The earth is uh is full of the loving kindness or the goodness of the Lord. The earth is full of the goodness of God. Just in the creation itself, we see that uh God's goodness put on display when God finished his work in uh Genesis chapter one, he declared that it was what? That it was good. Very good. It was good. And not only because of the way that it was created, Uh but also because of the way that it was to be sustained. Creation was was made to to to be reproductive. Uh every living creature uh that God made was uh uh made to to survive and flourish on the earth to reproduce. In uh Psalm 145 verse 15 it says the eyes of all look to you and you give them their food in due time you open their hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing, the Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his deeds. God is a good God, and we see that in his In Psalm 145, verse 9, it says, The Lord is good to all, and his mercies are over all his works. God's goodness is displayed everywhere you look in creation, and what a joy it is to be sustained by a benevolent God. One writer says this that with comparatively rare exceptions, men and women experience a far greater number of days of health than they do of sickness and pain. There's much more creature happiness than creature misery. And if you look over the extent of your life for the for the majority of us, we spent more of our time healthy than we have been sick, right? You know, sometimes the the sickness that we have is so profound that that kind of colors everything else. But when we look at the the full you know life, the full scope of our lives, we've probably spent a lot more days healthy than we have in a sick bed, right? And this is just an evidence of the goodness of God. God's goodness is put on display. In Acts chapter 14, verse 17, it says, Yet he did not leave. himself without witness, and that he did good, gave you rains from heaven, fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. And that's not just to the believers, that's to everybody Everybody on the planet receives from the good hand of God. Every time you eat a meal, you're reminding yourself. It should be a reminder to you that God is good. That God is the one who gave me this food to eat. God's the one that gave me the taste buds to taste it. God's the one that allowed this to nourish my body. God's the one that put it here in the first place. You know, all these things just are an evidence of the goodness of God. And Acts 17, 28, it says, for in him we live and move and have our being. And uh some people look at that verse as like it's some kind of spiritual connection, and you know, in him I live and move and have my being. What God is saying is that without him, you wouldn't live or move or be at all. It's in him that you live and move and have your being. It's because of him that you exist. And beyond God's goodness in his physical creation For those of us who've tasted and seen that the Lord is good, we've also experienced God's goodness and God's redemption as well, haven't we? God's goodness was most dramatically put on display when he sent Jesus Christ the Son to be the sacrifice for our sins. That's God's goodness on display. And and we had no claim to God's salvation. No claim at all, no right to God coming down to save us. And contrary to some popular views, we weren't worth saving. There's there's a a song that I heard recently that that 's just to be honest with you just irritates me when I hear it. Uh it's a song that says, You thought I was worth saving, so you came and changed my life. You thought I was worth keeping, so you cleaned me up inside You thought I was to die for. So you sacrificed your life. That is not the reason why Christ came down Not because you were to die for, and it's just because we were just so valuable that uh that Christ has had to come and rescue us. That's not the reason. The reason that Christ rescued us is because of his own goodness and mercy, because of the mercy of God, because of his love. And it actually makes the sacrifice even that much more profound that we weren't worthy when he did it. It's not because God was going to get this great benefit from coming down to save us. God was sufficient all by Himself, right? God didn't have to create a universe to begin with. But then God creates the universe, creates people to dwell on it, and then he comes down to to save them? You weren't worthy of that. It actually makes the sacrifice more amazing when we know that we're not worth it. Listen to what the scripture says. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, it says, But God being rich in mercy. Because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. For by grace you have been saved. You know what grace means? It means you weren't worth it. It means you didn't deserve it. But Christ came and gave his life for you anyway. You weren't worth it. It's because of his mercy, because of his grace. Undeserved, unmerited kindness. Titus chapter 3, verses 4 and 5, it says, But when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to His mercy. He had pity on us. That's why God saved us. He had pity on us by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. God's goodness is put on display in our creation. God's goodness is put on display in our redemption. And God's goodness is also put on display in providence. God's goodness is put on display in providence. The fact that, and when we talk about providence, it's that God orchestrates everything. to accomplish his sovereign purposes. God orchestrates everything in the universe, sovereignly orchestrates everything in the universe to accomplish his divine sovereign purpose. And Romans chapter 8 Verse 28 it says, and we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And one of the ways That God works for our good is an answer to our prayers. And this is what is highlighted here in Matthew chapter 7, that God would actually answer our prayers, that God would orchestrate things in his universe. to actually answer a petition that you would have. And that for me is just mind-blowing. That the God would listen to a a prayer that I would utter. You know, out of the billions of people on this planet, that God would listen to my specific prayer. and answer a prayer. He would orchestrate the things in this universe to actually answer that prayer. Mind-blowing. And when you when you think about uh you know just uh uh different examples in the past like you have uh Moses, remember that? Moses he's on the top of Mount Sinai You know, the people are at the bottom of the mountain. They've already broken the Ten Commandments before he even delivered it to them. So here they are having a party at the bottom of the of the hill. And uh God says, you know, back up Moses, let me just wipe him out And Moses intercedes for the people, right? Intercedes for the people. And what does God do? He answers the prayer But but when you think about it, it was already God's design that that would happen, right? That's why Moses was there in the first place to be the intercessor. But God worked it out so that his prayer, his petition, is what saved the people, spurred the people. Amazing. To think that God would use a prayer of a specific man to save a nation. Uh same kind of thing happened with uh uh Daniel. If you remember Daniel, he's uh He's praying and uh he realizes that the prophecy that Jeremiah foretold about the 70 years is about to come to an end and that the children of Israel are about to be released from Babylon, and Daniel starts to pray. Starts to pray to plead with God. And what does God do? God answers the prayer of a specific man to release the nation It's all part of God's design that He would pray. And then you think about us. We think about the kingdom. The kingdom's gonna come. We know that the kingdom's gonna come. But have you ever considered this? That God asks us to pray for the kingdom? What are we supposed to pray? Thy kingdom come, right? Do you know that God actually uses your prayers in some way? I'm not sure how it all works out. But in some way, God uses your prayers to usher in his eternal kingdom. That is mind-blowing. The guy would actually orchestrate the universe to answer a specific request. that you would have and somehow work that in to his eternal plan. It's mind-blowing to think about that God would use our prayers, the the verbs ask, seek, and knock. They're all in the form of a command here. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. And it's uh it's a command here. It's in the form of a command. But it actually comes across more of as a as an invitation, right? You know, ask. You know, almost like when you're invited to somebody's house and they say, you know, hey, make yourself at home. You know, it kind of comes across that, you know, might might be in the form of a command, but it's really an invitation, right? Hey, make yourself at home. Yeah, enjoy. You know, you're here to enjoy everything that I have here. Make yourself at home. This is the same kind of command that we're given here. Ask. Seek. Knock. It's this invitation from God. It's a privilege to be invited to participate in this way in prayer. And this privilege is given without discrimination. If you look at verse 8, it says, For everyone who asks receives, and who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened. It's it's without discrimination, universally to all God's children, that this privilege is given to all of us. And um it's also given to those who persevere. It's also been uh observed that the the verbs asik and ak are present tense verb present-tense verbs. which uh indicate like this continual or habitual you know kind of pursuit of God and in prayer. It's not this one-time thing, but for those who who are invited, for those without discrimination and those who persevere. Uh the Bible says that he actually answers the prayers that we come before him with. This this is it's amazing. And the the intensity of the request has kind of increased with ask, seek, and knock, it kind of steps up. Uh when we think about it it's not complicated, is it? I mean even a child knows how to knock, right? A child knows how to seek, a child knows how to ask God doesn't make prayer complicated. He says, come before me, ask, seek, knock. Continue to come before me. He delights in hearing the prayers of his children. What an incredible offer, right? That the guy would hear and answer our prayers. But unfortunately, this is an offer that's uh often not properly understood within its context I've had people tell me that this is one of the reasons why they don't believe in God at all. I had a uh I had a coworker uh whose uh When he was younger, his sister was in a in a car accident. She was 16 years old. She was in a in a car accident and uh, you know, went to the hospital. She was in a you know, uh critical condition. And uh he said that he and his mother, you know, went to the to the church, you know, every day. Every day they went to the church to to pray. uh for a sister that the cheap survive. And um he says that when when his sister died, so did his faith. He says, you know, I'm I I don't I don't trust in God anymore. I don't pray to God anymore. You know, if if he would allow my sister to die, there's there's no reason to to believe in God. And uh many people who have a a simplistic view of of what this passage means, you know, to come before God to ask and seek and and to knock You know, uh people have a simplistic view of uh what this means, they have no kind of comfort for somebody like that. You know, because basically God has let you down. You know, there there's something that uh that God was required to do that he didn't do and and God has let you down. Uh there's uh many preachers today, you know, health and wealth, you know, prosperity preachers today that that would actually add to the grief and say that the reason that you know your sister died or something didn't happen for you is because you didn't have enough faith. You know, you didn't pray hard enough. You know, if you prayed hard enough, you know, then things would would turn around. It's like your fault. You know, that that things didn't happen the way that they they should. And that's that's just a heartless and a cruel position to have, isn't it? You know, I heard uh uh of uh you know different people, you know, paraplegics like uh Joni Erickson Todd who come to these, you know, uh Colosseums where people are supposed to be giving out these faith healings. And uh they said that they they really want to show you the truth about what's really happening. You know, uh all the people with uh you know kind of like the you know uh psychological illnesses, you know, I've got this headache or a backache or whatever, you know, those people get rushed to the front because you know the faith healer and his kind of magic tricks can kind of do something with that. But the people who are really in a wheelchair, really have diseases that are physical and maybe even terminal, those are the people that get pushed to the back of the room. Those are the people that never make it up to the to the prayer line. And uh it's it's just a tragedy what happens in the name of Jesus Christ. It's a tragedy what happens. But uh if we understand uh this passage uh uh correctly, we understand that That God is uh is actually uh the the one who's who's in charge of of whether or not these uh requests are are answered. And uh if God was obligated to answer every request that we make, who's really in charge? We are, right? If if God has to do everything that I tell him to do, then then I'm in charge. You know, God is the one who's who's working at my bidding, you know, to do what I've asked him to do kind of like you know the magic lamp you know just kind of rub the the Aladdin's lamp and you know God pops out you know what's what's your wish today you know and and he's your servant your slave to do what you asked them to do, but but that is not the kind of God that we serve. And it's often been said that uh the God is actually too wise to offer us everything that we ask for. There's some things that we ask for that looking back, we're very glad that God didn't give us what we asked for. Aren't we? Anyone else like that? This one author he says, I'd be afraid to pray if I thought God was going to listen to everything I asked him, because I know I'm not wise enough to know what I really need. There's something that you ask for that you don't really need, some things that you ask for that aren't really good, aren't really helpful. Calvin offers us these words. He says, we must not think that He takes no notice of us when he does not answer our wishes, for he has the right to distinguish what we actually need. And there's some things that are even difficult. that God determines are actually good. Some things that are difficult are actually good for us. And all of that is to say that this passage isn't some kind of one size fits all verse and that we have to take into account the rest of what the Lord has to say regarding prayer in order to understand what he says here. And just a few things that I want to uh want to offer to you. First of all, prayer has to be offered in submission. Prayer has to be offered in submission. When we come before God, we we submit everything before God's name, God's kingdom, God's will, just as Christ taught us to pray in our Father Prayer. You know, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. So uh what we're we're saying is that we're we sh we submit everything to the to the will, to the kingdom, to the name of of God. We we line everything else up underneath that. And there's sometimes when God says that what you've asked for isn't what I've wanted to give. It's not what I've chosen to give. In uh 1 John chapter 5, verse 14, it says, this is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us So it's not just anything that we ask without qualification. Also, we want to make sure that we're checking our motives when we pray, because sometimes we pray without proper motivation in uh Matthew chapter uh six verse thirty three it says that we're to seek his kingdom first and his righteousness and all other things will be added to us sometimes we come before God and we want to place our kingdom before his place our priorities before his And uh some prayers aren't answered because they're self-serving instead of kingdom serving. In uh James chapter 4, verse 3, it says, you ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. There's reasons like that that we don't get prayers answered. It's also a reason of obedience as well, and uh uh uh scripture earlier talks about Jesus here in the same uh passage uh a little earlier on in chapter 6 Verse 15, he talks about if we fail to forgive others, the God doesn't forgive us, he doesn't hear our prayers. Uh that if uh we're praying to be seen by men, if there's other sins that are kind of blocking our way to prayer. that God won't hear us. In 1 John 3. 22 it says, whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. Sometimes we're we're walking in disobedience. and our prayers aren't answered. And there's there's a number of other things that we could uh point out, but uh I just want to make sure that you understand that this this uh petition here, you know, uh uh this request, this invitation uh to pray is uh is not without qualification. You know, so we have to understand that within its within its context. And this is made even uh more clear in the in the next section because uh Jesus goes on to defend the goodness of God in granting a request or denying us a request. Look at verses 9 to 11. It says, For what man is there among you who when his son asks for a loaf will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he? If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask? God only gives what is what? Good. He only gives what's good. And uh right here Jesus uh makes use of the the most common meal in Galilee. It was uh illustration of bread and fish. If you remember that's what the little boy brought for a snack when uh Jesus fed the the 5,000, he had a little snack of uh you know fish and and loaves. And uh, you know, Christ used it to feed a multitude. Uh but the the loaves of bread that uh Jesus is is talking about here, they weren't your you know you big loaves of bread you buy them in a bag, you know, already pre-sliced from a supermarket. You know, what he's talking about is these, you know, kind of little loaves that kind of resembled a rock. You know, a lot of the rocks that were around uh Palestine And uh that's one of the reasons when uh you know when Jesus is tempted in uh Matthew chapter four, uh the Jesus uh that Satan's actually pointing to the to the rocks that were scattered around the wilderness, says, hey, why don't you take one of these rocks? And make them into to bread because it they already looked like bread. You know, it was kind of like the same size. It's like, hey, why don't you just take one of these racks and make it bread for yourself? Uh because that's what they they look like. So so here he takes this uh this illustration of of bread And he says, uh, what man is there among you who when his son asks for a loaf will give him a stone? And like I said, he picks out the fact that the stones already kind of resemble the bread that they would would bake And he says, uh, you know, what kind of cruel father would answer his child's cry for for bread with a stone? You know, it looks like bread and kind of, you know, ha ha, you know, tricking his child. You know, and and uh and w What kind of what kind of cruel joke would that be? You know, for for a child to to take a bite out of a rock, thinking that his father's giving him what he's asked for, you know, if it didn't break his teeth, it would break his heart, right? Well, why would my dad do this? You know, Dad, I thought I could trust you. What are you doing? And this is the kind of trick that Jesus says, you know, there's not one of you here that would do that to your kids. Not one of you here who would do that to your kids, you know, to to to break his his heart by, you know, giving them a rock instead of a stone to chew on. Jesus also assumed that a loving father wanted to answer his child's cry for food with a with a snake. In Leviticus chapter 11, snakes were one of the uh unclean animals that couldn't be eaten by the Jewish people. And uh if the snake was alive, which is probably you know what's meant in this verse, it could actually do harm to the child. You know, so so what father is there among you? who when his child asks for a fish, you know, he's going to pull out a snake, you know, a snake that's uh that might actually do harm uh to the child. There's no loving parent that would do that. Want to give a a stone for bread, want to give a snake for for a fish. That would be to mock the child's hunger instead of trying to satisfy it. And Jesus says, do you know if you're trusting to give good gifts? You actually trust evil people to give good gifts. Because every one of us, the Bible says, is evil. That's what it says in verse 11. If you then, being evil Know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? He goes from the lesser to the greater. If you, being evil, can give a good gift, what do you think about your father? What would the father do? The Father, the perfect Father in heaven, what would he do? Notice how Jesus places a distance also between himself and between You who are evil. He doesn't say, you know, we who are evil, you know, can give good gifts. He says you who are evil, because he can't include himself in that group. You know, you who are evil. You can give good gifts to your your kids, and you don't think God can? You don't think God will give what's good? Jesus knew that he was the beloved son in whom the Father was well pleased. He talks about that in Matthew chapter 3. In John chapter 8, he says, He who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone. Why? For I always do the things that are pleading to him. He says, I'm I haven't done anything that's ever been displeasing to the Father. And later on he'll even talk to his accusers and he says, you know, which one of you can convict me of sin? Nobody could point at one thing that Jesus did that was wrong. Jesus was uh the perfect Lamb of God who came to take away the sin of the world, but he knew that all men were sinners. But even evil men can do good things. Even evil men can give good gifts and uh and here he doesn't even try to defend that men are evil. You know, it's like th there's no need to try to try to prove that. You know, there's no need to try to prove that. It's just an established fact. You know, even the Old Testament established that fact in uh Psalm chapter 14, verses 2 and 3, it says, The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see If there are any who understand, who seek after God, they've all turned aside. Together they've become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. There's nobody who's who's good. And sometimes people try to act like uh total depravity is just some invention of Paul or some theologian. You know, the scriptures uh let us know that all men are are sinners, even from the the earliest days of the of the scriptures. So the argument that Jesus gives here is if we would trust evil men to give good gifts to their kids, why wouldn't we trust the perfect father to give good gifts to those who ask them? And do you have more confidence in sinful people than you do in a perfect God? It it really has a lot to say about what do you think about your God What do you think about your God? What kind of view do you have of God? Martin Lloyd Jones says if if somebody should ask me to state to state in one phrase what I regard as the greatest defect among Christians, I would say that it's our failure to know God, our Father, as we should know him. A failure to know who God really is. So do you do you trust God? Do you trust God to be better than evil parents? What's fundamentally at stake is uh what do we think about about God here. And if there's anything that Jesus wants to add to our understanding about God is that God is good. God's good, infinitely more good than we give him credit for, right? And then in verse 12 that follows this passage, gives the fitting application to what Jesus has said about the goodness of the Father. He says, in everything, therefore Treat people the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets. And here we get to the do unto others as you would have them do unto you, which is the paraphrase of this. And everything therefore Treat people the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets. If this is the way that the Father would treat sinful people, what about what about you treating other people? How how do you treat other people if if God can treat evil people in this way by being kind by being good, uh how much more should you be good and kind to to fellow fellow sinners? And if you're you're looking to to what makes this command so unique in Christianity, it's not so much the way that it's stated, it's the context that it's stated in. Okay? Not so much the way that it's stated, but the context that it's stated First of all, Christians do not obey this command out of some desire to achieve the goodness of God. We don't obey this command out of some desire to achieve the goodness of God. We place absolutely no hope in attaining righteousness by our own obedience. to this command. There there's no hope for that. Flip over to Luke chapter 18. Flip over to Luke chapter 18. Just want to show you that the the standard that Christ gives us here to you know treat others as you would want to be treated Is actually an impossible command. It's an impossible command. Luke chapter 18. To do this perfectly, we'd have to fulfill, to keep the entire standard of the Old Testament law. And Jesus has already called all people what? A little earlier. He's already called everybody evil. You've already missed the mark, you know, before he even gave it. Before he gave the standard of you know, treat others as you would have yourself be treated. He's already let you all know that you're all evil. You who are evil. You know, so we've already missed that mark. But to do this, um to obey this command, we'd have to keep it perfectly. And uh Jesus tries to bring uh another man to a similar conclusion over in Luke chapter 18 Look at uh Luke chapter 18. I'll start at um at verse 18 here. There was a ruler who questioned him, saying, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. Basically, it's here questioning uh, you know, do you just throw around that term good, you know, loosely to everybody? There's nobody good but God alone. And Jesus here is not saying that he's not God. He's saying that if you're calling me good, are you also calling me God as well? Because that's who he is. He says, you know the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother. He says, all these things I've kept from my youth When Jesus heard this, he said to him, one thing you still lack, still all that you possess, distribute it to the poor, you shall have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. And here he's starting to choke on it because he knows that he has a lot of stuff. Doesn't want to give it up. You have uh uh further down Jesus says he looked at them and said, How hard it is for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. And they who heard it said, Then who can be saved? What did Jesus say? He says the things that are impossible with people are possible with God. What is he saying? It's impossible to keep the kind of standard that I'm giving to you. It's impossible. It's impossible with people to obey the standard perfectly. Nobody can do it. There's another passage over in Luke chapter 10. Why don't you flip over there? But chapter ten Verse 25, look at Luke 1025. It says, and a lawyer stood up and put him to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, What is written in the law? How does it read to you? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, your neighbor as yourself, you know, basically summarizing the law just as the other lawyer did. And he said to him, You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live. And uh here you have in verse 29, but wishing to justify himself, he said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Basically he knows he's been struck. You know, I don't know if I've done that with everybody. It's like, well, you know, who do I have to actually do that with in order to attain eternal life? And then Jesus gives them the parable of the Good Samaritan, and like I've mentioned to you before, it's misinterpreted by many because people fail to pay attention to the context. What's the question at the beginning? How do I inherit eternal life? Is Jesus giving us some path to inherit eternal life through our obedience to the law? No. He's trying to show this guy that you can't do it. It's impossible for you. So then he goes on and tells the story of the good Samaritan. And then at the end he says, uh, go and do the same. You know, if if you think that that's your path to eternal life, have at it. Basically he's trying to get this guy to admit that I'm a sinner. I don't obey the law perfectly. I don't love people with The same love that I have towards myself. I don't love God with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. Jesus, is there another way? You know, that's what should have been asked here because the scriptures let us know that by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. In his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Galatians 2. 16 says, For we know that a person is not justified by the works of the law. But through faith in Jesus Christ. We can't enter into eternal life based on our obedience. It's impossible. We can't get to heaven from that road. The bridge is already collapsed. So uh Jesus here isn't saying, you know, if you can do unto others as you would have them do unto you, you know, this is your path to heaven It's not it's not we can't earn heaven that way. Christians don't obey this command out of some kind of hope to attain goodness from God. And second of all, Christians obey this command out of a response. To the goodness of God that's already been given to them. As the believers, we rest in the kindness of God. And that's what Matthew chapter 7 is trying to point out to us that God is good. And we're trusting in His goodness to get us into heaven. Not because of what we can do. It's because of what God has already done. And we trust in that same compassion and mercy. uh not only to to enter the kingdom of God, but also to uh uh to obey his commands as as well. And uh why don't you flip over to Luke 11? You're already in Luke, flip over to Luke 11. Just want to show you a parallel uh passage where These same words are mentioned over in Luke chapter 11. We have a similar context of prayer in verses 1 through 4. It's basically the Our Father prayer that's mentioned again. And then following the prayer and slide this the same context of prayer, Jesus gives this illustration. Look at uh starting in verse 5, Luke chapter 11. It says, then he said to him, said to them, Suppose one of you has a friend, and goes to him at midnight and says to him, Friend Lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine has come to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. You know, so uh first of all you have this inconvenient request. You know, coming to somebody at midnight, rapping on his door, it's dark, you know, everybody's sleeping already, and he says, friend, you know, and who wants friends like this that, you know, buggy at the at the middle of the night? He says, friend, you know, I need three loaves. You know, those same kind of loaves that we're talking about, you know, earlier. I need three loaves. A friend has come to me From a long journey, I don't have anything to set before them. And inside this context, it would have been extremely rude to have somebody show up at your house and you have nothing to offer them. You know, it's not like uh today where you can call somebody up on a phone and say, hey, you know I'm on my way over to your house, I should be there around this time and this time. There's no way to let anybody know. You know you're coming from a journey. It's not like there's a McDonald's to go out to You know, so it's like if you don't have anything there, it's like, well, maybe my friend has, you know, some loaves left over that I can feed to my guests. It would be extremely rude not to have anything. So he goes and knocks on his friend's door. Friend, friend, you know, let me three loaves. It's an inconvenient request. Second thing, he gets this immediate rejection. Look at verse 7. It says, and from inside he answers, this is the friend answering from the inside. Do not bother me. The door has already been shut and my children and I are in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. He's immediately rejected. You know, I don't care if you're a friend. It's late. My kids and I are in bed, you know, and during this time it's like not like you have the electricity, you can just flick on a light and pass them something out of the refrigerator. You know, you've got it. Everybody, you know, during that time would probably be all kind of holed up together. at in the in the evening because it's cold, they're kinda wrapped up. My kids and I are already wrapped up in bed. It's warm. I if if I get up now I'm gonna disturb everybody. You know, and some of you got got kids and you know what it's like to disturb your kids in the middle of the night. You're not getting back to sleep for a long time, right? So here he is, he's gonna inconvenience everybody, wake everybody up in order to find these lows, kinda rumble around in the dark. Uh they had their doors that were probably closed by these iron rings and a a bar that would be pushed through it. So he's going to wake up the whole family in order to try to get this request out the door. You know, he says, I I can't do it. You know, I'm in bed. The whole family's in bed. Going to wake everybody up. Immediately he's rejected. It's an inconvenient request. Immediately he's rejected. But then look at uh at verse 8 I tell you, even though he will not get up and give him anything, because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will get up and give him as much as he needs. What he won't do for friendship, he'll do for some sleep, right? It's like if you're if I don't give him bread, he's not going to go away. Just take the bread. Get out of here, please. It's an irritated response. Just get out of here. Take what you need. Just get out And what you have is uh this passage is actually explaining something to us about God by contrast. A lot of times passages try to explain who God is by the similarity. This is explaining who God is by contrast. God is never inconvenienced by your request. You never wake God up, right? No, God is a God who never slumbers. He's not weary. Anytime you come before God with a request, it's not inconvenient to God. When you come before God with a request, he's not like this friend who's immediately going to reject you. I'm not going to give you anything. You know, that's not the heart of God. Get out of here. I don't want to even hear from you. God is inviting us to come before Him in prayer. It's not this immediate rejection. And we don't get this irritated response. Yeah, just have it. Just get out of here. Right? That's not the way that God responds to us. God is a God who invites us to come, invites us to come before Him and request. God is a God who delights to give, not to delights in rejecting. He delights to give. And he's a God that's not going to be irritated in his response. He delights in responding to his children. He delights in it. And look at uh how how Christ ends this uh section on prayer in verses 9 to 13, Luke 11. Look at what he says here. Familiar words, right? So I say to you, ask. And it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be open. Now suppose one of your you fathers is asked by his son for a fish, he will not give him a snake instead of a fish, will he? Or if he asks for an egg, he will not give him a scorpion, will he? And you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children. How much more will your heavenly father give, listen what he says here, the Holy Spirit to those who ask? What is he saying here? He's saying that uh Christians don't obey this command to do unto others You know, because of uh some desire to achieve goodness, but they do it out of a response to the goodness of God. And even unbelievers, as an unbeliever, if you come before God saying, God , I'm I'm helpless. We heard it earlier in the in the testimony, right? I'm kind of at the end of myself. I just know I can't I can't do the things that you've asked me to do. I can't do it. I come before you I'm broken. I understand that I can't achieve the kind of righteousness that you've asked me to achieve. And I'm asking for help. I'm asking for your Holy Spirit. Would you come into my life, invade my life, take over my life? For those who come before the Heavenly Father and ask for the gift of the Holy Spirit, God, will you change my life? Will you redeem me? Will you save me? Out of the goodness of God's heart, he answers that request. That's a request that's always answered by God by those that come before Him in humility. God doesn't turn away those that are humble and contrite of heart and spirit, but he answers that request. For salvation to those that come, that ask, that seek, and that knock on the door for salvation. So we understand that we entered into eternal life. Because of the goodness of God, and we are sustained in our relationship with God. Because of the goodness of God And now what God asks us to do over in Matthew chapter 7 in response to his goodness is he says, this is how I want you to treat everybody else. How should you treat other people knowing how good I've treated you? You should treat others in the way that you want to be treated, right? You should extend the same same kind of goodness to others that you'd want to receive yourself. Extend that goodness to others. God's goodness is declared to us. It's defended for us, and now uh God wants us to display that goodness and kindness towards others as well. Amen. Let's uh say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh this opportunity uh that we have. To think about these things, Lord, and Father, I pray that you would help us to understand that what's impossible with us is entirely possible with you Father, that uh that our salvation, which is impossible for us, is only made possible because of your goodness and kindness. And uh following uh the command to uh treat others as we would have ourselves be treated is impossible again for us. Uh but through your goodness and your your grace, Lord, that you enable us uh through the power of your Holy Spirit. to live with one another in a in a way that uh uh that would demonstrate your goodness, Lord, through us. So Father, I pray that you'd help us as a congregation to be a loving, a gracious, a compassionate group of of people. And we know that we do this in response to the goodness and the compassion and the grace that we've received from you. And Father, we know that we've we haven't received this because we're worth it. Not because we deserve it, but because you had pity on us, and we receive your undeserved kindness and grace. My Father, we uh give you all honor and praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files