The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Matthew? Book of Matthew. We're returning this afternoon to our study of the Sermon on the Mount, and uh one of the encouraging things for me has been the excitement. uh that there's been in our body to return to the study and I'm eager to get back into the the flow of it as as well. And it's uh a little wonder that there's so much interest in this section of the the scriptures uh because this sermon is recognized as the heart of Jesus' teaching and has been considered by many to be the essence of Christianity. Again, the Sermon on the Mount is not all that you need to know. about Christianity, uh because the most important message will not be taught until uh Jesus dies and and rises again and that hasn't happened at this point. Uh but there's a good reason that the sermon is given such prominence and that it's found right here at the beginning of Jesus' ministry. And our focus this afternoon will be chapter 5 verses 13 down to 16. But let's start at verse 1 just to get a running start and set the context before us again. Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 1. So when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you. And falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you You are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you again for uh your word. Father, I pray that You would use your word as you're always faithful to do. My father, I pray that you'd be a blessing to your people through the words that are shared this morning. And uh Father, that you would be given all the glory and honor. My Father, we thank you that uh you're the perfect interpreter. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. The people of God are a distinct group. The people of God are a distinct group of people, and it's always been that way. There was a separation between Abel and his brother Cain. In first John chapter three, verse twelve it says, uh, We're not to be as Cain who was of the evil one and slew his brother, and for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil and his brothers were righteous, evil and righteous There was a separation between Noah and the rest of the world. In Hebrews chapter 11, verse 7, it says, By faith Noah being warned by God about things not yet seen. in reverence prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. Again you have the righteous and those that are condemned. There's a separation between Israel and Egypt. Exodus chapter 11, verse 7, it says, But against any of the sons of Israel, a dog will not even bark, whether against man or beast. That ye may understand how the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel. And uh if you remember there, the the plagues uh that God poured out on the nation of uh of Egypt. uh didn't touch the the land of of Israel. God started to make this distinction uh between those that were his people and those that were not. There's a separation between Israel and the other nations In Deuteronomy chapter 14, verse 2, it says, For you are a holy people to the Lord your God, and the Lord has chosen you to be a holy people for his own possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. And then right here at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, he informs the citizens of his kingdom that there's going to be a distinction between you and the rest of humanity. The Beatitudes in particular make it clear that the chasm is deep and wide between those that are part of the kingdom and those that are not. We're definitely out of sync with the world. We're headed in two very different directions. What the unbeliever would understand to be the path of cursing is actually the path of blessing for us. And uh in the gospel, according to Luke, he records the contrasting statements to the Beatitudes, if you want to flip over there real quick, Luke chapter 6, verses 24 down to 26. Makes this uh contrast pretty clear there. Actually I'll start with I'll start at uh verse 20. I'll always do that, don't I? Start at verse 20. And turning his gaze toward his disciples, he began to say, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who hunger now, for ye shall be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep now, for ye shall laugh. Blessed are you when men hate you and ostracize you and insult you and scorn your name as evil for the sake of the Son of Man. Be glad in that day and leap for joy, for behold your reward is great in heaven, for in the same way their fathers used to treat the prophets But woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. Woe to you who are well fed now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. We're out of sync with the world. We're out of sync. And in fact, we're we're so much out of sync with the world and The direction that they move that they not only don't approve of us, that they would actually persecute us because of the path that we take. And in uh Matthew chapter 5 again in uh verses 11 and 12 it lets us know that we're blessed when people insult us and persecute us and falsely say all kinds of evil against us, that we should rejoice and be glad, for our reward in heaven is great. But the very real temptation for us as Kingdom citizens is either to compromise our convictions or to attempt to hold firm to our convictions, but hide them from a world that would be hostile to them. That's that's the the temptation that we have. And we're under that kind of pressure all the time, aren't we? Uh we call it uh peer pressure for uh you know the young people. Uh that's kind of refer to it as like a a teenage problem, but the truth is the pressure doesn't stop when you get older. And that the fears actually increase in a lot of cases. Because now it just just doesn't affect my social status. You know, sometimes it affects my employment, my finances, or even worse. But the reality is that caving in is simply not an option for a a citizen of the kingdom. It's not not an option. We can't sell out and we can't hide out and continue to call ourselves faithful. to our king. In fact, what this passage demonstrates to us in verses 13 down to 16 in Matthew chapter 5, and this is really a sobering reality. What this passage demonstrates to us is that if we succumb to the temptation to compromise and to kind of head for cover, we've actually abdicated our purpose on this earth and we're good for nothing. Good for nothing. That's what Jesus says in verse 13, isn't it? You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. So it's the same thing in verse 15. Nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand and it gives light to all who are in the house. What good does a light do underneath the basket? It's good for nothing. It's not serving its intended purpose. The simple truth is that if you're not fulfilling God's purpose on this earth, then why are you here? Right? Why are you here? What what is your purpose? If it's not for his purpose, if it's not for for what he wants you to do, why are you here then? What is your purpose in life? You've been created to glorify God. That's a reality. You've been created for him, not for yourself. This is this is just As I was going through it this week, this is a convicting passage. This is convicting. And I pray that uh God would do a work in each one of our hearts. And there's uh two main sections of this passage in uh verse thirteen we're told that we can't Sell out, that's just kind of what I've I've titled it there. We can't sell out talking about compromise. And in verse fourteen and sixteen we we can't hide out We're told that we can't hide out and put our lamps underneath a a basket. No selling out and no hiding out. First of all, no selling out. Look at verse thirteen. It says you are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. Now it's important that we pay attention to what Jesus says here. We pay attention to his words because there's, first of all, a definite audience, that word you. uh has a definite antecedent and he's not here addressing the crowds in general. Again the disciples that he began to address in verse two are the same disciples he's addressing here. If the Beatitudes are not true of you, neither is is it true of you that you're salt and light. You have to be known as those that are blessed before you can be considered salt and light. Another thing to note is that the word you is actually in the plural. The disciples as a group were to fulfill this command, which tells me that they were not only to be concerned with this little light of mine, they're actually to be concerned with this little light of others. Right? Because we we collectively as a as a group are to be concerned that we're being a corporate witness and a testimony and protect one another. The U is plural, the salt is singular. The you is plural, the light is singular. You plural are the light. You plural are salt It's a corporate witness, a corporate testimony. So there's a definite audience here. He's talking to the you , those that are blessed, those that are considered disciples, kingdom citizens. Another thing, there's a definite argument that he gives here. Another thing to notice is that Jesus does not say you should be salt. You should be light. You ought to want to be light. That's not what he says. He simply says you are salt. You are light. It's not like there's a number of options out there, right? As if you can choose to be salt and light if you prefer to do that. Or you can choose to be something else. The only question is whether or not you will retain your distinction as salt and whether or not you will get out from underneath the basket and start to shine, right? But you are salt and you are light. If you belong to the kingdom, you are salt and you are light. You are what you are. And the Greek even makes this point even more clear by the use of an emphatic pronoun. The you uh is actually brought out to the forefront. It's as if Christ is saying, you and only you are the salt of the earth. You and only you are the light of the world. And if you don't make an impact on this world, it doesn't have another alternative. There's no other other alternative for the people of God. You are the salt, you are the light. You are it. And this places on the Christian the great weight And responsibility. You are salt and you are light. There's also a definite aim to this. There's a definite concern that Jesus has in this address. His concern is clearly for those who still need to be reached. We're to be not the salt for the salt, you know, not the light for the light. We're we're not merely to impact one another Uh the focus here is on those that we're reaching out to. Uh the word earth refers to the physical planet and the the word world refers to the people on it. And if this planet is going to experience anything Of any kind of connection with the kingdom of God, it's going to come through us. It's going to come through us. There's no other way. You've been rescued for a purpose. And while we're instructed in uh Romans chapter 12 Verse two, not to be conformed to this world, but to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. In James chapter one, verse twenty seven it says we're to be pure and undefiled, pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father as this To visit orphans and widows in in their distress, and to keep oneself unstained by the world. In first John C fifteen it says, Do not love the world, nor the things in the world. If any one loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him So we're commanded not to conform to this world, not to be stained by this world, not to love this world, but we are said to be salt and light for this world. We're to be salt and light of this world. Another thing to pay attention to is there's a definite analogy that Christ gives here. When Jesus says that we are salt, there's this a definite analogy that he wants to make between us and salt And uh there's some discussion over what he means by by salt. One commentator actually cites at least 11 different uses of the word salt in ancient times. Uh typically we only think of salt as you know the inexpensive uh condiment to season our food, but in the ancient world it was known for a variety of of uses and it was extremely valuable. Uh Roman soldiers were at one time paid with salt Uh it's interesting that the word uh salary, that word that we use, salary, uh, it's derived from the Latin word salarium, which is a reference to an allowance soldiers were given either by salt or to purchase salt. Interesting, huh? The Roman historian Pliny the Elder states in his natural history discussion, he says, In Rome the soldiers' pay was originally salt, and the word salary derives from it. Uh so if you've ever heard that that saying uh you know somebody's not worth his salt, you know, you're saying he's not worth his salary. He's not worth the price that you're paying him. And this is this is where it comes from. Salt was very valuable during this time. The Romans said nothing was more valuable than the sun and salt. And uh Greeks considered salt so valuable that they referred to it as divine. So it was extremely valuable and it's an important analogy that Jesus is trying to draw here. Had many different uses. Salt was used for sacrifices. In uh Leviticus 2. 13 it says, Every grain offering of yours, moreover, you shall season with salt. so that the salt of the covenant of your God shall not be lacking from your grain offering. It's used to seal covenants, second Chronicles thirteen five says, Do you not know that the Lord God of Israel gave the rule over Israel forever to David and his sons by a covenant of salt? It was used as a symbol of friendship. There was an Arab saying that there is salt between us because salt was used as a symbol of hospitality, friendship between people. It was also used as a purifier in uh Ezekiel sixteen verse four. It says, As for your birth, on the day that you were born, your navel cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water for cleansing. You were not rubbed with salt or even wrapped in cloth And uh it was used as as we know and as we use it today for a seasoning for food. In uh Job chapter 6 it says, can something tasteless be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? Actually, like the white of an egg, but you gotta put some salt on it, right? Gotta put some salt on that thing. Colossians 4 6 says, Let your speech always be with grace as though seasoned with salt, so that you will know how you should respond to each person, kind of using that symbolism of salt as something that gives flavor or adds uh pulls out the flavor of food. Uh but one of the most common uses of salt was to preserve food, to preserve it. And uh this is arguably the most common use for for salt. Before refrigeration, which was only developed in the late 1800s, if you can imagine that The only way you could preserve meat was to salt it. That's the only way you could preserve meat. Meats and other foods were preserved by rubbing salt into them. It has absorbed the water, made the environment too dry for the harmful uh mold or bacteria organisms that decay food and uh killed disease were uh uh kind of uh uh killed by this high concentration of of salt. You know, what decayed the food was killed by this high concentration of of salt. One commentator notes that given the amount of salt needed to preserve food without refrigeration, it is not likely that many ancient Jews considered salt primarily as enhancing taste, because they needed so much of it just to preserve their food. So when Jesus told his disciples that you are the salt of the earth, what do you think they're thinking about? What would they understand by that reference? They would have thought about preservation. At least four out of the twelve disciples were fishermen, right? They would have had first hand experience with drying and salting fish. First hand experience with it. And everybody would have been familiar. with using salt as a preservative. So they would have understood Jesus to be saying that the world around you is dead and decaying. And that the only influence that will keep the world from being totally lost is you. You're the only people that are going to keep this world from being totally lost, totally corrupt. That's how they'd understand the the words of of Christ. And there's also a definite alarm here as well. And this is like I said, this is just sobering We have this alarm that's that's given us. And like I said, it's just a sobering part of part of this text in uh verse thirteen. You are the salt to the earth, but if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? It's no longer good for anything. Except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. If the quality of salt is lost, there is no means to replace its power. And if the quality of salt is lost, there's no reason to retain its presence. It's good for nothing. There's no means to restore the power in salt. And the the question here is, you know, how can uh how can salt not be salty, right? You know, you think about that. How can salt not be salty? Uh scientifically, sodium chloride is known to be a stable compound that does not disintegrate. But it's important to note that the salt from the Dead Sea region was generally contaminated with other minerals and the salt could be dissolved out of this mixture, leaving a tasteless substance. One uh encyclopedia notes. Even when salt was mined, it was important to take rock salt from the inner layers of the mine, since the outer layers could lose their salinity with exposure. So it was possible for this kind of salt to actually lose its quality of being salt. And once it lost its its taste, that kind of sting, that savor, it was good for nothing. Good for nothing. There was no way to replace it. Its properties couldn't be developed any other way. You couldn't make it salty again. It's over. There's no means to restore its power. And the warning, and that like like I said, sober and warning for these disciples is that impure lives cannot purify. You can't have an effect on anybody else if you're not being affected, right? If our lives are not the influence, where will we get this influence from? The simple answer to that question is nowhere. If we can't influence people by our lives, you have no influence. As a believer. If you're not able to influence somebody by the way that you live, you have no influence. And there's no replacement for a transformed life. And there are people who justify justify all kinds of questionable practices in order to show the world that, you know, hey, there's really no difference between me and you. You know, I'm just like you. We're just like everybody else. You know, that's like it's like the the the church has this like push, like just driven. To say, hey, there's really no distinction. There's nothing that separates me from you. This is the exact opposite of what Jesus is telling them to do, right? Exact opposite. A German philosopher once said, Show me your redeemed life, and I might be inclined to believe in your redeemer. Show me something different. Why should I follow you if you're not going anywhere? And there's truth to that, right? Our power lies in our distinction from the world, not our likeness to it. And as one author uh said, when those who claim to be disciples fail to be pure, Their potential for changing the world is permanently damaged. Although divine forgiveness removes all the eternal consequences of sin, it does not eliminate the temporal consequences of it. The real power of the believer lies in our distinction from the world, like I said, not our likeness to it. But not only is there no means to replace the power of contaminated salt, there's also no reason to retain its presence. What was non-salty salt useful for? What did they use non-salty salt for? Flat, tasteless, powdery substance Good for nothing. It couldn't be offered to anybody. You couldn't seal anything with it. It didn't symbolize anything. It couldn't purify anything. It couldn't season anything. It couldn't preserve anything. It's good for nothing. And could be argued that instead of doing any good, they actually it actually did harm. Flip over to Luke chapter 14. This is If you've never never put these two together, look at Luke chapter 14. Look at uh 34 and 35. What it says here, therefore salt is good, but if even salt has become tasteless, with what will it be seasoned? It is useless either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. You guys get that? If, listen to this one description, if concentrations of salt are strong enough in the soil, the salt acts as a herbicide that actually destroys the ability of the soil to produce. This bad salt had to be disposed of carefully to avoid ruining the soil. Luke 14, 35 warned that ruined salt is useless either for the soil or for the manure pile. Ruined salt was worth less than dirt or manure. worth less than dirt or manure because even they were useful as fertilizers to promote growth of plants, but salt did not promote life, it destroyed life. The ancients used corrupt salt as gravel on beaten paths where grass could not grow anyway because of the heavy traffic. Rather than purifying the lives of others, it destroys the potential for life. You fail to be salt. You can't even do as much as manure and dirt. I didn't make that up, right? Somebody somebody said they read it there, right? Somebody said you read it. Deuteronomy 29, 23 says, All its land is brimstone and salt, a burning waste, unsown and unproductive. No grass grows in it, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah. Adma and Zoboim, which the Lord overthrew in his anger and in his wrath. There's a connection between Sultan Sodom and Gomorrah, right? So this is the burning waste, unseen, unproductive, no grass grows. The question is, is is where are you? Are you selling out? Are you compromising? Contaminated? The only way that we're going to be be useful for the master is that we retain the quality that we have Second point, and I know I passed over that one quickly. We've we probably got to come back here. All right. Let's look at the next one. Look at verse uh 14 back in chapter 5 Says, You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor does anyone light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. The second picture that Christ gives here is the picture of light. It's a little little easier to interpret here. In the case of a of a city, uh city w had uh light It would be visible for uh those that were around, provide a benefit for for those that might be traveling to a city. Many of the ancient cities in uh Palestine were actually situated on hills Uh because hills were easier to defend and in addition to the to the hill, uh they'd often have uh you know a wall of defense uh around a city as well Uh watchmen were placed on the top of these walls in order to warn the cities about approaching danger and to admit entrance to those that uh were friendly to the city. And uh the lights from these cities at at night were said to be like uh to sparkle like diamonds. You know, sitting on the top of the hill they just kinda sparkled for for those that were were were around. Uh could be seen from miles away. Uh one example of this uh found kind of interesting was in uh Jeremiah chapter thirty four verse seven. Speaks of uh Nebuchadnezzar fighting against Jerusalem and the other walled cities of of Judah, Lakesh and uh Azaka In Jeremiah 34, 7 says this, when the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the remaining cities of Judah, that is Lachish and Azekah. For they alone remained as fortified cities among the cities of Judah. And let me just kind of explain a little bit about what's going on here. Azekah is about eighteen miles southwest of Jerusalem Lake Hish is thirty miles away from Jerusalem, but because they were situated on hills, they could actually see one another. You know, over all these all these miles because of the fires that would burn on the top of these um these hills. There was actually a significant archaeological excavation at Lakish that unearthed fragments of pottery from this time and Jennifer and I actually had an opportunity to go there and uh and visit Lakeish. Uh it's known as the Lakish Letters. Uh they use these fragments of pottery as paper and inscribed notes on them. And one of these pieces there is a letter from the commander of Lakish that states this. It says this letter certifies to the commanding officer at Jerusalem That I remain on duty to carry out your orders. Judah's signal fire at Lachish still burns even after the only other remaining signal fire at Azekah has gone out. And what what he's saying, and this is just like a confirmation of what happened in Scripture, because in you know Jeremiah 34, 7 talks about how Babylon came and fought against these cities and destroyed them. And uh this is a letter from the from that period of time. Where the commander is saying, you know, we're here at uh at Lakish. We can s we we still got our our light burning, but I'm looking over at Azica and their fire has gone out. Basically saying that this this city has been conquered because the the fire's out. They they lit a fire at the the city at night to let the other cities know where they were that all is still well The lights on the top of the hills could be seen from miles away, and uh those that traveled at night, uh the lights of the city were a welcome sight, you know, as they approached these different cities, even in the thick of night City on a hill couldn't be hidden and gave direction to those on the outside. And it was a part of the light's purpose and function. The light was to be seen and was placed in the most strategic place. And in a similar way, those who occupy a home place their lamps in a strategic place as well. Back over in Matthew chapter 5, nor does anyone light a lamp. Verse fifteen, and put it under a basket, but on the lampstand and it gives light to all who are in the house. Uh the lights in a in a home are placed in strategic places to give the most light to the most people. Uh the ancient lamps were uh nothing more than a circular clay bowl uh with a short spout. Sometimes a loop handle was fixed on the on the end of it and uh it was filled with oil and uh and the wick was placed in the in the spout and it was lit on fire. A lamp placed underneath the basket is useless. Defeats the purpose of lighting the lamp in the first place. Again, like I said, it's good for nothing. Just makes as much sense as uh Christians living in an isolated and secluded lifestyle. And maybe the the idea is that you know the lamp needs to be covered and protected, you know, or order to protect its light But the very thing that you do to protect the light is the same thing that you're doing to snuff it out, right? The more you expose the flame is actually the the greater potential that it has to burn, right? The more oxygen it gets, the greater the flame And again, the question is not whether or not believers are light. The only question is where are ye placed? A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Just like a lamp that set on a lampstand cannot be hidden. And believers are identified as the light. And the question is, where are you shining your light? That's the question. Are you hiding it? And this is an issue for those who believe that the only means of shining is in isolation. Even early on in the Christian history, there are those who believed that the way to be pure was to be physically separate From society altogether. In the late 200s, the man known as Saint Anthony was already living as a monk in the desert. It's considered by many to be the father of all monks, but uh Anthony claimed that there was there were others before him. Even in Judaism, there were uh was a religious group that took a similar path During the brief period that Israel governed itself between 165 and 37 BC, known as the Hasmonean period, there were two groups that believed the Jewish leaders weren't going far enough to protect their purity. And uh they decided to take matters into their own hands. There's uh two groups that that kind of felt this way. One was known as the Pharisees. We're familiar with them, right? Separated themselves by their strict adherence uh to rules And the other group felt that they needed to go even a step further than the Pharisees and separate themselves physically. They lived in separate communities in protest against the corruption that they saw in society. They were known as the Essenes. And they aren't referred to in scripture at all. You want to know one of the reasons why? Because they didn't interact with anybody. They lived in the deserts and communes and villages all by themselves kind of cloistered together. But there's at least two errors that every group like this makes, the Essenes, the monks, and anybody else who wants to live this kind of like ascetic life and separate themselves from everybody else First of all, they assume that their ministry to the world is just to protest against it. It's their their way to kind of file a complaint. I'm unhappy with what I'm seeing going on, so I'm just going to retreat. I'm going to pull back. You know, you won't see me anymore They believe their biggest contribution to society is just to pull out from it, which totally defeats the purpose of being here. There's an interesting concept that you might not have picked up on in scripture, but I find this is really fascinating, okay? I'm going to flip you through the Bible a little bit. It's the concept of filling the earth. Look at Genesis chapter 1. I'll start with verse 27. It says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it. Rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth. God says, be fruitful, multiply. I want you to fill the earth. Actually, what preceded that is in verse 26, it says, Let us make man in our image, according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea. I want them to fill the earth. What do you think God's after here? He's trying to fill the earth with the representation of himself, right? Look over at uh Genesis chapter 9 Same kind of command that's given here. Genesis 9, verse 1. God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. Wanted the earth to be filled. Over in the book of uh Numbers. Numbers chapter fourteen. So the Lord said, I have pardoned them according to your word This is after uh Moses intercedes for the people here. But indeed as I live, all the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord. I'll mention another one. It'll probably take you too long to get there. Habakkuk 2. 14. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. It's God's purpose to see his reflection in every place on this planet. That's what God wants to see. And every tribe and tongue and nation will one day represent him on this globe. That's what God's after. God's intention is to fill this planet with his glory through worshipers. That's what God wants to see everywhere. Those that would reflect my glory. And those that kind of hide themselves and kind of cloister up together and don't want to have an impact on the world are working against the very thing that God is saying, I'm working towards this. You work against it if you hide yourself. And the second error that people make who separate themselves from society is they fail to rec recognize and understand the condition of the human heart. The Essenes and the monks failed to realize that they took their biggest problem with them when they fled to the deserts and to the mountains. Because they took themselves. They took their sinful human hearts with them. In Matthew chapter 15, verse 19, it says, For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. James 4, verse 1. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? It's not the source of your pleasures that wage war in your members. What does Paul say, Romans 7. 24? Wretched man that I am. Not wretched man that you are, wretched man that I am Who will set me free from the body of this death? Your biggest problem by far is not the corruption outside of you, it's the corruption inside of you. That's your biggest problem And so many of us are trying hard to insulate ourselves and insulate our kids and, you know, limit exposure and all that, because you know, you don't want your kids to get messed up. I'm sorry to break the news to you, but they come that way. They come messed up. Born into sin, right? Psalm 51. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin my mother conceived me. And if we're going to try and avoid contact with every evil exposure, we would have to leave the world entirely. First Corinthians chapter 5. If you want to flip over there, 1 Corinthians chapter 5. Look at verse 9 through 11 there. Says I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with immoral people. I did not at all mean with the immoral people of this world. Or with the covetous and swindlers or with idolaters, for then you would have to go out of the world. But I actually wrote to you not to associate with any so-called brother. If he is an immoral person or covetous or an idolater or reviler or a drunkard or a swindler, not even to eat with such a one. For what have I to do with judging outsiders? Do ye not judge those who are within the church? But those who are outside God judges, remove the wicked man from among yourselves. What God is concerned about is making sure that the salt stays salt. That's what God's concerned about. He wants to make sure that the light stays bright. That's why he talks about removing the immoral person from your midst. You've got some corruption in the salt shaker. You need to get it out. You've got some darkness that's trying to mix with the light. You need to get it out because you need to protect your testimony before the world. You need to make sure that you can still have an impact on the world. So we need to make sure that we're staying the the people that can have influence, but we're not trying to before we touch the world, you know, make sure the world is like, you know, pure and pristine before I even approach it. It's like then you're not serving a purpose. You know, the salt is supposed to be rubbed into the corruption, right? In order that you can make a difference. The light is supposed to be turned on where there's darkness, so that you can make a difference. And I'm not saying that we need to, you know, plop ourselves down in front of the the world's screens and listen to the world's music and be entertained and fill our minds with the world's thinking. But what I am saying is that we're not called to retreat from the darkness, but to invade it and push it back with the light. That's what we're called to do as a church. Invade the darkness and push it back. What kind of gospel do you believe in? Romans 1:16 says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes to the G first and also to the Greek. What kind of uh word do you believe in? Hebrews four twelve, for the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. What kind of spirit do you believe in? 1 John 4, 4, you are from God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. We've got power, people. We've got the power of the gospel, the power of the word, the power of the spirit. We're not to be like children who are afraid of the dark because we bring the light with us. We bring the light with us. And what do we mean when we say that we're light? In one sense, that the true light that lights every man is Christ Himself. We understand that. In John chapter 1, verse 9 it says, There was the true light Which coming into the world enlightens every man. It's already been said in Matthew, Matthew chapter four, verse sixteen the people who are sitting in darkness saw a great light, and those who are sitting in the land in shadow of death upon them a light dawned. There's no doubt that Jesus is that ultimate light, but Jesus promised that those who believe in him would be children of the light. In John 12, verse 36, it says, While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of the light. Tons of light. Light's used in scripture as a metaphor for truth , metaphor for righteousness. 2 Corinthians 6. 14, do not be bound together with unbelievers, for what partnership hath righteousness and lawlessness? What fellowship has light with darkness? It's a metaphor for righteousness there. Second Corinthians four it's a metaphor for truth, in whose case it says that there in Second Corinthians the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving, so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ who is the image of God In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 9, it kind of puts it all together, for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth. And as children of the light were to give light to all who are in the house. Which is a reference to this world where there'd be an influence on this planet for the glory of God. And here's a here's an interesting thing, and we'll have to have to close it, but There's an interesting thing about this passage. Jesus tells them exactly how there are to be salt and light. Tells them exactly how. Some people assume that what Jesus is talking about is some kind of political or social activism. They assume that this means that we as Christians are to seek positions of power, authority, to effect change. You know, if we can get on top, we can you know just change, change the nation, you know, for the glory of God. And I I want to make sure that I'm I'm clear on this because we we do want to see more Christian judges, Christian legislators, Christian governors Lawyers, doctors, teachers, right? We want to see all of that. But it's not to bring some kind of external moral change to society. That's not what we're after. And if we believe God is interested in helping irreligious and godless people become religious and godless people, we haven't read our Bibles. Jesus is clear about the both the method and the and the goal and we'll end here and like I said I'm uh we might have to come back to this. We'll we'll we'll make a decision, all right? Back to Matthew chapter 5 again. Look what it says in verse 16. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. The method. Position yourself to be seen. Position yourself to be seen. Let your light shine before men. Position yourself to be seen. We need people in all kinds of positions in every part of society. Not because we have some personal ambition Not because we want to get on top and just kind of you know control everything, but because we want there to be an influence for Christ in every place in society That's why we need people that are lawyers and doctors and judges and governors in every place. Why? So there can be a testimony for Christ in every place. And our desire is to fill this earth with the glory of God. Like I said, that's what God is after. Our goal is not to apply some kind of external band-aid to society, but rather to bring the true and lasting transformation to the soul. And in order to do that, you can't hide out, right? And you can't compromise. Later on Jesus says this that we shouldn't do our good works to be noticed by men. It's kind of interesting that he says that over there. Don't do your good works to be noticed by men. And then in Matthew chapter five he says, uh let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works. What's the difference? One is, you know, I want them to see my good works and it stops there. Because the it's it's attention that's driven towards me. The other is I want them to see my good works so they can glorify my Father in heaven. It doesn't stop with me, it goes straight to God. And and really in a lot of ways when we talk about you know being lights, I mean the the way I like to think about it is you know we're kind of like just like the window. Just gotta keep ourselves clean, and it's like I want you to see the light that's from the Father. Right? It's like he's just shining through through me. He's just kind of passing through. But but I'm not I mean I don't have any light on my own, right? Our light is derivative, so it's like you keep yourself clean so the light can shine through It's not about us, it's about him. And that's why it says that they uh don't glorify us, they glorify the Father who's in heaven because they recognize where the true light comes from. So we need to position ourselves to be seen. We need to be everywhere to uh and actually uh performing these good works in front of men. And the other thing is is this that we need to prioritize the salvation of the lost. Prioritize the salvation of the of the lost. As Christians were We are concerned about the betterment of society. Martin Lloyd Jones said that the most competent historians agreed And saying that uh what undoubtedly saved England from a revolution such as that experienced in France at the end of the eighteenth century was nothing but the evangelical revival. You know, Christians. More Christians around and society just got better. R. C. Sprole comments that it has also been said that the advent of Christianity is what saved Western culture from pure barbarianism. And it's like, you know, I'm happy for that. But above all And it's above general improvement of society, what we want is for men to glorify God. That's what we're really after. And that's what it says here. Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. That's the goal. We want people to glorify our Father in heaven. And we understand that there's going to come a day when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess, that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father, but wouldn't you much rather see people do it willingly and voluntarily? That's what we want to see. Before they're forced to bow in utter objection, we want to see people bow the knee willingly to Jesus Christ. We want people to glorify our Father who's in heaven. And 1 Peter. Chapter 2, verse 11 and 12, there's this parallel uh passage talks about the same thing. Peter says this, Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers to abstain from fleshly lusts which wage war against the soul. Keep your behavior excellent Among the Gentiles, so that in the thing in which they slander you as evildoers, they may, because of your good deeds, as they observe them, glorify God in the day of visitation. I want to end with uh just a a quick story that I picked up from uh from John MacArthur in his commentary. Listen what he says here. Talks about this uh young girl named Helen Ewing. Helen Ewing It says Helen Ewing was saved as a young girl in Scotland and gave her life completely to the Lordship of Christ. When she died at the age of twenty-two, it is said that all Scotland wept. She had expected to serve God as a missionary in Europe and had become fluent in the Russian language, but she was not able to fulfill that dream. She had no obvious gifts, such as speaking or writing, and she had never traveled far from home. Yet by the time she died, she had won hundreds of people to Jesus Christ. Countless missionaries mourned her death because they knew that a great channel of their spiritual strength was gone. She had risen every morning at five in order to study God's Word and to pray. Her diary revealed that she regularly prayed for over 300 missionaries by name. Everywhere she went, the atmosphere was changed. If someone was telling a dirty story, he would stop if he saw her coming. If people were complaining, they would become ashamed of it in her presence. She left the fragrance of Christ wherever she went, and everything she said and did, she was God's salt. This is what we want to be, BBC. This is it. We want to be an influence for God in this world for his glory and to see as many people as we possibly can touch by the salt and by the light so that they may glorify our Father in heaven. And as we uh continue to press into the city, we're gonna be moving from this location to another location. It's just bring the light, right? Bring the salt with you. And uh as we have opportunity to get out into the community, we want to be doing the same thing to see men glorify our Father in heaven. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for uh this opportunity that we've been able to spend in your word and it it still seems so brief to me. There's uh so much more that could be said, but uh Father, we just pray that uh you would use uh what was shared this morning uh to be a blessing uh to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.