The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Tonight is called Good Friday and tonight Christians all over the world are gathered together for what could easily be called one of the greatest contradictions at least on the appearance you know on the surface level because if you think about it Other groups get together to celebrate the birth of somebody, the victory of somebody. We get together to celebrate the death. of somebody. We get together to celebrate the death of the one that we call our leader, the one that we call the founder of our faith. When a beloved leader dies, you know, they memorialize his death. They they don't celebrate his death. And uh they definitely don't call it good. And on Saturday, April fifteenth, eighteen sixty-five, when President Lincoln was shot It was considered a time of national mourning. Uh nobody considered calling it Good Saturday, you know, the Saturday that that Lincoln was shot. Or on Friday, November 22nd When in 1963, when John F. Kennedy was killed, nobody thought of calling that Good Friday, a Good Friday for him. On Wednesday, April 4th 1968, Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. And again, it was a time of great mourning. Nobody that I know of has ever called it a Good Wednesday on the day that he was shot. And when Princess Diana died on Sunday, August 31st, 1997, it was a time of national mourning and nobody considered calling it a good Sunday. But Christians consider the day that our leader and founder died as a good Friday. And if that wasn't strange enough, we even celebrate the way that our founder and leader died. When do we ever hear about the glory of the bullet that took down President Lincoln or JFK? You know, when do we hear about the power of the crash that That took the life of Princess Diana. But as Christians, we sing about the glory of the cross, the beauty of the cross, the power of the cross, and even we sang it tonight, the wonderful cross. Oh, wonderful cross. That's something that's unique for us as believers, something that's unique for us as Christian. Paul says in Galatians chapter 6 and verse 14, may it never be that I would boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is something to glory in, something to boast in. We boast in the cross of Jesus Christ. And you might not not take the time to consider this, but the events surrounding the crucifixion are really filled with apparent contradictions. Like I said, we call it a Good Friday, and it seems like a contradiction, but really all of the events that surround the crucifixion of Christ Seem like a contradiction. Just think about a couple of these with me. Jesus attributed the events behind the arrest and crucifixion To the power of darkness. In Luke chapter 22 and verse 53, he told those that came to arrest them, This hour and the power of darkness are yours. Consider that time the hour of the power of darkness. But on the other hand, in Colossians chapter 2 and verse 15, it says that the cross was the hour of God's power. In Colossians chapter 2 verse 15 it says that he disarmed the rulers and authorities, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him, speaking about the cross. And then later on in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 18, it says that the cross is the power of God. See here on the one hand it's considered the hour of the power of darkness. On the other hand, it's considered the power of God. The crucifixion and the plot behind the crucifixion was by the hands of wicked and godless men. Matthew chapter 12 and verse 14, it says the Pharisees went out and conspired against him as to how they might destroy him. Acts 2 verse 23, it says that you nailed him to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. It was a wicked act. It was a godless act to sacrifice the Son of God. But then earlier in Acts chapter 2 verse 23 it says that it was according to the predetermined plan of God and the foreknowledge of God. Acts chapter 2 verse 23. It says, this man was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. It was the act and the plot, the determination of wicked and godless men. But on the other side, it was also God's predetermined plan. It was according to his foreknowledge that it was done. It was right according to schedule, right according to God's plan. Another apparent contradiction, the crucifixion is, at the same time, the greatest act of mercy and love, and also the most vile and despicable act of hatred imaginable. When Jesus gave himself up to the brutality of the cross, it was the most beautiful act of love and sacrifice. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25, it says that Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. It was out of love. It was an act of love that Jesus Christ gave himself up. John chapter 3, verse 16, for God so what? So loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. But when Judas delivered the Son of God up for 30 pieces of silver, it was the most vile and despicable act of hatred that you could ever imagine. Same act. And for a brief moment, I want to take a look at Good Friday through the eyes of a trader. Recently our church had the uh the opportunity to uh Take a look at the 12 apostles in Matthew chapter chapter 10 and we spent two Sundays in the pit with Judas with the hopes that we would never enter into the pit with him permanently, but we spent some time just kind of considering Judas' life. Scripture tells us that Judas was a devil from the beginning. In John chapter 6, verse 70, it says, Jesus answered and said, Did I not myself choose ye the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil? After that, uh it says that in in Acts chapter 1 verse 25, after Judas died, it says that he died and went to his own place, a place reserved for him. He had his own reservation in the in the pit of of hell. But what we want to do is uh just take a look at uh at the life of Judas and see Good Friday through the eyes of a traitor. Judas was uh rejected, he was a rejected man, and he rejected everything that would have been been good and right. He rejected his faithful roots. Uh he was uh Judas the the name Judas is actually a noble name, but uh nobody thinks of it as a noble name anymore. Nobody even names your dog Judas. You know what I mean? It's just you know it's a despicable, hated name, but the the name Judas meant To be praised of God, to to to praise God. And it came from a he came from a rich Jewish heritage, but uh all that was rejected Judas also rejected his privileged position as a follower of Jesus Christ. And who wouldn't want the opportunity to follow behind Jesus Christ as he's performing his miracles, as he's speaking words that no m nobody else could speak? You know, when every time that Jesus spoke, they said, Never, never spoke a man like this. You know, there's nobody else that can even speak the words that he speaks. Judas had that opportunity to be one of Jesus' closest followers In Acts chapter 1, verse 17, it says he was counted among us and received his share of the ministry. But it meant absolutely nothing to Judas. He turned away his ministry. Now Judas was also rejected as master and friend, Jesus Christ himself, which is really painful to think about because the kind of pain that Judas could inflict was greater than anybody else because Judas was closer to Jesus than others. people were. You know, there's there's certain kinds of acts that can only be done by a friend. Betrayal only happens by a friend. You know you can you can you can be afflicted by an enemy. You can only be betrayed by somebody that you actually trust. Betrayed by a friend and that's who Judas was. Uh the scripture actually predicts his his life in Psalm 41 verse 9 when it speaks about Judas that even my close friend in whom I trusted who ate my bread has lifted up his heel against me a prophecy in Psalm 41 about this man Judas. Judas was literally fed by the hand of Jesus Christ himself, had his dirty feet scrubbed by the Son of God. Can you even imagine that? And would lift up his heel against Christ with treachery in his heart the whole time that Jesus is stooping down to serve him, when Jesus is feeding Judas. You know, what in the world was Judas thinking? What in the world could he be thinking? You know, we're not told all that uh that Judas thought, all that was in his mind, but his actions demonstrate that he thought he could get some kind of relief by getting rid of Jesus. Judas thought Good Friday was was good because he thought he was eliminating Jesus and bringing himself some type of relief. And let's take a look at Matthew chapter 26 just to Kind of anchor our thoughts here about um uh Judas and his life, Matthew chapter 26. Start at verse 6, Matthew chapter 26, starting at verse 6. Says now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the home of Simon the leper, a woman came to him with an alabaster vial of very costly perfume. She poured it out on his head as he reclined at the table, but the disciples were indignant when they saw this and said, Why this waste? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price and the money given to the poor. But Jesus aware of this said to them, Why do you bother the woman? For she has done a good deed to me. For you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. For when she poured this perfume on my body she did it to prepare me for burial Truly I say to you, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of in memory of her. Then one of the twelve, named Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priest and said, What are you willing to give me to betray him to you? And they weighed out thirty pieces of silver to him. From then on, he began looking for a good opportunity to betray Jesus. Now on the first day of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus and asked him, Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he said, Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, The teacher says, My time is near. I'm to keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover. Bow with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, and uh Father, we thank you for uh this your word. Uh Father, we pray that you would speak to us through it. Uh Father, that you would uh convict our hearts through it, and uh That you would uh uh focus our attention, Lord, tonight on the only one who is truly worthy, um, on the one who made uh Good Friday good. On the the one who not only died and gave his life, but it was also risen again for our salvation. And uh My Father, we I know that all the events here were right according to your plan, according to the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. And uh Father, we pray that uh we would glory in the cross of our Savior, Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. This is really the first indication here in the book of Matthew that Judas had treachery in his heart. And uh it really follows on this beautiful act of worship as uh this woman here uh comes with this alabaster vial of very costly perfume, pours it out on Jesus' head. As he reclines at the table and says that the disciples here were indignant. And when they saw this, they said, why this waste? What's all this waste about? You know, shouldn't this be sold for a high price and the money given to uh to the poor? And uh we find that that Judas left at this time. It was this time That Judas decided that he would go out to sell the Son of God. The perfume that Jesus that was poured out on Jesus on that day was worth about a year's worth of salary. Over in John chapter 12 and verse 5, we learn that the perfume could have been sold for 300 denarii. And we learn in Matthew chapter 20, verse 2 that a day laborer uh would earn just one denarius for a whole day of of work. So 300 denarii would be enough to to supply a full year's wages. So Judas is watching literally a year's worth of wages being poured out in an instant Something that would take a year to gain. In an instant it's all poured out. Waste in his mind. And Judas hits the roof. In uh John chapter twelve. It says, Why wasn't this perfume sold for three hundred denariah given to the poor? And it says now he said this not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box he used to pilfer what was put into it Therefore Jesus said, let her alone so that she may keep it for the day of my burial, for you always have the poor with you, but you do not always have me. And Jesus here is even predicting his own Death and ascension. He says, I'm not always going to be around. I'm not always going to be here. And it was at this time that Judas makes his move to betray Jesus. Because he loved money. He loved himself, and Christ became too much to compete with his affections for himself. Judas is realizing that the kingdom was not going to come in the way that he had hoped for. Uh he wasn't seeing the numbers in the money box that he had hoped for. And Jesus said that the poor would always be with them, which isn't what Judas was expecting. He's expecting some kind of affluence, you know, that the kingdom is supposed to bring in. This is not what Judas had in mind And then on top of that, Jesus called them out and rebukes them publicly. When Jesus said, let her alone, that was meant for Judas. You, Judas, leave her alone. Leave her alone, Judas. That was the last straw. Judas finally had enough. He reached the conclusion he wasn't going to get what he wanted. So he takes the most that he can get, 30 pieces of silver. and delivers up the Son of God. He couldn't take the self-righteous, holier than thou, goody t-shirts, or whatever else you want to fill in the blank with. And he joined forces with the rest of Christ's enemies and makes plans To snuff out the light, because Jesus Christ is the light. And this is the light that wouldn't be snuffed out by any human power. Judas should have known better, but he's blinded by his hatred. You know, this this is he's traveling with Jesus who who calms the the the waves and the winds with the word, who sees the the hearts of all men, and somehow Judas thinks he's going to get away with betraying the Son of God and kind of doing this secretly I mean, just to imagine, you know, the Judas actually thought he was going to get away with this. Tries to outsmart Jesus, but Jesus knows everything that he's about to do. Tries to outmuscus. You know, he comes to to Jesus in the in the night with uh a group of men with clubs and swords. I mean, you know, what kind of what what kind of weapons are you going to use to try to outmuscle the omnipotent Son of God You know, let me get a couple swords and clubs, and maybe that'll do it. You know, here here Judas he he he comes with these attackers and uh lets us know in uh John chapter 18 that Jesus laid them all out flat with just a phrase. He says, I am he, who do you look for? I am he and flattens them all out with just a few words, they're flattened out. It really is letting Judas know that don't don't think you're going to get rid of me with a couple clubs and swords Yeah, that that has nothing to do with this night. It's not because you you came and took me, I laid down my life on my own initiative That's what it says in John chapter 10. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it again. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down, I have authority to take it again. And Judas thinks he's going to get some kind of relief by fulfilling his plan, but what he was doing was really fulfilling Christ's plan. The whole time he was fulfilling Christ's plan. And after this point, most of the gospel writers are are done with with talking about Judas after Judas delivers uh Jesus over. He's not mentioned in any of the epistles except uh there's a a brief mention in 1 Corinthians chapter 1123. Talks about the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and that's kind of it. The only places where Judas is mentioned after this point is in Matthew chapter 27 and Acts chapter 1. That's all we we get about Judas's life. And there's really not much left to his life. Whatever he thought he would have gain by getting rid of Jesus backfires in his face if you flip over to Matthew chapter 27. Apparently uh Judas was one of the only disciples, one of the few disciples who was present for the trial of Jesus. If you look at Matthew chapter 27, it says, now when morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people conferred together against Jesus to put him to death. And they bound him and led him away and delivered him to Pilate the governor. Then when Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that he had been condemned, he felt remorse, and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priest. and the elders. So what you have here is uh uh Judas actually being present and he's seeing that he's delivered over to death. He sees him bound and led away to be delivered over to to Pilate the governor. So Judas saw his plan being fulfilled here. And he sees that he gets no relief from seeing the Son of Man delivered over. So what does he seek to do next? He seeks to get some relief by giving the money back. Judas had Judas who had betrayed him saw that he had been condemned, he felt remorse. Returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I've sinned by betraying innocent blood. And here he's haunted by the beauty of the light of Jesus Christ. There's really no way out of this at this point. And he gives the only thing that's worth anything to him, which is his money. So he gives back his money and some kind of hope that I'm going to satisfy my conscience. You know, the guilt won't be as great. But the scripture lets us know that riches don't profit in the day of wrath. In Proverbs 11, verse 4, in Zephaniah 1, verse 18, it says, Neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them on the day of the Lord's wrath. You cannot buy your way into forgiveness. Ezekiel chapter 7, verse 19, it says they will fling their silver into the streets, their gold will become an abhorrent thing, their silver, their gold will not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. Your money means nothing to God on the last day. And all of your false gods will fail you on the day of judgment. The only safety that you can find is going to be found on the cross. And the only safety that Judas had, he had just rejected them. Permanently. It was too late for Judas. But uh the scripture lets us know that it's not too late for those of us who call out to him in Isaiah chapter 55, verses 6 and 7. It says, Seek the Lord while he may be found, call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, the unrighteous man his thoughts, let him return to the Lord, and he will have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Judas sought relief by Trying to pay for his sins. Jesus sought relief by turning to the to his partners in wickedness, turning to the very same people that he collaborated with to get rid of the Son of God. Now he goes back to them as if I'm gonna find some relief over here. And how foolish is it for many of us when we're we're caught in the grips of the grief of sin that instead of going to Christ We go to the same people that got us into trouble in the first place. As though somehow they're going to relieve us of our conscience. There's no pardon found there. There's no relief found there And then what Judas does in the end is he does the unthinkable deed of trying to hang himself as if somehow he's going to get relief in the grave. Matthew chapter 27, if you uh look over here in uh verse 5, it says he threw the pieces of silver into the temple sanctuary and departed, and he went away and hanged himself. Flip over to Acts chapter 1 just real quick. Acts chapter 1. Because it fills it in just a little bit more. Because as we look at uh at Acts chapter 1, we find out that uh that even in his death, Judas was still a failure. There's absolutely nothing that he was able to do right. Even his own hanging, he couldn't accomplish that correctly. If you look at Acts chapter 1, look at verse 18 Says, now this man acquired a field with the price of his wickedness, and falling headlong, he burst open in the middle, and all his intestines gushed out. And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem so that in their own language that field was called Hakeldama, that is field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his homestead be desolate, let no one dwell in it, and let another man take his office. And here we just have this pathetic scene that's played out before us. You know, apparently either the the branch broke or the rope broke. And he wasn't even able to hang on the tree, but fell headlong onto the rocks beneath, headlong, and his intestines burst open. And that was the end of a life, really a disturbing end to a disturbing life. And what we know from Scripture is that even that didn't bring relief for Judas because it says later on in the book of Acts that he turned aside in verse 25, Acts chapter 1, verse 25, that he turned aside to go to his own place. He fell headlong, burst open, and went immediately into his own place. His own place in hell where he still is today. No relief for Judas. And today he's suffering for his rejection. Rejected his faithful roots. He rejected his privileged position. Rejected his master and friend, and now he's rejected for all of eternity. And this is the worst possible Friday for Judas. But it's the best Friday for us who believe. The best Friday for us who believe because what Judas meant for evil, God meant for good. The most heinous act imaginable The worst of all Fridays for Judas was the best of all Fridays for us. I remember this story that I heard about an enemy of a landowner. And uh on this landowner's property had a bunch of trees and you know this this enemy of the landowner is thinking, how am I going to get back at this landowner? You know, I know he really enjoys these trees, so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna come in the middle of the night under the cover of darkness. And chopped down like this choice tree that's in the middle of this garden. So uh under the cover of night, this enemy comes over and he's hacking away all night. at this uh this landowner's tree and finally fells the tree and he goes back onto the other side and he's just waiting for the morning to come so the landowner can get up and say, oh my goodness, what's happened to this tree that I love so much? And as the the dawn brightened and the landowner comes out to the tree, notices that it was there was an X on the tree saying that this tree was already marked to be cut down. And the enemy did exactly what the landowner wanted in the first place. And it and it's really for me just a great story of the an illustration of the way Satan fits into the sovereign plan of God. Satan does not accomplish anything by his evil other than what God already determined to be done in the first place. So even here you have Judas's betrayal is actually a fulfillment of Scripture. Jesus had to be crucified. Jesus had to be delivered over to death. Jesus had to be handed over by the hands of godless men in order for our salvation to take place. It had to happen this way. And Judas' betrayal is the fulfillment of Scripture. In order for, as Isaiah chapter 53, verse 12 says, for Jesus to be handed over, to be numbered among the transgressors, it had to happen in order for him to bear the sins of many. Jesus could not bear our sins unless he was delivered up. Unless Jesus was delivered up, he could not bear the sins of many. Jesus had to be pierced, as it said in Zechariah chapter 12, verse 10, so that they will look on me whom they have pierced. For the earth to look to him, he had to be pierced in the first place. Jesus had to be rejected, like it says in Psalm chapter 22, and cry out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why So that you would never be forsaken. He received the rejection of God so that you could forever be accepted by God. It had to happen this way. And even the amount that Judas was paid to be uh to betray the Son of God was exactly a fulfillment of prophecy. I mean, everything happened right according to plan. So that just as the scripture says in Acts chapter 2 verse 23, this man was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. Even though he was nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men, even though it was the most wicked of backs, even though it was the most evil of Fridays For for us as believers, we can say it was a good Friday. Because God was accomplishing his plan for us. And without removing an ounce of guilt from Judas's treachery, God used his betrayal and the predetermined plan in order to save a people. Who would believe and trust in him so that it could be a good Friday for us. And that's what I want to leave you with. Is it a good Friday for you? Is this a good Friday for you? Because the only way that this could be a good Friday is if you look to Jesus in trust and faith. If you've turned away from your sins and accepted him, that is the only way that today is a good Friday. Because the cross is glorious. The cross is beautiful. The cross is powerful. And we can celebrate even the way that our founder and leader died. Because for us It was God's predetermined plan and foreknowledge that accomplished our redemption. In 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 to 21, it says, for the word of the cross is foolishness. But it's foolishness to do. To those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believed. Amen? Heavenly Father, we do thank you, Lord, so much for your word. And Father, there's there's so many apparent contradictions in our mind. My father, how could this plan be both by your predetermined plan and foreknowledge, but also be done at the hands of wicked and godless men? How could this plan also be the most evil and heinous act ever imaginable, but still be the greatest act of love and mercy? How could this plan that for one was towards his eternal destruction also be for our eternal life? Father, it's because of your wisdom, the infinite wisdom of God that works all things out for your glory. And Father, I pray that we would come to trust in you and increase our trust in you. Help us to see the wisdom and the power and the wonder of your plan and the wonder of the cross. And Father, I pray that this Friday would be a good Friday for all who are here. And Father, that we would be eager to proclaim the goodness of this day to our unbelieving friends and family members and those that we love. Uh Father, because it's uh because of your plan, Lord, and the hope of the gospel that we can have life. In Jesus' name, you praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.