The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Please turn in your copy of God's word to the letter of Philemon. The letter of Philemon, which will serve as our text for exposition this afternoon. Now, today we will study through this little book which is very practical and unique. This is the smallest of all the 13 inspired letters That the Apostle Paul wrote. In all the other letters that Paul wrote, we see him as the Apostle Paul. But it's here in this letter that we see Paul Not the apostle, but the gracious friend. He's tender, he's tactful, he's Yet tenacious in seeking forgiveness on behalf of this man known as Onesimus. Onesimus This little letter is powerful. It's powerful in that it sets for us an example on how to deal with interpersonal conflict in a God -honoring way. If you don't know what that means, how do brothers and sisters in Christ actually forgive one another? Because you may not know this, but that's a real issue in the church. We don't like to talk about it, but it's reality. We all sin against one another from time to time, don't we? Or we get on one another's nerves. That's why Colossians 3 says, bear with one another. Right? This is reality. We're a family. And you know what it can be like in the family sometimes. And right here in the midst of these deep theological letters that the Apostle Paul writes He has this little golden nugget called Philemon. And I'll tell you what Philemon is. It's where we get to watch the theology of Paul get put into practice. It's where we get to see theology in real life. And it is it is far more practical and powerful than most of us realize because as I have learned most people have never read Philemon, they've just skipped past it Some people don't even know it's there because the wind of their pages goes so fast as they're turning, they don't even know where that is. So if you're struggling to find Philemon Just find Hebrews and look to the left and you'll s you'll you'll find it rather quickly. Now Philemon is A letter all about forgiveness, though forgiveness isn't even mentioned in the letter, but what is mentioned is this continual appeal for Philemon to receive back Onesimus And that reception, that warm welcome of a family member, all speaks to the reality of forgiveness. And it's in this letter that we will look this afternoon that we might better learn not simply the reality of forgiveness, but here's the here's the point I want us to grasp and grapple with this morning It's the reality of gospel-driven forgiveness. And that's what we see in the letter, and that's really what brothers and sisters in Christ need as they seek to forgive. One another. You follow along silently because of our lack of familiarity with this letter. I'd like to read the whole thing And then we'll work through it together. And just so that you know, it was your pastor when I said, George, what do you want me to preach? I'll do whatever it is that will help you. He said, What are you preaching now? I said, I just did nine sermons through Philemon. He said, why don't you come and preach the whole book of Philemon? That was not my idea. That was your pastor, so you take it up with him, right? All right, let's read the text together. Starting at verse 1, hear the word of the Lord. Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother. To Philemon, our beloved fellow worker. And Apia, our sister, and Arcippus, our fellow soldier, and the church in your house. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers, because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints. And I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ. For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you. Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required, yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel But I preferred to do nothing without your consent, in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion, but of your own accord. For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bond servant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me. but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all or owes you anything, charge that to my account. I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it to say nothing of You're owing me even your own self. Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ. Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say. At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will be graciously given to you. Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you, and so does, and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. This letter of Philemon, just for some context, is one of the four prison epistles that the Apostle Paul wrote. Colossians, Philippians Ephesians and Philemon. There we have these four prison epistles, and this one was written obviously towards the latter end of this first Roman imprisonment, likely around the time of 61 or 62 A D. You can tell that by Paul what he says in verse twenty two, where he has the sense of which he's about ready to be released And thus he says to the church, hey, prepare a guest room for me, because I'm likely going to get released and I want to come visit you. This reality of this letter is interesting because it's not simply written from prison, but it's written to multiple audiences. You see that right away in the beginning of the letter, you have the greeting and then you have the recipients. And do not miss it. It's not written simply to Philemon, but it's written to Philemon, Athia, Arcippus, and the entire church that meets in Philemon's house which we know from studying Colossians, which is parallel to Philemon on many levels, is very likely that church was likely the church of Colossae. that met in the home of Philemon. Now, if you haven't picked up on that yet, you have to realize that most of this letter is written to Philemon. Yet the beginning and the end of the letter clearly is not written to Philemon alone, because we have this transition in the singular pronouns U to the plural pronouns, and clearly Paul is writing beyond Philemon. Why is that important? Because the entire church got to read this letter. I don't know about you, but would you like the entire church to read your emails? Especially if you were in interpersonal drama with a fellow brother or sister in Christ. There's a lot of interesting nuance to this letter. So the entire church is hearing this, watching this, interacting with this, not just Philemon Well, this letter is written specifically to Paul's dear friend in the faith named Philemon. Philemon was a moderately wealthy man. How do we know that? Because he had a house large enough to have a church that that was in it, and he had at least one slave that was part of of of his life and family. That slave's name is Onesimus. And Onesimus did something that harmed Philemon. We don't know exactly what he did, but from what Paul says there starting in verse 18, it seems that Onesimus did something that harmed Philemon in the area of money. Whether he stole from Philemon or whether the way he abandoned Philemon hurt him monetarily, but there was something there where there's a debt owed There was money stolen, something there that Philemon was hurt by what this slave did. And this slave, Onesimus, runs away. And he runs away to Rome. That's where Paul is. Likely running away to Rome as a slave was not a bad idea because the bulk of the population at this time in Rome, a large part of it, a third of the population, would have been slaves. So he could have easily kind of mingled in with the crowd and and hid there without little issue. But as the Lord would have it As the providence of God works, as Proverbs 169 says so clearly, man plans his way, but it's the Lord who orders his steps. He's planning, no doubt, to run away. As a criminal to get away from his master and the Lord, the sovereign Lord, somehow, of which we don't know, intersects Onesimus with the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul is in Rome. You can read about this at the end of Acts. He's preaching the gospel day and night, because he's actually not necessarily in a jail cell, but he's in a house that he himself had to rent. because that was how it worked in that day. So he had to pay for his own expenses. He's got soldiers there guarding him, but he's got freedom to have people come and go. He's got a lot of freedom. So he's preaching the gospel. People are coming. He's discipling. He's preaching day or night. And somehow Onesimus arrives and he hears the gospel and he gets saved. And now this runaway slave who's a criminal criminal now gets converted to Christ. And he's there with the Apostle Paul, from what we can tell in the letter, long enough to where he's bearing fruit of faithfulness to where he's actually serving the Apostle Paul faithfully in gospel ministry, so much so that the Apostle Paul says, hey, I would have really liked to keep him with me. 'Cause he's that good at what I ask him to do. He's a faithful brother, he's a faithful servant, and yet I don't want to do that without your consent. So clearly We see the fruit of the Spirit being manifested in this life, where this is a real conversion of a repentant man who was once a runaway, but now is a faithful follower of Christ. So Paul does what a faithful friend would do. He knows Philemon as a dear brother, as it says there in verse 1. A dear brother in whom they loved one another. It clearly comes out through the letter multiple times. But now he knows this slave who has become so close to the Apostle Paul, he says, it's like he's my very heart. So what's Paul to do as a mediator between these two brothers in Christ now? He writes a letter to Philemon appealing to him to forgive, to receive warmly back Onesimus. Now you can look down at verse 4 and how the letter works. I've already shown you the introduction, but it works this way. And I'm just going to work through the letter. I'm going to focus on the body, but let's get there because there's Something I want you to see in verses four to seven. Paul starts the letter, moves beyond the greeting, and he praises Philemon for his character and his faithfulness in the Lord. He starts the letter by, again, it's a good example for us, but just saying you should pay attention to this, he graciously commends Philemon before he ever commands Philemon. He's so tactful, so pastoral in what he does. And so he praises Philemon for his faithfulness in gospel ministry. He praises Phil Philemon for his love for all the sin. Saints. He even says that all the saints, no doubt referencing in Colossae, have been blessed by Philemon's ministry, to where they're refreshed. The word refreshed there means to be revived, to revive the souls that are weary And and it's in many ways Philemon would be like another Barnabas, right? We know Barnabas was the son of encouragement. That's the way Philemon is described here by Paul. He was an encourager, and he would come alongside the weary saints, and he would bless them, so that whoever was in the presence of Philemon was revived in their spirit. They left that conversation encouraged, motivated, and excited. This is what Paul is commending him for in verses four to seven. But he also prays for Philemon. He speaks of this koinania in the ESV of which I'm reading from. It says, that the sharing of your faith might become effective. What that's speaking of there is the koinonia, the the fellowship between the believers, that they are one. And Paul is praying that this oneness that Philemon has with the other believers in Christ because of Christ might become effective for the ongoing fruit of the Spirit, the ongoing growth and maturity. the ongoing sanctification that the body of Christ needs and that each of these individual believers need for the sake of Christ. And then he goes on in verse 7 and says, I have derived much joy and comfort from your love. Clearly, Philemon loves Paul, and Paul loves Philemon. And Paul is encouraged by this dear brother. Well, that leads us to really verse 8. And verse 8, all the way through verse 20-21 gives us the body of the letter. Okay? This is the meat. This is where we're going to focus at for the moments this afternoon. It's in the body of the letter that we watch the Apostle Paul make his appeal, where he starts to now plead, and it's a plea, it's a passionate plea for the forgiveness or for the reception of Onesimus. by Philemon. But what I'm most interested in and what is most helpful for us is seeking to answer this question. What is it that drives the Apostle Paul to make this plea? Or better yet, what is it that that controls or compels the Apostle Paul to make to work through this letter with his dear friend. And the answer to that question is clear. It's the gospel. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ that literally crafts what the Apostle Paul says and even how he says it to his friend You'll see that, and I'm going to walk you through that, but if you think I'm stretching that point, let me just make a clear observation with you and you'll begin to see what I mean. The Apostle Paul, as we already know from Philippians 3, is consumed with Christ. Like the Apostle Paul breathes Christ, meaning every time he exhales, it's like you can hear, see, smell Christ. Like he's that consumed with him. And that's what Philippians 3 shows us. Well, that reality guards and guides how he speaks, how he serves, and what he says right here. This letter of Philemon is 25 verses. It's rather small. It's very small. And yet, the name Christ, Jesus, Lord, the gospel. That reality of the person and work of Christ comes up in every other verse. Twelve different times in 25 verses. Jesus is mentioned. Christ is mentioned. Lord is mentioned. The gospel is mentioned. It's like he can't write a sentence without saying something. Jesus in Christ because of the Lord. Because everything he's doing and everything he's saying is being shaped and being driven by who Christ is and what Christ has done. And we don't need to go any further than that to stop and say, isn't that how it's supposed to be for the believer? That everything we see in life is to be seen through the lens of Christ. We look at our government through the lens of Christ. We look at our suffering through the lens of Christ. We look at our bank account through the l The Christ We look at our brothers and sisters through the lens of Christ. And we surely look at difficult interpersonal drama that we all deal with, whether it's in our immediate family or in the church family, we look at it always. We have to. through the lens of Christ. But if you're honest, you understand the dilemma now, don't you? Because most of us, we actually look at all of those things, especially the drama, through the lens of self. And this is where the rub is. This is the issue. This is why forgiveness becomes a problem for us, because self is in the way. That's the issue. But when self gets out of the way and Christ himself remains in the way, forgiveness no longer becomes a problem. And so Paul is helping Philemon literally get out of the way and keep Christ in the way. And this is what he's doing. Now, I'm going to show this to you in five different ways. And I'm obviously, because it's your pastor's fault, so blame him, obviously I'm not going to be able to go to the depth that obviously I want to go and some of you are probably happy about that. But we're just gonna I'm just gonna have to dip into it to wet your whistle as we say in West Virginia, or to uh excite your passions to go and search this out for yourself and that'll make for good devotional interaction material. So uh I'm not apologizing for that. I'm just saying take it up with your pastor. There you go. But what I'm gonna show us, really through verse eight, even into verse twenty, is I'm gonna show you five different gospel aspects. Five different aspects of the gospel that really are the underpinnings for the pen of Paul here in Philemon It's really the current that takes Paul through this controversy is not Paul's feelings, Paul's emotions, or even Paul's thoughts, but it's the gospel of Jesus Christ. Alright, starting, you see this right away. The first gospel aspect that is highlighted that comes out of this letter is the gospel's priority. The gospel's priority. Look down at verse 8, and you can see where Paul says, accordingly, though I'm bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required. Yet, for love's sake, I prefer to appeal to you, I, Paul, an old man, and now a prisoner also. For Christ Jesus, I appeal to you for my child Onesimus. Stop right there. What we see in verses 8 and 9 is this reality of the gospel priority. that Paul already has on his mind that there are priorities in the life of the believer that are a result of the gospel that must be understood and followed You see it right away where he says, Though I'm bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required. So many people say in the book of Philemon that Paul never commands Philemon to do anything. That is not actually correct. Right here he's commanding him. This is a soft-handed, back-handed command. Right? Though I'm bold enough to command you to do what is required. Wait a minute. You just told me something is required. That means there's a command upon my life. Yes But Paul's saying, I'm not going to focus on that. But notice Paul doesn't breeze over it. Because Philemon is a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. The priority of the gospel has brought, here you go, obligations into his life. Because he's a follower in the Lord Jesus Christ, he has obligations, requirements. Commands that he must follow as a faithful believer. That's what the gospel does in our lives. It realigns our priorities with the gospel's obligations. We learn as believers in the Lord Christ to no longer live for myself, but now to live for him who died for me. And I live for him by what? Serving others? By submitting to the scriptures. And by following his commands And clearly there are commands that a Philemon already knew that he needs to follow in responding to Onesimus. Commands like loving your enemy, of which Jesus made pretty clear in Matthew chapter 5. Commands like forgiving your brother Like Colossians 3. 13 or Ephesians 4. 32. Just as God in Christ has forgiven you, so you must also forgive one another. Now that Onesimus is a believer, he's commanded to forgive him. And Onesimus, for all that we can see in the letter, is repentant. If he wasn't repentant, he wouldn't be going back. But he's going back and he's going back with the blessing of the Apostle Paul. And therefore he's going back to submit to his master and say, I was wrong. His master needs to forgive him. Why? It's an obligation. See, sometimes we forget that forgiveness for us as believers, even when we are the offended, when the offender comes to us as hard as it is, we have an obligation to forgive them. And you know what brings that obligation? The gospel's priority. See, before Christ, you know what the obligation is? Defend myself, protect myself, elevate myself. Vindicate myself, and that vindication is often in vengeance. Hurt them, make them feel the pain I felt. But in the gospel, all of that is realigned. The priorities change. And he clearly is highlighting these priorities when he says, I'm bold enough to command you what is already required. But it's not just the gospel's priority in the obligation, but look at verse 9. Yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you. What is he saying? He's saying, listen, I can command you, and I just did, because the gospel brings obligations upon our life, but he says, I want to motivate you by love. I want you to consider love, Philemon. For love's sake, I am appealing to you. Obviously he loves Philemon, he loves Onesimus, but that's not what he's pointing to. He's pointing to the love of Christ. The love that he has received in the gospel. The love that has been bestowed upon him that Philemon, who is now a faithful follower of Christ, has once he was once a God hater. He once hated the Lord. He once rejected the Lord. Isn't it interesting? He himself, Philemon, the master, was once a runaway. Who had abandoned his creator and run from him to live out his own life. But the Lord loved him. The Lord drew him unto himself as he has every believer. And for love's sake. He's saying, I appeal to you. What the Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14, for the love of Christ compels us. For we understand that one died for all, and therefore all died, and those that now live no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. And he says, for love's sake, I appeal to you. I, Paul, an old man, now a prisoner, also for Jesus Christ, I appeal to you. The gospel brings A priority, the priority of obligation, but also the priority of motivation, doesn't it? We are motivated to follow the Lord, not simply by what he commands, that's our duty. But this is so important, dear loved ones, because in forgiveness, if it's just the duty through which you forgive somebody, you haven't really forgiven them from the heart, have you? But it's when it comes to the heart of delight. The delight doesn't come necessarily from the duty. The delight comes from the love of Christ that you and I don't deserve. See, when the gospel of Jesus Christ and his undeserved love envelops you, controls you, like Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 14, what does that mean? I'll tell you When you understand that you have sinned against holy God with an eternal sin, because it's against eternal God, that you have sinned against him. Against the Creator, the God of all the universe, the sovereign redeemer. When you understand the depth of your sin, the level of your sin, the grossness of your sin against Holy God. Nothing anyone ever does to you on this earthly level can compare with that See, when you have Christ in the picture and you understand how much Christ has forgiven you, the love of Christ. Whatever anybody does to me or to you on an earthly level, it's hard. It hurts. But can it be compared to what we have done against holy God? Not at all. When I have been forgiven by God for what I've done to him, I now, by the grace of Christ, can forgive anyone of anything Because there's no comparison. It's the priority of the gospel. It brings obligation, it brings motivations. This is It's what drives me to seek forgiveness when I've offended and sinned against another, but it's also what drives me to give forgiveness. It's the gospel's priority. But notice in verse 10 to 12, the gospel's power. The gospel's power. Not only do we have the priority in verses 8 and 9, but you have the power in verses 10. 10 to 11. Watch this. I appeal to you for my child Onesimus, whose father I became in imprisonment. Formerly he was useless to you, and now he is indeed useful. to you and to me. I'm sending him back to you, but I'm sending my very heart. Do you see right away the power of the gospel and the transformation that has brought into the life of this slave? It has completely transformed this man. It is the gospel that has changed everything. It has transformed this man's identity. Look at verse 10. Paul calls him my child, Onephemus. He goes from a slave who clearly before Christ is rather useless. in the scope of a servant. He's stealing, he's running, and now he turns from that, a runaway, to the very child, in the spiritual sense, of the Apostle Paul Like how does that happen? What identity has changed massively? He has changed in his identity because this identity isn't driven by the Apostle Paul. This identity is driven by Christ. He became the child of Paul because he became a son of God. This is the point. Paul shared the gospel with him, and he re he received Christ. And when he received Christ. This runaway rejector of God became a very son of God. It changes his whole identity, his whole life transformed by the gospel, from a useless runaway to now a very Son, child of God. This is what the gospel does. It transforms our identity. But notice verse 11. It changes his ability. He says, formerly he was useless to you, but now indeed he is useful to you and to me. It's interesting the word, the term, the name, Onesimus, literally means use, useful. It was a very common name for slaves in that day, useful. And so it's a plea he's playing on the name. And he says, formerly he was use useless to you, but now What changed? What makes him go from useless to useful? Christ. Christ not only changes our identity from slaves of Satan and sin to slaves of God. He not only changes our identity from being known as those who rejected him and ran away from him to those who are now loved by him, but he also changes our ability. It changes our ability. Now we can serve. Now we're useful in the kingdom work of God. Now we're useful even to one another. Now we no longer live for ourselves, consumed with our flesh. But now we're consumed with the service of others, and thus now he can actually be a true servant. Because now the gospel has changed his ability. Dear loved ones, this is so important when we are seeking to forgive and even seeking forgiveness that we keep the gospel on the front end. We don't lose sight. Oftentimes we we we fall into the trap of, well, really is that person really going to be Forgive is that person really gonna forgive me? Are they really seeking forgiveness? And we forget it. The gospel's powerful. The gospel can take a hellbound hater of God and make them a lover of God. It's the gospel that gives me hope in my forgiveness of one another and my reception of it from my brothers and sisters. Because the gospel has changed me from one who hates people to one who loves them. The gospel changes me from one who steals from people and seeks to serve myself to one who dies myself in the service of others. But notice the gospel's power also changes the solidarity. With people. Notice the Apostle Paul. This is an amazing verse. This is a sermon all in itself. I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart. How in the world does this runaway slave become like the lifeblood of the Apostle Paul? I mean, how does this happen? I'll tell you how it happens, the gospel. See, this is an area of the modern church of which we are far too weak. And our struggle with forgiveness proves it. See, the Apostle Paul understood his theology taught by Christ, given to him by Christ. It deeply changed the way he viewed people. He understood that now this rebel is now his brother. This rebel is now his son. Meaning we are now one. We are in an indivisible family. As the body of Christ, we are one. We come together, we are one. Some of us have good families, some of us have bad families, but do you know who the real family is? It's the body of Christ If you're here and you're a brother and sister in Christ, you are part of the forever family, and here it is. This is your family in the truest sense of the word. And we are one in Christ This is phenomenal. This is Paul's point in Galatians 3, that there's neither black nor white, there's neither slave nor free, there's neither male nor female. There's neither barbarian or scythian, all of those external realities of categories. That's a joke. Paul says, because of Christ, we're one. We're one body. And as Paul says in Romans 12, we're one body with what? Many members. And we're diverse and we have different gifts. But we're all together. And we need one another. The gospel has totally transformed this guy's life. Gives him a new identity, gives him a new ability, gives them now an eternal solidarity. with other brothers and sisters in Christ. This guy's whole life was transformed. Unbelievable. And Paul is saying, listen, Philemon, think about what is happening here. Get out of the way, keep Christ at the center and the gospel and think this through. So you have the gospel 's priority, which what? Gives us what we must do in our forgiveness of others. But then you have the gospel's power, which now gives me the ability and the desire to do what I must do. Do you see it? It's not enough to have the command, but I actually have the power because I've been changed to actually follow the command from the heart. That's the amazing truth of the gospel. So you see the gospel's priority. You see the gospel's power. Now look at verses 13 to 14. I love this. The gospel's perspective. Driving further, Paul continues in verses 13 to 14. And he says, I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me. on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. But I preferred to do nothing without your consent, in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion, but by your own accord. What is the Apostle Paul doing here with Philemon? He's reminding Philemon that, listen, Philemon Onesimus isn't really yours. Onesimus is now Christ. I'm in the ministry of Christ. I would really rather he stay with me. and actually serve me and thus serve Christ because that's where he should be in the service of Christ But he's your slave, so I don't want to do this and manipulate you. I want this to be of your own accord. You know what he's doing He's helping Philemon see the gospel's perspective. And what is the gospel 's perspective? That Christ saves us in order that we might serve him. All of life can be narrowed down into this one nugget. I exist for the service of the King. As a matter of fact, those aren't my words, but you can take the final words that I hope you're living for when you see Christ one day, and it is what? Well done, good and faithful doctor. Well done, good and faithful lawyer. Well done, good and faithful pastor. Well done, good and faithful homemaker. Absolutely not. Well done, good and faithful servant. I am a firm believer that if Christ could give us one job to do, it would be be a servant. Wherever you are, serve. Whomever you meet, serve. This is it. This is the perspective of the gospel. And isn't it what Christ demonstrated in Matthew chapter 20 when he says, I didn't come here to be served, but what? But to serve and to give my life a ransom for many. And then we're being conformed into the image of Christ to do what? The same thing. I like to call it substitutionary servants. He saves us to be substitutionary servants of the King, where we serve our lives are literally at his behest and on his behalf. That's what we do. This is Paul in 2 Corinthians 5 when he says we're ambassadors of Christ. We stand on his behalf and we bring his message. This isn't about us. It's all about him. And I give my very life for him. That's what it's all about. And this is what this is what he's encouraging Philemon. He's like I really want him with me because he needs to be serving, but he's actually your slave, so I really want you to do it. He's bringing out the perspective of the gospel that says The gospel saves us, not that we might live for ourselves, but that we might live for Him who died for us. This is huge. This is Critical because, again, in the scope of forgiveness, what is often the roadblock? Self, serving myself, or if we're really honest, trying to get this person to serve me But when I am serving them, when I am pursuing the service of them, it changes the way I see them. It changes the way I see the whole situation. It's hard to have this mindset of a substitutionary servant and not be a forgiver. It's almost impossible. And so he brings out the perspective of the gospel. But also, look, hopefully you're encouraged. We're already at point four. Glenn's back there no longer sweating. I'm not encouraged, but you are encouraged. I want to go deep. But this is this is a blessing. But look at verses 15 to 16. He says, For this perhaps is why he was parted from you. For a while, that you might have him back forever, no longer as a bondservant, but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. Do you know what you see here? Not the gospel's purpose, but number four Not the gospel's perspective, but number four, the gospel's purpose. What is the purpose of the gospel? What is it all about? Reconciliation. Is it not the purpose of the gospel that Christ, that God in Christ is reconciling everything unto himself? Even the creation that is in chaos now, Romans 8 says, will be made right because of the shed blood and the work of Christ on the cross. that he will reconcile the whole world to himself and he reconciles us back to himself and even gives us in 2 Corinthians 5 and 6 the ministry of reconciliation. where we are appealing on on God's behalf to the world that is separated. So you have this reality of restoration and reconciliation where you have where you have that which was once together has now been separated, is divided, and the gospel comes in and through Christ he makes foes now friends and family. This is the point of the gospel. And do you see it? The Apostle Paul says, hey Maybe perhaps, whenever you see that it's probably ironic, irony, just maybe perhaps this is why all of this happened. so that you can actually have him back. Be reconciled back to him, but not as a house slave. Look at it. This is what destroys the evil of slavery. Not as a house slave, but as a brother. As a brother. And not just on the temporary level, I love it, but reconciliation forever. You'll never be apart from him again. You'll never lose him again. He'll be your brother forever. Maybe perhaps that's why this happened. No, it is why it happened. Because that's what the gospel does It brings us into this relationship with our Heavenly Father through his Son, and yes, with one another in a relationship that will never be parted again. And isn't it interesting in this life that we live often walk through a trail of tears? Tears in what way? In our relationships. We have to constantly see relationships end. We watch it with our spouses. We watch it with our children. We see death come in and it takes it away. We see it with our parents, caring for my parents, my wife's parents, who are both failing in health and I drove up to West Virginia on Friday and spent drove four hundred miles just to take my dad to a doctor's appointment because my mom is in dire health and she can't drive him and he can't drive himself and And then my mother-in-law has Parkinson's and we care for her and we're at their house every day. My father-in-law has COVID. I mean, this is where we live. We're watching them literally slip away. And you understand this. And it just rips your heart out, right? But what an amazing gift of the gospel that both of our parents are in Christ. And though the outer body is wasting away, we know that though we might be parted for a short time, we will be with them forever, worshiping and serving the king, because the gospel brings reconciliation. This is his purpose. How encouraging that would have been to Philemon if he gets out of the way and actually views this through the lens of Christ and not through the lens of self. But now, number five, you've seen the gospel's priority. You've seen the gospel 's power You've seen the gospel's perspective, you've seen the gospel's purpose, but this last one is by far, for me, I think the The clearest, the best, the most encouraging. Because even in the letter itself, the Apostle Paul really transitions Because up to this point, he hasn't really commanded Philemon to do anything. It's just been indicatives, statements of facts. But now the imperatives start to come. Clearly a transition in the text. And what I love about this is Paul is exemplifying for us, number five, the gospel's pattern. The gospel 's pattern. Look at the text. You see it. You see it in my notes here. 17 to 19. Look at verses 17 to 19. He says, so. If you consider me your partner, your koinonia, same Greek word, your fellow, your fellow one. We're one together. We're tight. We're brothers in Christ. We're partners forever in the gospel ministry in Christ. Receive him as you would receive me. If he has wronged you at all or owes you anything, charge that to my account. I, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it to say nothing. Of your owing me even your own self. What we have here is Paul giving us one of the clearest examples of the gospel 's pattern in the Bible. What you have right away is three aspects of the awesome gospel that Paul himself is identifying with, or better yet, patterning or modeling. Four Philemon. The first one is the reality of gospel identification. Look at verse 17. He says, so if you consider me your partner, receive him. as you would receive me. That's actually not a good translation or shall I say a complete translation or a clear translation. In the Greek it actually reads this way. Philemon, I want you to receive him as me. He's not saying, I want you to receive him just like you would receive me. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, Philemon, receive him. He's me. He's saying he so identifies with me, Philemon, that when he shows up, I'm showing up. He's saying, Philemon, you need to receive him as the Apostle Paul. And you're like, what does this have to do with the gospel? Everything. Because in the gospel, dear loved ones, this is the core of our salvation. We become one with Christ The only reason, here you go, the only reason, if you're a believer, you and I get ever accepted By God. The only reason that God the Father receives us, just like Philemon, receives us with open arms. You want to know why? Because we're in Christ. We come identified in Christ. It's only because, as Paul says in Ephesians 1. 6, we are accepted in the beloved. This is what he's saying. He's modeling. It's literally as if Philemon is God the Father, Onesimus is a repentant sinner, and Paul is standing there as Christ. And he says, Philemon, I want you to receive this now repentant man as me. He comes robed in me. Oh dear loved ones, what a pattern of the gospel. This is phenomenal, but it gets better. Keep looking. He says Verse 17 is this identification, but verse 18, if he has wronged you at all or owes you anything Charge that to my account. What is this? This is the doctrine of imputation. This is how it works in our salvation. All of your wrong All of your debt. We sang it multiple times in multiple songs today. I was laughing as we were singing it. Because it's so good. All that you owe God the Father, which is an eternal debt sheet you could never, ever repay. No matter how good you may be, no matter how much money you may be, no matter how many prayers you may pray, no matter how many church services you will go to. No matter how many elderly people you may help, none of it will get you to heaven. It will never work off the debt that you owe. Because the debt is eternal and the debt is ongoing, isn't it? Because you keep sinning. But all of that, all of that gets charged to Christ on the cross. That's what Colossians chapter 2, verses 13 and 14 says that God himself took the record of our debts and he literally nails it to Christ on the cross and it now says paid in full. This is what the apostle Paul is saying. He's like, take all of that debt, Phylemon, and charge it to my account. That word charge there literally speaks of this reality of imputation. Transfer it from him to me. And that's what imputation does And as 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says so clearly, God made him who knew no sin, Christ, to be sin for us. Christ never sinned. He never sinned once. Not one time, but he was treated, he was charged, he was imputed with our sin. And he went to the cross, as 1 Peter chapter 2 says, bearing our sin in his body on the cross. But 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, God made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that in him, our identification, we might become the righteousness of God. This is the gospel. It is glorious. Look at it. He continues. He patterns this as he's interacting with Philemon and he says, I Paul, it's emphatic. Doesn't need to be written that way. It's a double I in the Greek. I myself, Paul, write this with my own hand. I will repay it. What is that? The doctrine of redemption? Ransom He's like, listen, not only will you charge it to my account, but I'll even pay it off. Jesus said, I've come to give my life as a ransom. I'll pay it all, Father. This is what the Apostle Paul is saying. He's saying, Philemon, if you're going to forgive Onesimus, you need to look through the lens of the gospel. You need to see the gospel's perspective. You need to see the gospel's power. You need to see the gospel's priority. You need to see the gospel's purpose. You need to see the gospel's pat Philemon, I'm modeling for you. And here's the point, dear loved ones. Paul is saying, I'm modeling for you, Philemon, what you should be doing. Because you should be taking the debt on yourself. Because look at what he says in the rest of verse 19. He says Like a parenthetical thought, which is not parenthetical, it's actually quite powerful. And he says, Oh, by the way, Philemon, I don't even want to bring up how much you owe me. And do you know what he's saying there? Here's what he's saying. Yeah, Onesimus owes you some money, but you owe me what money can't even buy. Because God in his sovereign grace used me, the Apostle Paul, to bring you to Christ. And all the eternal benefits that you now enjoy in Christ are by the sovereign grace of God through the ministry of the gospel of which Christ has sent me to you to bring. So this little amount of money that he might owe you, you don't even want to get into that conversation, Phylemon. See? It's glorious. You see how that changes the whole perspective of how we deal with one another when the gospel is a remain remains in the center and we get out of the way. Oh, I know there's so much More to talk about in forgiveness. That's why I preached nine sermons through this and not one. But again, your pastor will clean it all up and because he can do that and it's a blessing. But I pray that your heart is encouraged. I pray that your mind is on Christ. And I pray as you deal with the interpersonal drama of your family and your church family that it will always be Christ who is at the center and not you. Because in so doing, God will be honored and the body of Christ will be strengthened. Amen? Let me pray. Father God, thank you for your word. Thank you for the blessing of it. Thank you for this wonderful body of believers. May you continue to nurture them, bless them, protect them, and use them. For your honor and glory we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.