The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. We're in the book of Matthew, chapter six, uh, this morning, and this morning we reach our our final stop on our journey through the Lord's Prayer uh as we've been uh kind of traveling through this slowly and it's uh it's been a wonderful trip as we've uh gone throughout the Lord's Prayer and uh we move on with a a bit of reluctance uh because I know that there's uh just so much more to see uh in the Lord's Prayer It's like coming to the to the end of a of a journey in a in a country that you've always wanted to visit and uh you leave the country knowing that there's so much more to see in this country, but you know I've gotta move on. So uh that's kind of how we leave the the Lord's Prayer. There's so much more to see. in this uh remarkable prayer of our our Lord. And uh that's true even uh though the prayer that we've been considering is short and simple and uh familiar to us It's a brief prayer, as MacArthur notes that even though the prayer is fewer than 70 words, we find a masterpiece of the infinite mind of God. Who alone could compress every conceivable element of true prayer into such a brief and simple form. It's brief, only in a few words, but we find in it the infinite mind of God. It's a simple prayer. It's uh it's a prayer that's simple enough for the most inexperienced and ignorant Christian to use, uh, but as one writer said, uh none of us can say that They are familiar with the heights and depths which it reveals and with the treasure of wisdom which it contains. And it's a familiar prayer. with the Lord's Prayer. And as uh J. C. Rowell writes, uh perhaps no part of Scripture is so well known as this. Its words are familiar wherever Christianity is found. Thousands, tens of thousands who have never even seen a Bible or heard the pure gospel are acquainted with the Our Father prayer and how happy would the world be If this prayer was as well known in the Spirit as it is in the in the letter. And I pray that during our time together in the Lord's Prayer, that we've become familiar with the Spirit. of this prayer and uh not just the letter of it and uh the goal of this model prayer was and still is to transform our lives to transform us, that as we approach the Father, that Jesus Christ is teaching us a way that we can come before the Father in a way that's heard and rewarded. by God. There's many false patterns of prayer today, as well as there were back during the times of Jesus, prayers that are not heard. or rewarded. But God, through uh in the person of uh Jesus Christ here, uh offers his disciples a model prayer uh that one author points out is without doubt the best the most expressive and perfect form of prayer that has ever been delivered. It was delivered by Christ who is the very wisdom of God And uh his words were and always uh will be answered uh by his heavenly father. So let's go ahead and uh recite the prayer Uh together we'll using we're using the uh the older version of the prayer found in the King James Version and we'll be using uh debts and debtors. All right Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Heavenly Father, we uh come before your word once again. We come before the way that our Lord taught us to pray. And uh we ask God that uh you would Help us, Father, help us to pray. Teach us to pray. Teach us how to come before you in a way that would honor you. Teach us to humble ourselves before you And uh God, I pray that uh our lives would be transformed uh by the the the meditation on Scripture. And uh Father that you'd use me as a weak instrument uh to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Lord's Prayer is located in a section of the Sermon on the Mount that's concerned with the practice of righteousness. The practice of righteousness. Back in verse 1 of chapter 6, we find there that Jesus says, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. And he warns us here that it's it's possible to practice righteousness in an unrighteous way, that there's an unrighteous sort of righteousness that's not recognized or rewarded by the Father at all. And this is what Jesus addresses in this passage. He hasn't left that that theme that he started in in verse 1. So Jesus is uh not here necessarily addressing uh unrighteousness of irreligious people, the people who oppose or deny the existence of God, Jesus is addressing the unrighteousness of religious people. You know, people who are supposed uh to to be righteous, supposed to be righteous. And he he locks his aim on three of the most uh primary and common religious practices Prayer, fasting, and giving. Alms giving, prayer, and fasting were actually considered the three pillars of Judaism and are often found together in the rabbinical writings. But Jesus lets his disciples know that even these acts of religious devotion can be done in a way that doesn't catch the attention of heaven at all. Uh God won't even turn his head to recognize Some of the things that are taking place within the church and in the name of Christ. And if uh there was any time that we want to know that we're being heard by God, it's when we pray, right? If there's any time that I want to know that God is listening, it's when I'm praying. Our needs are so great. Our needs are so many. And what would it be like to know that God was ignoring your prayers? What would that be like? Just the thought of that gives us reason to pay attention to what Jesus has to say here. And Jesus wants to guard us against pointless praying, pointless praying. In the preface of this prayer in verses 5 to 8, we're warned against praying like Pharisees or praying like pagans. We're warned not to pray hypocritically. or ignorantly, both praying for uh the attention of people, you know, those who are around us, or praying without attention to the words that you're saying are both condemned by God. One has too many thoughts for the people around you, and one is not giving enough thought to the one that you're praying to. You know, so either one of those is condemned by God. In the opening address in verse 9, we're reminded of who our God is that God is our Father, and uh that's highlighted here in the prayer, His relationship uh to us. Uh He's a father to us. Uh we are his children, so there's that relationship. uh that we have uh with God an intimate relationship uh but it also shows the reverence that we should have for God as well because it's our Father who's where? In heaven. You know, we're not to compare ourselves with this God. This God is F far beyond the furthest star that you could ever see. This God is the one who is the infinite God, the creator of the heavens and the earth. He dwells in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. This is the kind of God that we come before in prayer. In the body of the prayer in verses nine to thirteen, we're reminded about the glory and the greatness of God. In the first half of the prayer we're reminded about uh the glory and the greatness of God, and in the second half We're reminded about the goodness and the graciousness of God. In the first part, the glory and the greatness of God. We're reminded of his name, his kingdom, his will. Uh when it gets to the goodness of God, the goodness that God displays toward us, it's displayed in giving us our bread and forgiving us of our sins and delivering us. from the temptations of the the evil one. And this is just a wonderful pattern for prayer, isn't it? God's glory, our good, uh the the way that it opens up with our relationship to God and our reverence. For God, this is this is just a wonderful and a perfect pattern for prayer. And then finally we reach this conclusion, a fitting conclusion to the prayer Found in uh in verse 13, for yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever, amen. And what could be a more fitting conclusion than that? You know, there's a a beauty in it, a symmetry to it, a majesty in the closing words of the prayer Uh, what could be more fitting than than that kind of conclusion to the prayer? The kingdom is his, he has the right to rule, the power is his, he has the ability to rule. The glory is his. He has the right end or the goal of his ruling. You know, what could be more fitting than the conclusion that uh discusses that about prayer? And uh The answer to that question is the uh the conclusion that the Lord gave to it. The conclusion that the Lord gave to it. Um There's a couple things that to point out in this text, and this is where we kind of get into a little bit of uh textual uh criticism and understanding what's behind you know our English text of the of the Bible. Uh The first thing is that the ending that we find, the doxology, actually doesn't appear in the earliest manuscripts of the Bible. That's the It's just just how it is. The closing doxology doesn't appear in the earliest and most reliable manuscripts that we have of this text. If you look in your Bibles, if you have a NASV or an ESV Uh you'll notice that it doesn't appear at all. You know, the the kingdom, glory, power doesn't appear at all. If it does appear, it'll appear in brackets if you you look at your Bibles there. If you have a New King James Version, there should be a footnote at the side of your Bible that says that this doesn't appear in the earliest manuscripts, the oldest manuscripts And uh that's something that makes people nervous as they they look at their Bibles, and some would use that as an argument against uh any other version besides the King James Version. And accuse other versions of tampering with the text. You know, what are you trying to do? Remove the kingdom and glory and the power from God? Is that what you're trying to do Uh just recently I received a uh a letter in the mail uh from uh somebody who visited the church and we don't receive a whole lot of mail from people who visit, but but I I did receive this one. Uh somebody who visited the church and uh They wanted to warn us about departing from the gospel because we didn't use the King James Version of the Bible in the pulpit. So they said, you know, we want to give the church a strong warning. You know, there's a gospel that's not really the gospel. There's a Bible that's not really the Bible, and you know, the King James Version is it. You know, that is the Bible. That is the true word of God and anything that departs from the King James. isn't the the Bible. Well, there's there's a lot that we could say about that. I'll just point out a couple things. We really have a fuller discussion on this later, but let me just point out a couple things. Number one The gospel is directly related to the person and work of Jesus Christ, not the version of the Bible that you have. You got that? The gospel is directly related to the person and work of Jesus Christ, not the version of the Bible that you use. If salvation was tied to the King James Version of the Bible, how were people saved before its existence? There were no Bibles. Listen to this. There were no Bibles in English prior to the 14th century, and the King James doesn't show up till the 1600s. Sixteen hundred years of church history and nobody saved until the King James shows up? How did people get saved for sixteen hundred years The same way they've always gotten saved. By grace, through faith, and Jesus Christ alone. Okay? That is the gospel. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. You can look it up in your King James, your New King James, your NIV, wherever you want to look. We're saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ alone. That is the gospel. You understand that? That's the gospel. The same way they got saved is the same way that we're saved. Number two, the translators of the King James Version used the best available manuscripts that they had at the time. So when they translated the Bible, you know, into the English, they used the best manuscripts that they had. And even they recognize that there were some variant readings at different times within the Greek manuscripts that they used. Uh James White in his book, The King James Only Controversy. If uh you want to look up more about uh this whole debate, you can uh uh go ahead and purchase that book, The King James Only Controversy. He points out that the Textus Receptus, which is the Greek text that the King James is based on, includes notes that demonstrates that they had to make decisions between various Greek manuscripts You know, to even make the King James Bible. They had to to search and do their homework in the various Greek manuscripts, and they used the best manuscripts that they had available at the time. They went through the same process that the NASV or ESV had to go through in our day. And today we've discovered more manuscripts So we can use the best manuscripts that we have at this time, you know, to to make sure that we're understanding uh correctly the the meaning of of scripture and and uh and what's there and what's you know uh closest to the uh to the origin. So so we have we have that as well. The NASV and ESV go through the same process that the King James did years ago. And and here's here's the third thing. The abundance of Greek manuscripts that we have today only increases our confidence in the Word of God. Only increases our confidence. In God's word, the gospel uh and the the word of of God um is is on a sure foundation. Uh the the fact that we're we're even having this discussion about Greek manuscripts The only reason I mean it's encouraging because there's so many. There are so many. This is just another evidence of the power of God in preserving his word. God is actively preserving his word, and he's preserved it for us. Listen to this. There are now more than 5,300 Greek manuscripts of the New Testament. 5,300. Add to that over 10,000 Latin Vulgate, uh at least 9,300 other versions, and we have more than 24 ,000 manuscript copies of portions of the New Testament in existence today. No other document of antiquity even comes close to that. No other document even comes close in comparison. Uh the Iliad by uh Homer is second with only 643 manuscripts compared to 24,000 manuscripts. That's still surviving. The first complete uh version of uh Homer's Iliad uh that's been preserved is from the 13th century. This is this is almost uh you know it was written in uh uh uh around 700 BC. I mean this is about a thousand years removed, you know, from the original uh text. Compare that with the ancient manuscripts of the Bible. The manuscripts that we have behind our Bible today, one manuscript uh uh uh grouping is known as the Chester Beattie papyri. They're dated to the 200s A. D. and a manuscript named the P52 dates to somewhere between 100 and 150 A.D. You can 't get any closer than that. You know, the apostle John died somewhere in the 90s B. C. You have a manuscript that includes the Gospel of John that dates back to the 100s You can't get any closer than that. So uh uh it only increases our confidence in uh in the word of God. No variation in in the text affects any major article of doctrine. Uh most of them have to do with spelling and word order, and a few, only a few, like Matthew chapter six and verse thirteen, had to do with the liturgy of the church. of the church. Um the the Lord's prayer as as you would have imagined would have been used by the early church, right? Uh this is something that the the church would have uh recited that they would have went too often The Lord's Prayer was used in the early worship of the church. It was the church's practice to conclude prayers with a doxology, some sort of doxology. And there's actually several different versions of doxology on the end of Matthew chapter 6 Some omit the kingdom, some omit the power, some omit the glory, and even one lengthens it to say to him be the power and the glory together with the Father and the Holy Spirit now and forever. Amen. What was the purpose for that? When the church used to use copies of Matthew and used it during their worship services, they wanted to end the section of prayer with a doxology. They wanted to give praise to God. So the most common and popular form of that doxology that's been passed down to us is Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. It was a fitting way to close a prayer. It was customary to end with a doxology, and it was thoroughly biblical. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter, 1 Chronicles, I'm sorry, 1 Chronicles chapter 29. 1 Chronicles chapter 29. 1 Chronicles covers the life of David, God's chosen king. In uh chapters 1 through 9, it covers the royal line. And in uh chapters 10 through 29, it covers the royal reign of David. And at the very end of 1 Chronicles 29, you find David handing over the kingdom to his son Solomon. 1 Chronicles chapter 29 is handing over the kingdom to his son Solomon and he offers up this prayer before the Lord. But in his prayer he recognizes that there's a king that sits over both David and Solomon. Alright? First Chronicles chapter 29. Look at verse 10. Says so David, bless the Lord in the sight of all The assembly. And David said, Blessed are you, O Lord, God of Israel our Father, forever and ever. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, indeed, everything. that is in the heavens and the earth. Yours is the dominion, O Lord, and you exalt yourself as head over all. What we find in this uh in this prayer by David is that he ascribes to the Lord the kingdom He ascribes to the Lord the power, and he ascribes to the Lord the glory. And uh most people believe that uh in the ending to the Lord's Prayer that we find in Matthew chapter six, was just uh a response of people after they they recited this prayer to end it with this kind of doxology that to you alone belong the kingdom, the power, and the glory. It's thoroughly biblical. Um there's nothing wrong with the doxology. It was customary, and it's nearly impossible to think of the prayer without it, right? You know, to you alone belong the kingdom, the power, and the glory. And Jesus probably even assumed that a doxology uh would be added based on the the Jewish context that he spoke in. Uh it's it's it was customary for for them to add a doxology uh to the end of the prayers. If you look at uh different uh forms of Jewish prayer They all ended with some form of doxology to give praise to God at the close of their prayers. And this is what's been passed down to us as well. Even though it's not original to the text, it's thoroughly biblical, and uh it's right for us to end our prayers with worship and praise uh to God. So that's not the final word. The final word of this prayer isn't, you know, the the power, the glory, the honor. That's not God's Jesus' final word. of prayer on prayer. The final word that he actually offers us on prayer is found in verses 14 and 15. Look back at Matthew chapter 6 again. Matthew chapter 6. So after the preface about prayer, how you are to pray, after the uh the opening address about how we're to address God after the body of the prayer. What Jesus actually does to close his consideration of prayer is uh he attaches this footnote on forgiveness. That's how he ends the discussion on prayer. With a footnote on forgiveness. And regardless of what you think about the discussion of uh you know textual criticism and all that, everybody has to admit that Jesus Christ closes his discussion on prayer With verses 14 and 15. For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your heavenly father will not forgive your transgressions. This is a reference Back to what he spoke earlier in verse twelve, and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. in scripture. And here it's used to introduce the connection between our forgiveness and our Father's forgiveness. Our forgiveness of others. in our Father's forgiveness of us. And uh Jesus explains and emphasizes the connection between what we do and how we pray. connection between what we do and how we pray. And uh it's so significant that he returns to it after the prayer closes to say, let me let me further emphasize and address what I just said in verse 12. Let me further emphasize and address that. It was so significant. And this is how Jesus closes his discussion on prayer. Don't miss the importance of this petition. for forgiveness. No other request includes a qualification. You know, there's no other prayer that he prays and he says, you know, uh give us this day our daily bread because we give others their daily bread. Doesn't say that. You know, deliver us from temptation because we help to deliver other people from temptation. He doesn't say that. But he says, forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven others their debts. It's the only petition that has any kind of qualification. And it's also the only petition that finds any kind of additional explanation at the close of the prayer. The only one. And just like we're in daily need of cleansing to restore our intimacy and communion with God, we need to stand in a daily readiness to forgive our brothers when they sin against us. You need forgiveness every day. And you need to be standing in readiness to forgive your brothers every day. This is the necessary preparation for prayer. And the the preface to this prayer we learn that Christ doesn't want us to pray hypocritically or ignorantly. And now at the conclusion of the prayer, we also learn that God doesn't want us to pray hard-heartedly. hard-heartedly. Hard-hearted prayers are are not heard by God, and he'll close his ears to your cry for forgiveness and every other prayer that you utter if you refuse to listen to the cry of forgiveness from your brother. That's that's just the way it is. If you refuse to listen to a plea for forgiveness from one of your brothers or sisters in Christ, God is saying, I'm ignoring you until you get that right. I'm ignoring you until you get that right. It's that important. And uh there's two points that are highlighted here. Um we probably won't get to cover everything uh today, which is okay, but uh two points that are highlighted here. They're simple but they're profound The father forgives those who forgive others, and the father ignores those who ignores others. Two points. Father forgives those who forgive others, and the father ignores those who ignore others. Look at verse 14 again. For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. It's important that we understand what this is and what this is not. Um first of all, this is not a way to inherit eternal life, you know, that if you forgive others, then your heavenly father will forgive you in like a judicial sense, you know, you'll be entered into eternal life, you know, if you forgive others. That's not what he's saying. Uh this is not like a a second plan of salvation. You know, you can come to come to Christ by you know uh faith and repentance, or you can come to Christ by forgiving your brother. You know, that's that's not what he's what he's saying. So this is not a a second plan to inherit eternal life It's also important to keep the context in mind. The people who are addressing God address them as what? Father, right? Which means they have what? Relationship. There's already a relationship. This is talking about Christian people. Christian people coming before God and God is saying to Christians. These are not people that are eternally condemned. These are people that are eternally saved to Christians saying that unless you are ready to get things right with your brother, I'm not listening. I'm not listening. This is a family prayer for those who come before their father in prayer. The relationship is already established. This also means that the forgiveness that's being requested is like I said, it's not forgiveness in a judicial sense. We're not fearful of the wrath of God. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Romans chapter 8, verse 1 lets us know that. There's some that would see this as a test of salvation and I understand what where they're coming from. Earlier in the Sermon on the Mount, we learned about the character of citizens of the kingdom of God. One in particular is found in Matthew chapter 5, verse 7. If you want to look back there, where Jesus says, Blessed are the merciful why? For they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. This here talks about the characteristic of the child of God. Those that that belong to the kingdom are those that are also merciful. You know, the the mercy that that uh that's being received Uh if you look at the context of uh uh of the Beatitudes here, uh those who receive the mercy of God are in verse eight those who see God. In verse nine, those who are called the sons of God, in verse ten, those who inherit the kingdom of heaven. We're talking about salvation This is the characteristics of those that inherit eternal life. Those that are merciful receive mercy. You know, so God uh gives his children the characteristic of being merciful. You have an additional text that mentions the same thing in James chapter 2 and verse 13, where it says, For judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no mercy. Judgment is merciless for who? The believer or the unbeliever? Unbeliever. For a person who shows no mercy, God says you're not a believer A person who refuses to show mercy, he says, you're not a believer. Only people who are shown no mercy, the only people who are shown no mercy are unbelievers. So it's true that a forgiven person is also a forgiving person. that uh truth uh true forgiveness breaks a man and a broken man forgives. Broken people forgive. But what we find in uh chapter six and verse fourteen is not talking about Trying to describe who is a true believer. Here that fact is already established. This person is a believer. Now it's talking about the consequences for disobedience as a believer. That's what chapter 6 verse 14 is talking about. And there's times when even believers are disobedient to the clear command of Christ, right? There's times when even believers are disobedient to the clear command. Listen to this one illustration. I just found it moving. Simon Wiesenthal was imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp in Poland. From there, he was sent as a part of a work detail to clean up a hospital for wounded German soldiers. When he arrived, Wisenthal was ordered to follow one of the nurses to a patient's room. There he encountered a dying Nazi. A young SS officer who was badly burned, his body was wrapped entirely in bandages. The man was barely able to speak, yet he wanted to confess his sins before he died. In particular, he wanted to confess them to a Jew. The Nazi began to recount his crimes. On one occasion, he had set fire to a building crammed with hundreds of Jews. When one family tried to skate, he slaughtered them in the street. Tormented by the memory of their anguish faces, he longed to beg forgiveness from a Jew before he died Wisenthal listened patiently to the man's story, he recognized that the Nazi's repentance was genuine, yet he was horrified by what the man had done. When the confession was finished, Wisenthal got up without a word and left Unable to offer forgiveness, yet afterwards he wondered whether or not he had done the right thing. His account of the event closes with this challenge. You Who have just read the sad and tragic episode in my life can mentally change places with me and ask yourself the question, what would I have done? What would I have done? And of course there's a sense in in which uh you know Wisemathal can't really offer forgiveness for a sin that's not committed against him, you know, forgiving the the sins that were committed against other people. You know, in one sense we we understand that But uh but we we understand the point, don't we? That that sometimes even though we we know we should forgive, it becomes difficult to forgive. You hold on to bitterness in your your heart. And for us, it's much less than the slaughter of innocent families. For us, we uh we hold bitterness against people because of unkind words. They said something that rubbed me the wrong way. And we hold bitterness against them. We hold bitterness for being overlooked. You know, they should have thought about me. They should have been more thoughtful than that. And we hold resentment against a person. We uh hold bitterness because uh we feel disrespected. You know, somebody should have honored me for who I am. Don't they know who I am? Don't they know what my position is, my role? I deserve respect. And then we fail to forgive. Somebody fails to follow through on a commitment that they made, and then we hold that against them. There's many ways that we hold on to unforgiveness. And what Jesus assumes here in this text is two things. One is that we sin daily. That's one of the things that he assumes in this text. Just like I said before, as we pray for daily bread, we're praying for daily forgiveness. There's another thing that Jesus assumes in this text, that daily people are going to sin against you. People are going to sin against you. It's just the kind of life that we live. Daily, people sin against us. And daily, as we're coming before God, asking Him for His forgiveness, you know what we're also to do? We're supposed to examine our consciences and say, is there anybody that I haven't forgiven yet? It's a prerequisite to prayer To examining your own heart to say, God, is there anybody that I haven't forgiven? Because how can I come before you to ask for your forgiveness when I'm withholding it from somebody else? How can I do that with a clear conscience? How can I come before God with a clear conscience, knowing that somebody's asked for forgiveness and I'm refusing to listen to them? But then I want to go to God and have Him hear me? It's not how it works. If we come before God to have our sins forgiven, we need to also be those that are forgiving others. As Christians, we need to live in this environment of grace. We're receiving grace from God. We're giving grace to others. Just this swimming in the environment of grace. Grace, grace, God's grace, right? Grace that is greater than all of our sins. Grace greater than all of our sins. And God's grace that He's given to you is sufficient for others as as well. This is the kind of environment that we need to live in. Transgressions, the word that's used here. Verses 14 and 15, transgressions or trespasses. It's parallel to the debts that we have in verse 12. Um Uh the word trespasses or transgression that it focuses on the action itself. You know, the transgression or the trespass focuses on the action. The Greek word peroptima. It means to fall beside, to deviate from the truth. It's the slip, the misstep. You know, that's what transgressions means. It focuses on the action that you committed, and debts focuses on the consequences of the action. I slipped, I messed up. I fell beside, I deviated from the truth, and now I owe. Now I owe somebody because of what I've done. There's consequences for what I've done. I've sinned against somebody. And I 'm in their debt. And to forgive means that I'm no longer holding that sin against you. To forgive means to let go. I'm willing to let it go. Pardon. to release a person from the obligation that they they owe you. This is what we're talking about here and uh the intimacy intimacy with with God is is really what we're what we're uh discussing here. Uh, because there's there's certain things, like I said, that the God is is unwilling to listen to you in. unless you're you're uh willing to be a a forgiving uh a forgiving uh kind of of person. Just to just a couple things. Just to to show how if we don't get relationships right with others The God is ignoring our prayers, our gifts, and so forth. Just a couple passages. Flip over to Matthew chapter 5. This is one that um that we've gone over before in our discussion of the Sermon on the Mount, but just want to highlight this for you just again so you can see it. Look at verse 23, Matthew chapter 5. Therefore, you know, this is in the context of being angry with your brothers. Look at verse 23. Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar, And there remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. What 's God saying there? You know, for for your gifts? You know, what you want to present before me? I I really don't want to have anything to do with your gift. You know, just just leave your gift right here. You go and get right with your brother first. You reconcile to your brother first, because I'm not wanting to see your gifts until you're getting things right with your brother. Uh in the context here, uh you know the distance between Galilee and Jerusalem would have been, you know, some sixty miles or more. And here you have these people that are dropping their gift, traveling all the way back home, and then coming back in order to get things right. To reconcile with their brother. God doesn't want to see our gifts unless we're also willing to reconcile with our brothers. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. This is something that we uh uh often remind people of as we uh come before the Lord and uh in the Lord's Supper and communion. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Look in verse 27. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But a man must examine himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not judge the body rightly. What does that mean? Judge the body rightly. For this reason many among you are weak and sick and a number sleep. But if we judged ourselves rightly, we would not be judged. But when we are judged, we are disciplined by the Lord so that we will not be condemned along with the world. So then, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another. If anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, so that you will not come together for judgment. The remaining matters I will arrange when I come. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about unity with the brothers and sisters in Christ. That that that if if you fail to have unity with brothers and sisters in Christ, why are you going to come and have communion Why are you going to come and share in the Lord's Supper together? You know, one of the things that the Lord's table symbolizes is that we're now part of one body, right? We're all part of the one body of Christ. We all eat of the same loaf. And he says, how can you come together with the symbol of being united with the church, with the body of Christ, and you and you're not going to consider your brothers? Leave the communion table alone. Go get things right with your brother first and then come and celebrate the Lord's Supper. You understand that? Another thing, uh flip over to 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2. 1 Peter chapter 2. Look what he says here. You know, hearing the word of God. You know, when you want to come in and hear the word of God. There's a prerequisite to truly hearing the word of God. Look at 1 Peter 2. Therefore, putting aside all malice and all deceit. And hypocrisy and envy and slander, like newborn babes, long for the pure milk of the word so that you may grow in respect for salvation. How are you going to grow by the word of God? It's first of all by putting aside malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy. Get things right with your brothers. And then you can come and hear from the Word of God. Then you can benefit from the Word of God. Another one, since we're already in 1 Peter, look at 1 Peter 3, verse 7. This is one that you probably thought of already. 1 Peter 3, verse 7. You knew we'd have to touch on marriage sooner or later, right? 1 Peter 3, verse 7. You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way. As with someone weaker, since she is a woman, and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life. Why? So that your prayers will not be hindered. You know what God is saying? I am not listening I'm not ready to listen to you. If you're not going to dwell with your wife in an understanding way, if you're not willing to get things right with your wife, why are you going to come to me in prayer? There's somebody you need to talk to and it's not me right now. Go and speak with your wife first, get things right with her, and then come before me. It's important. It's important. And this is what we're talking about over in uh in Matthew chapter chapter 6. This is the kind of um ignoring that God will do of your prayers as well if you if you come before Him. While still being unwilling to forgive your brethren. We need to be on guard, right? We need to be on guard. Thomas Watson, uh number of years ago, he said this. He says, uh, when do we forgive others? It's when we strive against all thoughts of revenge, when we will not do our enemies mischief mischief, but wish well to them, grieve at their calamities, pray for them, seek reconciliation with them, show ourselves ready on all occasions. to relieve them, resisting revenge, not returning evil for evil, wishing well, grieving at their calamities, praying for their welfare, seeking reconciliation, as far as it depends on you, do what? Live at peace with with all men. This is what we're we're to do. We'll talk a little bit more about uh about forgiveness and uh what it is and what what it isn't um because I know there's Many different situations where uh uh this has to uh this comes into play. You know, what does it mean to forgive you know unbelievers who aren't even willing to repent and say that they did anything wrong? How about believers? When they're unwilling to own up to their sins. I mean, do we just, hey, forgive, forget, you know, you're pardoned, don't worry about it. How would that connect with church discipline then? How would that connect with church discipline? For somebody who's unrepentant, there's actually consequences for their sins. You know, it doesn't just say, hey, forget about it. You know, forget about it, right? It's not what it says. You know, there's actually consequences. So we'll talk about those those consequences later and what it means to forgive believers, unbelievers, what God is actually requiring of us. Uh we'll get into that more next time, but I do want to close with this uh just final illustration uh regarding uh forgiveness. We read the story earlier uh about the the man who uh was before a Nazi soldier and Um he says, you know, put yourself in my shoes, what would you have done? What would you have done? Let's uh let's hear the story of uh of one more man Mission founder Richard Werbr Wormbrand once met a man who had experienced the divine release that comes through forgiveness. Wormbrand was in a communist prison in Romania at the time, lying in a prison cell reserved for those who were dying. And the cow on his right was a pastor who had been beaten so badly that he was about to die. On his left was the very man who had beaten him. A communist who was later betrayed and tortured by his comrades. One night the communists awakened in the middle of a nightmare and cried out, please, Pastor, say a prayer for me. I have committed such crimes, I cannot die. The pastor feebly sat up and called for another prisoner to help. Slowly he stumbled past Wormbrand's cot and sat on the bedside of his enemy As he watched, Wombrand saw the pastor begin to caress the hair of the man who had tortured him. Then he spoke these amazing words, I have forgiven you with all of my heart And I love you. If I, who am only a sinner, can love and forgive you, more so can Jesus, who is the Son of God, who is love incarnate. Return to him. He longs for you much more than you long for him. He wishes to forgive you much more than you wish to be forgiven. You just repent. There in the prison cell, the communists began to confess all his murders and tortures. When he was finished, the two men prayed together, embraced, and then returned to their beds, where each died that very night. The pastor had learned how to forgive. He had learned how to forgive everyone for everything, even those who had wounded him most. He had learned how to forgive and forget, how to forgive over and over again. He had learned all this from Jesus, who first forgave his own debts. and then taught him to forgive his debtors. That's uh the the Lord's closing word on prayer. There's a prerequisite to prayer If you're going to come before the Lord in prayer, you need to examine your own heart and conscience and say, have I really been willing to forgive others? Do I stand in a position of rightiness to forgive any who would repent? Any who would come to me, do I stand in readiness to forgive? Have I forgiven those that have come to me to ask for forgiveness? Or am I holding on to some kind of bitterness in my heart and then expecting God to hear me? Expecting God just to, you know, ignore that. Just to just ignore my sin and forgive. No, God will pay attention to your sin and ignore you. That's the way it works. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for this time that we've had together, Lord, and just considering the closing words on prayer. Uh Father, as uh Jesus Christ concluded uh this discussion on prayer, he he taught us to examine ourselves, uh that we need to examine what what lies within our own hearts, uh, that uh there's times when we can hold on to to bitterness being uh ready to uh uh to see others punished uh for their sins, that we become the the judge and the executioner, the jury. All in one, thinking that people owe us and uh that we're going to hold them accountable for what they've done. Father, I pray that you'd uh uh give us a forgiving heart That you teach us to uh uh to be willing and ready, uh to forgive all who would come and ask for rep uh for forgiveness, all who would repent. Father, because that is your heart. You forgive us. You remove our transgressions from us as far as the east is from the west, and you promise to remember them no more. Father, what a what a joy it is to know that we're forgiven. And uh Father, as your children, I pray that uh that we would uh have your kind of character, uh, that we wouldn't hold on to any kind of bitterness within our hearts, because we know that if we do, that our prayers are hindered. There's no other way around it. Our prayers are hindered, God, if we refuse to dwell with one another in the way that we should. Father, I pray that you'd protect us as a congregation right here. That you'd help us to be unified. And if there's any issues that need to be discussed between any members, Father, I pray that we'd be willing and jumping at the opportunity to do that because we want to be heard by you, God. Father, I pray that that would be true of us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files