The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So why don't you take your Bibles with me? Turn on your copy of God's Word to Romans chapter 3. Romans chapter 3. And uh we're returning uh to this section, Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 26, now for the fourth time. And uh I know that we're used to verse-by-verse exposition. But this is more like what Martin Luther said about studying the Bible. He said, I study my Bible as I gather apples. First I shake the whole tree that the ripest may fall. Then I shake each limb. And when I have shaken each limb, I shake each branch and every twig. And then I look under every leaf. And uh that's what we're doing today. We're looking under every leaf. of the word of of God. And uh today might seem like we're uh going a bit of a slower pace than than normal, but uh I think that this text calls for it. Uh we've mentioned this before, but Donald Gray Barnhouse, who pastored 10th Presbyterian Church, took 12 years to preach to the Romans, and he said that here is the theme of the epistle to the Romans, and in reality, it is the theme of the New Testament and of the whole Bible. Martin Luther said that the article of justification that's expounded in Romans chapter 3 is the article by which the church stands or falls. And it was MacArthur's biblical doctrines that considered the doctrine of justification by faith alone to be the very heart of the gospel and the soul of Christianity itself. And some consider this text to be possibly the most important passage ever written. So there's no way that I was going to rush past this, but as important as this passage is. In church history, it's often a text that's been mishandled, it's been misunderstood, it's been misrepresented, and it's also been severely misapplied And it's my prayer that we'll walk away from this text with a clear understanding and a sense of why this text has been so important in theology and in church history. Also I have a theological and a historical concern in slowing down to consider this text. But beyond that, I have a very personal and practical concern in our consideration of this text, because understanding the doctrine that is here is about much more than winning a theological debate or demonstrating your familiarity with church history. The questions that we'll answer in this passage are intensely personal. And here's the question. How am I, as a sinful human being, going to be able to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? And that question has been asked in all sorts of ways. In Job chapter 9 and verse 2, Job asks, how can a man be right before God? In Psalm 130 and verse 3, the psalmist has a similar question. He says, if you Lord should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? Lord, if if you're keeping track up there for every time that I've disobeyed you, for every action that I've done, for every word that I've spoken, for every thought that I've ever had. Who is going to be able to stand before you in judgment? If you're marking this down, oh Lord, who can stand? Psalm 143, verse 2, the plea is offered. Oh, do not enter into judgment with your servant. For in your sight no man living is righteous. Proverbs 20 verse 9 says, Who can say I have cleansed my heart and I'm pure from sin? Who can say that? The same question is asked in a different way in the New Testament. Mark chapter 10, verse 17. As Jesus was setting out on a journey, a man ran up to him, knelt before him, and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit? Eternal life. Luke chapter 10, verse 25, a lawyer stood up. This is a professional student of the law of God. He was an authority on the law of God. And he asked Jesus, teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? This was the question that teachers of the scriptures were asking Lord, I know that I've studied this back and forth, but can you answer this question for me? How do I know that I'm going to heaven? How do I know that I'll live after I die? That's why Jesus saw Nicodemus who came to him at night. He says, how can a man be born when he's old? The most important religious question that you could ever ask is how am I, as a sinful human being, going to be able to stand before the judgment of a perfectly holy God? I know I've sinned. I know I've fallen short, but surely there has to be somewhere, some way, somehow, to get me from here to there. Is there a way that I can get from where I am into the presence of God in peace? And that's the answer that we find within our text. So let's take a look at a text again, Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 21. It says, But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood Through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do come before you, Lord, today. And our Father, as we always do, Lord, asking and pleading with you for your help, our Father, that you would open up your word to us, Lord. These are the words of eternal life. Father, this is a matter of life and death. And Father, I pray that there's no one who would listen to these words and take these things lightly. There's a date on the calendar for all of us. We're all going to have to face the judge of all the earth. And Father, we'll either face that judge in peace. Or we'll face that judge for our eternal destruction, God. And Father, I pray that you would help us to listen, to pay attention. Father, that we would hear from you what you say about who enters into your eternal kingdom. Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We have a principle in our legal system that presumes the innocence of every person until they're proven guilty. It's known as the presumption of innocence, which is why the prosecution has the obligation to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a person is guilty of a crime. And until they can do so, a person is to be presumed innocent. That's one of our fundamental rights as citizens, right? As U. S. citizens. We're to be considered innocent until proven guilty But that's not the operating principle of heaven. There is no presumption of innocence before the divine court. And we've all been proven to be guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. And that's why the first three chapters of Romans has demonstrated for us time and time again that all of us are sinners. We've all sinned. So we don't presume the innocence of people, we presume the guilt of people. Heaven presumes you guilty Until you're declared just. You're presumed guilty until declared just. We're not considered innocent until proven guilty. We're considered guilty until declared justified. And this is the turning point in the text. In Romans chapter 3, verse 21, it says, But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. The law is able to declare us righteous. To declare us just, but there is a path to that apart from the law, where the righteousness of God has been manifested. In verse 22 of Romans 3, it describes that righteousness as even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. Verse 24 gives a theological term for the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, and it's the term justification. Look again at verse 24. It says, being justified is a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. And we're going to turn over some leaves today in our examination of this biblical doctrine so that we can answer the question, that most important question. How am I, as a sinful human being, going to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? I'm going to examine that by examining this doctrine of justification. So This is the way that we're going to outline this passage. We're going to look at the definition of justification. What does it mean to be justified? We're going to look at the recipients of justification. Who is this justification for? The nature of justification, on what uh uh how should we think about justification? Uh also we're going to look at the grounds of justification, on what basis am I justified? and the means of justification, how do I receive it? Not the most exciting outline, but it gets the job done, okay? Let's take a look at the first point. The definition of justification. Again, in verse 24. It says being justified. What does Paul mean by that? Being justified. What are we talking about when we talk about justification? Being justified First of all, it's important to define this term lexically. The definition of the word justification. The word justification here comes from the Greek word dikeao. It's the same Greek word that is translated as righteous. And that's important for us to point out here because we're talking about righteousness. And in an active sense, that Greek word is used to be righteous. It means to be righteous or to act righteously. It's something that you can do in an active sense. But that's not how Paul uses it here. He uses it here in a passive sense. He uses a passive form of the participle here, which means that it this is not something that you do for yourself. but it's something that is done for you. So my point is that justification in biblical terms is something that happens to us Something that happens for us. We are being justified by another. If it was an English word, we could say something like, we are being righteous. I know that's not a real word. But if it was, we're being righteous by somebody else. Righteousness is being received, and somebody outside of us is righteousing us. Another thing to point out here is that this term is a legal declaration. The technical term is forensic. We use the term forensics to speak about a crime, you know, speak about crime investigation. You've heard of uh forensic science. You know, it's amazing how a Coke can or a piece of hair can say that you were there at the time of the crime. It's amazing if you watch some of those shows sometimes. It's like, good grief, how do they figure all that stuff out? But forensics has to do with legal procedure, the courts. And when we speak about the term justification, it's like we're brought into the courtroom. And the question that's brought before us is whether or not a person is innocent or guilty, whether they will be justified or whether they will be condemned. And that's made clear by the way the term is used across Scripture. For example, in Deuteronomy 25. It says, if there is a dispute between men, and they go to court, and the judges decide their case, and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked So that's the kind of scene that you should be putting into your mind. It's a court scene. Somebody's being justified, declared innocent. Somebody's being condemned. They're guilty. It's the language of the courts. Proverbs 17, verse 15, it says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination. to the Lord. And again, it's it's in the courtroom. You know, somebody who's a judge who's supposed to render a verdict. Same word is used when people judge God. You know, people are judging God. Romans chapter 3 and verse 4. But God says, let God be found true, though every man be found a what? A liar. Yeah, if you're going to judge me, you're going to judge me as true and you as the liar. I'm the one who's innocent. I'm the one who's justified here. As the scripture goes on to say that ye may be prevailed, that you may uh be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. Men are said to judge God, but when they try to come to judge God, they're the ones who are judging themselves, because God is the one who's innocent. My point here is that justification is a legal term. It's used of a declaration. It's not a word that's used to talk about a process. Like like you know, I'm going from one stage to another, one stage of holiness or righteousness to another. That's not what it's talking about. It's a legal declaration. I'm declaring you as something. Why is that important? Because the Bible says that when we're justified, that it's a declaration about our position. This is what I'm declaring you to be. It's not that I'm making you into something. It's I'm declaring you to be something. Okay? For example, when I stand before an engaged couple And I've had the opportunity to do this on numerous occasions when I stand before an engaged couple and I say, I now pronounce you husband and wife. I'm declaring something about their position, about their status. I didn't make them anything. I I I didn't, you know Rent you your tuxedo, I didn't buy you your dress. You know, I might have done some counseling, but you're gonna have to work this thing out after I say after you say I do, right? But when I say I now pronounce you husband and wife, something happened. Their position is different. They came in as two, they left out as one. And that happened with a declaration. I'm declaring something to be true. And when God says you're justified, it's a legal declaration about your status. You've moved from one status to another. It's declaring something about who you are. You're declared innocent in his sight. You're no longer under his condemnation. And as it relates to our salvation, justification is more than a declaration of innocence. It's also a positive statement about the presence of righteousness. Think about this one, okay? This is important. Because it's one thing to be cleared of a crime, but it's another thing to be worthy of a reward. In our justification, we're not just cleared from our guilt, we're also presented before God as righteous You might have heard the saying that justification means God treats me just as if I'd never sinned. Have anybody ever heard that before? God has treating me just as if I'd never sinned. And that might be memorable, but the definition doesn't go far enough. Because justification is more than that. If we've never sinned, that would make us innocent. If we never sinned, that would make us you know bring us back to Eden, but it wouldn't bring us to heaven. So it's more than that. It's not just that I've never sinned. It's doesn't it's not just that God looks at me as if I've never sinned. God is also treating me as if I've always been righteous. Something different. He treats me just as if I've always been righteous. We stand with the absence of guilt and the presence of righteousness. I'm more than innocent before God. I stand before God as righteous. And that should be enough to make your soul cry out, hallelujah! Right? We don't often consider the gravity of our situation before God. According to the book of Romans, without justification, we don't have peace with God. Actually, let me just flip you to a couple of these. Romans chapter 5, verse 1. Look at chapter 5, verse 1. Look at all that we have because of our justification. Romans chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. No justification, no peace with God. Look at chapter 5, verse 9. Much more than, having now been justified by his word, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. No justification, you're not saved from the wrath of God. Look at chapter 8, chapter 8, verse 30 It says, and these whom he predestined, he also called, and these whom he called he also justified, and these whom he justified, he also what? Glorified. No justification, no glorification. You are not glorified. You will not be glorified apart from justification. And I'll just show you one more. Flip over to the book of Titus. Titus chapter 3, look at verse 7 Says so that being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. No justification, you're not an heir of eternal life. No inheritance, no eternal life. There's no gospel without justification. No gospel without it. If you're not justified, you're not saved. And you will perish forever under the wrath of God Without justification. And what God does in justification is something that no human court can do. He is able to remove our guilt and to declare us as righteous in his sight. No human court can do that. A human court might be able to say, Oh, you didn't commit that crime, but it can't say, I declare you righteous. There's no human court that can do that, but this is what God does. He declares us righteous. God does what no human court can do. If a human court justifies the wicked, it's an abomination. You can't declare somebody righteous who sinned, but God is able to declare guilty people as righteous. Without any violation of his character whatsoever. And he this brings us to our second point. Who are the recipients of justification? We talked about the definition. Who are the recipients of it? The recipients are sinners. Look back at chapter 3 and verse 24. So it says being justified as a gift by his grace, but who are those who are being justified as a gift by his grace? Back up to verse 23. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Who are those who are being justified? Who are those that are coming into this you know, uh a declaration of being justified, being declared innocent, being declared righteous in the sight of God, it's those who have sinned. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Listen to this. God does not justify godly people. God doesn't justify godly people. Look over at chapter 4. Romans chapter 4. Look at verse 5. It says, but to the one who does not work, but believes in him, who justifies the who The ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. Pay attention to what that says. It does not say that God makes ungodly people godly and then justifies them. I'm going to take an ungodly person and then after this long process of making him godly, once he's finally godly, then I'll declare him to be righteous. No, that's not what he says. He says I'm declaring ungodly people. As righteous. That's who he's declaring as righteous. And this is one of the major teachings that was recovered during the Reformation. And one of the ways that Martin Luther summarized this biblical teaching, and I don't use Latin often, but I'll use it here, okay? Latin phrase is simul usus et peccator. The Christian he would say is simul, meaning simultaneously. At the same time, used meaning just or righteous, et is just the word for and. R. C. Sprohl said it's the past tense of eat, you know, you et something. At pecator. Pecator is the word for sinner. The Christian is at the same time simultaneously Righteous and sinner. Just and sinner at the same time. And what he meant by that is not that believers don't experience a change in their lives. We're a new creation, right? We're a new creation, but and our life is one of repentance, so we're we're we're making progress. Lord willing, right? You're making progress. But even with the change that takes place in a believer's life, we will never eradicate sin on this side of glory. You're just not going to do it. Isn't that what Paul wrestled with in Romans chapter 7? I find then this principle that evil is present with me, the one who wants to do good. Oh, wretched man that I am. I hate it. But Lord, I can't eradicate myself of this sin until I'm taking the glory. That's what glorification is for. And if God waits for me to be righteous before he declares me righteous, God will never declare me as righteous. You understand that? If he waits until I am righteous to say, okay, now I'll declare you as righteous. I'll never be declared as righteous. And that's one of the central problems with Roman Catholic theology. Justification in Catholic theology is not only the remission of sins, the removal of sins, the forgiveness of sins. but also the sanctification and renewal of the inner man. That comes from their catechism. It's not just being declared holy, it's actually being holy. Roman Catholicism teaches, first of all, that justification comes through baptism. The catechism of the Catholic Church says the most holy trinity gives the baptized the grace of justification. And baptism is considered a bath that purifies, justifies, and sanctifies. But then that grace of justification can be lost by grave or mortal sins. And it has to be regained by penance. And the sacrament of penance offers a new possibility to convert and to recover the grace of justification. So you're always going up and down in your justification. It's not a declaration. It's this this kind of ongoing process. I'm gaining it, I'm losing it, I'm coming back to it. And then if you die without being perfectly purified. . Again, this is according to the Roman Catholic Catechism. . You can be assured of your eternal salvation after death, but only after undergoing a purification in purgatory, so as to achieve holiness. In other words, you can't be declared holy until you're actually holy. And it might take you a while to get there, and you might be in purgatory for a while. But eventually you'll finally work your way out where God can actually say, okay, he's finally purified. Now I can declare him as righteous and bring him into heaven. But God does not withhold the declaration of your righteousness, of your justification, until he sees some righteousness in you. 1 John 1. 8 says, if we say that we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves. If you think that you've finally reached the point where God can finally declare you as righteous because of how you've lived your life, you are deceiving yourself. Our hope is not that one day God will find enough righteousness in us. Our hope is that God will find righteousness outside of us. That's the hope. Apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, the scriptures say. And if you need more encouragement about that, just consider the Corinthian church. Think about the Corinthian church. 1 Corinthians, you know, if you kind of walk through 1 Corinthians chapters 1 through 4, talks about how the Corinthian church was marked by division. They tried to prop themselves up because of the teachers they were listening to. Hey, this is my favorite teacher, so I'm better than you. That's what they did. Chapters 1 through 4 speaks about their division between one another. Chapters 5 through 6 talks about how they were known for disobedience. They were tolerating gross sin among themselves. They were even taking one another to court. Chapters 5 through 6 talk about that. And then throughout the rest of the book, it talks about their immaturity and understanding. They had questions on all sorts of issues about marriage, about liberty, about the Lord's Supper, about spiritual gifts, about the resurrection. This is a church that's pretty messed up. But then what does Paul say about the same church? 1 Corinthians 1, verse 2, to the church of God, which is at Corinth, to those who have been sanctified in Christ. Saints by calling, with all who in every place call on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, their Lord and ours. This group of people, you're gonna call them saints? And this looks like the ain't this isn't the saints. You know, when the saints come marching in, I don't want to see this group of people, right? But here they are. And brothers and sisters, you can rejoice that God does not withhold his declaration of righteousness over you until you're actually righteous. God doesn't wait until you reach some kind of superior saintly status, but it's for all those who call upon the name of the Lord. You call upon the name of the Lord, guess what you are? You're a saint. You're a saint. We used to say back in the day, you know, when people gave a testimony, it's like, praise the Lord, saints. Praise the Lord, saints. That's what you are. If you've trusted in the name of the Lord, if you've called upon the name of the Lord Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sin, you are a saint. And that's why the Lord can turn to the thief on the cross and say, today. Today you'll be with me in paradise. The definition of justification, recipients of justification. How about the nature of justification? How are we to think about justification? Back to chapter 3, verse 24. It says being justified as a gift. Justification is a gift. And definitions are so important to keep in mind when we're trying to discern truth. I did a quick search on the Catholic Catechism since I was reading it. And look up the word grace. The word grace is mentioned in the Catholicism Catechism 425 times. I'm not sure that you've written anything that mentions grace 425 times. 425 times. That's why if you were to speak to a Roman Catholic and say something like, you know, we believe in salvation by grace, they would say so do we. But the definition is different. The definition is different. The definition of grace has been hijacked. And not just the Catholic Church, many religions. Besides Christianity, they hijack these terms. Again, according to the Catholic Catechism, the sacraments, listen to this, celebrated wordily in faith, confer the grace that they signify If you participate in the sacraments, they confer the grace. In other words, you can receive grace by your participation. You participate, you will receive the grace. So the grace is conferred. It's given to you through baptism, through penance, through the Mass, through other works. They add grace The meaning of grace is subtly hijacked, and works have been included in the definition of grace. But if there's something that I have to do in order to earn grace, guess what? It's not grace. It's my grace. I remember talking to a Mormon one time, and he said, isn't it gracious of God that he allows us to work for our salvation? It's like, okay, hold on a minute. Hold on a minute. No. No, because that's not right. It's not, I mean, grace to work. God gives me the grace to work. Isn't it gracious of God that I can work and earn my salvation? That means that grace is no longer grace. Really important verse to remember, Romans 11, verse 6. It says, but if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. If I have to work for grace, it's not grace. If there's something I have to do to earn grace, it's not grace. And if God is compelled to give grace because I work. Whatever it that is, it's not grace. It's a contradiction of the definition. The word for grace is the Greek word karus. Quick definition of that word, it's unmerited favor. Lexicons defined it as a gracious deed or a gift, and our works have nothing to do with justification. Justification is actually placed in contrast to works. Listen to these passages, Romans 3 verse 28. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works. Romans 4, 5. But to the one who does not work. But believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. We recited it earlier, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved. Through faith and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God not as a result of works, so that no one may boast Second Timothy 1 9. He has called us and saved us with a holy calling, not according to our works. Justification is apart from works. And it's given to the one who does not work. It's not a result of works. It's not according to works. And that's not to say that Christians don't work. We're saved unto good works, but our good works have nothing to do with our justification, our standing before God. And a simple reason why our works can't justify is because our good works aren't perfect. Matthew 5, 48, therefore you are to be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. If we were to be justified by our works that are less than perfect, It would also mean that God is less than perfect. Do you understand that? Because he says, therefore you are to be perfect. As your Heavenly Father is perfect. So if your perfection is to match his perfection, and then he accepts a perfection that's less than perfection, then that means he's also less than perfection. You understand that? If God were to justify us by works that are less than perfect, it would mean that he's less than perfect because he can receive less than perfection. If God is the standard of perfection and he declares us righteous based on imperfection, that means God is less than perfect himself. The righteousness of God demands what I cannot give. Which is why Paul says, I count everything that I have to offer as loss, so that I might be found in him. Philippians 3. 9, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. We need a righteousness that is not our own. The righteousness that satisfies God is his righteousness. And that righteousness comes to us through his son. And there's an objection to the doctrine of justification that says it's a legal fiction. If God is declaring people to be righteous and they're not actually righteous, then God is involved in some kind of uh Deception, because he's saying something is true when it's really not. He's saying that this person is righteous, but we know that he's not righteous, so You know, it turns God into a liar. It makes God an unjust judge. So they say, that's not true. You can't have God declaring people to be righteous until they actually are righteous. How can he call an ungodly person righteous? How can he say that I have righteousness that I don't have? And this is where it's helpful for us to define another theological term, and it's the term imputation Imputation. And what does that mean? It means that God credits us with a righteousness that comes from outside of us. He credits us with the righteousness that comes from outside of us. It's placed into our account. And there's a number of places in Scripture where we have a picture of this righteousness that is given to us, given to believers as a gift. For example, and I'll just point out a couple of these in Genesis chapter 15. God rehearses for Abraham the promises of the covenant, and in response to God's promises, Abraham believes. And what does Genesis 15, 6 is? It says that he, God, reckoned it to him as righteousness. And Paul quotes that in Romans chapter 4 and verse 3, and he uses the Greek word legizome. That word legitizimai is a word that means to reckon, to calculate, to set it down in one's account. It's an accountant term. To reckon, to calculate It's a reference to numbers. In Romans chapter 4, verse 3 says it's credited to him. So we have the credit that belongs to somebody else Another illustration is the language of Isaiah 61 in verse 10, where God speaks about giving his people righteousness that they did not earn in Isaiah 61. 6110 says, I will rejoice greatly in the Lord. My soul will exalt in my God, for he has clothed me with garments of salvation. He has wrapped me with the robe of righteousness. We're wrapped in the robes that belong to somebody else. He's giving us his robes to wrap ourselves in. Another picture. Romans chapter 5 and verse 15. You can go ahead and flip over there. Romans chapter 5 and verse 15. We have the picture of a free gift. So we get credits that belong to somebody else. We get a garment. That belongs to somebody else. And here we get a gift, a free gift that comes from somebody else. Look at chapter 5 and verse 15. And look at how many times the word gift or free gift is mentioned here in this passage. Verse 15, but the free gift is not like the transgression, for if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to many The gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned, for on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand, the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification. For if by the transgression of the one death reign through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ. Christ. What is justification? It's a gift. It's a free gift. It's bestowed upon us. Righteousness does not come through the law. It's a gift. We're robed in the righteousness of somebody else. We're given the credits that belong to somebody else. And there's that exchange that happens in 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. When God declares us righteous, it's not legal fiction. It's not make-believe, because before God is a real righteousness There's a real robe, there's a real gift, there's a real credit. That's reality. It's not fiction. But that righteousness doesn't come from you. It comes from somebody else The term Luther used was extranos outside of us or an alien righteousness that which is not our own. And one of the illustrations that Luther liked to use was the illustration of marriage. And we understand this, don't we? When you marry your spouse, your debts become their debts. It's not, no, this is my debt and that's your debt. No, when you become one, your debt becomes my debt. And now we gotta work this out together because this is ours. It's not my account, your account. You know, I I've got a great credit score and great bank account, but I don't know what you've got, you know No, you become one. It's like all that comes together. Right? And through our union with Christ, guess what happens? Our debts become his debts. And he paid off the debt on the cross. The debt's been paid. And then his righteousness becomes our righteousness Because now we're united to him. His perfect righteousness becomes ours. And now we stand before God in perfect righteousness because I'm united to Christ. That's why it's done. My debts have been paid because Jesus paid that. My righteousness is here because Jesus is that. And because we're one, he is my righteousness. Christ is the bridegroom, the church is the bride, and all that Christ has is now possessed by the church. His righteousness is possessed by the church His righteousness is imputed to me, which means God considers his righteousness as belonging to me, and it's credited to my account. So again, God doesn't have to wait until he sees righteousness in me because he already sees it in Jesus. What's the grounds for our justification? The grounds for it. What's the basis of it? The grounds of our justification is the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Back to Romans chapter 3 and verse 24. So it's being justified as a gift by which as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. I told you we were going to look over all the leaves, right? It's here. I'm not making this up. It's right here. The grounds of justification is the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. That word redemption is a rich biblical word. Sometimes we use it as a synonym for salvation, but it has a unique contribution to make. Because it's a word that speaks about freedom that's been secured at the payment of a ransom. Freedom has been secured at the payment of a ransom. A sacrifice has to be made in order to secure freedom Today when you use the word redeem, people think about a coupon, you know, redeeming a coupon or you know some other kind of you know receipt or something like that. I'm redeeming this or you know I lost last year, but I'm coming back to redeem myself or whatever it might be. But in the context that Paul is writing in, redemption was spoken of as a life-threatening situation that you were bought out of. You were about to pay the cost, and I took you out of that. John Murray in his book Redemption Accomplished and Applied, he says, ransom presupposes some kind of bondage or captivity. And redemption, therefore, implies that from which the ransom secures us, or that from which we need to be freed. Why do we need to be redeemed? Because we were heading towards condemnation. We were heading toward the wrath of God. And the price for our ransom, for our release from that condemnation was the blood of Jesus Christ. We've already seen this last week, but the two are connected in Scripture that the Romans 3 24 again, as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, and the very next verse says, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood. To free you from your penalty cost Jesus his life. So salvation is free for us, but it costs Jesus his life. And that's what the blood signifies, that it costs Jesus his life. And there's no way to have God without the cross. The only way you get God is through the cross. If you don't have the cross, it makes salvation cheap. And it says that God doesn't really demand perfection, and God really doesn't demand a penalty for sin. To have God without the cross is that God is not really the judge. And the cross demonstrates that the price had to be paid and that the price was paid. And that's why Jesus was displayed publicly to show you that the price has been paid for sin. And lastly, what's the means of justification? What's the means of justification? When we talk about the means of justification, what we're asking is what is the instrument through which salvation comes to us? What's the instrument through which justification comes to us? What's the channel? What's the vehicle? What are the means? What's the means? You know, for the Catholic Church and a number of other religious communities, the answer is baptism That's how you're justified. That's how you're declared innocent. You're baptized. And your sins are washed away. That's how it happens Catechism of the Catholic Church says the most holy trinity gives the baptized the grace of justification. I didn't grow up Catholic, but for one of Pentecostals, the answer was the same thing. It was baptism. And for us, it was baptism in Jesus' name. If you're baptized in the right way, that's the moment that you get justified. The righteousness is applied to your life The blood is supplied to your life the moment that you're baptized. What's the problem with that? What am I placing my hope in? The working of the work. And even a good work can become a substitute for trusting in Jesus. It's faith alone that demonstrates that I'm trusting in Christ alone. Faith alone demonstrates that I'm trusting in Christ alone. The question has been asked this way, and I can't remember what theology book I was reading that put it this way, but they said, why don't we read that we're justified through our love? Or justified through our patience. Or justified through our kindness or through any other virtue or work. It's because these would all turn us inward. It's about something that I'm doing. When we're said to be justified by faith, it turns us outward. Because I'm now placing my hope in somebody else. It's not about what I'm doing, it's about what he's doing. It's about what he's done. I'm turning from the inward to the outward. So we're justified by faith because that turns us towards Christ. There's nothing in here that's going to do it. I've got to go out there Christ is the one who can bring me righteousness. So it's clear that salvation does not come from ourselves. We're not even said to be justified because of our faith. Or on account of our faith. It's through our faith. Faith is just the empty hand that receives from Christ. Lord, there's nothing in my hand I bring simply to the cross I cling, right? It's through faith that I'm reaching out. Faith is just the empty hand that receives grace. And if justification is not all of faith, listen to this, this is important. If justification is not all of faith, it's not all of Christ. If justification is not all of faith, it's not all of Christ. And if it's not all of Christ, it's not all of grace. You following me? If justification is not all of faith, it's not all of Christ. If it's not all of Christ, and there's something that I have to do, then it's not all of grace. And if it's not all of grace, If it's not all completely about him and what he does, then it's not all to the glory of God. It's all connected It's all of faith because it's all of Christ. And it's all of Christ because it's all of grace. And it's all of grace because all the glory goes to him. There's nothing that I'm doing to contribute to this. He's doing it all And there's nowhere in Scripture that we're said to be justified by anything other than faith. Romans 3. 22, even the righteousness of God through faith Romans 3. 26, for the demonstration I say of his righteousness, that we would be that he would be just in the justifier of the one who has faith. Romans 3. 28, for we maintain that a man is justified by faith. Romans 4. 5. But to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. Romans 5. 1. Therefore having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Why do we teach that salvation is only through faith? We're justified by faith alone, through faith alone, because faith is the only thing that's ever mentioned. It's always through faith. Why do we teach we're justified by faith? It's because faith alone occupies that space when we're said to be justified by anything. It's through faith. The only exception is in the book of James when it's not talking about being justified before God, but how do we display our righteousness before men? How do I display my salvation? I do that by works, but I'm not saved by my works. I demonstrate my salvation by my works. But here, when we're talking about salvation, justification before God, it's always, always, always by faith. And that's the only thing that's mentioned. So when we say faith alone, we're not adding anything to the scriptures. We're just saying that, well, that's what it says. It's only by faith that we're justified. But the Roman Catholic Council of Trent states, if anyone says that the sinner is justified by faith alone, meaning that nothing else is required to cooperate in order to obtain the grace of justification, let him be anathema. Let him be condemned. If anyone says that the justice received is not preserved and also not increased before God through good works, But that those works are merely the fruits and signs of justification obtained, but not the cause of its increase, let him be anathema. And at least the council took it seriously. I'll at least say that. They at least understood that this is a matter of eternal salvation, and we both can't be right. They adopted the wrong position, but they still understood that one of us is wrong, and one of us is on the way to eternal life, and one of us isn't. But the Bible nowhere teaches that we're justified by anything other than faith. You're not declared righteous by your baptism or by any other work. And if you say, well, what's the problem with baptism? I mean, you know, didn't didn't God tell us that we should be baptized? I mean, isn't that part of the Great Commission? We should be baptized. I mean, there's a lot of things the scripture says, right? A lot of things that we should do. There's a lot of things that the Lord commanded. For example, the Lord also commanded circumcision in the Old Testament. But Paul himself, who was not opposed to circumcision because he was circumcised, he talks about that in Philippians 3 He had Timothy circumcised because Timothy's mother was of Jewish descent and he wanted to make sure that there was no reason for people not to listen to him. But then he speaks this in the book of Galatians. Why don't you flip over to the book of Galatians real quick? Galatians chapter five. Look what he says in verse two. He says, Behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. Whoa, Paul, hold on a minute. What what are you saying? Didn't didn't God command circumcision in the Old Testament? Like what are you what are you talking about if I receive circumcision, Christ is of no benefit to me. It's about why I'm being circumcised. He says, and I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. For you have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by the law, and that's the problem. I'm seeking to be justified by something else other than faith. If I'm seeking to be justified by the law, I've cut myself off from Christ. And any religion that adds anything to faith has cut themselves off from Christ. If circumcision, a little minor surgery. was enough to sever these Gentiles from Christ. What do you think about this list? Baptism, penance, participation in communion, confirmation, good works. Church attendance, the giving of offerings, fastings, prayers, Bible readings, pilgrimages, obeying the commandments. If you're doing any of these in order to be justified before God, you have cut yourself off from Christ. Because if it's not all of faith, it's not all of Christ. Christ alone is the object of saving faith, and he doesn't share that place with anyone or anything. Because Christ receives all the glory to himself And just because a religion speaks of Christ and tries to live out a lot of the same principles of Christianity, that doesn't mean a thing. The problem comes when you don't believe that Jesus is enough. It's the Jesus plus religions, right? It's the Jesus plus. Christ is not enough. It's Jesus plus And here's the question, how am I, as a sinful human being, going to be able to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? How can a man be right before God? If the Lord should mark iniquities, oh Lord, who can stand? Who can say I've cleansed my heart and I'm pure from sin? Most important religious question. How am I going to be able to stand before a perfectly holy God? I know that I've sinned. I know I've fallen short. Is there any way for me to get from here to there? That's the question. And what's the answer? The answer comes in justification Justification. The shorter Westminster Catechism puts it like this. What is justification? It's an act of God's free grace. Wherein he pardons all of our sins and accepts us as righteous in his sight only for the righteousness of Christ. imputed to us and received by faith alone. That's basically just Romans chapter 3, 23 and 24 rearranged. It's the same truth. An act of God's free grace, it's a gift where God pardons us of all of our sins, and he accepts us as righteous in his sight, but only for the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's imputed to us. Comes from outside of us. It's imputed, reckoned to us, credited to us, and it's received by faith alone. That's how you answer that question. Who is it that receives it? Who receives justification at sinners? And guess what? Everybody here qualifies You're all sinners. You've all fallen short of the glory of God. And that means that you all qualify to be justified by His grace That's who receives justification. Sinners receive it. And how should you think about that justification? It's a gift of God. There's nothing that I'm adding. I'm not contributing my works to that. I'm just receiving it as a gift. What's the ground of my justification? It's Jesus Christ. It's the redemption that's found in Jesus Christ. He's the one that did the work. He's the one that lived the perfect life. He's the one who went to the cross. He's the one that's the ground of my justification. And what's the means of justification? How do I attach myself to that work of Christ? That work of Christ that's objective, that's already happened, that's already done, how do I attach myself to what he's done? It's by means of faith. It's through faith alone in Christ alone that I receive that gift. Not the labor of my hands can fulfill thy law's demands. Could my zeal no respite know? Could my tears forever flow? All could never sin erase. Thou must save and save by grace. This is an older version. Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling Naked come to thee for dress, helpless look to thee for grace, foul I to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die. My righteousness is in Jesus' life. My debt was paid by Jesus' death. My heavy load was borne by him. And it's only him that gives me breath, right? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for the life that you've given to us because of Jesus Christ. We thank you for this truth of justification. And Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to not only defend this and believe this , but Father, I pray that we would rejoice in this. Father, this is something to glory in. We rejoice in this doctrine. We glorify you for what you've done. Because It's all of faith, it's all of Christ, because it's all of Christ, it's all of grace, and because it's all of grace, it's all glory to you alone. All glory goes to you for For our great salvation, in Jesus' name we pray shit and give you thank Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.