The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, it's a joy to ask you to turn with me once again to the book of Matthew, the book of Matthew, where we've been Contemplating and meditating on the greatest pattern and model of prayer that was ever given, the prayer uh from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ. uh where he uh taught us to to pray in in a way that that really challenges us um uh because uh often when we come before the Lord it's with our laundry list of of things that we desire from him And uh not necessarily hearing from him what he desires uh from us. And uh this prayer instructs us to to pray in a in a way that God would actually uh recognize and reward in a way that uh God would be honored with and and pleased with and as those who are uh his children uh were were taught to pray in a in a way that would uh honor uh the Father. Uh if you would, why don't you uh uh Recite with me the Lord's Prayer and uh probably in the version that most of us know it in, the the King James Version. And uh we're gonna use uh uh debts and debtors instead of uh trespasses and you know uh trespasses and those that trespass against us. Alright? So we're going to use debts and denters, all right? From Matthew chapter 6. Our Father who art in heaven Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trust debts as we forgive those, our debtors. Let's start again. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, God, for uh these words, uh the words that our Lord taught us how to pray, and uh Father, we do uh thank you that uh you forgive us of all of our uh trespasses as well as our debts. Father, we're grateful that we can come before you and uh pray to you in a way that you would be uh honored with and uh glorified by. And uh Father, I just pray for uh this morning as we uh take a look at this uh passage uh that you would open it up to us And that you would uh teach us how to be uh those that that uh better honor you with our prayers. Father, we pray that that would be true, that you transform us individually and that you transform us as a church. Uh Father, that uh corporately, Lord, that we would be known as a people of prayer. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Uh earlier this this week my my son Michael was showing me a book that he had with a a number of silly laws. that are still on the books. Um there is a a law against whistling while underwater in Vermont. It's illegal to whistle while underwater. I'm not sure where that came about, but you can't whistle underwater. We actually tried it and uh it was pretty hard. A law against kissing your wife with a mustache in Iowa. So uh if you have a mustache you can say goodbye. There's a law against driving a car without a steering wheel in Illinois. You can't drive a car without a steering wheel. Uh I don't know who's out there just, you know, holding on to the shaft, but uh You cannot drive a a car without a steering wheel. And then there's that that silly law against using the Lord's name in vain, right? That silly law against using the the nor Lord's name in vain. I mean how how how extreme can you get Article 27, Section 20 of the 1939 Annotated Code of the Public General Laws of Maryland, our own home state of Maryland. Read as follows If any person by writing or speaking shall blaspheme or curse God, or shall write or utter any profane words of and c concerning our Saviour Jesus Christ or of concerning the Trinity, or any of the persons thereof, all the you know the other members of the Trinity, he shall on conviction be fined not more than one hundred dollars, or in prison not more than six months or both be fined and in prison, as aforesaid, at the discretion of the court. That law was uh adopted in eighteen nineteen And uh was declared to be unconstitutional in 1972. As recently as 1972. Uh this is actually a common law, a common law against uh blasphemy in uh many states in as late as 2009, uh protecting the name of God. There were uh states that still had on the books uh against blasphemy, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Oklahoma Laws against blaspheming the name of of the Lord. And uh apparently uh nobody knew that blaspheming God was actually part of your right to free speech until the end of the twentieth century, right? And uh makes you wonder who's reading something into the Constitution, you know, those that were closer to it or those that are further removed from it. And uh I'm not trying to advocate that we lobby for a return of the the blasphemy laws in the United States and uh and really how can that be enforced in a godless nation anyway? Um we're probably closer to a a freedom from religion than a freedom of religion in our country, but I'm I'm thankful for the right to free speech in this country and uh that we can publicly proclaim Christ. So I'm grateful for freedom of speech. And as Christians we want to live quiet and peaceful lives of obedience. In 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 2 it says We're to pray for kings for all those who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. And uh you never find the early church lobbying uh for the Roman government to honor the name of God. Uh because they understood that the Roman government didn't represent God's rule on earth. And uh as Israel once did. In fact, Jesus said in uh John 18, 36, that my kingdom is not of this world, right? Uh so my my point in bringing up the the blasphemy laws isn't to ask you if you believe it's right to establish and enforce a law like that today, uh but rather to ask you how serious how serious Do you take honoring the name of your God? How serious do you take that? Um does it seem extreme to you that that a nation Or any nation would uh consider disrespect for the name of God a crime? Disrespect for the name of God a crime? Does it seem extreme that the God Himself requires honor of his own name. Let's look back at uh Leviticus chapter 24. Leviticus chapter 24. This is a passage that we've uh turned to before, but uh back in Leviticus 24 It brings us to a time when Israel was still wet behind the ears as a nation. Their national identity was uh brand new, only about twenty, uh only about two years old, two years old at the time. They're still trying to figure out how to apply the law of God that was given to them at Sinai. And in Leviticus 24. Starting at uh at verse 10, uh they're faced with this difficult decision of what to do uh with the person who used the Lord's name as a profane curse What do we do with somebody who profanes the name of our God? Uh the incident involved two men who got into a fight and in s They're inside the Israelite camp and one of them in the middle of this struggle, he lets loose with the the name of of God, uses the name of God as a curse word. Uh the authorities didn't even ask, you know, hey, uh what about the fight? You know, was it a fair fight? You know, any hitting below the belt? Um, you know, were there any injuries, you know, during the fight? None of those questions were asked. The overwhelming concern was for the honor of God's name, because God commanded that his name be respected. God commanded it. Look at that, Leviticus 24, starting at verse 10. Says now the son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the sons of Israel, and the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel struggled with each other in the camp. The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the name and cursed. So they brought him to Moses. Now his mother's name was Shalomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. They put him in custody so that the command of the Lord might be made clear to them. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Bring the one who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, then let all the nations stone him You shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, If any one curses his God, then he will bear his sin. Moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. The alien as well as the native, when he blasphemes the name, shall be put to death. Question for you. Was that taking things a little bit too far? Was that taking things too far? Was the use of God's name really all that important? And uh should it really be considered a capital offense? Like I said, I wouldn't argue for for that today. That's not the point of this. Please don't don't misunderstand me and go out and say, hey, George is thinking we need to, you know, pick up stones for anybody who you know uses The Lord's name in vain, that is not not what I'm trying to say. But what I am saying is that during a time when God rules During a time when when it's it's God's kingdom that's that's ruining, the answer is yes. It's it's that serious. And uh whether you realize it or not, um there's not a more serious prayer that you pray. Then hallowed be thy name. Hallowed be thy name. And there should be nothing that we desire more than to see God's name glorified on this earth. There's really only only three points that I want to observe this morning in this section of prayer back in uh Matthew chapter six. Uh first of all, there's the priority of the request itself, you know, asking for God's name to be hollow, that the priority of that request There's the priority of the name of God and how we refer to God, and then there's the priority of reverence that should be given to him. uh to the hallowing of his name. So there's the priority of the request, the priority of the name, and the priority of the the reverence. But first of all let's take a look at the the priority of the the request itself. And it's it's important to point out that this is a request. How would be thy name is actually a request. We're asking something from God. Sometimes we read that as if it's just a recognition of of who God is, like we're just saying, hey God, your name is holy. Your name is holy, God. We recognize you as holy. But that you know, and that's true, right? We recognize God's name is holy in Psalm 103. Verse 1, it's uh a Psalm of David. It says, Bless the Lord, O my soul. We just sang it a little earlier, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. We recognize God's name as holy. Psalm 111, verse 9, He has sent redemption to His people. He has ordained His covenant forever. Holy and awesome is His name. We recognize the name of God as holy. So that's declaring what's true, but when we say hallowed be thy name, it's different. It's not saying hallowed is thy name As a declaration of what's true. It's saying, hallowed be thy name. We're asking for something. We're asking for God's name to be hallowed. So it's not a declaration, it's a request, it's a petition. It's the uh the form of the request is actually in uh in the form of a command in the in the Greek. It's it's called an an entreaty or a polite command So it's used when speaking to a superior. You know, you don't speak down to a superior and say, hey, do this. You speak up to a superior and say, please, I'm entreating you, do this. Do this for us. Let your name be hallowed. That's what we're coming before God and saying, God, let your name be hallowed because it's in line with his will. And the the question that Martin Luther's catechism asks is this, how can you make holy what's already holy? Right? God's name is already holy. Why are we saying, God, hollow your name? God, make your name holy. What what's the what's the what's the discrepancy there? Because uh it's kinda like asking, you know, let water be wet. You know, let fire be hot. Let your name be holy. It already is holy, right? That's the essence of of what his name is. It's already holy. So it's not that we're asking something that to happen to the to the essence or the nature of God's name that's not already true. God's nature is already already holy, but that doesn't mean that he's acknowledged as holy, right? It doesn't mean that he's praised and celebrated. as is being holy. So so when we talk about God sanctifying us, God making us holy, uh that's one thing. When we talk about sanctifying God, setting apart God It's not making him holy, but declaring him to be what he already is, acknowledging him to be what he already is. So there's no increase to God's holiness. There's just an increase of the recognition of his holiness. We're asking that God's name would be recognized for what it truly, truly is. So there's no increase to who he is, it's just the recognition of it. Uh Martin Lloyd Jones writes this. He says, what unworthy ideas and notions this world has of God. And I wonder if if if that's the the the cry of your own hearts as you look around at at a world that that disrespects and disregards uh the name of your God that um how how unworthy the idea is of uh of God there are in our in our nation. Um God can never be defiled, his person can never be dragged, you know, through the mud, but men drag his his name through the mud, right? They drag his character through the mud when they think about him, when they talk about him in ways that are unworthy of him. Those the disrespect of God Carry up on the inside. In uh Psalm 69, verse 9, it says, For zeal, for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. When when God is attacked, do you feel the pain? Do you feel pain for God's name being dishonored? Uh Henry Martin, a Cambridge scholar who traveled as a missionary in the early 1800s, at one point During his travels he he uh he saw a drawing uh of Jesus portrayed as um catching hold of the the garments of Muhammad the Islamic prophet Muhammad bowing down to him to to worship. You know, so this is the picture that he that he sees that's depicted before him. And Martin was so deeply distressed by the picture that he burst into tears. And when someone asked him, what was the matter, he says, I could not endure existence if Jesus were not to be glorified. It just it just tore his heart apart that people would depict his Lord like that. David Brainerd, one of my favorite missionaries of colonial America, he wrote this in his diary. He says, I was much perplexed with some irreligious Dutchman. What a misery it would be to spend an eternity with such men. Well might David say I beheld transgressors and was grieved because they do not keep your word the the the grieving of the heart over people that do not keep the the word and the the law of of God. And uh you know, I understand what people mean sometimes when they say, you know, hey, uh, like even when you're out evangelizing and, you know, people reject the message and they say, oh, don't worry, they're not rejecting you. They're just rejecting the Lord. And you kind of understand what they mean. But I would rather that they reject me and accept Christ. Reject me, forget about me, accept the Lord. Why am I happy that they're not rejecting me? They're just rejecting the Lord. It should bother us that God is being rejected. It should bother us that the God's name is not hollowed, that he's not honored, that he's not respected by every person without exception. That should bother us That God's name is not being regarded as as holy. So this really when we're asking God, you know, glorify your name, hallow your name, uh what we're really doing is it's it's in one sense it's a prayer of evangelism for the lost, right? We're praying and asking that unbelievers would become believers. That those who are disrespecting your name would now hollow your name. It's a prayer similar to what we find in Psalm thirty three verse eight, let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. We want everybody to stand in awe of this God Psalm 117 verse 1, praise the Lord all nations, law him all peoples. And if you you wonder where the you know where's the prayer for evangelism and missions, you know, in the the Lord's Prayer, I mean here it is. We're praying that God's name would be hallowed. That's our prayer for the whole world to come to know God. It's also a prayer for uh for those of us who are saved to exalt the Lord. That we would truly recognize God for who he is. A. W. Pink said, We but mock God if we present to him pious words and have no intention of striving with all of our might to live in harmony with them. Why pray, hallowed be thy name, if you're not actually trying to make sure that that's happening in your own life? You know, oh Lord, let your name be hallowed, let your name be praised, and you're not planning on doing it When we pray, hallowed be thy name, we're asking for ourselves as well. We're committing ourselves to holy thoughts, holy speech, holy behavior. We want God's name to be hallowed in our lives as well It's also a prayer that looks forward to the end times as well, because this prayer will one day completely be fulfilled when every profane mouth is stopped. That's when the prayer is finally fulfilled. Why don't you flip back to Ezekiel? Ezekiel chapter 36. It's not a book that we turn to often, but uh Ezekiel has some powerful truth to communicate to us. Ezekiel chapter 36. This is exciting to think about because it's uh it's been observed that that hollowing or sanctifying the name of God was associated in the Old Testament with the uh the new covenant promises. to Israel and of the end times. Look at Ezekiel chapter 36. I'll start at verse 22. Look at what it says here. It says, therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God. It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for my holy name which you have profaned among the nations where you went. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name which has been profaned among the nations which you have profane in their midst, then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when I prove myself holy among you in their sight, For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, bring you into your own land, then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances. You will live in the land that I gave to your forefathers, so you will be my people, and I will be your guide. And uh the scriptures let us know that there's uh coming a a time in the in the future when all of Israel will come to know the Lord, and every profane mouth will be stopped. And um every man will know the Lord. Everybody who's on the earth will know the Lord. Jeremiah 31, verse 34 says, They will not teach again each man to his neighbor. And each man to his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them. There's coming a time when everybody's going to know the Lord. And uh there's actually a Jewish prayer uh which may have been prayed during the the same time that um uh Christ was on the earth that says, Exalted and hallowed be this his great name in the world which he created according to his will May he let his kingdom rule in your lifetime and in your days and in the lifetime of the whole house of Israel, speedily and soon. And to this say Amen And uh what so many of them prayed for, they missed right there in their presence, Jesus Christ, uh, who is who was the uh uh the word of God incarnate And who is the one who was the the king of the kingdom that so many of them said that they were were seeking after? So the the prayer of That we pray here in uh in the Lord's Prayer is that God's name would be be hollowed. We're praying for unbelievers to come to know him. We're praying for believers to exalt him. And uh we're praying for all the mouths of of those that are wicked and rebellious to finally be stopped. And uh this is a request that takes priority over every other prayer. This is the top of the top of the list There's six requests in the in the Lord's Prayer, and the prayer that his name would be hallowed comes up. Number one, God's name be hallowed. When God gives us uh the Ten Commandments. You know, out of the the first three, uh, you know, in the first part of the Ten Commandments, uh there's the command not to take his name in vain, right? No other gods before me, no graven images. Don't take my name in vain. When we look for a list of what's important to you, God, right? What shows up on his list? His name comes up on the top of his list. What's important to you, God? My name is important to me. That's what's important to me. The question is, is it at the top of our list? Is that what we're praying for? Joe Beake says that this first petition reminds us of how often our prayers are man-centered. Through those self-centered prayers seem to address our needs. In reality, they don't satisfy. You know, it seems like we're getting what we need if we just go straight to the Lord with all of our requirements, right? But actually we don't fulfill our greatest need, which is to to display God's glory to the world. That's that's our greatest need. And uh what Piper adds is this, he says how how often we fail to see That when we lose grip on the greatness of God, we're far more easily overwhelmed by the problems of the mundane. So what he's saying is that when you take your eyes off of God and his greatness and his glory, And you just focus on the things down here, then all of a sudden those things down here overwhelm you, right? But when you're focused on him and how great he is, then the problem that we bring to him is like, what is that? It's peanuts, right? Before a God who's ruling over all, who sits in the heavens and does whatever he pleases, right? Whose will is going to be accomplished, whose kingdom is going to come. What is my little problem compared to that? Right? So it's getting the focus right. And uh Jesus teaches us that focus by right up at the top of the list. It's about God's name being honored. So that's the first thing, the priority of the prayer itself. But let's look at the second thing, the priority of the the name, hallowed be thy name. And uh there's many ways that God is referred to in the scriptures, uh, that God has revealed himself to his people in the scriptures. Uh, but when the the name of God was was mentioned in the Jewish context, there was one name that they immediately thought about. And uh for that, let's turn over to Exodus chapter 3. Exodus chapter 3. Here we have the calling of Moses. Y'all are familiar with it. The very ground that he walked on was considered holy. Uh not because the ground itself had any special significance or properties or powers, but because God showed up there. The ground is now holy because I'm here. My presence is here. The ground that he walked on was was holy. Just as later on the mountain that he walked up was holy. Why? Because God manifested himself on that mountain. It's nothing significant about the mountain. It's that God showed up, right? And even here as his shoes are are elevating up elevating uh Moses up a little bit too high. He's even got to take the shoes off of his feet. Exodus chapter 3. It says, when the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, the burning bush, you remember the story. God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. And uh, you know, here Moses is uh commissioned to go back to uh to Egypt to tell Pharaoh to let God's people go. And uh when Moses asks, you know, who should I say sent me? You know, what should I say? Who who should I say sent me here? Look at verse 13 So then Moses said to God, Behold, I am going to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. Now they may say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Thus ye shall say to the sons of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God furthermore said to Moses, Thus ye shall say to the sons of Israel, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial name to all generations. Uh when the Jewish people thought of the personal name for God, this is what they would have thought about. It was the four letters known as the The tetragrammaton in in Greek, the four letters, uh translated, uh transliterated in in English is uh Y H W H Yahweh. And when you read through your Old Testament, sometimes you'll see the word Lord in all caps, L-O-R-D, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. That's the translator's way of letting you know that the name of God, the personal name of God, is actually being used in your translation there Instead of the capital L in small O R D is the word for Adonai, Lord, Master. But when Lord shows up in all caps, it's the word Yahweh. The four letters were so revered by the Jewish people that they stopped using it altogether. They wouldn't even refer to God by using the name. Somewhere after Malachi was was written and before Jesus appeared, the the use of God's name ceased altogether. They just stopped saying it. In Jewish writing and the the time between Malachi and Matthew, we find these substitutes for God's name. Whenever they wanted to refer to God, they called him the power, the heavens, the blessed one. Uh there 's some Jews today who still refer to God just by saying the name, you know, Hashem, the name, uh, but they won't use the actual name. They'll use words like Elohim for God, or they'll use Adonai for Lord. But they they won't use Y -H-W -H. And the Talmud and uh rabbinic sources say that uh by 200 uh BC the divine name was only pronounced once a year on uh Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, and that was only by the high priest. He was the only one that was had the permission, you know, to to speak the name. But even though the the Jewish people never used the name, that didn't prove anything, right? It didn't prove that you hollowed God's name just because you never used it, right? That didn't approve anything. Um in fact if we're to to hollow God's name on earth as it's done in heaven and we look to heaven and what's going on in heaven, you have the the angels, like uh if you look back to Isaiah chapter six, the angels call out to one another And they they say this, Kadosh, Kadosh, Kadosh, which is the old Old Testament word for for holy, holy, holy, holy. Yahweh Sabayoth. Holy, holy, holy is Yahweh, the Lord of hosts. That's what the angels in heaven are saying. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord. So how do we honor God now? By saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord. But it's more than just the name. God's name represented All of who he was. When we talk about the name of God, we're talking about all of who God is. We're talking about his power and authority in uh 1 Samuel 17 when David came against Goliath. Says, you come to me with the sword and a spear and a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts. I come to you in power, I come to you in authority, the authority of the Lord of hosts. It represented God's power and authority. It represented his character and his attributes. The Lord equates his his name often with his character. In Exodus chapter 33 and verse 19, God spoke to Moses and says, I will I will make my goodness pass before you and proclaim the name of the Lord before you. Remember he wanted to see God's glory. Remember that? Moses is asking to see God's glory He says, I'm going to pass by you and I'm going to proclaim my name to you. I'm going to reveal myself to you. Listen to what the Lord says. Exodus 34, verse 6. Then the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger Abounding in loving-kindness and truth, who keeps loving-kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generation. And then after that Moses made haste to bow low before the Lord in in worship. So we have God revealing his character. When he talks about his name, he's talking about his character, who he is, my attributes. Also represented his his person and his and his glory. Often in uh In scripture, the name of God is associated with the glory of God. In Psalm 79, it says, Help us, O Lord, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name and deliver us and forgive us our sins for thy name's sake. The things that are attributed to God's name can only be attributed to a person. In Psalm 113, we praise the name of the Lord. That means we praise God, you know, not just praising, you know, some some name out there that's just floating out there. We're praising a person. Uh God's name is to be praised. God's name is a strong tower. The righteous runs to it and is safe, but we're saying that in God we're safe. It's not just a name. So we were talking about the person in the glory of God Himself when we talk about His name. So when God says that I want my name to be hallowed, He's talking about himself, right? He's talking about himself. I'm talking about my power, my authority, my character, my attributes, my person, my glory. That's what I want to be revered. That's what I want people to look to and say that this It's set apart by itself. It's holy. Untouchable. So just because somebody doesn't doesn't misuse the name of God doesn't mean that they're hollowing the name of of God. God's name could be profane through many ways, through idolatry, swearing falsely, stealing, sexual immorality, failing to keep God's commands. Servants not listening to their masters, wives not submitting to their husbands, as well as using God's name in a common way. All of these things were said to profane the name of of the Lord. So God needs to be revered as as holy, because he is. So that's the priority of the prayer, priority of the name, and then uh lastly, let's look at the priority of the reverence. Hallowed be thy name. Hallowed be thy name. That's an old English word. It shows up in the in the King James version of the Old Testament and the New Testament, but uh in the New Testament it only shows up in the Lord's Prayer. And I I doubt that any of us use the word hallowed anywhere else. And uh even if you use the word hollowed, you don't say hollowed, you say hollowed, right? So it's like, you know, when it comes to the Lord's Prayer, it's like hollowed, it's like reserved for the prayer, you know, that we offer before before God. And uh and that's actually uh I actually appreciate that because there's something that's like sacred about it, right? Something that's unique about coming before the Lord in prayer. And even the way that we say the prayer kind of reinforces that. It's the Greek word hagyazo, uh, which is translated in most places as sanctify. It's just the word sanctify, but uh in the prayer it's retained to say hallowed be thy name. The Old English is retained there, you know, nowhere else in the New Testament, but only in the prayer. Uh Kevin DeYoung um pointed out how in the the Gettysburg Address that Abraham Lincoln declared the Civil War battlefield in Pennsylvania to be hollowed ground, right? uh the Gettysburg Battlefield, uh the cemetery ridge, little roundtop, would forever be set apart, no longer an ordinary place, no longer common. It would be holy ground, a place that's set apart. And uh when we think about God's name, God's person, and God's work, we're supposed to think about God as separated all to himself. There's nobody that compares with God. He's in a category all by himself. As as uh John Calvin said that God has his own honor. Like we may honor other things, but God has like an honor that's all alone and by himself. Nobody else belongs in this category of honor. So it's it's different than when we say that every person's an individual. You know, we're all unique, we're all different. It's different than saying that because um You know, we think about things like, you know, every person has their own fingerprint, you know, everybody has their own pattern in their iris. Everybody has their own signature that's kind of unique to them. You know, different ways that we identify people. But even with your fingerprints, you know, the iris and your signature, there's other people that have fingerprints and irises and signatures, right? When we talk about God, there's nobody to compare him with. There's nobody to compare God with. He's in a class all by himself. You know, uh, you know, Trek's, you know, as sweet as he is and as unique as he is, he's still a weaver. You know, you could just tell he's a weaver by looking at him. He has all the traits of a weaver. Still unique, but but he's a weaver, right? He's still associated with other people. But when we come to the Lord, there is nobody like the Lord Nobody's like him. Isaiah 40, verse 25, to whom then will you liken me that I would be his equal, says the Holy One. Who are you going to compare me to? And and don't miss the uh uh the word play here, uh, because the word holy means separated. So he says, Who are you going to liken me to, the one who separated? You know, who are you going to liken me to, the one who can't be compared with anybody? The Holy One. I'm the Holy One. I can't be compared with anybody. Who are you going to compare me to? Isaiah 44, verse 8 says, Do not tremble and do not be afraid. Have I not long since announced it to you and declared it? And you are my witnesses. Is there any God besides me? Or is there any other rock? I know of none. He's like, if there's another God out here, why doesn't he just show up? There's nobody out here. I'm alone and I'm by myself. There is no other God beside me. In Isaiah alone, we learn from Isaiah 40 and That there is no one as immense like your God, no one omniscient like your God, no one worthy like your God, there's no God like your God, all these false gods and idols, there's no people like your God, no ruler like your God, no creator and sustainer like your God. There is nobody like your God. Exodus 15, 11. Who is like you among the gods of the Lord? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in praises, working wonders? Psalm 89, verse 6. For who in the skies is comparable to the Lord? Jeremiah 10, 6, there is none like you, O Lord. You are great, and your name is great. God is great. God is great. And the God of Scripture is to be compared with no one and no thing. Nobody belongs in the category with God. And as we approach God in prayer, we're to recognize that we come before somebody who's who can't be compared with anybody else. We come before a holy, sacred, sovereign God. Nobody belongs in this category. So prayer is a sacred time. That's one of the things that this prayer teaches us that when we come before God, that this is a is a sacred time. And sometimes you wonder if our society even knows what sacred is anymore. Because everything's just common. You know, everything's kind of brought down to the lowest common denominator. There's nothing sacred, nothing that's lifted up above anything else in our society anymore There's a there's a true story true story about uh two brothers two brothers they're the oldest of four boys uh who are ordained for for ministry on the same day. You know, both of these brothers were ordained for ministry on the same day. Even though they were younger and and less experienced than the uh the other elders of the the congregation. um that they were a part of. There was no question that they had been called by the Lord, these these brothers. Even prior to their ordination they were recognized by the congregation as uh um and and to have a privileged part in the association of uh the national leaders, um the national religious leaders. And uh these two boys, they came from a a family of ministers. Uh their father was in ministry as well as their uncle. And uh the expectation uh was that One day, one of these boys would take their father's place in ministering. The day of their ordination was a special time. for the congregation. Uh the two brothers were were given handmade suits uh that were specifically made for the the unique celebration. Uh their ordination was a solemn occasion, but it was also a time of food and celebration and and their uncle actually officiated. over the uh the services for him. And uh there's no doubt that this was a time that was filled with joy and happiness and expectation of the the fruitful ministry that these two brothers, you know, who are both ordained on the same day would would share together. Uh but something went terribly wrong. And uh we don't have all of the details, but from what we do know, uh one day uh these brothers were called to be a part of a a national ceremony and uh they didn't take the opportunity to represent the Lord uh represent the Lord seriously. They didn't take the Lord seriously on this day that they were called to this national ceremony. They totally fumbled the service. Um things were out of order and uh the suspicion was that they might have even been drunk. These two brothers might have even been drunk uh because there was a rule that came out right afterwards that said that there was no alcohol that was to be allowed in the sanctuary. after this fiasco with these uh these two brothers. Uh so there was suspicion that that it was probably because of alcohol that these guys were drunk. And because of their disrespect, these brothers were executed on the spot In the same clothes that they were ordained in. And their father wasn't even allowed to cry at the funeral. It's a true story. The brothers' names are Nadab and Abihu. Nadab and Abihu. Their father was Aaron and their uncle was Moses. They were incinerated for offering strange fire before the Lord. They didn't respect their God as they came before him. But listen to what Moses said after the Lord's judgment, Leviticus 10 and verse 3. Then Moses said to Aaron, It is what the Lord spoke, saying, By those who come near me I will be treated as holy, and before all the people I will be honored. So Aaron therefore kept silent. There's nothing Aaron could say. This is what the Lord said. I'm going to be treated as holy. God is no respecter of persons. It doesn't matter if it's you, if it's me, if it's your sons. God is saying, I'm going to be treated as holy. You don't just mess around lightly in the presence of God. Later on, God said about the priests, they shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of the Lord their God. For they present the offerings by fire to the Lord, the food of their God, so they shall be holy. Leviticus 22, verse 1, the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful With the holy gifts of the sons of Israel, which they dedicate to me, so as not to profane my holy name, I am the Lord. Aaron had two other sons that filled the spot. And he says, make sure you tell these boys not to profane my name. Make sure you tell them not to profane my name. Just think about the day that we live in. What's considered sacred today? What's off limits? I mean even even common respect is out the window, right? Respect for elders, respect for teachers, respect for parents, respect for police, respect for government, all gone. And then when we think about uh what could be considered sacred, you have uh national shrines that are defaced. Read about that in the news earlier this year. Churches are tagged with graffiti. Marriage was considered to be sacred, now it's made a mockery of even in the Supreme Court. Life was considered to be sacred, but now it's being terminated in the womb. And forget about God and His Word. There's there's one person I I spoke to, he says, you know, uh the pages of the Bible are just as good as toilet paper for me. And you wonders, is anything sacred anymore? Is there anything that's sacred R. C. Sprohl said this. He says, where God is not respected, it is inevitable that his image bearers will also suffer a loss of respect. You lose respect for God, you're going to lose respect for everything else. Because we're made in the image of God, right? No respect for God, no respect for his image. It just kind of follows suit. But there is one thing that's considered sacred in our society today Something that's untouchable. Something that's regarded as holy ground. And you know what it is? My rights, my freedoms, my choice. That's what's sacred ground today. That's holy ground. We've replaced the sacred name and kingdom and will of God for our own will, our own kingdom, our own name. That's what's sacred. What do people say? Don't you dare touch Don't you dare touch my choice. Don't you dare touch my freedoms. We've replaced the sacred name of God for our own name. And our society is quick to defend its rights, quick to defend its freedoms, its choices, and then it has the nerve to question God for defending his name, his kingdom, and his will. Like, you know, who gives God the the right to defend his name? But you have every right to defend yours, right? We're on a collision course and it's not gonna turn out well. We're on a collision course. It doesn't turn out well for people who try to elevate their own names at God's expense. Remember the Tower of Babel, Genesis 11? The people said, Genesis 11, Come, let us build for ourselves a city, a tower whose top will reach to the heaven. Let us make for ourselves a name, otherwise we will be scattered abroad over the face of the earth. And God turned Babel into rubble. King Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel chapter four. The king reflected and said, Is this not Babylon the Great, which I myself have built as my royal residence by the might of my power for the glory of my majesty? While the word was in the king's mouth a voice came from heaven, saying, King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is declared sovereignty has been removed from you, and you will be driven away from mankind, and your dwelling place will be with the beasts of the field. You'll be given grass to eat like cattle, seven periods of time will pass over you until you recognize that the most high is ruler over the realm of mankind, the first king who became a cow. Ate grass like an ox for seven years. All because he wouldn't recognize the name of God. King Herod, on an appointed day, Acts chapter 12. Says, having put on his royal apparel, took a seat on the rostrum, and began delivering an address to them. The people kept crying out, the voice of a God and not of a man. And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and he died. It became worm food. Don't give the glory to God. We're on a collision course, and somebody's not going to lose. Somebody is not going to lose. And God taught that same lesson over and over in the scriptures. It doesn't matter who you are. Moses, the great leader of Israel, guess what? Wasn't allowed to go into the promised land. Why? Because you refused to honor my name. Doesn't matter who you are. Korh and his followers swallowed by the earth. Eli's boys are put to death on the same day. Uzzah touches the ark. I'm just trying to study the ark, he struck down. Uzziah touched the holy things and he broke out with leprosy. Ananias and Sapphire dropped dead. And even the Corinthians who took the Lord's table in an unworthy manner says that many of you are sick and many of you are dying because you refuse to treat holy what's holy. And as Christians, it's our prayer that if you're on the wrong side of that collision course, that you'll avert, right? Get out of the way. Join the right side. We pray that you'll hollow the name of God by trusting in his Son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ came to make this holy God known to us, and Jesus glorified his Father. While he was on earth, he glorified the name of the Father. Jesus prayed, Glorify your name in John chapter 12. And the Father came back and says, I have glorified it, and I'll glorify it again. He's glorifying his name through Jesus Christ. The Father was pleased with the sacrifice of the Son, and if you repent and turn from your sin, you can truly honor the name of God When we pray, hallowed be thy name as believers, we're also praying for our own sanctification. When our doctrine and our life are godly, we're hallowing the name of God. And you really need to ask yourself this question, is uh, you know, do I really desire holiness in absolutely everything? Do I really desire holiness in everything? Or are there certain aspects of my life that I secretly wish could still remain unholy? You know, I'll I'll kind of clean up the rest of this, but you know, can I just reserve this spot to be unholy? Do I really have to clean up everything? We need to understand the holiness of of God. And then we pray when we say, hallowed be thy name, for that unbelievers who refuse to repent, that they will forever have their mouths silenced And in uh Philippians chapter 2 it says that every name, every knee will bow at the name of Jesus. Of those who are in the heaven, on the earth, under the earth, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. To to desire that the God's name is is honored is not a not a silly rule that doesn't belong on the on the books anymore. We should pray for a kingdom where the profane use of the Lord's name is illegal. Where there's nobody that's going to use the Lord's name in vain. We should uh constantly desire and long for the highest honor to be given to the person of God by everybody on the planet. And out of all the important things that uh God would desire, at the top of the list is that everybody fears his name. It's that important. God is going to be treated as holy. And we need to make sure that we recognize him as that even in our prayers. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we've um had to uh uh consider the the hallowing of your name And uh father even as I uh look at this uh subject, I I know that I haven't done it justice. Uh there is just uh uh so much more that that could be said. So much that could be said more powerfully, so much that could be said through a better instrument. But Father, I do pray that you'd uh use the words that were shared this morning to be a blessing to your people, God. Father, we I pray that we would hallow your name, that we would recognize you for who you are, that we would not tread lightly, where there should be given a due sense of weight. Father, we uh uh pray that uh we would uh glorify and honor you and uh uh that it would pain us uh when we don't see your name honored by men. And Father, I pray that you would start that work in our own hearts. Start that work with us, God. Thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files