The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to uh Matthew chapter 24? Matthew chapter 24. Matthew is uh one of four historical accounts of the life of Jesus, and for those of you who don't believe this record You have to deal with the reality that you can't simply erase 2,000 years of history. Jesus really came, Jesus really died, and Jesus really rose again. And there's really no explanation for Christianity apart from those facts. It's been said that uh facts are stubborn things And whatever we may uh whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence. Facts are stubborn. They don't move out of the way for our preferences. They don't move out of the way for our desired reality. They just are what they are. And the fact that Jesus came is just a fact. That he was crucified is just a fact. That he was raised from the dead is just a fact, and there's no other explanation for Christianity that makes sense besides the empty tomb. Without the facts of the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ, Christianity would have never made it out of Palestine because the disciples' proclamation was built on the reality of the empty tomb. And it was the reality of Jesus' death and resurrection that was the added confirmation for everything else that they expected about Jesus Christ on the day of Pentecost. Peter preached in Acts chapter 2 and verse 32. It says, this Jesus, this is what he says, this Jesus, God raised up again, to which we are all witnesses. And then he follows it up and says this Therefore let the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. He's Lord of all, He's the soon coming King, and He's coming back to finish what He started. Over in Acts chapter 17, Paul spoke to the Athenians, and he said this in Acts chapter 17 and verse 30. He says, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. Why? Because he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Through a man whom he has appointed. So Jesus is coming back to finish what he started. And how do we know this is true? having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. So Jesus already came, he was crucified, there was an empty tomb, and those are just the stubborn historical facts. And I would ask you, what reason does Jesus give you to doubt the rest of what he said would take place? As we mentioned last week, the Old Testament contains roughly 300 references to the Messiah that were literally fulfilled in Jesus' first coming. Just think about that. 300 specific references to Jesus Christ already fulfilled. Like I said, facts are stubborn things. And what we read about in Matthew chapter 24. is just as certain as anything else that Jesus said would happen. And there's no need to be caught off guard when that day comes because the warning has already been given. The warning's been given. The alarm's already been sounded. But as blinding as the warning lights are, and as deafening as the alarms of Scripture might be, there will still be some people that will be shocked when Jesus Christ returns. Shocked. For some reason, people think that this day will arrive slowly when Jesus said that it would be swift and sudden For some reason people think that this day is flexible and doubtful when Jesus says that it is sure and certain. And for some reason people think they'll have plenty of time to prepare themselves to get ready. When Jesus says, when it comes, it will be shocking and unexpected. People will still be cut off guard, even with the warning from Scripture. This day will be swift, certain, and shocking. So let's take a look at what Scripture has to say about the end of days. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 24, starting at verse 32. Matthew 24, starting at verse 32. Jesus says this, now learn the parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. So you too, when you see all these things, recognize that he is near right at the door. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone. For the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. And they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. So will the coming of the Son of Man be. Then there will be two men in the field, one will be taken and one will be left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, and one will be left. Therefore, be on the alert, for you do not know which day your Lord is coming. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, Lord, and Father, we thank you for your word. Father, we pray that you would help us apply it to our lives, that we would Learn the lessons from this text, Father, that we would be prepared, Father, that we would be looking to Jesus Christ, that we wouldn't be confused. My Father, that we wouldn't be misled. My Father, I pray that you'd help us to be found faithful. We know that Jesus Christ is coming back. If he uh doesn't return soon, we know that we'll uh go to meet him. So Father, either way, uh whether he comes or whether we go, Father, I pray that you'd help us to be prepared, to be ready. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As we've mentioned to you before, Matthew 24 to 25 is a part of a long answer to the disciples' question back in verse 3. Now, verse 3, uh the disciples asked, tell us when will these things happen? And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? From the time that the disciples uh understood that Jesus was the Messiah, they anticipated Jesus entering into his glory, receiving his kingdom, and sitting on his glorious throne. They argued amongst themselves who would be the greatest in the kingdom, who would sit on the right and the left hand of Jesus in his kingdom. Uh they had every reason to believe that as they entered into Jerusalem that the kingdom would happen immediately as they approached Jerusalem. Upon his entry into Jerusalem that we traditionally celebrate today on Palm Sunday, Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a what? What did he ride into Jerusalem on? On a donkey, right? The coal, the full of the donkey. And that's exactly how Zechariah nine said that the king would be presented to Jerusalem on a colt, the full of a donkey. Zechariah 9 9, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout in triumph, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt the foal of a donkey. But like I pointed out to you before, Jerusalem was not ready to receive their king. In Luke chapter 19, it says that as Jesus approached Jerusalem, he saw the city and he wept over it If ye had only known this day, even you, the things which make for peace, but now they have been hidden from your eyes. And then later on he says, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation. You didn't recognize the significance of this day. As I was presenting myself before you, you had no idea what this really meant And they missed the offer that Jesus was making of himself to be their king. Jesus speaks to the religious leaders in Matthew 23, 39 and says, From now on you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Jesus was rejected by the leadership, and Jesus rejects them. Jesus rejects them. So now the disciples are left wondering, well, if not now, then when? When will all these things take place? When are you going to return to Jerusalem? When will Israel receive you? When will the kingdom be set up? What will the signal be that all these things are going to take place? And what Jesus does in 24 and 25 of Matthew is he gives the longest answer to any question in the Gospels, in verse 4 to 14. We looked at what Jesus described as the beginning of birth pangs, the delusion of false messiahs, warfare, worldwide famines, earthquakes, false prophets, love growing cold. We looked at all those things in chapter 24, verses 4 down to 14. All these signs were just the beginning of the end. And then in verses 15 to 31, Jesus described the end of the end. So we go from the beginning of the end to the end of the end. That second part of the tribulation is triggered by an event known as the abomination of desolation, where a satanically empowered agent sets himself up as God Daniel 12. 1 says that it will be a time of distress, such as has never occurred since there was a nation until that time. And in Daniel 7. 25 it says that he Speaking of the Antichrist, will speak out against the Most High, wear down the saints of the highest one, and he will intend to make alterations in times and law, and they will be given into his hand for time, times, and half a time. That's three and a half years 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 3 says, the man of lawlessness is being revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself. above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple, displaying himself as being God. In Matthew 24, it says that this will occur immediately after the tribulation of those days, then the Son of Man will appear in the sky. Things will spiritually and physically be at their absolute darkest before the brightness of his glory lights up the sky. And his coming will not delay in those days. It'll be swift, sudden, and Jesus illustrates the sudden change with the picture of the change of the seasons. Look back at verses 32 to 34. It says, now learn the parable from the fig tree. When its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. So you too, when you see all these things, recognize that he is near right at the door. True, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. And here we look at the suddenness of Jesus' coming, the suddenness of Jesus' coming. This generation will not pass away. As we look at this, I'm not sure how many of you have uh have allergies, but uh my eyes and nose can tell me that spring is coming long before I even have to look at a calendar. Uh I I never even knew I had allergies until I moved to Maryland. I don't know if the pilot is just different upstate New York than it is here in Maryland, but For whatever reason, when I moved here, it's like the allergies just started started started kicking in. And I I thank God for Claritin or whatever store brand I can find. in the pharmacy. Uh but it's almost like you wake up one morning and it's like you can just tell like spring is here, right? Like spring is here. It's knocking at the door. And Jesus uses that simple illustration of the changes in seasons to drive home a spiritual point. And remember, a parable is a true to life illustration that's used to hide the truth from unbelievers, but to make the truth clearer, to clarify it for believers. And Jesus says, learn from the parable, from the fig tree When its branch has already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. So you too, when you see all these things, recognize that he is right at the door. Fig trees were common in Palestine and uh mentioned nearly sixty times in Scripture If you remember when Jesus approached Jerusalem, what did he curse? It was a fig tree. He cursed the fig tree as he's on his way to Jerusalem in Matthew 21, verse 19. And because fig trees were so common in Israel, an illustration using a fig tree would have been easy to understand. Everybody knew that figs were summer fruit. The first ripe figs were gathered about June, the second crop gathered about August, and when the branches of the fig tree uh started to swell because of the sap uh within the uh the the the branches and the leaves began to fill out. you knew that summer was around the corner. And uh just like we can tell that spring is here by the pollen in the air, in Israel you could tell that summer was near based on the look of the fig trees alone. And Jesus picks up this familiar illustration and says if you know how to discern the the changes of the season in your region you shouldn't have a problem discerning that a change is about to take place on the planet When these birth pangs start to arrive, they start to take place, when this great tribulation begins with the abomination of desolation. At this time you're not going to need a study Bible. You're not going to need some kind of complicated dispensational chart. You know, you won't need to tune into Grace to You or whatever else. It'll just be obvious. It'll be obvious that it's that it's happening. But the events of that day are going to take place rapidly. Which is the whole purpose behind the parable. You know that summer is near. And in the same way you know that summer is near, you should know that he is near, right at the door. In verse 33. The disciples asked a question about his coming in verse 3, and Jesus says, when you see these things take place, know that I am right at the door. I'm just about to enter. And if you're part of the generation that sees the beginning of these signs, you are also part of the generation that will see the coming of the Son of Man, and that's the point. He says, truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. That word generation is used several ways in Scripture, but it's most often used to speak of the time period that it takes for a child to be born and to see his own family established. So the word that's used for for generation here, it's the Greek word genea. It's originally from a word uh that means to to come into being or used to speak of begetting a family or even a race of people. So scripture speaks about you know the third and the fourth generation being the grandchildren and the great grandchildren. of a father throughout scripture. Roughly it's been equated to about 40 years because that's how long it took for the generation that rebelled in the wilderness to be replaced. By another generation in Numbers 32, verse 13, it talks about how the Lord's anger burned against Israel. He made them wander in the wilderness for forty years until the entire generation of those who had done evil in the sight of the Lord was destroyed. So the time for a new generation was 40 years in Numbers 32. And what Jesus is saying is that when you see these signs taking place, you can be certain that there won't be another family to take your place. That that you're going to be the last generation when these signs start to take place. Your families will be the last families. Your people will be the last people because you are now in the final lap of the relay race of world history Like there's not going to be anybody else to pass the baton on to after that generation is complete. The generation that sees the beginning of these signs will not pass away until all these things take place and it's going to happen fast And there's some interpreters who would object to that and say that this generation has to refer to the generation of the disciples. You know, that this generation refers to them. It has to be the disciples that Jesus is referring to. But you need to keep in mind that the disciples are representatives of those who were to follow. They were a representative group. So in Matthew chapter 28, when Jesus says, Lo, I am with you. Always, even to the end of the age, was that just for the disciples? No. And the end of the age didn't come during the time of the disciples. That is the promise to all who would follow them All who would be disciples, so when Jesus is speaking to them and he's saying this generation, the disciples are a representation of that future group The promise that he will be with them to the end of the age is not for the disciples. It was for the disciples, right? But it was also for all those who would come after them until the end of the age So it's not like we stopped producing disciples in the first century. It's like one disciple makes another disciple makes another disciple until the end of the age. So that promise carries over until the end of the age. And in the same way, this uh uh this saying here uh that this generation won't uh uh when it talks about uh this generation will not pass away until all these things are fulfilled. He's speaking to the disciples, but it's they're a representative group of that future generation that would be there in the end of the age. So even though He knew they wouldn't be around until the end of the age. He predicted that what would happen is that this promise would carry over. He actually uh uh even indicated that Peter would die uh as well as some of the other disciples as as well, that they would be be murdered. So it's not a reference only for those disciples, but In the same way Jesus spoke to the disciples because they represented a future group, he's speaking about this future group being present uh during this great tribulation. In addition to that, People who say that it has to be the disciples have a big problem reconciling how all these things would take place during their lifetime. Because now you have to reconcile how does the sun become dark, the moon not give its light, the stars fall from the sky, and the Son of Man comes on the clouds of the sky? Like when did that happen during the disciples' lifetime? And the the answer is that it didn't. So all these things taking taking place cannot be referring to that group of disciples. It has to be referring to that future generation that would see all these things. There's other people who would say that this generation refers to the Jewish race, understanding it in the sense of a generation or a family. There's others who would understand it to be a reference to uh to unbelievers, you know, saying that unbelievers will still be in existence until the end of the of the age or until the Son of Man comes. But all of those things uh don't really make sense within the context. The Jewish people uh didn't have any problems uh understanding the permanence of Israel. Jeremiah 31 uh says that uh if this fixed order of sun and moon departs from me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel will cease being a nation before me forever. And uh also the uh the idea that um uh there would be unbelievers on the on the earth when Christ comes back really wasn't much of an encouragement. to the disciples. So really you don't have any of those that really make sense within the context. You might also find it interesting that early Christian writers like Justin Martyr, who was born in the first century, and actually wrote after the generation of the apostles, still regarded these events as future events. He wrote in this dialogue with Tripho, the man of apostasy, who speaks strange things against the Most High shall venture to do unlawful deeds on the earth against us Christians. And he's speaking about that after 70 A. D. when the temple was destroyed. So the early Christians looked at this as a future event. The generation that Jesus spoke to was the future generation, and that's the basic meaning of what we have here. And there's more we could say about that, but I think you get the point. Once the dominoes start falling during this day, it's going to be full steam ahead until everything wraps up. And the change is going to happen quickly. Just like the change in seasons. You may not even be able to pinpoint the exact day that the change takes place, but the change is going to be rapid. And for some reason, people think that they have more time than they really do, right? I think it was uh uh C. S. Lewis who said that Satan doesn't need to convince us that the words of Scripture aren't true. He just needs to convince us that we have more time. I've got time, right? It's been said that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. People who think about giving their lives to Christ, but they never really get around to it. What reason could you possibly come up with for putting off submission to Jesus Christ? When when these things take place it's gonna be sudden. I might as well turn this thing off. I'm not sure what's going on here. There we go. People said the demon's in the drum set. I think it's in the lights over here, but Jesus gives us a snapshot. of some of the reasons that that people give for not following Jesus Christ. Back in Matthew chapter 22. There's the hesitant and indifferent. Look at Matthew chapter 22, look at verse 2. Says the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for a son, and he sent out his slaves to call those who had been invited to the wedding feast, and they were unwilling to come. Again he sent out other slaves saying, Tell those who have been invited, behold, I've prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fat and livestock are all butchered, and everything's ready. Come to the wedding feast. Well, listen to this. But they paid no attention. And went their way, one to his own farm, another to his business. Too busy for the Savior, not necessarily hostile, but they're much too occupied with the daily affairs of life to be worried about eternal life I remember talking to one guy who said, I can't think about eternity. I'm too worried about tomorrow. Caught up with business, work, family. No time to respond to God when God is the one who gives you your business, your work, your family, right? The time that you live in, that you exist in. And now you don't have the time for him? Like seriously? And then there's those who are hostile in Matthew 22, look at verse 6 and 7. Says the uh verse 5, but they paid no attention, went their way, one to his own farm, another to his business, and the rest seized his slaves and mistreated them and killed them. But the king was enraged and he sent his armies and destroyed those murderers and set their city on fire. And these are the people who actively reject Christ. They received the invitation. They're angered that you would even suggest that they should take it seriously And they attack the message and the messenger. Two broad categories of responses: those who are hesitant and indifferent, and those who are hostile and impudent. But that has nothing to do with the approaching reality, right? It doesn't affect it at all. All time is moving toward its final destination. And you can choose to ignore it. You can try to resist it. But you won't stop it. And once all the dominoes are in place and the process starts of the end time, there's nothing that you're going to do to stop that train, right? By the time you realize what's going on, it's already going to be too late. By the time you start sniffling, your eyes start to water, it's like, hey, it's already here. You know, spring is already here. And before this day takes place, it's arrogant to think that you can put off a decision because you have no control over your life in the first place, right? I love James chapter 4, verse 13. Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow, we'll go to such and such a city, spend a year there, engage in business, make a profit. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You're just the vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this and do that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance and all such boasting is evil. Therefore, to the one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it to him, it is sin. I love what the hymn writer Isaac Watts says. He says, time like an ever-rolling stream bears all its sons away. You can try to hold back the stream, but eventually it will claim all of its sons. You can try to hold it back. And then he says this line, they fly forgotten as a dream, dies at the opening day. He says your life will be like a dream that is soon forgotten. As soon as the day starts and you start to think like, what was that dream about again? Oh, never mind. I'll keep going on with my day, right? He says that's that's how your life is. Your life, like, vanishes. And it's like this kind of forgotten dream and it dies at the opening day. Life comes and goes so quickly. And whatever you thought was important will quickly fade into the light of eternity. Life is short, and the end of time is going to be swift. And it's not only sinful to hesitate, it's just utterly foolish. Because a lot of people don't get a second chance, right? Jesus doesn't just warn us about the suddenness of his coming. He also warns us about the certainty of it. Look at verse 35. Matthew 24, look at verse 35. It says, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Just in case you're holding on to some kind of hope that the plans for the future might change. Jesus warns us that these things are inflexible. His coming will be certain. The heavens and the earth are often spoken of in Scripture as being fixed and established. In Proverbs 319, the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding he established the heavens. Psalm 89, verse 11, the heavens are yours, the earth is also yours, the world and all it contains. You have founded them. And then flip over to Psalm 102. I referred to it a little bit earlier in our service, but Psalm 102, look at verse 25. Psalm 102, look at verse 25. It says, of old you founded the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. The earth has been founded, it's established But then Psalm 102 goes on to say this, look down at verse 26. Even they will perish, but you endure, and all of them will wear out like a garment. Like clothing you will change them, and they will be changed, but you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. Even the foundations of the heavens and the earth will one day be shaken in the last days according to Matthew chapter twenty-four Revelation 6 verse 14 says the sky will split apart like a scroll. Isaiah 34 verse 4 lets us know that all the host of heaven will wear away like a scroll, they will be rolled up. But there's something that's more reliable even than the heavens and the earth. And you know what it is? It's the word of God. It's the word of God that's even more reliable than the heavens and the earth. Isaiah 40 verse 8. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever, right? Psalm 119, verse 89. Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven And Matthew 5, verse 18, truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until All is accomplished. It's like, you know, not the smallest dotting of an eye or the crossing of a T. Nothing's going to be lost in all of Scripture until all is accomplished. The words of God are eternal words and they're more reliable than the heavens and the earth. And it's this word that gives us certainty about the end times. The question I have for you is uh where are you placing your confidence this morning? Are you placing your your confidence in in man's words? Man's words, man who's nothing more than a fleeting breath? Are you placing confidence in what men can say? In your own words and your own thoughts, which are the same as the words of men? Are you confident in your finite wisdom? That you would doubt the words of your Creator? Are you hoping against hope that these words won't come to pass and that somehow you'll succeed in your struggle against the Almighty? It's a fool's errand. The word of our God stands forever. And you might have missed this, but when Jesus claims that heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away, you know what he's claiming? He's claiming the same thing for himself that God claims for himself, which means that Jesus is who? Jesus is God. That's what he's claiming here. My words will never pass away. My words are just as certain as God's words. God in human flesh has declared what will happen in the end times in Acts chapter 17 verse 30. Paul says, Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. Why? Because he has Fixed a day. The day is fixed. It's on the calendar. It's certain. A certain day is fixed. It's unchangeable. You have an appointment with the judge of all flesh, and you're not going to change that appointment? You're not going to be late and you're not going to be absent. There is a day that is fixed. And as Peter says in 2 Peter 119, so we have the prophetic word made more sure, to which he would do well to pay attention. His coming is certain. His coming is sudden. And his coming is also going to be shocking. Look back at uh Matthew chapter 24 again, look at verse 36. Says, but of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone. For the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah, for in those days, before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying, and giving in marriage, until the day that Noah entered the ark, and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. So will the coming of the Son of Man be? Then there will be two men in the field, one will be taken, and one will be left. Two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, and one will be left. Therefore be on the alert, for you do not know which day your Lord is coming. Did you hear that? Nobody knows the day or the hour, right? No one knows. Talks about in the in the the illustration of the of Noah's Noah's flood, the flood of Noah. They did not understand until the flood came. Therefore be on the alert, for you do not know. You know, people could save themselves a lot of money and a lot of false teaching if they just paid attention to the words that Jesus had to share, right? You know, it'd be the end of Jehovah's Witnesses, you know, the herald campings of the world and uh, you know, every other charismatic prophet who predicts that the end is near and You know, this is the date. You know, it would be the end of all of that if you just paid attention to what Jesus has to say. Nobody knows the day or the hour. And then later in verse 44 he says, The Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think he will So if anybody predicts a date, I know that that's not the date. Because Jesus is coming at an hour where you do not think that he will. Don't be fooled by a date setting. It's all wrong. I don't care where it comes from. God doesn't want us to have a date. And if we did have a date, we'd probably be like the the evil slave that he talks about later on. The evil slave he says in my heart, you know, my master's not coming for a long time. and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink with the with drunkers. You know, you just think you have more time to waste. Or like the Thessalonian Christians who became idle and refuse to work because they're waiting on the return of the of the Lord in 2 Thessalonians 2. So God doesn't want us to have a date. And it's such a secret that even the angels in heaven don't know when that date is Not even the Son of Man. And uh that's a verse that bothers some people because it makes it seem like Jesus was less than God. You know, how how can Jesus not know something? But if you keep in mind that during his incarnation that he humbled himself, it helps you to understand what's going on here. And uh Hebrews 4. 15 lets us know that Jesus was tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Luke chapter 2 says about Jesus as a child that he continued to grow and become strong, increasing in wisdom And the grace of God was upon him. He increased in wisdom and stature and favor with God and with men. So uh, you know, when Jesus came out of the womb from Mary, he didn't say, Hail Mary, you know, full of grace, the Lord's with you. Blessed art thou among women. I mean he didn't come out talking. He had to learn how to talk just like the rest of us have to learn how to talk He emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, being made in the likeness of men. So even though Jesus had all the rights of deity, He did not grasp after those rights. He willingly laid down his independent use of his privileges so that he might become our substitute that he might become our sacrifice. So he restricted access to information that rightfully belonged to him. Knowledge that he shared with the Father and with the Spirit. who 1 Corinthians 2 verse 10 says, the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God, so everything that the Father knows, the Spirit knows. But Jesus restricted himself from that knowledge purposefully so that he could become our substitute and our sacrifice. So there there are no secrets in the Trinity, but Jesus temporarily restricted his access. to those unfathomable mysteries, which is incredible to think about. And I believe that was part of the glory that he prayed that the Father would return to him in the high priestly prayer. You know, return to me the glory that I had with you before the world was. But until that time, the date is going to be kept under lock and key, and it's not our job to try to figure out when that date is, but to prepare ourselves for whenever that day might be, right? Matthew chapter 24 says the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. For as in those days before the flood, there were eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage. And that's something to think about because you would have thought that during the last days people would be picking their heads up out of the sand and saying, you know, hey, I think that something's going on here. Like something is terribly wrong. Like like can somebody figure this out for us? You know, all the stuff that you you find going on in the in the world, you know, the the massive mayhem across the globe, you would think that somebody would say, you know what, I've got a bad feeling about this. Like something is wrong. But then you look back at the days of Noah, and it was very similar then. Look back at uh Genesis chapter 6. We'll back to Genesis chapter 6 for a minute. Genesis 6, we're only six chapters into world history, and it got pretty bad pretty quick. In Genesis chapter 6, look at verse 5. Genesis chapter 6, look at verse 5. It says, then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Think about that. It was great on the earth. Every intent of his thoughts. Only evil. Continually. I mean, like all these different adverbs and adjectives used to describe the evilness of men's hearts Wickedness spread out like an infection across the entire globe during the days of Noah. Every intent of man's heart, only evil, all the time. He went to bed thinking about it, he woke up thinking about it. It 's a time very much like what the end is going to look like. And then you add to that, there was also the presence of demonic activity during the days of Noah. Look back at verse 4, Genesis 6, verse 4. It says, then the the Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men, and they bore children to them, those were the mighty men who were of old men of renown. And we don't have the time to explore everything that's behind this, but sons of God was a phrase that was used in the Old Testament to refer to angelic beings. You'll actually find it in Job 1 verse 6, Job 2, verse 1, and Job 38. Verse 7. And I believe that that what we have going on in Genesis chapter 6 is a demonic presence like nothing we know about on the earth today, much like what we're going to have during the end times. And you would have thought that the people during Noah's day would have picked their heads up and said, you know what, something's just not right here. Like the world is going crazy. I mean everybody's only evil all the time, continually. We've got these huge beings walking around, demonically possessed people or whatever else you might have going on. It's just abnormal And you would have thought that somebody would say, you know what, something's not right. But you know what they were doing? They were marrying, they were giving in marriage, they were eating, they were drinking, all until the time that the Lord shut the ark. Because of the hardness of men's hearts, they don't even see what's going on around them. Listen to what 2 Thessalonians 2 says, verse 11. It says, for this reason God will send upon them a deluding influence So that they will believe what is false, talking about the end times, in order that they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness. God will let people believe what is false as a judgment upon them. And we're not even there yet, but our culture is quickly moving in that direction, isn't it? And you just think that somebody somewhere would kind of pick their heads up and say, like, hold on, like something's going on here. Like something is wrong with our world. Like people aren't even thinking anymore. Like what is what's what's the deal? I asked my mom uh uh last night, it's like you know, when you were growing up, did you ever know anything like what we see today with homosexuality and all that? She's like, I had no idea about any of that It just like didn't exist, and that's only a generation ago. But it's like we're moving so rapidly, it's like, is anybody picking their head up and saying, like, something's wrong here? Like, what is going on? They didn't see the change in the times, even in the days of Noah, until it was too late. And they didn't understand until the flood came and took them all away. But it's too late at that point. And Jesus said, it's going to be the same way when the Son of Man comes. People are going to be indifferent. People are going to see things going crazy that you would think. It's like, it's obvious something's happening. But it's just like they're going to be oblivious to it. Marrying, giving in marriage, eating, drinking, no big deal, and then it's the big shock when judgment finally falls. Incredible to think about with all the signs that you've seen You'd think that somebody would wake up. But this is what's going to take place. And in verses 41, 40 and 41 back in Matthew 24. It says there will be two men in one field, one will be taken and one will be left. Two men will be, two women will be grinding at the mill, one will be taken, one will be left I mentioned this before, but it bears repeating that this what we find going on here in uh in Matthew chapter 24, it's not speaking about the rapture. I know that many of us have heard those verses in connection with the the rapture of the church, but that's that's not what's going on here based on the context. If you look back at verse 39, it really makes that clear. And uh in verse 39 back in Matthew 24 It says they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. So will the coming of the Son of Man be. What took them away was judgment, right? Those who were taken away were taken in judgment in the flood. And it's the same picture that's going on in the rest of the verse in verses 40 and 41. Those who are taken away are also taken away in judgment. Jesus also uses a similar picture in verse 43, where he says, But be sure of this, that if the head of the house had known at what time of the night the thief was coming, he would have been on the alert. And would not have allowed his house to be broken into. So it's not a good picture here. It's a terrifying picture. And it fits the context here that the one being taken away is the one who is not ready for the judgment. Two men standing together, two women standing together, one's taken away, and one's left. That's not the picture of the rapture. And uh when you compare passages that speak about the rapture and uh passages that speak about the second coming, there's some significant differences, as I mentioned before. At the rapture all believers will be removed from the earth. But at the second coming it's unbelievers who are removed from the earth. At the rapture, the saints meet the Lord in the air. At the second coming, it's the Lord who descends to the earth, to the Mount of Olives. At the rapture, the Lord returns to his father's house, as it talks about in John chapter 14, if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself. He's going to heaven and he's saying, I'm going to come and receive you to myself, that where I am in heaven, you may be also. Right? So the rapture, the Lord returns to take believers, the church, to the Father's house. At the second coming, he's gathering the elect to meet on the earth and restores the kingdom to Israel. And we're talking about different things here. And I'd also say that at the rapture, the Lord gathers together the church. And at the second coming, the Lord is primarily, not exclusively, but primarily dealing with Israel, focusing on Israel during this time. And I just want to uh flip to a couple passages just to just to talk about this a little bit. Look over at uh Deuteronomy chapter 30. Deuteronomy chapter 30. And just to give you a heads up, I know that there's there's a lot of questions about the end times, and I'll I'm actually planning on having like a QA after we get through Matthew 24, 25. uh just to start trying to address some of the questions that are coming up because I know there's a lot uh around this issue but uh just want to turn to a couple passages just to show you this gathering together of Israel. Look at uh Deuteronomy chapter 30 And I find it interesting as well that Moses, even after he gave the law, he knew that after he gave the law that Israel still wasn't going to keep it. Like he prepared for that. And listen to what he says in chapter 30. So it shall be when all these things have come upon you, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before you, and you call them to mind in all the nations where the Lord your God has banished you. And you return to the Lord your God and obey him. So here is Israel, return to the Lord to obey him with all your heart and soul, according to all that it I command you today, you and your sons, then the Lord your God will restore you from captivity and have compassion on you, and will gather you again from all the peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you. If your outcasts are at the ends of the earth, from there the Lord your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you back. The Lord your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it. And he will prosper you and multiply you more than their your fathers. Moreover, the Lord your God will circumcise your heart. Interesting. This is the time when the Lord circumcises the heart of the Israelites. Moreover, the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, so that you may live. I was talking about when Israel receives the new covenant. The same new covenant that we have as church, as believers, Israel will one day receive that new covenant as a nation. They will be brought into that new covenant like it talks about in Jeremiah 31. Micah chapter 2 verse 12. I will surely assemble all of you. Jacob, I will surely gather the remnant of Israel. I'll put them together like sheep in the fold, like a flack in the midst of its pasture. They will be noisy with men. Zephaniah chapter 3, verse 20 At that time I will bring you, even at the time when I gather you together indeed, I will give you renown and praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says the Lord. Ezekiel thirty nine, verse twenty-eight. Then they will know that I am the Lord their God, because I made them go into exile among the nations, and then gathered them again to their own land, and I will leave none of them there. any longer. This there is going to be a regathering of Israel that will take place and it's going to be at that time. And this is a good place to reflect back on verses 30 and 31 that we touched on in Matthew chapter 24. And uh, like I said, we'll we'll come back to this uh again. But uh back in verse 30 of uh Matthew chapter 24. In verse 30, speaks about the sign of the Son of Man appearing in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. And I know a couple questions came up about, you know, the tribes being gathered together again, and uh we mentioned that all of Israel uh will be saved, and you know, like how does all that work together? Actually what you have going on here, like I said, the tribes being gathered together, the tribes of the earth mourning. We looked at uh Zechariah 12. 10 as well as uh Revelation 1. 7 uh to establish that we're talking about the tribes of Israel here. And this will be a time that Israel as a nation finally accepts the indictment that Peter gave on the day of Pentecost. On the day of Pentecost on uh in Acts chapter 2, verse 36. Peter says, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him, both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. Israel as a nation has not accepted that yet. There's coming a time when they will accept that, yes, that is what we've done. We crucified the Messiah. Acts chapter 4 verse 10. Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified. Again, Peter's indicting the nation of Israel. You crucified the Messiah. At the second coming, they will actually admit, yes, that's what we have done. And they will mourn over him like an only son. Israel as a nation will finally accept the indictment as being right, and they will mourn over it. And the remnant that are left will cry out, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And that's the Israel that will be saved. It's not all of Israel. It's not all of Israel throughout all of history. It's not all of Israel irrespective of what they believe. It's all of Israel that's left after the tribulation of those days. And then will be fulfilled what Jeremiah the prophet said in Jeremiah 31, 34. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord! Know the Lord! Why? For they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more. There's coming a time when every Israelite who's left on the earth will know the Lord. From the least of them to the greatest of them. Nobody will have to say, hey, do you know the Lord? Why? Because every one of them will know the Lord. They'll partake in the same covenant, new covenant that we partake of. Jeremiah 50, verse 20 says, In those days and at that time, declares the Lord, search will be made for the iniquity of Israel, but there will be none. And for the sins of Judah, but they will not be found, for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant. There is going to be a specific number that's left, and from that number, the Bible says that I will pardon them. A search is going to be made. Where's the iniquity? Where's the sin? You can't find it. Why? Because all their sins have been forgiven. In that day will be fulfilled what the prophet Zechariah says in Zechariah chapter 13. In that day a fountain will be opened for the house of David. And for the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for impurity. There's a cleansing that's going to happen to the nation as a whole. Verse 8. It will come about in all the land, declares the Lord, that two parts in it will be cut off and perish, but the third will be left in it. Here's the remnant. Here's those who are left over. And I will bring the third part through the fire, refine them as silver is refined, and test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will answer them, and I will say, They are my people. And they will say, The Lord is my God. There's coming a time when there's going to be a national revival for Israel. And every Israelite will be saved. Those who are left, the remnant that are left over, not every Israelite. Not every Israelite, respective of what they believe, they still have to come through Christ. They still have to say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. But what we're talking about is a revival that we've never seen before on the earth. And it's then that the cultivated olive branch that the branch that the tree that's been kind of cared for and tended to, and The branch it was broken off, Israel was broken off of that that root. In Romans chapter eleven it says, For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted in contrary to the nature into a cultivated olive tree, How much more will those who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree? There's coming a time when national Israel is going to be grafted back into that. that that you know uh the uh the the source you know that that that stump you know that's living that's vibrant they're one day going to be grafted back into life There's coming a time when that's going to happen. And that's all of the Israel that will be saved. It's the remnant that we're talking about. Romans chapter 11, verse 26, that all of Israel will be saved. So just to just to make sure we kind of button this down, being a biological son of Abraham will not save you if you do not trust in Jesus Christ. Abraham had two sons, Ishmael and Isaac, and only one of them received the promise. Being a biological son of Isaac will not save you. Isaac had two sons, Jacob and Esau, and only one received the promise. Being a biological son of Jacob will not save you. Judas Was an Israelite. But the Bible says it would have been better for him if he were never born. Judas was not saved and will not be saved But there is a remnant that will come that will be saved. Romans chapter 9, verse 27, Isaiah cries out concerning Israel, though the number of the sons of Israel will be like the sand of the sea. It is the remnant that will be saved. It is the remnant that will be saved. The flood that came and took people away during the day of Noah. This picture of uh of judgment. Like I said, that's not a picture of the rapture, but there will come this great separation before the coming. of the kingdom and the elect in Israel will be gathered together. There's those that are taken for judgment. Actually, if you remember back in uh Matthew chapter 3 and verse 10 when John the Baptist announced the arrival of Jesus in the kingdom. Remember that? It says the axe is already laid at the root of the trees. As the root of the trees, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down, thrown into the fire. As for me, I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, and I am not fit to remove the sandals, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit in fire His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his thrushing floor. He will gather his wheat into the barn. Those are the elect. But he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. That's those that are brought into judgment. And that's that's what John the Baptist was expecting to happen. Hey, if the kingdom's going to come, you've got to remove the wicked And you've got to gather in the elect. That's what he's expecting to happen. And that is what will happen when Christ returns. He's going to take the wicked away for judgment, and he's going to gather his elect to himself. That's why James and John, when they witnessed the rejection of Christ, they said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven? It's like, let's get the process started Let's start removing some of these wicked from the earth now. Things like, no, you don't know what spirit you're of. Like I'm giving people a chance. There's opportunity to repent here, right? Same thing that the Lord referred to back in the parable in Matthew chapter 13. Why don't you flip back over there real quick? Matthew 13. Jesus tells a parable about an enemy who sowed tares among a wheat field. And it's the picture of the believer and the unbeliever living side by side in the world. We can tell from the description that the tares are a type of uh of weed. Uh it's it's known as a uh bearded Darnell. uh poisonous kind of kind of grass that was common in the in the east. And it looked just like weed until it matured. And uh in in in Matthew 13 Christ gives this parable about the tares that were sown among the wheat. Look at verse 30. Matthew chapter 13. Look at verse 30. It says, allow both to grow together until the harvest. And in the time of the harvest, I will say to the reapers First gather up the tarrors and bind them in bundles to burn them up, but gather the wheat into my barn Listen to explanation down in verse 36. It says then he left the crowds and went into the house and his disciples came to him and said, Explain to us the parable of the chairs in the field. He said, The one who sows the good seed is the son of man, and the field is the world, and as the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom, and the tares are the sons of the evil one. And the enemy who sowed them is the devil, and the harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are the angels. So just as the tares are gathered up and burned with fire, so shall it be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks, those who commit lawlessness, and will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And then the righteous will shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. It's like I mentioned before, it's not our position to try to come up with some kind of Christian society. That's what the Lord is going to introduce. We're not trying to get rid of all unbelievers from the face of the earth. That's what he's going to send the angels out to do. And God has reserved the right to judge the world. And right now the world is filled with people who oppose Christ, who oppose God, those who are stumbling blocks, those who are lawless. The world is at war with righteousness. And the more we hear about tolerances, the more intolerant they really are. But one day their freedom will be completely removed as they're gathered up like small dry sticks. to be cast into the fire. A common biblical picture of judgment. And it's not just a a fire, it's a furnace of fire where the fire is continually stoked. And that's the lake of fire mentioned in Revelation 20, verse 15, that if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire, a place of conscience, conscious, eternal torment. Where you never go out of existence, where you weep and grind and chatter your teeth for all of eternity. Fearful thought But it's inescapable because this is what the Lord of glory has stated, right? Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away. And like I said, as blinding as the lights of Scripture are, as deafening as the warnings of Scripture are, there's going to be people who will be totally shocked when it actually takes place. Shocked! Like, like, what did you expect? You didn't expect Jesus' words to come true? What are you shocked about? What are you surprised about? The Bible says that God isn't slow about his promise. The Bible says that God is patient. Patient. The Lord is not slow about his promises. Some count slowness, but is patient towards you, not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. And for those who have repented, this day will not overtake them as a thief. Because if you stay ready, you don't have to get ready, right? If you stay ready, you don't have to get ready. The suddenness of that day will not arrive slowly. It will be sudden, swift and sudden. For some people they think it's going to be flexible, but Jesus says it's certain, sure. And some people think they'll have plenty of time to prepare. But Jesus says it's going to be shocking and unexpected. And people are going to be caught off guard. Peter reminds us that things were bad during the days of Noah. People began to mock the judgment of God. But by his word, the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, the scripture says. Do not let this one fact escape your notice, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years like one day. God isn't slow. God has delayed his judgment to allow men and women to come to him in faith and repentance In the late 1800s, Johnstown was a thriving, if somewhat modest, community in western Pennsylvania. Just 14 miles away, however, there was a South Fork Hunting and Fishing Club, an exclusive enclave, whose members included Andrew Carnegie, Henry Fitfrick, and Andrew Mellon. In 1879, the club had restored an abandoned earthen dam and created Lake Conema, a pleasure lake used for sailing and ice boating. Which they stocked with expensive game fish. Some people in Johnstown feared the dam wasn't safe. Daniel Morrill, one of Johnstown's most prominent civic leaders Even had the dam expect inspected and wrote to the club pointing out major flaws, including the lack of an adequate water outlet, but his concerns were summarily dismissed. In May of 1889, there were several days of extraordinarily heavy rains. By May 31st, management at the club realized that the dam was in danger of giving way, but there was little they could do. As Morr had pointed out, the water outlet at the base of the dam had been filled in years before, and the emergency spillway, which had been reduced in size and covered with screens to prevent expensive fish from escaping, was now clogged with debris. Messages were sent to Johnstown warning that the dam might give way, but after years of false alarms, the messages were ignored. The water began to top the dam, and eventually it gave way. The water crashed down the valley, sweeping trees, rail cars, entire houses in its path. By the time the 20 million tons of water reached Johnstown, it was carrying even more debris. The mass hit the city, flattening everything in its path, until it was stopped by an immense stone bridge at the far end of town. The stone bridge held but created a disaster of its own. It acted like another dam, causing the water to back up over the city. Then the entire mass of wires, wood, rail cars, and bodies caught on fire. In the end, more than 2,200 people died and Johnstown fled. It became one of the largest media events of its time, with armies of reporters and aid groups descending on the town. Charitable donations came in from all over the country and from 18 foreign countries. Although lawsuits were filed against the South Fork Hunting and Fishing Club, it was never held to account. Most of the cases were heard in Pittsburgh where the wealthy club members held great influence. Moreover, it appears the club members successfully argued that the collapse was just an act of God, that even if they had maintained the dam properly, it would have still failed under the unprecedented rain. But critics argue that the black spillway was a major cause. of disaster. As much as people were warned ahead of time. As much as the warnings came, people trying to point out the flaws, people just ignored the warnings. And this is what people are doing today. They're just totally ignoring the warnings. You give them warnings about the end. The end is coming. Christ is coming back And they totally ignore it. They're indifferent. Or they're hostile. How dare you try to stop me? I'm out here with my expensive game fishing. What are you trying to do? Spoil my fun? Until it's too late. And then judgment is swift, it's sudden, it's certain. And you're left without a hope. Judgment will come. Jesus has promised it, and we would do well to heed his warnings. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and we're grateful for This time that we've had in your word, and uh there's so much more that could be said, and uh Father, we look forward to getting back to Matthew after the the break from Easter Father, we look forward to discussing these things more because we should be thinking more about your return as you're sooner to come now than you ever were. And so many times we can become indifferent to that reality. Sometimes in speaking to people we can get tired of even giving the warnings. But it's coming. It's sure. It's certain. It will be sudden. And people will be caught off guard. But there is no need to be caught off guard because the master has warned us. Now Father, let us think more about his return. Father, may our lives be changed as a result of it. And may we open our mouths to give warning. To those who still have breath while there's still time. In Jesus' name you praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.