The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 12 if you have your Bibles there? Matthew chapter 12, you'll find it in the New Testament. If uh you're new and you don't have a Bible, you can look on with your neighbor. Matthew chapter 12 is where we are this morning And uh what we're about to read in Matthew chapter twelve happened around the same time as uh what we uh just learned about last week in chapter eleven. And if you remember, in chapter eleven, we saw that the message of the kingdom was being rejected by the cities that Jesus and the disciples uh visited, but at the end of the chapter in chapter 11, Jesus was still making an invitation to those that were tired of chasing their sins. And especially for those who are tired of being weighed down by the religious system put in place by the Pharisees, by the scribes and the Pharisees. In Matthew chapter 23. In verse 4, it lets us know that the Pharisees tied up heavy burdens and laid them on men's shoulders, but they themselves were unwilling to move them with so much as a finger. Their system of religion was heavy, it was oppressive, and Jesus' words, to come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest, would have been seen as a direct attack on their system Uh there was no way that they didn't know that this word was against them. Uh Jesus was contrasting his light and easy yoke. with their heavy and oppressive yoke. It was a clear contrast, and uh people knew that whoever followed after Jesus was not following after the Pharisees. You couldn't do both at the same time. Either you follow Jesus or you follow the Pharisees, and you'll never guess who shows up in chapter 12. Like the insects that are climbing out of the woodwork, the Pharisees appear to challenge Jesus, who they viewed to them as a threat. Uh but Jesus is only a threat if you consider your religion more important than Jesus. Religion is is really not a negative term. Sometimes I hear people say, you know, don't give me religion, just give me Jesus or I'm not into to religion. I'm into a relationship. And I understand what they mean by that, but uh but the Bible actually talks about both. James in uh James chapter one in verse twenty-six he speaks of pure and undefiled religion. Religion or religious practice is only a problem if it gets in the way of Jesus. And for the Pharisees, their religion definitely God in the way. And it doesn't have to compete with Jesus as long as religion stays in its place. But for the Pharisees, religion was definitely out of place. Their religion was not about serving God and loving people. It was about competing with God and abusing people. And this week we'll see a perfect example of that in Matthew chapter twelve. We'll start at verse one and read down to verse eight. Says at that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples became hungry and began to pick the heads of grain and eat. But when the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, Look, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on a Sabbath. But he said to them, Have you not read what David did when he became hungry, he and his companions? How he entered the house of God and they ate the consecrated bread which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those with him, but for the priest alone. Or have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent? But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here But if you had known what this means, I desire compassion and not a sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent. For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh I thank you God so much for uh your word. Father, we thank you for the instruction that it gives to us Father, we thank you for the way that your word points us to Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you, Lord, would be honored and glorified in all that we do. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, God, we pray. There's there's three movements in uh the passage before us, and it all really starts in in verse one uh with this innocent enjoyment of food by the disciples, which was uh the compassion And the compassionate provision that was provided by God. We have compassion for the innocent in verse 1. Then in verse 2, you have this judgmental condemnation by the Pharisees, the condemnation of the innocent in verse 2. And then finally there's this response from the Lord in verses 3 to 8, where he points out their gross ignorance of the Word of God, and you have the condemnation of the ignorant in our verses 3 to 8. So let's take a look at the first point together. Point number one, compassion for the innocent. First of all, as you look at uh verse one again, it says at that time uh Jesus went through the grain fields On the Sabbath, and his disciples became hungry and began to pick the heads of grain and eat. And uh it's actually important to recognize that the disciples weren't stealing. If you flip back to Deuteronomy chapter uh 23, back in Deuteronomy chapter 23, there was actually a provision in the law that granted permission for the people to walk through the fields of their neighbors or the vineyards of their neighbors and to eat food if they were hungry. This is a provision that the law provided back in Deuteronomy chapter 23 in a section that instructs Israel how to treat their neighbors. Listen to what God says in verse 24 and 25. He says, when you enter your neighbor's vineyard, then you may eat grapes until you are fully satisfied, but you shall not put any in your basket. When you enter your neighbor's standing grain, then you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not wield a sickle in your neighbor's standing grain. So you you couldn't go into your your neighbor's field and kind of reap the crop for yourself, you know, put a sickle through his weed and, you know, haul off the wheat for yourself. you know, pick all of his his uh grapes off of all of his vines. You couldn't do that. But if you're walking through his field and you become hungry, the Bible says, eat until you're satisfied. You can go ahead and and pick the the the the the grapes, you can go ahead and pick the wheat You can eat until you're satisfied. You know, if he kinda took a sickle through, you'd be stealing. But if you're just eating to be satisfied, it was completely legal We also find a another provision that was made in Leviticus nineteen where Israel was told that even when they did harvest their crops That they were not to reap all of it. They weren't supposed to pick it until it was clean. Listen to what Leviticus 19, verses 9 and 10 say. It says, Now when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field. Nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest, nor shall you glean your vineyard, nor shall you gather the fallen fruit of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the needy and for the stranger. I am the Lord. your God. So here was God's way of providing for the needy, providing for the poor, providing for the less fortunate. And if you remember the story of Ruth, uh you'll remember how Boaz instructed his servants to leave an extra portion in his field for Ruth to come in to to glean from. It was an act of compassion. Uh but we should remember that God is the one who initiated this. God is the compassionate God who initiated this in Israel. And uh for all that we hear about the Old Testament being harsh and rigid and judgmental and unloving. This is a very compassionate picture of God. That God would say, hey, if you're walking through a field, you're hungry, eat. You know, if if you're if you're poor, you can go to a field, they won't glean all of it, because you can go and gather from some of the field that's that's left behind. This is a compassionate picture of God. This is reflective of who God is in his nature. God is a compassionate God. That is the the nature of who God is. And if you have an if you believe you have an Orthodox view of God And somewhere in your categories you don't have compassion listed there, you have the wrong God. You have a wrong view of who God is, and your theology is off no matter what else your theology might be. And I'm not saying that you're supposed to be sloppy in your theology about the Trinity and the attributes of God, but uh we need to remember that Compassion is a big part of the attributes of God. It's one of the main attributes of God. Actually, you find in Exodus chapter 34 where God passed by Moses and he proclaimed his name to Moses. proclaimed his character to Moses. Listen to what he says in Exodus 34, verse 6. Then the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate. gracious, slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness and truth. So if if you if you uh believe you have sound theology and you don't care a lick about the poor You have the wrong theology. You have the wrong view of God. The true religion in James chapter 1, verses 26 and 27, it says, if anyone thinks himself to be religious. Yet does not bridle his tongue but deceives his own heart. This man's religion is worthless. Pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself unstained by the world Uh to to have a pure and undefiled religion was to care for the needy, to care for the poor, to care for the orphans and the widows and God visits the poor and the needy, because he's a compassionate God. And if you remember the disciples, uh when they they they were when they followed Jesus Christ, they're actually placing themselves in a humble position. The disciples they they left their their lifestyle not to enter into the lifestyles of the rich and famous with Jesus, you know, leave your tax franchise and Leave your fishing business and come to me, you know, Jesus with the designer clothes and I can introduce you to the lifestyle of the rich and famous. That's not what they did. When they when they decided to follow Christ, they were leaving their goods and their possessions behind to follow one who didn't have a place to lay his head. And they that depended on uh the gifts of others and uh just the generosity of God Himself in order to make it from from day to day. Uh Peter, Andrew, James, and John all called out of the same fishing business. Matthew was pulled out of the tax collection franchise and his disciples depended on the provision of God and the support of others. They didn't have their own fields to pick from, so here they are walking through the field, and this is God's provision. and kindness to them, that they could eat from the grain that they saw in the fields next to them. And uh what struck me while I was reading this was that there's many times in the gospels where we're confronted with the miraculous provision of God. You know, just a couple of chapters later in Matthew chapter 14, uh Jesus will feel compassion for the crowds and feed over five thousand men besides women and children by multiplying two fish and five loaves, and they all ate and were satisfied. The miraculous provision of God. Again in Matthew chapter 15, Jesus has compassion on another group where four thousand men besides women and children are fed with seven loaves and a few small fish. The miraculous provision of God And all throughout scripture we have stories of just the miraculous provision of God. God rains down bread from heaven in Exodus chapter 16 called manna. In Numbers chapter eleven, God sent quail into the desert. In first Kings seventeen, God gave the widow of uh Zarephath a uh uh an unending jar of flour and oil to continue to make bread for for herself and her family. In second Kings four, uh God cures a pot of pois and multiplies it to feed a hundred men. The miraculous provision of God, and we're rightly amazed by that. But I wonder if we've lost the joy over the natural provision of God. Kind of the common provision of God. If you get paid to do any kind of work, it's the Lord's compassion to you that you even have a job. And you should be grateful for what you have. That's not of your own doing. Regardless of what kind of job you have, as much as you might complain about the work or whatever else, that is God's compassion to you. That's how God has decided to provide. In our Deuteronomy chapter eight, verse eighteen, it says, You shall remember the Lord, your God, for it is he who has given you the power to make wealth I remember uh one time when I was working as a HVAC technician and uh it was lunchtime and I bowed my head to pray and you know one of the coworkers said, you know, what are what are you thanking God for? Didn't you work for that? It's like, are you serious? Are you kidding me? You know, d do you think that that I got here on my own strength? Do you think there'd be a a job even provided if it wasn't the Lord who provided it? Do you think there'd be food to eat if I mean there could be a famine. We could might not even have food, even if you had the money. And who says that this has to nourish my body? I could have some kind of terrible disease where it wouldn't even stick, right? I mean there's countless ways that you think about God is the one who provides for me And we need to be c thankful for the common provisions of God. They walked through the grain fields, they could pick the grain. That was God's provision. That was God's compassion If uh you've been provided for by the kindness and the gifts of of others, you need to recognize that originally came from the hand of God. Even if it came through another you know, instrument, it was originally from the hand of God. In Psalm 145, verse 15, it says, The eyes of all look to you. You give them their food in due time. If you're if you're having trouble seeing the compassion of God, it was in the bowl of whatever you had this morning. And in the plate of whatever you had last night. That is God's compassion for you. God is the one who gives us what we have. And even if you were fed from a scrap of food that you found on the ground, Who was the one that provided the food in the first place? Who was the one that causes food to come out of the dirt? Have you ever even thought about that? The fact that what we eat grows out of the dirt Even even the meat you eat had to first eat what came out of the dirt, right? I mean it's incredible to think about it. It would it would be like utterly ridiculous if it wasn't so common and we just kind of take it for granted. But if I came in this morning and said, Hey, I've got this uh this little uh this little tiny uh seed here, but uh if you put it in the dirt and give it enough water and enough sunlight, it'll produce apples that will produce more seeds, just like this one. And like what are you? Kidding me? Some kind of magic trick? Some kind of no, it's it's true. Because God makes it grow. God makes it produce. And it just all it is is you put a seed in the dirt, give it water and light, and boom, you've got something to eat Have you ever really thought about that? Have you ever really thought about that? Sounds crazy, but God has designed it to work. It's his gracious and compassionate provision for us because that is the character of the God we serve. We serve a compassionate God Every meal you eat. Uh the average person eats like uh between, I've heard, between three to five pounds of food every day. Unless you're Danny Hicks and you eat like two teaspoons every day because He's on this crazy diet. Or then you might be like my son and it's like ten pounds a day or whatever it is. By some by some estimates, there's uh 7. 5 billion people in the world today. Which means that God provides 22. 5 to 37. 5 billion pounds of food every day. And that's just for the people. We're not even talking about the animals yet. Billions of pounds of food every day. That is a compassionate God. God provides all this for us. And here's the disciples. walking through the fields, benefiting from the compassion of God in the grain that was next to them on the field, and they had the creator walking right next to them. approving of what they're doing as they're picking off this grain, popping it in their mouth, rubbing it in their hands. Jesus is approving of what they're doing and really an amazing picture to think about the Creator himself walking by. watching his creation enjoy his provision that he's made for them. And then the piece of all this scene is ruined In the next verse in in verse two back over in in Matthew chapter twelve, this this kind of you know scenic uh you know uh environment that we that we have here, this picture that's painted for us of You know, the creator walking with his creation through the fields as they're enjoying the beauty of his creation, eating from the provision of the field. But then in verse 2, it's all ruined. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to him, Look! Your disciples do what it's not lawful to do on a Sabbath. And here we have the condemnation of the innocent. What were the Pharisees even doing in the field in the first place? What are they doing? It's like I have this picture in my mind of them kind of like hiding behind uh you know some stalks of grain is kind of popping out. Hey look I caught you aha We finally found you Jesus What are they doing there? It's obvious that they're looking for some kind of opportunity to catch Jesus committing a sin. They're trying to convict Jesus. Basically in chapter 11, like I said, Jesus told the crowds, if you're tired of the religion of the Pharisees, do what? Come to me. Tired of the Pharisees, come to me and you'll find rest. And the Pharisees couldn't stand it. They were offended by Jesus. They were threatened by Jesus. They hated Jesus And they tried to justify their hatred of Jesus by looking for some kind of dirt they could dig up on them, some kind of mud they could sling at them Some kind of skeleton they could could find in this closet somewhere, pull out of the closet. But Jesus was innocent of every accusation. Every accusation Even here they try to convict them based on what the disciples were doing. It wasn't even Jesus who was eating at this point. The disciples were eating and they say, hey, look at what your disciples are doing. As some way to kind of turn it back on Jesus and convict him about what he allowed his disciples to do. And this just shows you how desperate they were to find something, anything, on Jesus Christ. Which would really give you confidence in the the absolute perfection of your Savior. If the Pharisees had to hide behind the grain And pop out to say, hey, look, they're rubbing rubbing uh grain in their hands. Look, look at what your disciples are doing. If that's the best they could come up with, that is like the the worst sin that they could stick Jesus with. You allowed your disciples to eat grain. That is the worst. It lets you know how perfect and pure and holy Jesus Christ was. Our Savior was completely free from sin. In John chapter 8, verse 46, Jesus confronts his attackers in John 8. 46 and says, which one of you convicts me of sin? Like bring it. Bring it. Which one of you can convict me of sin? There is not one sin that I've committed. And if if I speak the truth, why don't you believe me? Like they should have been able to look at his life and say, we believe this guy. He's utterly perfect. He's sinless. On the night Jesus was betrayed in Matthew 26. 59 and 60, the chief priests and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death. They wanted something for which they could say, you deserve to die, but they didn't find any. Even though many false witnesses came forward. They couldn't find anybody that would agree with each other. They struggled desperately to find an accusation against Jesus, but Jesus was sin-free. Amen. And praise God, right? In our first John 3. 5 it says, You know that he appeared in order to take away sin in what? In him there is no sin. In Jesus there is no sin. Hebrews chapter 4. 15, he was without sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he knew no sin. This is this is the the Christ that you serve. And if he was going to be our substitute, it had to be that way. We needed one who was sinless who could stand in our place. Jesus had to be sin free and he endured incredible scrutiny. Like I said, they're really grasping for for anything, so they say, Look! Like I said, aha, we finally caught you. Caught you, Jesus. With grain in your hands. Hand in the cookie jar, Jesus, red-handed. Look, your disciples do what's not lawful to do on a Sabbath. Like I said, we've already seen that it was lawful for them to go through through the fields and pick grain. But what the Pharisees are emphasizing is that it's on the Sabbath. That they're doing this. They're doing what's not lawful to do on the Sabbath. And Sabbath observance was a part of the old covenant according to Exodus chapter 20. No longer binding on us today, even though we're sitting here in a Seventh-day Adventist church, right? No longer binding on us today. But it was intended to be a gift. And was meant to lighten the load on men. And intended to lighten the load on men. But by this time the Sabbath became a heavy burden upon their backs. As MacArthur said, for several hundred years the various schools of the rabbis had added regulation after regulation, going far beyond the teaching of Scripture and in many instances actually contradicting it. In no area were these additions more extensive and extreme than in regard to the Sabbath observance. It became anything but a day of rest. The Sabbath became like one of the hardest days of the week. Because you couldn't keep up with all the rules. And you had to go to the Pharisees just to kind of check on yourself. Like, am I doing this right? Like, I don't know what I like I don't know what to do anymore. Like you're paralyzed. How do you live this day? The Talmud, which is a collection of Jewish rabbinic teaching, has 24 chapters on the Sabbath alone. List 39 categories of ways you could break the Sabbath. It's dense. I mean I try to read through some of it. It's just like like come on, like get to the point. It's just on and on and on and on. All these rules that you could break on the Sabbath day. Like I said, it's dense reading, and uh Alfred Edesheim explains a number of these in an appendix uh to his work on the life of Christ. But listen to a few of these. It was forbidden to carry a burden heavier than a dried fig. But if it weighed half a fig, you could carry twice It was lawful to lift a seat as long as it didn't have more than four steps. Because if a seat had more than four steps, it could be considered a ladder, and the ladder is for work. It was lawful to to drag a chair. It was not lawful to drag a chair because it might create a rut, and that would be like digging. After the Sabbath began, a tailor could not carry a needle, a scribe could not carry a pen. A teacher could not allow students to read a book that he himself read because he might be tempted to say something about the book, which would be teaching, and that's work. One rabbi said that you were not allowed to throw hot water over yourself because the water might spill on the floor and wash it, and washing the floor is work. Women were forbidden to look at a mirror on the Sabbath because they might discover a white hair and be tempted to pull it out. Some somebody's thankful we're not in in this time anymore, right? You couldn't wear false teeth because if they fell out, you'd be tempted to pick 'em up and that would be picking up a burden. And the rules go on I mean, I'm not joking about the the rules go on and on like this. And th like I said, the Sabbath became this unbearable burden that people walked around with trying to keep up with all the rules. You another one, you weren't allowed to travel more than 3,000 feet from your home. But if you you attached your home to your neighbor's home by a string then their house could be considered your house and you could go 3,000 feet from that place. And today we have entire communities that are enclosed by a string or a wire or some kind of you know enclosure. Right here in uh in Baltimore we have a section. It's it's known as the Aruve E-R-U-V, the Aruv. which is kind of contains the whole area by wire or string, making the whole area free to walk and because everything's connected now. So we actually have one here in in in Baltimore that goes from Pikesville to Mount Washington. You know, sometimes you'll see uh strings, you know, wire on a pole, and it's not telephone wire, and it's not cable or whatever else. Uh a lot of these are just a ruse. It's it's these strings that connect the whole area together that says that inside of this you can walk around wherever you want to. You know, if you go outside, you know, you can only go 3,000 feet, but inside you can go anywhere you want. Today there's even rules that apply to electric appliances. In order to obey the Sabbath prohibitions against kindling fires, according to one article, it's forbidden to turn on any electric device Whether it's plugged into the wall or runs on batteries. But it's permissible to leave electrical appliances running on the Sabbath, uh even though the electric companies are run by people who violate the Sabbath. So, you know, you can violate it, but we can't It's forbidden to press an electric doorbell, forbidden to use a regular elevator. You know, you have the Sabbath elevator, some of you might be familiar with that. Which stops at every floor, which is kind of irritating. You know, if you just want to go to the top, you gotta go through every floor in between. Forbidden to pick up a phone, uh forbidden to to use a hearing aid unless you turn it on the day before. Then you can keep it on during the Sabbath, but you can't turn it on on the Sabbath. You know, so you know, sorry for you if you you forgot to turn it on. It's permitted to use an electric blanket as long as you don't adjust the knob. I mean it just goes on and on. Some rules permit opening a refrigerator door only if the motor is running, because if you turn on listen to this, if you open up the fridge and the motor starts to run, now you're causing it to work. But if the motor's already running, you can open the door. And then you have to make sure that the light doesn't come on. So you have to disable the light or put a little piece of tape, you know, over the little you know thing that presses the light, you know, makes it shut off. But if you're around a Gentile, you can ask the Gentile to open up the refrigerator door for you. And like I said, the rules just go on and on like this. So you can only imagine You can only imagine all the rules that were being violated as the disciples walk through the fields picking up heads of grain. You can only imagine, I mean, they're just like the bells are going off, alarm systems. What in the world are you doing? According to the Talmud, to pick up fruit was reaping, to roll wheat in your hands was sifting, to rub the ends of the stalk was threshing, to crush the wheat was grinding, to throw it up in the air was winnowing. So I mean five violations Just by picking up a head of grain and eating it. Five violations in the f if not more. So here the Pharisees are just like, alarms are going off. This is unbelievable. Unbelievable law breaking is going on here. That's the burden of false religion because it's all external. But if all you have is the symbols, if that's all that you have, you gotta make sure you get the symbols right. If all you have is what shows up on the outside, you gotta make sure you get that right. You know, so the Roman Catholics have the certain way that they're supposed to do the Mass. You know, you stand up and you sit down and you repeat after me. You know, Islam has rules about the way you position yourself when you pray. I actually went to a to a mosque for a funeral and you know you got to be so far uh apart from the guy next to you and you have to bow it a certain way and turn in a certain direction and do this and do that. If it's all about the externals, you gotta make sure you get it right. And that's all they had. Everything was on the outside. But before we pat ourselves on the back, I wonder if uh if we might have the same attitude lurking in our own congregation. Do we have uh methods and ways that can't be broken and then we judge others because they don't match up to our standard, to our roles? You know, obviously we need to make sure we get the the gospel right. You know, nobody should be content with the false gospel, but uh what if somebody shares the gospel in a way that that you're not comfortable sharing the gospel? They do it in a different way. True gospel, but you know, do you get bent out of shape because they don't do it how you would do it? They don't say it how you would say it? You know, it's not the way of the master. You know, it can't be right. Have you been more concerned with how a brother shared than what he shared? You know, can't you just rejoice in the gospel? And Paul said, I, you know, as long as the Christ is proclaimed, I rejoice. You know, even if the brother doesn't like me, doesn't get along with me, you know, Christ you know said if they're they're not against us, they're they're for us, right? It's like, you know, don't don't stop them, you know, just because they're not part of our group, if they're proclaiming the truth, let them proclaim the truth. I heard one story about a preacher who went to a church that didn't use altar calls and he didn't know that th it was their practice not to use altar calls. So he just kinda innocently went up and he preached his message and at the end he says, you know, if anybody would like to respond to the Lord, you know, you can come up now and I'll pray for you. You know, you can kneel down here and you know we can talk about the gospel. And there are several people who responded to the call. And you'd think that the congregation would just be excited. But rather than rejoicing over the work that God had done, several complained about his method and called it manipulation and created dissension over it. We need to make sure that we're uh focusing on the right things. Focusing on the right things. Alexander Strack in his book Bite and Devour mentions a list of secondary issues that people elevate to fundamental doctrines and become dogmatic. Over things such as Sabbath keeping, celebrating Christmas, drinking alcohol, dancing, lifting hands in worship, hanging pictures of Jesus on the wall, honoring ancestors, schooling children, proper dress and hairstyles, forms of entertainment, recreational choices. or even the use of leavened or unleavened bread during the communion. And I'm not saying that the Bible doesn't address these things at all, but they should not be the focus. They should not be the focus. And if people don't check off your list, how do you respond to those people? Because you don't do it like I do it? Or do you need people to belong to your group first before you can rejoice in what the Lord is doing? The Pharisees elevated their religion above God, who was standing right there in front of them. Even accused the Lord of breaking the Sabbath, the one who created the Sabbath. How ridiculous is this? Now if this was was you, you're being attacked for violating the Sabbath, you know, how would you respond? You know, I I think about the the way I'd respond, you know, I'd probably go back to Exodus twenty and show them like, hey, let's let's take a look at the original command and you know see that all these things have been added. You know, let's talk about all the all the rules that have been added over the hundreds of years, and you know, you don't find any of these in the Bible. Don't you see that? You know, maybe I would try to do something like You know, today, you know, point back to Colossians chapter two and show them that you know we're not to be judged by Sabbath keeping anymore. But what Jesus does is so fascinating because he goes way beyond that. He attacks them at a foundational level because he goes to the base of their authority. The Pharisees position themselves in the Jewish community as the authorities on what? on the scriptures. The Pharisees were supposed to be the authority on the scriptures. People came to them because they trusted them to interpret and apply the scriptures. And what Jesus does in his divine wisdom is he aims at the base of their authority with three penetrating questions. Look what he says, verse 3. Have you not read Verse 5, have you not read? Verse 7, if you had known what this means, you know what he's doing? He's questioning their ability to interpret the scriptures. He's questioning their ability to interpret and apply the scripture. There's no need to argue about rabbinical law and what's been added if you don't even know how to read the Bible and it's plain language. And what a rebuke this would have been. I mean, these are guys who would have memorized most of the scriptures, if not all of it. And here he is. Haven't you guys read? Don't you guys understand? Don't you know what this means? Have you never read the Bible? I mean, this is such a sarcastic statement. It's just like cutting. Don't you guys read And here he condemns them for their ignorance. Look at verse 3. But he said to them, Have you not read what David did when he became hungry, he and his companions, how he entered the house of God and they ate the consecrated bread? which is not lawful for him to eat, nor for those with him, but for the priests alone. Right off the top of his head, he fires back. with scripture and and use this scripture that I mean this is so good because these passages aren't the first ones that would come to our minds if we're trying to argue with somebody about the Sabbath. But this is just so helpful to see that the mastery that Jesus has over the Bible. And first he takes into this example of David. Back in 1 Samuel chapter 21. If you want to flip back there, we find David fleeing from the presence of Saul because Saul was bent on taking his life. This is uh not because of anything that David did that was wrong. David actually did nothing but bless Saul He blessed Saul and his kingdom. He defeated Saul's enemies. He defeated Goliath. He soothed Saul with his music. He befriended Saul's son. He was the best friend of his son Jonathan. And uh he was also betrothed to his daughter. He's he's Saul's son-in-law. But Saul can't stand them. Saul wants him dead because he knew that David was anointed by God to be the next king And God was removing the kingdom from Saul and giving it to another. He was removing it from his house and putting it in the house of another. The crown was going to another house. And this is just a dangerous place to be in. So here you have Saul who's opposing the will of God. And Saul has already tried to take David's life a number of times, throwing a spear at him. But this time David flees from the hand of Saul, and in 1 Samuel 21, he flees from Gibeah and reaches a place called Nob, which is a mile outside of Jerusalem where the tabernacle was located. And there's a priest by the name of Ahimelech who is ministering there. And by the time David arrives, he's hungry, he's worn out. Look what it says in 1 Samuel 21, starting at verse 3. He says, now therefore, he's talking to Ahimelech the priest, he says, now therefore, what do you have on hand? Give me five loaves of bread or whatever can be found. And the priest answered David and said, There is no ordinary bread on hand, but there is consecrated bread, if only the young men have kept themselves from women. David answered the priest and said to him, Surely women have been kept previously from us as As previously when I set out, and the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was an ordinary journey, how much more than today will their vessels be holy? So the priest gave him consecrated bread, for there was no bread there but the bread of the presents. which was removed from before the Lord in order to put hot bread in its place when it was taken away. Just to give you a little bit of background here in Leviticus 24, The Bible lets us know that there were 12 loaves of bread that were placed in the tabernacle as a as a um uh as a ritual. It was just a remembrance, you know, a memorial to let Israel know that God is the one who provides for your needs. So here you have these twelve pieces of bread that are placed before the Lord in the presence of God to demonstrate that God is is faithful to to Israel, and every week they're replaced with with fresh loaves. But this bread was only to be eaten by holy people in a holy place. And really it was only for the priests. But the the priest here, Ohimelech, he has enough sense to realize that God's rules were not created to keep people hungry. So here as David shows up and he's famished, you know, after coming this long way on this journey, he understands that God's rules weren't meant to keep the anointed king hungry. And the really the similarities are so striking between the story that we find in 1 Samuel 21 and what we find in Matthew chapter 12 because, and just think about this with me, David was the anointed king. Who's the anointed king in the New Testament? Jesus, he's the anointed king. David was rejected. Jesus was rejected. Saul, who was ruling over the kingdom, was jealous of David and wanted David dead. The Pharisees who ruled over Israel were jealous of Jesus and wanted Jesus dead Saul wanted the kingdom for himself. The Pharisees wanted the kingdom for themselves. So it's amazing to think about why Jesus chose this specific story here, but the point that he makes. Is that the priest of Ahimelech . . understood that the laws of God were not meant to keep men hungry, especially the anointed king. And someone greater than David was standing there before the Pharisees. And the fact that Jesus uses it is just amazing. He doesn't argue about whether or not it's lawful to eat grain. He doesn't go through all the rules. Jesus goes beyond that. His argument is even if it was unlawful. You don't understand the intent of the scriptures, and more than that, you have no idea who you're talking to. You have no idea who's standing here before you. Because if David could eat from the consecrated bread, someone is standing here who is greater than David. This is what what Jesus is pointing out to them. Second example that he points out is uh uh example that he takes from the temple over in uh Matthew chapter twelve again, verses uh five to five to six, and look at this with me. Matthew chapter twelve again. Like I said, just just a masterful way that that uh Jesus uh defends uh his actions and the actions of the disciples Look at verse 5. He says, Or have ye not read in the law that on the Sabbath the priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent? But I say to you that something greater than the temple is here. And here again Jesus points out something that would have been obvious to everyone in Israel, something that would have been observed from just a plain reading of the scriptures, that even though the Sabbath was commanded as a day of rest for the people, it was at the same time one of the busiest work days for the priests. Under the old covenant, the Sabbath was the day that the Lord required offerings to be made. On the Sabbath day. Numbers chapter twenty-eight, verse one says the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command the sons of Israel and say to them, You shall be careful to present my offering, my food for my offerings of fire, of a soothing aroma to me at their appointed time. There was a morning sacrifice, an evening sacrifice, and that sacrifice was to happen every day, including the Sabbath day. So you have in Numbers twenty-eight, verses nine and ten. This is the burnt offering of every Sabbath in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offerings. Here you have all these offerings that are being made. Fires underneath the sacrifice, so the fire is lit. They're carrying these sacrifices up and down from the altar, so they're lifting. No way you could get around the fact that the priests are doing work Fire is lit, they're carrying sacrifices up and down, but there was an exception made for the priest because everyone understood that the temple sacrifice was important. There was something of greater importance than the Sabbath laws that was happening in the temple. Worship was being offered to God. And that was considered important in the eyes of the people and in the eyes of the Pharisees. And Jesus tells us Something that's even more important than the temple sacrifice. And in verse 60 says, something greater than the temple is here If you guys would make an exception for the priest to bring up and down these sacrifices in light of fire, there's something that's even more important than the sacrifice that was offered in the temple. I'm here. You guys don't understand the importance of who you're talking to. You guys don't understand the importance of the word of God. You don't interpret it right. You don't know who I am. Jesus referred to his body as what? He referred to his body as a temple. And he said his temple would be raised up in three days. You can tear down down this temple in John chapter 2, three days I'll raise it up. The temple in Jerusalem was torn down in AD 70, and it still hasn't been rebuilt. Jesus says something greater than that temple is right here. He was talking about himself. Again, he points out their ignorance of the scripture and their ignorance of who they were talking to. And then the final example comes from God's relationship to Israel in the book of Hosea. You have him saying in verse 7, But if ye had known what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice. you would not have condemned the innocent. And here he points back to Hosea, back in the book of Hosea, chapter 6. You have uh Hosea written somewhere between 750 and 710 BC before the northern kingdom of Israel fell to Assyria, and it's a book about uh God's covenant love. uh to uh uh to Israel. And uh Hosea's marriage, if you remember the uh the book of Hosea was really an illustration of God's loyalty to a people who are unloyal and unfaithful to him. In uh Hosea chapter six verse four. Listen what he says He points out how their loyalty wasn't truly given to the Lord. It was a fickle kind of love. It says, For what shall I do with you, Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? For your loyalty is like a morning cloud and like the dew which goes away early. You know, you can't depend on it. You know, it's here here for a little while and then it just kind of evaporates, it goes away, fleets It's fleeting. Verse 5, therefore I have hewn them in pieces by the prophets, I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and the judgments on you are like the light that goes forth. So he talks about this uh uh the the loyalty that they didn't have towards him and the judgment that they deserved uh because of it. And then in verse 6 uh he says he says this For I delight in loyalty rather than sacrifice, and in the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. So what he's talking about here is this this love, this loyalty, this devotion that should have been given to him. And he says, I'd rather have that than all of the sacrifices that you could put up. All of the sacrifice that you could bring to me, I'd rather have your loyalty. And how is loyalty and love towards God demonstrated? It's not a trick question. The way that we demonstrate love towards God is that we love other people. That we have compassion on other people. It's the same thing that talks about in the New Testament, doesn't it? In the New Testament, 1 John chapter 4, verse 20, if someone says, I love God and what? And hates his brother, he is a liar. The way that we demonstrate our love to God is by showing love to others, compassion towards others. And here you have these Pharisees that couldn't care less if the people are hungry, if they're sick, if they're lame, if they're demon-possessed, as long as you don't violate my rules. So you have the synagogue official who has the nerve to be angry and indignant with Jesus because he healed people on the Sabbath day In Luke chapter thirteen, verse fourteen, the synagogue official, indignant because Jesus healed on the Sabbath day, began saying to the crowd in response, There's six days in which work should be done, so come then and get healed. And not on the Sabbath day. I don't care if you're lame. I don't care if you're crippled. I don't care what disease you have. I don't care if your son is demon-possessed. Come back tomorrow. What kind of love is that? What kind of compassion is that? Right after this event in Matthew chapter 12, you have uh uh Jesus healing a lame man in the synagogue on the Sabbath. And immediately after that the Pharisees say, How can we kill this guy? They plot Jesus' death because of his compassion that he showed towards people. So the Sabbath here had become this burdensome sacrifice. And Jesus says, I'd rather have your love and loyalty than the sacrifice. Where's your true love towards me? And Jesus said, no, what God prefers because Jesus is God. Now I don't know how you get around the ice conclusion here, but Jesus calls himself the Lord of the Sabbath. Who else would be Lord of the Sabbath but God? The Sabbath was ordained by God. It's God who rested on the seventh day. It was God who called the Sabbath a holy Sabbath to the Lord in Exodus chapter 16. It was given to men, but it was regulated by God. Who else could be Lord of the Sabbath besides God Himself? So here you have Jesus revealing to the Pharisees who what his true identity is. I don't know why they didn't pick up stones right here to stone them. Because Jesus is clearly saying, I am God. And what a tragedy for the Pharisees to be right in the face of their creator and totally miss it. Totally miss it. They hated every minute of it and miss God for their religion to hold on to their religious practices. Missed opportunity. And that might be you this morning. And maybe you came into the church today and you have a lot of religion. Have have a long history of doing the right thing, going to church or whatever else you might do. Maybe you live a moral life and you might have a list of rules that you keep. That you obey, look down on others who don't obey the rules that you do. But maybe you've come in here and you don't have a relationship with Jesus at all. Maybe you've never truly followed Christ. Maybe you've never humbled yourself to come to the one who can give you rest. And the the Bible says that uh that if you're weary and heavy laden by all the rules that you've been trying to keep to please God, that you can come to Christ and find rest today. You can come to Jesus Christ and find rest. And if you're here today as a believer, my question for you is, does your religion direct people to Jesus or does it distract people from Jesus? We need to be quick to throw off anything that doesn't line up with Christ in his word. And the question I have is, are you missing Christ for your religion, for your practices? And I pray that we never get there as a church, but these are just a couple of things I ask myself. Are you just as excited when someone experiences grace as when someone understands the doctrines of grace? What are you more excited about? Are you just as interested in the character of God being displayed in the lives of his people or in the attributes of God described or studied in a class? Would a ministry of compassion be just as valued as a ministry of exhortation and teaching? And my purpose in asking those questions isn't to put one against the other. Because it's really a false dichotomy to say, you know, do you want somebody to understand the doctrines of grace or do you want somebody to experience? We want both, right? You know, it's not like we we want the attributes of God, you know, to to be displayed, but not to be studied and understood. It's like we want both. We want compassion and teaching and exhortation. We want it all. So I'm not saying to do you want one or the other. I'm just saying, do you value both? Do you value both? It's really a false dichotomy. I was reminded last week that uh Rick Warren said that he thinks Christianity needs a second reformation. But but you might wonder, is he talking about a return to salvation by grace alone and faith alone? Sola Fide, no, that's not it. He says that the church should be about deeds and not creeds. Basically, it should be about doing good works, but you know, forget about what we really really believe, you know, and trying to get all get our doctrine right. You know, we should just be busy about doing his work. And he's also quoted in the Washington Post as saying, I don't care, listen to what he says. I don't care why you do good as long as you do good. Well, Jesus cares why you do good. We should care why you do good. He said it says I don't care why you do good as long as you do good. That's not the solution that Jesus was aiming for. For the the solution is not to put cre deeds against creeds or religion against relationship, it's to have both I like how one author put it, he says, our greatest problem is not that we lacked a relationship with our Creator, but rather that it was a hostile relationship to our Creator. And that remains the relationship for all unbelievers. It's why Paul described evangelism not as the ministry of relationship, but a ministry of reconciliation. We're calling people to be reconciled to God through the substitutionary work of Christ on the cross on behalf of sinners. Saying that Christianity is not a religion, it's a relationship, actually creates a false dichotomy. It deceives people into thinking that they have to choose between a religion and a relationship. Instead, the division needs to be made between true religion and false religion. Between a reconciled relationship and an estranged relationship. Are you reconciled to God? And if so, is that reconciliation evident through the practice of pure and undefiled religion? And that is what the Pharisees completely missed Completely missed. Didn't have the right religion, didn't have the right relationship, and they missed Christ who is standing right in front of them. And I pray that as a church that uh that we'll be uh busy uh about doing the the deeds of our Savior, the deeds of Christ, uh, but that we would also understand the truth about who Jesus is, that we'd have both in our lives. And that we wouldn't miss Christ for the religion that we uh uh that we say that we we try to follow, that Christ should be. should be our example. And the religion that we have and the practices that we have should be modeled after Christ to imitate him as our Savior. Amen. Let's uh let's bow for a word of prayer and prepare our hearts for communion as well. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, and uh we thank you, uh Lord, so much for uh the time that we've been able to spend in your word. Uh Father, we pray that you'd use your word uh to uh enlighten us, Lord. Uh to Give us Father the truth about who you are to point us to Christ. And Father, I pray that nothing that we would do would distract people from the main message, that Christ is the main message. Christ is the one that we proclaim. We proclaim him. And that if Christ is proclaimed that in him we'll rejoice. So Father, I pray that um uh this morning that uh we would uh uh focus our attention on the Savior, uh the one who uh declared himself to be the Lord of the Sabbath. Father, I pray that you would be honored and glorified in all that we do. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.