The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So if you take your Bibles and open up to Matthew chapter 20, that's where we're going to be this morning. Matthew chapter 20. And as you grab your Bibles this morning, I want to remind each of you that you're holding in your hands a dangerous book. The Bible is a dangerous book. This is a book that is sharper than any two-edged sword, according to Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12. This book cuts sharper and deeper than any instrument As advanced as our technology might be, we have no weapon that's able to divide the soul and spirit and judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. The words of this book are able to expose us in ways that uh technology isn't able to do. Uh there's things that this book can show us about ourselves that we can't detect on our own. In Proverbs chapter 21 and verse 2 it says, Every man's way is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the hearts. James reminds us not to ignore uh what the Lord reveals about us through the words of Scripture in James chapter 1, verse 25, it says, But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does. And as we turn our attention to another sharp text of scripture, It's not a long passage that we're turning to today. It's not a difficult passage, but I pray that we don't ignore the application of this passage to our own lives and that we're effectual doers instead of forgetful hearers. as we come before the Word of God. So let's take our attention to Matthew chapter 20 and we'll start at verse 17 for the sake of context. Matthew chapter 20 starting at verse 17. It says, as Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside by themselves, and on the way he said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him, and on the third day he will be raised up Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Jesus with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him. And he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit, one on your right and one on your left. But Jesus answered, You do not know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? They said to him, We are able. He said to them, My cup you shall drink, but to sit on my right and on my left, this is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. And hearing this, the ten became indignant with the two brothers. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great men exercise authority over them? It is not this way among you. But whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, as we come before you this morning, Lord, we uh beg for your help. Uh Father, as we uh turn to your word, uh Father, we come to the author of the Word and ask you to speak to us through it. Father, I pray that you'd open our eyes that we may behold wonderful things through your law. Father, we pray that you'd help us not to be forgetful hearers, but effectual doers. That we put into practice, Lord, the principles, Lord, that we learn here from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you use me this morning as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There was an ancient preacher called Chrysostom who called pride the mother of hell. Thomas Watson said, Take away humility from an angel, and he becomes the devil. J. C. Rowl reminds us that by pride the angels fell. Through pride, Adam and Eve were seduced into eating the forbidden fruit. Because they thought they would be like God, and from pride the saints of God received their greatest injuries. And in the passage before us we get a front row seat to watch the insidious work of pride in the hearts of the disciples. They had this desire to be great, to be considered first among the disciples, according to verse 26 and 27, uh lets us know that uh Jesus Christ identified what was going on in their They're questioning and even in the indignation of the ten disciples that they had this desire to be great. They wished to be considered first. They wanted to be prominent. And just think about what's going on here. Jesus is on the road to his death, as we already learned from the context. He's on his road to his death. He's just finished telling his disciples for the third time in Matthew that we know of And maybe more that he's going to suffer at the hands of the elders, the chief priests, the scribes, be killed in Jerusalem. And they're on their way to Jerusalem. Or he's about to be killed. And apparently that wasn't important enough for them to even ask Jesus the follow-up question about that. What James and John were most concerned about was who 's going to sit at your right and left hand when you get into your kingdom? Totally ignore what Jesus just had to say. They're absorbed with themselves. The news about Jesus went in one air and out the other. And they got Mama Salome to who happened to be Jesus' aunt to ask for the seats in the kingdom You know, how insensitive is this? But but Jesus lets them know that the chief seats in the kingdom are not reserved simply because you asked for it or fight for it or get a family member to beg for it. There's no way to purchase a better seat in the kingdom The chief seats are given to those for whom it's been prepared, and the preparation comes through suffering and even death. Think about what else is going on here. Look back at chapter 19, verses uh twenty-seven and twenty-eight. Listen what what Peter had to say here. After Jesus promises treasure in heaven to the rich young ruler, if he would follow him, Peter asked this follow-up question in verse twenty-seven. Then Peter said to him, Behold, we've left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that you who have followed me in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Jesus has just promised those who were committed to him out of the twelve, those who were committed to him, he promised them that they would have thrones in the kingdom and rule over the tribes of Israel. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine being promised that, hey, you're going to rule over the twelve tribes of the nation of Israel in my kingdom? We'd be happy to have any of those Sikhs But here, pride says seats number 11 and 12 aren't enough. We need seats number one and two Again, Watson says a proud man complains that he doesn't have more. A humble man wonders why he has so much These disciples should have wondered, wow, I'm actually going to get to sit in one of the thrones? That I have this responsibility, I've been given the privilege To have some kind of authority over the twelve tribes of Israel? I can't believe this. This is more than I could ever ask for, more than I could imagine. But a proud man complains that it's not enough. No, who's getting siege number one and two? That's what the disciples are wondering about. Like Jacob in Genesis 32 verse 10, he says, that I am not worthy of the least of all your mercies But for these disciples, they thought that the mercies that they've received weren't enough. Think about what else is going on here. If James and John got the chief Sikhs, who didn't get them? The other disciples. So here they're arguing, James and John, for a prominence over the other disciples. And they were completely comfortable with bumping the other disciples down a few seats. If it meant that they could have the cheap seats. And Jesus identifies that as a worldly power play to rule over the other disciples. In Matthew chapter 20 and verse 25, he says, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great men exercise authority over them. It is not this way among you. It's not supposed to be like that. Philippians chapter 2 verse 3 says, do nothing from selfishness. or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. These disciples regarding themselves as more important than another. And think about what else is going on here. When the ten other disciples became indignant, why do you think they were so disturbed over the brother's request? Do you do you think they were bothered because, hey gosh, isn't that insensitive? Jesus is about to go be crucified. What are you asking a question like that for? That's poorly timed, that's out of bounds. You shouldn't be asking for that Was it out of humility? You know the answer is no, they wanted the seats. How dare you try to take the seats from that should have been much seat How are you going to try to take it from me and get your mother to come and do it? You know, they're angry, not because they were upset about the question. You know, they were upset that the question wasn't about them They're upset that they didn't come up with the idea in the first place, maybe. You know, I I should have I thought I should have thought about that. You know, James and John beat me to it They often debated about who was the greatest. That was their one of their constant, constant struggles. Constant struggles. Who's the greatest? Who's the greatest? And where does the Bible say that quarrels and fights come from? James chapter four, verse one says, What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? It's not the source of your pleasures that wage war on your members. You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do at because you do not ask. And you ask and you don't receive because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. So here the disciples are arguing and quarreling because they desired the chief seats for themselves, and they weren't getting it And James and John are asking Jesus for the chief seats, but they're asking it with wrong motives because they desire to spend it on their own pleasures. Both of them are wrong. The ones who ask were wrong, the ones who argue were wrong. Both of them are wrong according to James chapter 4. And this is really the ugly face behind the mask of pride. It will create an environment for conflict. war and even murder, if it's left unchecked, you'll have no problem bumping somebody else down or bumping somebody else off if it means that you can get the place. It will cause you to be ungrateful for the abundant kindness and mercy of God because what you have is never enough. All the blessings that we receive from God, all these undeserved blessings we receive from God, like how dare we complain? How dare we complain? Anything above hell is pretty good, right? But but we have the nerve to complain because God's not doing this and he's not doing that and he's not answering quick enough. And it also care uh causes us to care more about the place that we sit rather than the cross that our leader is crucified on And that's the ugly face of pride. That's what it'll cause. You know, these disciples, more concerned about where they're going to sit than where Jesus is going to hang. More concerned about that. That is the ugly face of pride. And Jesus gathers the disciples to warn them about it. This is Jesus preparing his disciples for the kingdom. by contrasting the ways of the world with the ways of the kingdom. And again reminds us, the standard of the world and the standard of the Lord Jesus are completely different. They're more than different. They're totally contradictory to each other. And that's what we see here in verses 24 and 25 with the ways of the world. Take a look at Matthew chapter 20 here in verse 24. It says, and hearing this, the ten became indignant with the two brothers, and Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great men exercised authority over them. It is not this way among you. It's not this way among you. The world seeks greatness and prominence in all sorts of ways, right? Uh we've already seen uh one way in the previous context that James and John attempted to achieve greatness through personal favoritism. Personal favoritism. They they assumed that applying pressure through a family connection would be enough to secure their seats. in the kingdom, regardless of whether or not they were prepared for it or not. Even after Jesus says, are you ready to drink the cup? And they say, oh yeah, we're able. Didn't even ask what the what the cup had. Didn't ask what the contents of the cup were. Oh, we're we're able to drink it. You know, we can we can face anything. They weren't prepared. They weren't prepared. Jesus knew that. But for Jesus to show partiality and favoritism to them because of the family connection would be against what the Bible warns us against. In James 2, verse 1. Bible says, my brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. We're not to display that kind of attitude, just kind of picking favorites. Deuteronomy chapter 10 verse 17. For the Lord your God is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, the awesome God, who does not show partiality nor take a bribe. God can't be bought off. You can't buy God off with favors, right? Acts chapter 10 verse 34. Opening his mouth, Peter said, I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality In uh Romans chapter 2, 11, it says, For there is no partiality with God. James and John somehow thought that personal favors or personal connections would give them some kind of inside track with Jesus. But Jesus shuts that down with the answer in verse 22. He says, you don't know what you're asking about, right? Heaven doesn't offer positions to the unprepared. Jesus says in verse 23, it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. And we need to make sure that we're applying that in the church as well, don't we? Positions of leadership should not be given out or retained because of a personal or family connection. In Leviticus chapter 10, if you remember you had Aaron, who was the priest of Israel. Can 't really get much of a higher position than than what Aaron had. You know, the chief priest in Israel, the brother of Moses. But even with his position, he couldn't keep his own boys from being taken out after they disqualified themselves They offered strange fire before the Lord, which the Lord had not commanded. Fire came out from the presence of the Lord, consumed them, and they died before the Lord. And then Moses said to Aaron, It is what the Lord spoke. Saying, by those who come near me, I will be treated as holy. I don't care if you're related to them or not. Here Moses is talking about his own nephews And he's saying, This is what the Lord said. The Lord says, I'm going to be treated as holy. Before all the people I will be honored. So therefore Aaron kept silent. It didn't matter what the family connection was. They had to be prepared, they had to be qualified. Eli was a priest before the Lord. was also the one who confirmed Samuel as the prophet of the Lord. But his own sons, Hopni and Phineas, were both taken out on the same day because of their unfaithfulness before the Lord. 1 Samuel chapter 2 verse 34 says, concerning your two sons, Hapni and Phineas, on the same day, both of them will die because of their unfaithfulness. It didn't matter if they were related to Eli or not. And when it comes to ministry in the church, we can never give or retain a ministry position if the qualifications aren't met. And somehow in the church we've got this wrong. You know, people ease themselves into positions because they buddy up with the pastor or they give so much money or whatever else and then positions are given out based on you know personal favors and favoritism. It's not to be that way within the church. You can't take sides like that. When it comes to ministry in the church, the qualifications are not only necessary, it's demanded. It must be this way, right? In Romans chapter 2, verse 11, again, there is no partiality with God. We can't achieve greatness through personal favoritism. Also, we can't seek to achieve positions through personal force or dominance. And again, in verses 24 and 25, yeah the disciples becoming indignant. You know, they're arguing, they're expressing their displeasure. with these other disciples and basically it's because they wanted the positions instead and we know that these arguments were frequent about who's the greatest as if all they had to do was convince each other that I'm better than you and that's how they were going to be put into these positions. This is all an attempt of the disciples to kind of muscle their way into positions of of prominence, to take the next guy out so you could elevate yourself. You know, that's why where all these disagreements and uh uh uh you know kind of uh uh you know fights come from the hostility between brothers. And Jesus says, this is the kind of behavior that we see out in the world. He says, right now you guys are acting more like the Gentile rulers than you are Christ's disciples. And when we seek to elevate ourselves, we have more in common with the pagan unbelievers than we do with Christ. And the the rulers of the Gentiles were were known for their lust for power and cruelty to stay in power. For example, you had uh Herod the Great Who ruled over Judea when Jesus was born, you remember remember that? It says that uh listen listen to how he became became king. He became king of the Jews basically by scheming, conniving, clawing his way to the throne. He was not born a king of the Jews. He wasn't even in the Davidic line. He wasn't even Jewish. His father was a descendant of Esau. His mother was an Arabian. But he tried to pass himself off as somebody who understood the Jewish people. He knew how to keep them under control. He was able to convince the Roman Empire that he was the man. And by the age of twenty-five, he was appointed as the governor of Galilee Uh after his brother was killed in an attack, he convinced the Romans, hey, if you give me a higher title, make me king of Judea, I'll be able to kind of Quell quell whatever rebellion, I'll be able to uh to defend uh this area for for Rome. And uh they finally gave in and and let him have this control, gave him the title of this king of Judea, and he ruled his his reign with suspicion and cruelty. Listen what he did. He appointed his brother-in-law to be high priest in Judea, but after hostility developed between them, he drowned his own brother-in-law and made it look like an accident. He was convinced his wife was unfaithful and had her executed. He never really cared for his wife's mother, so he had her executed too, you know, along with your your wife, you know, get rid of the mother-in-law. He had two favorite sons named Alexander and Aristobulus. He planned to make one of them his heir, but when it appeared that they wanted to take the throne before their time, he had both of them strangled in the same place where he married their mother. This is a cruel and bloodthirsty tyrant. The Emperor Augustus once remarked that he would prefer to be one of Herod's pigs than one of his sons, because if you were a pig, you had a better chance of survival. One commentator notes that a few days before his death he ordered that that all of the most distinguished citizens of Jerusalem be arrested, imprisoned, and he gave orders that the moment he died, All of these distinguished men in the city would also die, so that there would be mourning at the time of his death, because he knew nobody would cry for him. This is the kind of man he was, and it's no wonder that when the mag guy approached Herod and said, you know, hey, there's one who's been born king of the Jews. We're looking for him, that he had every child to and under massacred. This is the kind of man he was, so bloodthirsty for That's the kind of cruelty that characterized the Gentile rulers. And it's if if that seed of pride is given the chance to grow, it's the kind of wicked fruit that's produced by it. And this is what Jesus is addressing. We know that in the case of Herod, he felt threatened, and he went after anybody who threatened him. And Jesus is nipping this desire in the bud with his disciples. He says, it's not this way among you. You know how it is with the Gentiles? You know how it is with those rulers? This is not the way it is going to be in my kingdom. It's not like this in my kingdom. The disciples are not to lord it over people. He uses a uh a strong word here that means to rule down over people, to rule down over people. Uh it's keeping people under your power. It's the same idea in the phrase exercising authority over. There's nothing inherently wrong with authority. Authority isn't wrong. But if if you have this idea of that you need to kind of keep people underneath your thumb, you know, it's got this prefix on the on the word for authority here, uh, which means to be down or against. It's the idea that you can't let anybody get above you It's like like the, you know, in Baltimore you'd understand this, you know, like the crabs in a pot, you know, the crabs in the pot who pull each other down until they all get seamed, you know, can't let anybody get out. You know, you can't let anybody get out, gotta pull them back, and everybody gets it. Everybody gets seen. That's the way of the world. I can't let anybody get over me. I gotta keep everybody down, whether we can get in good through personal favoritism Personal favors, family relations, flattery, you know, that that's often one of the ways that we uh we practice it today. You know, we just give compliments to people. Proverbs 29 verse 5 says a man who flatters his neighbor is spreading a net for his steps You know, you're just looking to get an advantage, you know, so you pay people all kinds of compliments that they don't deserve, you know, trying to get in good personal favors or that's the way of the world. Or it could be on the other end where you try to use personal force, you know, to try to pull people down because nobody can get above you. Pulling people down with your arguments, your indignation, your cruelty. That's all the way that the world works. But it's not to be that way in the in the kingdom. The the the kingdom of God is totally backwards. Totally backwards. And and it's really it's right side up, right? You know, the world is upside down, but the kingdom is right side up. And if we really want to make progress in the kingdom And glorify the Lord, we have to get away from this kind of thinking. You don't get ahead by arguing and fighting for the top spot. You don't step on whoever you have to and elbow everybody out the way so that you can get the chief seats. You haven't reached the top when you have everybody volunteering to serve you. You've reached the top when you're volunteering to serve everybody else, right? That's when you've reached the top. One one commentator put it this way. He says, Great men are not sitting on top of lesser men, but they're bearing the lesser men on their backs. Those are the greatest men. Those are the greatest men. I don't don't know if you've ever seen uh those uh those shows with the Chinese acrobats when they make the the human pyramid, you know, and then they finally at the end, you know, they put some little child or whatever, some small person at the top. Who are the greatest men It's the ones that are down on the bottom. Those are the greatest men, the ones that are bearing the weight of everybody else who's on top of them. Those are the greatest men. And in the church it's the same way, the greatest men are the ones who are on the bottom serving everybody else. Those are the greatest men within the church. The strongest men in the church are those who are serving, those who are the greatest. That's the way of the world. The way of the world is to turn that upside down and say that everybody must serve me. Everybody's here for me instead of I'm here for everybody else. So that's the way of the world. But let's contrast that with the way of the kingdom. The way of the kingdom. Look again at uh chapter 20. Look at verses uh 26 and 27. It says it is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. And whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. And Christ uses two words to describe the kind of person who's the greatest in the kingdom. The first word is the word servant. Deakonas. We've read that before. We've been familiar with that before. We did a study on deacons just not too long ago. It's where we get the English word deacon. And in its most basic sense, it was used for somebody who waited on tables and provided service for others. And if you remember the story of Mary and Martha, Luke chapter 10, Mary seated at the Lord's feet, listening to the word. But in Luke chapter 10 and verse 40 it says that Martha was distracted with all her preparations. She came up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me alone to do all the serving? Then tell her to help me You know, so here she is, busy waiting on the tables, preparing the food, and actually uses the the verb for for deacon. You know, she was deaconing, you know, she's serving the food, she's getting the the preparations together. It's it's a word for serve, you know, serving food, serving tables, you know, serving people's needs. Over in Luke chapter 17 in verse 8, it was used of a slave who only does what his master tells him to do, including serving food to the master. That's the the first word that she is, is it's service. You know, are are you a servant? Is that how you see yourself? Is that is that considered to you a position of greatness? If I'm able to serve somebody else, is that a great day? If I'm able to serve somebody's needs, is that a great day? Because I'm doing what I've been called to do. The second word that's used is the word slave. Slave in verse 27. It's the word doulas, which refers to someone who's bound, one who gives himself up to another's will. The Greeks define four characteristics of freedom. Number one is you had the right to be your own representative in legal matters. Number two, you had the right of protection from people taking your property. Number three, you had the right to work wherever you wanted to. And number four, you had the right to go wherever you please. You had the freedom of movement. For a slave, they had none of those rights. None of those rights. They couldn't represent themselves legally. They couldn't protect their belongings from being taken from them. They didn't have the right to go where they please. They didn't have the right to work where they please. All of these were denied the slave. So while slaves did every kind of labor, working from mines to the highest administration and government, they all had this in common, that they were totally bound to the will of another Aristotle defined a slave as living property. The slave had no legal rights, subject to the absolute power of the master. But Jesus says, if you want to be first in my kingdom, this is how you have to view yourself. You have to be yourself as a slave. And this rubs hard against the grain of everything we know to get ahead in life. That's not how you get ahead. That's not how you're considered first. You know, I didn't come this far to be nobody's slave, right? I mean that's how we think about it. You know, I I'm not nobody's slave. I'm not I'm not here to serve you. You think you got a slave around here? You know, that's how we think about it. It's like that's that's not the position that we want to place ourselves in. It rubs hard against who we we are. It rubs hard against everything that we think. But if we reject this, we reject God's path for greatness. And the two questions that we have to answer is if we want to be great in Christ's kingdom, number one, are you willing to suffer for it? And number two, are you willing to serve for it? That's that those are the those are the prerequisites to greatness in the kingdom of God. That is the path to greatness. James and John wanted to sweet talk their way into greatness, and Jesus said, Do you think you're ready to drink the cup? The cup of suffering? The disciples thought they could argue their way into greatness. And Jesus says, are you ready to be a servant and a slave? That's the way up. The way up is down. It may look like you're heading down, but you're really heading up. You know, it's like uh I've told you before that uh you know pilots, you know, when they're training, they have to learn how to trust the instruments because even though it looks like they might be going up, they're really heading down, nosediving. It's the same way with the kingdom. It's like you may look like you're going down, but Jesus says, no, this is the path up. Trust me. And when it comes to king to the kingdom, we have to trust in Jesus, not in our natural senses. And the third thing that's mentioned here is not only are we to be a servant and to be a slave, we're also to be like the Savior. Look at verse 28. It says, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. The world rulers don't provide the model for the kingdom. Flip over to Luke chapter 22. Luke chapter 22. This is the context of the Last Supper again. Where the disciples are in the midst of a dispute about who's the greatest. This just comes up over and over again in the Gospels. Luke chapter 22, they're in the middle of this dispute about who's who's the greatest in the kingdom, starting in verse 24. It says, and there arose uh also a dispute among them as to which one of them was regarded to be the greatest. And he said to them, The kings of the Gentiles lorded over them, and those who have authority over them are called benefactors, so it's not the first time that he's mentioned this. But it's not this way with you, but the one who is the greatest among you must become like the youngest. And the leader like the servant. For who is greater? The one who reclines at the table or the one who serves? Is it not the one who reclines at the table? But I am among you as one who serves And what did Jesus just do to demonstrate that he was among them as one who serves? Anyone know? John 13, he had just washed their feet. He had just washed their feet. John 13, starting at verse 13, it says, You call me teacher and Lord, you're right, for so I am. If I then the Lord and teacher washed your feet, You also ought to wash one another's feet, for I gave you an example that you should do as I did to you. Jesus Christ was among them as one who served. One who served. He says that in the way of the world, the person who's sitting at the table reclining while somebody else is serving him, you know, whoever's reclining is is greater. But I'm here to tell you that in my kingdom it's it's the other way around. It's the person who's serving who's the greatest It's the person who's serving the lesser, and he gives this example, institutes this example of service in the church. Selfless sacrificial service. And when he says, you know, I gave you an example that you should do as I did to you, he's he's not merely saying, you know, I just want you to to wash feet As if if that's the only only thing that's that's that's being communicated. I was actually uh a part of a church where they they practice washing feet. You know, people that didn't even need their feet washed. You know, you just took a bath, got socks on, shoes on, but now hey take your socks and shoes off so I can wash you It's like I don't need my feet washed. You know, you'd you'd be much better going to to help me, you know, uh fix some plumbing at the house or something like that, right? If you really want to serve me You know what I mean? It's not about just the act of washing feet. He's giving an example of selfless sacrificial service. This is how you're to act among one another. This is what you're supposed to do. And he's the greatest example of that, and the greatest demonstration. Of service is what he's about to do. Verse 28, because he says this, just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to do what? To give his life a ransom for many. To give his life a ransom for many. This is the greatest demonstration of Christ's servanthood Giving his life as a ransom for many. And there is so much that's packed into that statement there. MacArthur identifies this as the first explicit New Testament teaching about the redemptive work of the Messiah. We already knew that he would die. We already knew that he would rise. We already knew that he would save. Matthew chapter 1, verse 21. Call his name Jesus because he shall save his people from their sins. But this is the first time that Matthew explicitly connects the saving of Christ to the death of Christ. And the specific term that's used here for the saving work is the word ransom. It's the release. Of a person by the payment of a price. The release of a captive by the payment of a price. And it's more specific than just the word deliverance. You can deliver somebody without paying a price. Right? I can I can rescue somebody may maybe from you know, like got all those uh you know the floods, you know, down North Carolina, South Carolina. I could rescue somebody from a flood without paying a price for that, right? I can rescue somebody, I can deliver somebody But a ransom carries the idea that a price also has to be paid in order for that rescue. And it helps us to fill out the picture of salvation. Listen to this statement by John Murray on his book on redemption. He says this, he says, ransom presupposes some kind of bondage or captivity, just as a sacrifice is directed to the need created by our guilt. Propitiation to the need that arises from the wrath of God, reconciliation to the need arising from our alienation from God, so redemption is directed to the bondage to which our sin has consigned us Listen to this. As sinners, we're not just guilty. We're not just offensive. We're not just alienated. We're also in bondage. And we need to be set free. And it's the death of Jesus Christ that sets us free, the price that was paid to set us free from the bondage of the power penalty and even the presence of sin. And it's important that we don't press the details of of this analogy too far because even though we're held in bondage by sin and Satan, Jesus doesn't offer anything to Satan for our release. Okay? There's no price that's being paid. to Satan. The sacrifice is offered to God. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 2. Christ gave himself up for us an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. So the price is paid to God, but the release is from Satan. And the idea is that we're that we're to walk away from this with is that Jesus is the one who paid the price for our release. He paid the price to God for our release from Satan. And the price of our release was his life. And we pass by that way too quickly. Way too quickly that Jesus gave his life for our ransom. 1 Peter 1, verse 18 says, Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things. like silver or gold from your futile way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with the precious blood as of a lamb unblemished in the spotless blood of Christ. In Acts chapter 20, verse 28, talks about shepherding the church of God, which God purchased with his own blood. And the blood that purchased our redemption was the blood of the incarnate God, God incarnate. God in human flesh purchased our freedom from sin. In Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 12 it says, And not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. And the life that was given was worth infinitely more than the lies that he got. You understand that? The life that he gave was worth infinitely more than the lies that he received. We're not talking about an even exchange here. His life became our substitution. In Matthew chapter 20, verse 28, it says, He gave his life as a ransom for many. That word for Also adds this idea that it was substitution instead of, in place of, is how that word for could be translated. His death was a substitution in place of, instead of, our death. We're the ones who deserve to die. We're the ones who deserve to be punished. We're the ones who deserve the wrath of God. We're the ones who deserve the eternal jud Men of God We're the ones who deserve to be kept in bondage and under punishment. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3 says, Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. That's who we were, children of wrath, destined for wrath. But the life of Jesus was given in exchange for ours. Romans chapter 5, verse 9 says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God. We are safe from the wrath of God by the death of Jesus Christ. 1 Thessalonians 1. 10. Jesus who rescues us from the wrath to come. And Isaiah predicted it seven hundred years before it even happened, right? Seven hundred years before it even happened. Surely our griefs he himself bore Our sorrows he carried, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, the chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are healed. The hymn writer says this, stricken, smitten, and afflicted, see him dying on the tree. Tis the Christ by man rejected. Yes, my soul, tis he, tis he. Tis the long expected prophet David's son, yet David's Lord. Proofs I cease sufficient of it is the true and faithful word Tell me you who hear his groaning, was there ever grief like this? Friends through fear his cause disowning, foes insulting his distress. Many hands were raised to wound him. None would interpose to save. But the deepest stroke that pierced him was the stroke that justice gave. The deepest stroke that pierced him was the stroke that justice gave. And that was the price that Jesus paid for us so that we could be set free. So that we could be redeemed, so that we could be ransomed because he was stricken, smitten, and afflicted. And while we can't imitate Jesus in his substitution, we're called to imitate him in his sacrifice. In 1 Peter 2 and verse 21, it says, For you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. So how was this sacrifice of Jesus Christ supposed to be an example for these disciples? How were they supposed to apply this? What what lesson were they to take away from Jesus' words here? Here it is. If Jesus, the Son of Man and eternal God, in the flesh, was willing to stoop beneath them in order to serve them. Who did they think they were trying to lord it over anybody else? If Jesus, the Lord of all, came to stoop and to be the sacrifice for their sins, to give his life as a ransom, to serve them in that way, who do they think they are? Trying to have lordship and authority over the other disciples. Why don't you turn over to Philippians chapter 2? Because this is the same lesson, very same lesson. that Paul taught the Philippian church over in Philippians chapter 2. Look at uh verse 3. Philippians chapter 2 starting at verse 3. The sacrifice of Christ is the supreme example of humility. Look at Philippians chapter 2 It says, Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with the humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interest of others Have this attitude in yourselves, which is also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, here it is, the word servant, being made in the likeness of men, being found in the appearance as a man, he humbled himself, by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. And the disciples, instead of thinking about others, they're thinking about themselves. Instead of putting others' interests above their own, they're putting their interests above others. They don't have the attitude of Christ. This is exactly what Paul is trying to communicate to the Philippians. Look at the example of Jesus Christ and tell me why you're not serving Look at what Jesus went through and tell me why you're not humble. Look at what Jesus left and tell me what are you trying to achieve. Like it just doesn't make sense. It doesn't agree with the example of Jesus Christ. Look to who Jesus is. J. C. Rowle adds these words, among the children of this world, a person is thought to be the greatest if he has the most land, the most money, the most servants, the most rank, the most earthly power. And we could add to that list for our young people the most followers or likes on social media, subscriptions to your channel or whatever else, you know, you determine how you determine that you've made it. You know, I've I'm I've made it now, everybody likes me. Among the children of God, true greatness consists not in receiving but giving, not in selfish absorption, but in imparting good to others, not in sitting and being served, but going about to serve others. And if if the disciples really believed what Jesus was saying, they would have been doing all they could to lower themselves, to elevate others, to serve others. And I'm telling you, brothers and sisters, that uh we have things backwards, don't we? And when we when we finally enter into the kingdom, there's going to be a lot of people who will be walking to the front of the line, who we never heard about, never thought about, never talked about. The people who are quietly serving, quietly slaving away, quietly putting others before themselves. It's not going to be the people who are up front and recognized for their achievements and their accomplishments. But it's going to be the people who quietly and faithfully slave the way, serving others, putting themselves low so that others could be made more prominent. And the question I have for you is, is that you this morning? Is it is that you? Do you desire to serve others or do you desire the recognition? Do you desire to be recognized by others? Or do you desire to be served by others? Or are you desiring to serve? What is it that you're desiring Do you need a title and recognition before you're even ready to serve? You know, until they recognize me, I'm not going to do this or I'm not going to do that? Or do you serve without the title? Do you serve without the recognition? Galatians chapter 6, verse 9 lets us know, let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary Your father sees what you do in secret, and he'll reward you openly. So don't worry about what kind of seat you're going to get in the kingdom, right? Worry about who am I going to serve in the kingdom. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and we thank you so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the power of it and the authority of it. Father, I pray that you would press these truths deeper into our own hearts and minds. Father, help us to have the attitude that Christ had, that we would uh put on display a heart of service, Lord, selfless sacrificial service. That it wouldn't be our desire to receive some kind of prominence and recognition among men. But Father, that we would look to your kingdom, Lord, and that we would look to lower ourselves, Lord. uh that we look to to promote others, to elevate others, so that Jesus Christ may be glorified. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and in Includes instructions for and limitations on, duplicating CDs and all digital files