The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well he is risen. Alright, this is an exciting day. As a church, we've been working our way through the beginning of the book of Matthew, but for just a few moments I want to turn your attention to the end. of the the book of Matthew, Matthew chapters 27 and 28. We won't stay there long, but it's an appropriate place to be reminded about the event that changes everything. The event that changes everything. And uh just as a Way of reminder, just by way of background, that the theme of this first gospel, the Gospel of Matthew, is Jesus Christ as King. And uh in this gospel, Jesus Christ is presented as the long-anticipated Jewish Messiah who offers the kingdom of God to men. He's the anticipated king, and Matthew writes to defend that claim and to it expound upon it. Early on in the book of Matthew, the opening genealogy gives evidence of his right to rule. The fulfillment of prophecies give evidence of Jesus' right to rule. The sinless character, the impeccable character of Christ shows his right to rule, the miracles that he performs give evidence of his right to rule, the teaching that he utters. Just the perfect teaching and just overwhelming teaching that he utters gives evidence of his right to rule. Nobody else could speak the way that Jesus Christ spoke. And uh by the end of the book of Matthew, I mean every possible avenue to prove his messiahship is basically exhausted. I mean, what else could you ask for? What other what other evidence could you use to test the Son of God, to see that he's truly the Messiah, the promised one who was to come, all the cumulative evidence points to Jesus Christ as the only unique person in all of human history who could qualify to be the Messiah. But the final confirmation that Matthew offers is Jesus' death and resurrection. Jesus' death and resurrection gives evidence of his right to rule. Jesus is proven to be the Messiah by his resurrection. One of the things that separates Christianity from many of the other religions of the world is that we actually point back to a historical event. as the starting of our religion. And the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most well-attested event in all of ancient history. All of ancient history. This is the event that changes everything. Let's take a look at Matthew's account, Matthew chapter 27. Let's start at verse 57. Says, when it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock, and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the tomb and went away And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary sitting opposite the grave. And on the next day, the day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate. And said, Sir, we remember that when he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days I am to rise again. Therefore, give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal him away and say to the people, he has risen from the dead, and the last deception will be worse than the first Philot said to them, You have a guard, go make it as secure as you know how. And they went and made the grave secure, and along with the guard they set a seal on the stone. Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave, and behold, a severe earthquake had occurred, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it. And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white snow. The guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus who has been crucified. He's not here, for he has risen, just as he said Come, see the place where he was lying. Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead. And behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you. And they left the tomb quickly and with fear and great joy and ran to report it to his disciples. And behold Jesus met them and greeted them, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid Go and take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. Now while they were on their way, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priests all that had happened. And when they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers and said, You are to say his disciples came by night and stole them away while we were asleep. And if this should come to the governor's ears, we will win them over and keep you out of trouble. They took the money and did as they had been instructed, and this story has was widely spread among the Jews and is to this day But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshipped him. But some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end. of the age. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for this accurate record of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Father, we pray that you would help us to understand and appreciate what we read here. And uh Father, I pray that you would uh uh help me to be a blessing to your people in Jesus' name. We praise you and give you thanks. Amen. As we uh cross the threshold of Matthew 28, uh we arrive at the fulcrum of all of human history. This is the pivotal point where all of history turns on the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And as I said, it's part of what separates Christianity from all of the other world religions because Christianity is more than just a system of beliefs and practices. It's more than just a system of beliefs and practices. It's also a matter of historical events. There was an empty tomb to deal with. Nobody denied that the tomb was empty. That just wasn't an option for him. Just like nobody was able to deny Jesus' miracles while he walked on the earth. They couldn't deny the miracles that he performed. They just tried to deny the source of the power of the miracles. They couldn't deny the miracles. They couldn't deny what actually happened. It was historical fact. And nobody could deny that the tomb was empty. Even non-Christian historians recognize that Christianity started in an empty tomb. Josephus, who was one of the greatest Jewish historians, wrote these words around 93 A. D. It says this, there was a wise man who was called Jesus. His conduct was good, and he was known to be virtuous, and many people from among the Jews and other nations became his disciples Pilate condemned him to be crucified and to die, but those who had become his disciples did not abandon his discipleship. They reported that he had appeared to them three days after his crucifixion, and that he was alive accordingly, he was perhaps the Messiah concerning whom the prophets have recounted wonders. That's a non-Christian source that gets it right. It's a non-Christian source that says there was a man named Jesus. He lived a virtuous life. He performed many wonderful works, and after he died, the the disciples couldn't find the body in the tomb. His tomb was empty Even a non-Christian source admits that. Geisler and uh Turret point this out in their book, I Don't Have Enough Faith to Be an Atheist. They said uh there are actually ten known non-Christian writers who mention Jesus within 150 years of his life. By contrast, there are only nine Christian sources who mention Tiberius Caesar, the Roman Emperor at the time of Jesus. So discounting all the Christian sources, Jesus is actually mentioned more times than the Roman Emperor. We have more evidence for Jesus Christ than the Roman Emperor during the time of Christ. If you include the Christian sources, authors mentioning Jesus, outnumber those mentioning Tiberius, the Roman Caesar, 43 to 10. 43 to 10 times. Jesus is mentioned over even the Roman emperor that lived during that time. This is more than just a religious belief. It's a simple matter of history. There was an empty tomb to deal with. And from the very beginning, Satan has been working hard to keep that truth, the truth of the empty tomb, quiet, because he understands that the resurrection changes everything. Look at verses 62 to 66 again over in Matthew chapter 27. Says now on the next day, the day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate and said, Sir. We remember that when he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days I am to rise again. Therefore give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day, otherwise his disciples may come and steal him away, and say to his people, He has risen from the dead And the last deception will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go make it as secure as you know how. And they went and made the great secure along with the guard, and they set a seal on the stone. It's fascinating. It is utterly fascinating to note that the enemies of Christ seem to be the only ones anticipating the third day. It's like you know everything else that he said he could do, he could do. I mean, this is something else that he said he could do. We better try to stop it. Can he set a guard around here? Just anything that would prevent him from coming out of this grave. They're trying to do something to stop this. They're anticipating the third day. Seems like the Pharisees were quicker to catch on to what Jesus predicted than even his disciples were at this point. You know, the disciples are off running in fear, hiding in corners, and the Pharisees are all trying to, you know, busily engaged, trying to worry about this tomb. They knew that something was up When all the disciples are tucked away in their hiding places, the Pharisees are making all the necessary preparations. They took Jesus seriously. They took him seriously. In Matthew 12, 40, he says, Just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Three days and three nights. They're anticipating the third day. Also said in John chapter 2 verse 19, this is what Jesus says. Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And he spoke of the temple of his own body. You can go ahead and try to destroy me if you want to. Destroy this temple. Three days I'm going to raise it up. And what we find developing in chapter 28 is this contrast between two stories that were told on Easter Sunday Like I said, it's just interesting to note the parallels here. We have these two two accounts. You have two groups of witnesses. In uh verse one of chapter twenty-eight, you have the uh the humble ladies who came up to the to the tomb and the hardened soldiers in twenty-seven, verse sixty-five. They both Recognize that the tomb was empty? Yeah, two experiences with angels. The ladies approach the angels, the angels approach the ladies, I guess, you know, the other way around, and they're they're struck with fear. But they're still standing, the soldiers are overtaken by the fear and drop like dead men. You have two trips to Jerusalem that the ladies go to find the disciples to tell them of the good news. And the soldiers go in fear to find the chief priest to let him know about the bad news. He got out, he got away. You have two reports that are that are given. The disciples are given this great commission. To go out and tell the world about who this Jesus Christ is. And the soldiers are also given a great commission. Look at it in verse 12 of chapter 28. It says that when they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers and said, You are to say, this is your commission, this is your great commission, you are to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep That'll hold up in the court of law, right? How many people testify about what happened while they were sleeping? You know, let me let me tell you and describe who came while I was sleeping. Give me a break. It's ridiculous. But the the story was circulated during that time that, you know, some somehow these disciples came. you know, uh the this band of of soldiers that were trained, ready to kill that these disciples who were running the day before. You know, Peter couldn't even swing his sword straight. Cutting off an ear instead of chopping the head. You can't even swing a sword straight, but these band of disciples came and overtook the soldiers and stole the body. They were willing to do that? To disturb these soldiers while they were sleeping, supposedly And uh there was no way that the soldiers would sleep on the job. If you remember the jailer in Acts chapter 16, Acts chapter 16, when he thought that Paul and the other prisoners had escaped from their prisons, what did he prepare to do? He's preparing to take his own life. It's like I you know I'd I'd rather do it to myself than to have somebody else do it for me, right? He he knew what the end was for him. If if if it's ever found that I Allow these prisoners to go free, my life is gone. It's done with. And and I'm going to be a lot kinder to myself than the than my superiors if they find out about it. So he'd rather take his own life There was no way that these soldiers fell asleep. All of them fell asleep? The whole guard falls asleep? Nothing else accounts for the facts that we read here besides the resurrection. And we could spend the rest of our time just examining all the evidence for the resurrection, like the empty tomb, or the grave clothes, or the witnesses above 500 people at one time. 500 people at one time? I mean if this is a dream or hallucination, I mean how many of you wake up and say, hey, wasn't that a great dream we had last night? You don't have dreams together. You don't have hallucinations together. 500 people at one time. And then they want to make up some story about, oh, this is just a hallucination or whatever else. Old Testament prophecies predicted that Christ would come and rise again, the manuscript evidence of the New Testament. There's many convincing proofs of the resurrection, but I love how Paul states it in Acts chapter 26 and verse 8. He says, why is it considered incredible among you people if God does raise the death? If you really believe in God If you believe in a God that could create the whole universe out of nothing, just the word of his power, why is it incredible for you if he can raise the dead? Is that really a big deal for God? The God who can create life? If we believe in God, why wouldn't we believe that he could also raise the dead, it's not a far stretch? Lack of proof is not the problem That's not the problem. Jesus himself said the same thing in Luke chapter 16, in verse 31, he says, But he said to him, If they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded, even if someone rises from the dead. Information is not the problem. It's not the problem. And he proved his own point by raising the dead during his own ministry In rising from the dead himself, the problem is not the evidence. Jesus identified what the root of the problem is. The root of the problem for unbelief? John chapter 7 verse 17. He says, if anyone is willing to do his will, he will know of the teaching, whether it is of God or whether I speak for myself. Yeah, identify the problem not as an intellectual problem, but as a volitional problem. If you are willing to do the will of him who sent me, if you really want to obey God, you'll know whether I'm speaking the truth or not. If you don't believe it has nothing to do with the evidence. God has provided evidence in abundance. The problem is not in your head. The problem is in your heart. Problems in your heart. It's because you're unwilling. And the answer of all the critics is to aim for moving target. It's like you know the whack-a-mole, you know, you find at the arcades, you know, you whack the mole up one place and it pops up somewhere else. As soon as one objection is answered, there's another objection that comes up, which shows that the objection really isn't the problem in the first place. There's an unwillingness of the heart It's just a symptom of the real problem. If you are willing to do his will, the scriptures will be sufficient to persuade you if you're willing to do his will. And you won't consider it incredible that God can raise the dead. That's not a problem for believers But the question is, even if you are convinced that that happened, how do you understand the significance of the resurrection? How do you understand the significance of it? How does an event that took place over 2,000 years ago intersect with your life today? Do you really know what difference the resurrection makes? Do you know why this event changes everything? Because not only was the fact of the resurrection settled by the biblical authors, so was the significance of it. They didn't just tell us what happened, they tell us why it happened. And the results of the resurrection are staggering to think about. I'm just going to give you a short list. Short list. 50 results of Christ's resurrection from the dead. Don't don't bother trying to write them all down. I'll make sure I post them for you. But you know, Piper wrote about fifty reasons why Christ came to die. I figured somebody should write about fifty results of Christ's resurrection from the dead. Don't try to write them down. I'll just go ahead and listen for you. Fifty results of Christ's resurrection from the dead. Jesus was raised from the dead so that the Old Testament scriptures would be fulfilled. Many Old Testament scriptures speak about the death and resurrection of the Christ. He was raised from the dead so that his own words would be fulfilled. He predicted his own death and resurrection. So that he would become the first to proclaim the light, the first one to talk about this resurrection. His disciples would be free to proclaim his identity publicly. If uh if you remember there were different times when uh uh Christ was revealed to his disciples, like on the Mount of Transfiguration, if you remember that, on uh in Matthew chapter sixteen when uh the truth was revealed to Peter about you know who he was, you know, you're the Christ, the Son of the Living God, and what did Jesus say? Go out and tell everybody. No. He says, keep it quiet. Don't tell anybody. He's like, what do you mean? You know, I got this revelation from heaven and I'm not supposed to share it. You know, I could be a best-selling author, right? He says, don't tell anybody. Interesting to see the switch after Jesus was raised from the dead. Now it's tell everybody. He says, hold on to this information until I'm raised from the dead. Being raised from the dead freed the disciples to proclaim his identity publicly. Jesus was raised from the dead so that he would become the subject of our proclamation. So that he would be declared the Son of God with power, so that he would give meaning to our preaching. If it's not for Christ, the preaching is meaningless. So that he would give substance to our faith? So that we would be given assurance that our sins are forgiven? That's the only hope that you have that your sins are forgiven? That there's an empty grave somewhere that God has actually received the sacrifice of Jesus Christ So that we would be given hope for those who have died in Christ, our loved ones who die believing in Jesus Christ, we have hope for them. The Christian life would be demonstrated to be worthwhile. I mean if the Christian life isn't uh isn't real, if there is no resurrection, why don't you just eat, drink, and be merry, 'cause tomorrow you die? So that we would have motivation to die daily and not to please ourselves? So that he would be the become the first fruits of those who sleep? So that all in Christ would be made alive, so that He would abolish death, so that our bodies might be raised. This weekend I had the uh uh privilege of of officiating the the burial for uh my wife's aunt who uh passed last week. We had the uh the funeral on um was it uh Thursday uh funeral on Thursday and the the burial on um on Friday and uh had the opportunity to officiate uh over that that funeral and um you know use the traditional words, you know, earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust And we understand that our bodies will decompose and go back to the elements, but God knows how to reconstruct all those elements, put them back together, and raise up our physical bodies. And we understand that because of the resurrection that our bodies might be raised, God has no problem with assembling all the elements to put you back together again. Jesus was raised from the dead so that we might bear the image of his heavenly body, so that we might be raised imperishable, so that we might be raised in glory, so that we might be raised in power. So that we might be raised to spiritual body, so that we might inherit the kingdom of God, so that the sting of death would be removed, that that pain from death can be removed because of the death of Christ and resurrection. So that he might give us his victory, so that we would be promised a better resurrection, so that we might be partakers of the first resurrection, so that we might bless God. It gives you a reason to bless the Lord because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So that we could appeal to God for a good conscience, so that the agony of death would be put to an end, so that he would be raised to the right hand of God, so that he would receive the promises of David, so that his holiness would be confirmed. How do we know that Christ was holy? Because death couldn't hold them down, right? That's what it talks about in uh in uh the book of Acts. It talks about that, referring back to Psalm 16. It says, the Holy One will not undergo decay. Talks about David. Couldn't be referring to David. Why? Because David died and decayed. He's speaking about a future holy one that would not suffer decay. Who was that? It was Jesus Christ. His holiness was confirmed by his resurrection. God would justify those who believe in him, another reason, so that we might walk in newness of life, so that we might bear fruit for God, so that he would be our intercessor. He is right now at the right hand of the Father making intercession for us. So that death would no longer be the master, so that we would not trust in ourselves? Why trust in yourself when there's somebody who actually could rise from the dead? You know, why are you going to trust in yourself, right? Somebody who could rise from from the dead, trust in him. So that we might be presented before God, so that our minds would be directed to seek things above where Christ is at the right hand of God. Remember Colossians 3? So that we would be he would be given glory. Christ received glory for himself, so that we would wait for his return from heaven, so that he would be given the keys of death in Hades. So that he would be declared the Lord of the dead and the living, so that he would lift the gas, so that he would be our priest forever. Every other priest died Every other priest that stood before this altar to give sacrifice for your sins, he could not be your priest forever. Why? Because there's a death day on the calendar. Only Jesus Christ could be your priest forever. Jesus Christ is the forever priest. So that he would be proven to be the judge of the world, so that the surpassing greatness of God's power would be displayed in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. so that we might be born again, and so that we might be raised with him and share presently in his resurrection life. That's my short list And trust me, that's just the tip of the iceberg, I'm telling you. That is just the tip of the iceberg. Because there are so many implications for the death of Christ. And we could spend every week for a year. Just expanding on those, unpacking what each one of those means. But this morning we'll just examine one. And for that, let's turn in our Bibles to Colossians chapter 2. That's all introduction, okay? Colossians chapter 2. If you could think of only one word for the book of Colossians, if you could only remember one word, it would be the word sufficiency. Sufficiency. Throughout the book of Colossians, Paul's been laboring the truth that Christ is sufficient. Paul has been saying that Christ is all that we need, all that we need for salvation, all that we need for sanctification. We are complete in him. There's nothing outside of Christ that you need. You never need to look outside of Christ for anything to add to him. There's no human wisdom, religious experience, ritual, ceremony that could add anything of value to our union with Jesus Christ. Look at uh verse 8 of uh chapter 2. We read this. It says, see to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. We should not let anybody take us captive with their empty and deceptive philosophy because we're full and complete in Jesus Christ. And then at the beginning of verse 9 with the word 4, Paul begins to give us seven reasons why we can ignore and disregard Pay no attention to any suggestion that there's something else outside of Jesus Christ that you need. If you pay attention to the prepositions. Throughout the passage here, the words in him and with him really outline the passage for us. Listen to how Paul lays out these reasons for our completion in Jesus Christ, starting at verse 9 of chapter 2. It says, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. And in him you have been made complete, and he is the head over all rule and authority. And in him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands and the removal of the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised up with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. Having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. When he had disarmed the rulers and authorities, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him In him, in him, with him, through him. You know, those are the ways that you can kind of outline the passage. And uh, if we were to kind of summarize those things, it's that in Christ deity fully dwells. That in Christ we are fully complete, that in Christ we are fully circumcised, that in Christ we're fully buried, that in Christ we're fully raised, in Christ we're ful alive and in Christ, we're fully victorious He triumphed over them through him. And uh this morning I just want to direct your attention to the idea of being raised and made alive in Jesus Christ found in verses 12 and 13. And just to let you know, all the realities that Paul speaks about here are spiritual, spiritual realities. He talks about circumcision in verse 11, but he says it's a circumcision made without hands. It's not a physical circumcision. It's a spiritual circumcision. It talks about being buried and raised with Christ, but it doesn't happen in a tomb. It happens by faith. It's a spiritual circumcision. uh burial and resurrection and even the baptism that he speaks about here, even though it's pictured in a physical baptism, it's not speaking about a physical baptism It's the spiritual baptism that happens. Our union, our immersion into Jesus Christ. That's what he's talking about. These are all spiritual realities. Just like circumcision is a spiritual work, so is the baptism. spiritual work. It's done without hands, and I've never seen anybody baptized without using their hands, right? All who are united to Jesus Christ receive this work. He's our life, he's our death, he's our resurrection. There's nothing that we can physically add to what Jesus Christ has already done. And in verses 12 and 13 it lets us know that we've been made spiritually alive And the focus of these verses is being brought to life. We're talking about resurrection, okay? Resurrection. And this is an illustration of our salvation. And there's there's a lot of pictures, uh even in the book of Colossians, about what our salvation is Talks about our salvation as being a transfer from the domain of darkness to the kingdom of light over in chapter 113. Transition from being an enemy of God to being a friend of God. Chapter 121. And then in chapter 3, we have this uh transformation from the old self to the new self, this transformation that takes place. But in in chapters, uh in chapter two, verses twelve and thirteen, it talks about Really, what I think is the most powerful picture, it's the resurrection from death to life. Resurrection from death to life. And uh what we'll quickly cover this morning is uh Four results of our being raised with Jesus Christ, or how we've been raised with Jesus Christ. Four descriptions of how we've been raised with Jesus Christ. Number one, it's through the instrument of faith. Number two, it's by the infinite power of God. Number three, it's from the imprisonment of death. And number four, it's with the enjoyment of forgiveness. The instrument of faith, the infinite power of God, the imprisonment of death, and the enjoyment of forgiveness of of forgiveness. Let's look at uh at the first one through the instrument of faith. Let's look at verse 12 again. It says having been buried with him In baptism in which you were also raised up with him, through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead This is the instrument of of faith, as uh theologians would would call it. When you hear the the word instrument, you might think of several things. You might think of like a musical instrument or you know, some kind of uh uh instrument that you might use to measure you know things with like in a lab, you know, just different instruments that they might use or tools. But in theology, when they use the word instrument, it speaks of the means or the channel that something comes through. The instrumental cause for our salvation is faith. instrumental cause for our salvation is faith, and that's distinguished from what's known as the formal cause that actually enables it to take place. So let me just see if I can help you out with this. If uh If you're in the middle of the ocean and you're drowning, right? In the middle of the ocean you're drowning and a boat comes by and tosses you a rope The rope is the instrument of your salvation. You know, the formal cause of your salvation would be the boat and the you know the the sailor that throws it out to you, okay? That's the formal cause. The instrumental cause would be the rope. So you could say I was saved by the rope. Or you could say I was saved by the sailor who tossed it to me, right? In another illustration, you'd say you're drowning in the ocean again. You know, by this time you should learn not to be out in the ocean because you drown from the second time, right? So you're out in the ocean again, and you just cry out, help! And some black star dives out there and saves you. You could say that the instrumental cause for your salvation was the cry for help. I was saved by a simple cry. Or you could say I was saved by the lifeguard who actually pulled you out of the water and slam you back to shore, right? So the instrumental cause would be the cry, the formal cause would be the lifeguard. But everybody understands that an instrumental cause can't save by itself. If you're drowning in the ocean, a rope will do you no good. If you're out in the ocean and there's nobody to hear your cry, a cry does you no good. The instrumental causes are faith, but the formal cause is Jesus Christ. But everywhere we look, in the Bible for the instrumental cause how we're saved through what? It's through our faith. It's through our faith. Colossians chapter 2 verse 12 again It says that you were also raised up with him, how? Through faith. In the working of God who raised him from the dead. It says the same thing over in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8: for by grace you have been saved through faith. Galatians 2. 16, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith. Philippians 3, 8 and 9, I've suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish so that I may gain Christ and may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. Romans 3, 28, for we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law, and then again in verse 30, God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. It's always through faith. Everywhere you look in the Bible, it's through faith, the instrumental cause by which justification is communicated to the believer. Faith is the only means that God has provided for men to be declared innocent, anywhere in Scripture. It's always God's intent to bring justification by faith because it was always his intent to bring righteousness through Jesus Christ. And if it's not through faith, If it's not through faith, then it's not by Christ. You understand that? If it's not through faith, then there's something that I've added to it. There's somebody else that I'm looking for. If it's not through faith, it's not by Christ. And if it's not by Christ, it's not a righteousness that God can accept. The only righteousness that God accepts is a righteousness that comes through faith, and that faith is in Jesus Christ. Our resurrection was through the instrument of faith. Number two. The resurrection came through the infinite power of God. Look at verse 12 again. At the end it says, Who raised we were raised up with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. Especially in uh Colossians here, specifically right here, it said that we're to believe in the working of God who raised him from the dead. The working of God. That word uh for working is the word energyo. The Greek word energy, where we get our English word energy, power, the same power that raised Christ physically was the same power that brought you spiritual life. Isn't that amazing? Very same power, not a different power. Very same power that raised Christ physically from the dead is the same power that gave you spiritual life. And we know nothing of resurrection humanly speaking, right? We don't I mean there's no we we have no ability to bring dead people back to life. No ability None of it no ability. None at all. None at all. We know nothing of of bringing people back to to life. We have technology that that can, you know Spare people for a period of time, you know, put them on some kind of contraption. After they're gone, there's nothing we can do to bring them back. Nothing I remember uh uh when my dad died in in two thousand, um my my mom actually told me the the story of my my sister, you know, when she actually came to the hospital, you know, she's like grabbing the doctor saying, Bring 'em back, bring 'em back. There's nothing you can do. Nothing you can do. It's a futile, futile cry at that point. But the miracle of resurrection is something that is utterly unique to God, divinely powerful from God. That's why when John's disciples came to Jesus and asked, are you the expected one or should we look for somebody else? You know, are you really the promised Messiah? What did uh Jesus tell the disciples? He says, Go and report to John what you hear and see. This is in Matthew 11, verses 4 and 5. It says, Tell them that the blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up. Nobody else can do that. Nobody else can do that. That was proof of his messiahship. I can bring life back where there's death. This is demonstrated multiple times through his earthly ministering. In Luke chapter 7, he stops a funeral procession. Imagine that one Touches the coffin and the dead child raises back to life, the son of this woman, she's out here weeping for her son, pops up back to life, gives him back to his mother. It says that fear gripped them all. You better believe fear gripped them all. I don't want to be a part of any funeral when somebody's getting out of the coffin. I don't want to be a part of that But it but here you have it, Jesus just, I have the power over death. Death isn't a problem for me. Mark chapter 5, the synagogue's official's daughter was raised back to life It says they were completely astounded. John chapter 11, you know the story of Lazarus raised to life after four days in the grave. He stinks by now, Lord. Don't take that stone away. Says move that stone out of here, right? Lazarus, come forth. And some some people say uh some preachers say if you didn't call Lazarus by name name, everybody in the grave would have raised up, right? Just by the word of his power, everybody would have raised up out of the grave. Lazarus, come forth. I'm only talking to you, Lazarus, not anybody else. He has the power over death. And after Lazarus was raised back to life, you have the uh the religious leaders at that time saying, if we let him keep on going like this, everybody's gonna believe. Well that's the point, right? That was the point. They said, we gotta stop this guy. Everybody's gonna believe in him. He had the power over death He was declared the Son of God even by his own resurrection from the dead. Romans chapter 1 verse 4. He was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. Resurrection is unique and powerful. And what Paul is getting at is this, is that what happened to Jesus Christ physically has already happened to you spiritually. It has already happened to you spiritually. Right now, you, if you've trusted in Christ, you've been raised to spiritual life. You have the same power at work in your life that raised Jesus Christ from the dead. Demonstrates that he's the Son of God. that we'll raise physically, but also demonstrates that that we've been given this new spiritual life. If you believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, you should believe in your own spiritual resurrection as as well. Something radical has happened to you. Radical. The stiffness of your soul gained flexibility. The coldness of your soul became warm. Your heart pumped for the first time and you breathed in spiritual life. If you trusted in Jesus Christ, and that happened through faith. And the amazing truth is that people talk about, you know, I want to see a powerful ministry. You know, where's the power in the ministry? You know, and they usually they're talking about, you know, people rolling around on the floor or knocking over benches, you know, slapping people in the face because the spirit comes and just takes over, right? Want to see power? You know, where's the healings? Where's the jumping up and down? Where's the spiritual power here? You know where the power is? Change lives. That is the power. You want to see a powerful ministry? Look for a ministry where people are saved. Resurrected life. That's powerful. That's power in the ministry. We're witnessing resurrection power every time somebody comes to Jesus Christ. That is power. Number three. Our resurrection is brought through the instrument of faith by the infinite power of God, number three, out of the imprisonment of death. Look at verse 13. It says that when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive. What was your state when you were resurrected? It says you were dead. Dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh. You can't imagine a situation more grave than that. Pardon the pun, right? You can't imagine a situation that's worse. When we speak of spiritual death, we're saying that every part of our being is infected by sin. Every part of us? We're saying that Not only are is every part of us infected by sin, but we're also saying that we have a total inability to do anything to change our condition. Nothing you can do. Totally unable to reverse the condition, John MacArthur notes, to be spiritually dead means to be devoid of any sense, unable to respond to spiritual stimuli, just as to be physically dead means to be unable to respond to physical stimuli. It is to be locked in sin 's grasp. That no one is able to respond to God. Can't do it. That's why the scripture speaks of certain things that unbelievers cannot do. Cannot do Jeremiah 13, 23 says that an unbeliever can't do good. Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then you can also do good who are accustomed to doing evil. Good that's truly good. Bible talks about people that do a lot of good works, but he says, Depart from me, you workers of what? Iniquity. It doesn't say depart from me you good workers. It says depart from me you workers of iniquity. Everything that you supposedly did for good is really evil in my sight. It's not acceptable to me. Whatever is not done from faith is what Sin. You're not trusting in me. Whatever you're doing is not acceptable to me. Even your good works are evil in the sight of God. It says the unbeliever can't understand 1 Corinthians 2. 14. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. People think about the resurrection and say, oh, that's foolish. Who would ever believe in a story like that? But all they prove is that they're dead. That's all they prove by their statements. They don't prove anything about the facts of the resurrection. They only prove the deadness that's a part of their souls. You cannot understand them because they're spiritually appraised. Also says that an unbeliever can't come to Christ. No one can come to me. That's a pretty sad situation to be in. You can't come. You can't understand, you can't do good, you can't come. No one can come to me unless the Father draws him. Has to be a spiritual work. Two things that we're unable to change. Unable to change our condition of being in transgression. Transgression was a word that speaks of crossing the The mark, crossing over the line. The normal word for sin speaks of missing the mark. This word for transgression, paraphtoma, means to step over the mark. You've crossed the boundary and you're dead there. Nothing you can do to kind of reverse your position. You're dead and crossing over the mark. No ability to change your condition. Held under the bondage of Satan. And you're dead in your uncircumcision. Ephesians, uh book of Ephesians, if you want to flip over there, Ephesians chapter 2 gives us a great picture of what it meant to be uncircumcised as well. Paul Identifies the congregation that he's writing to in Colossae as uncircumcised according to the flesh. In Ephesians chapter 2, it talks about what this condition of uncircumcision looked like. It says, Therefore remember that formerly you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by the so-called circumcision, which was performed in the flesh by human hands Remember that you were at that time separate from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. That picture of being uncircumcised speaks of being separate from God, totally separated from God. And nothing you can do to change your position. But while this position of being dead in our transgressions and uncircumcision is a position that we can't reverse. There's nothing that's impossible with God. He made you alive. Even where ye were, he made you alive. Our resurrection is through the instrument of faith by the infinite power of God and out of the imprisonment of death. God called you out of death into life. And the fourth thing is with the enjoyment of forgiveness. Verse 13 back in chapter 2 of Colossians. It says, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with them, having forgiven us all our transgressions. And this is sweet. This is sweet. Because there is nothing incomplete about the work that Christ does for us. And the forgiveness that he offers us is a complete forgiveness. Complete forgiveness. It's a forgiveness that's sufficient for all kinds of transgressions. Doesn't matter what you've done. The word all lets us know that there's a nothing that you've done that lies outside the power of God's forgiveness. I don't know what kind of baggage you bring with you. All of us have it. All of us have a past. All of us have a closet somewhere. And what the scripture lets us know is that it does not matter what you've done. It doesn't matter how heinous your sins have been, that all sins can be forgiven because of Jesus Christ. The forgiveness that's offered here is complete, it's efficient. It's also a forgiveness that's offered for all kinds of people, all kinds of people. It's actually interesting here if you kind of follow the pronouns that are used in Colossians. Paul continues to say, you know, you were dead. He made you alive. But then when he gets to forgiveness, he says, having forgiven us, our transgression. He includes himself in this one. Jews, Gentiles, it doesn't matter who it is. Forgiveness is sufficient for all kinds of people. And I'm included in that. I'm included in that. All people are in need of this forgiveness, and we're all covered by this forgiveness. And it's also a forgiveness that's efficient for all time. It says having forgiven. It's an error participle which speaks about a completed action. There's nothing that you have to do to add to it. It's already done. It's complete. Forgiveness is complete. Nothing can add to the completion of of this. And what are the the implications? Uh just real briefly the implications of this We need to appreciate the power required for this kind of miracle. If you've been given spiritual life, you need to appreciate the miracle that it took to make that happen. You need to appreciate that. This is no less a miracle than physical resurrection. And just like people were astonished and gripped by fear that somebody could raise from the dead physically, we need to be astonished that people come to life spiritually. Every time an unbeliever comes to faith in Christ, it should be just like we saw somebody laying in the coffin that raised up the physical life. It's an amazing truth. We've got this message. That's uh and and every time we we we speak it, it's like we're we're walking into a morgue, right? And speaking to dead corpses, saying, hey, I've got a message for you But but the the amazing thing is that people actually wake up and listen. That's the amazing thing. It's a spiritual reality that happens every time a person comes to faith in Jesus Christ. Second thing, we shouldn't be tempted by false paths to spiritual life. There's all kinds of people that'll you know try to point you down a different path to spirituality, saying that you need something else that's outside of Jesus Christ, outside of the scriptures. You know that you need some kind of experience or some kind of ritual or you need to do something in a certain kind of way. There is no life outside of Christ. We just need to settle that once and for all. There is nothing outside of Christ that you need for your spiritual life. Nothing And also, we shouldn't be tempted by those who pretend to have life apart from Christ, apart from Christ. People who pretend to have some kind of spiritual life and in other religions and other philosophies. It's like dead people trying to convince us that you need to come in the grave and join us. I mean there's nothing down there for me. Nothing at all. And the last thing, the last thing, is that we should uh run to Christ if we haven't done so already. And I appreciate the excitement back there. That's great. We need to run to Christ if we haven't done so already, right? Run to Jesus Christ. Another result of Christ's resurrection that I didn't mention is that his resurrection also ensures the destruction for all those who do not believe. ensures destruction for all those who do not believe. If you don't trust in Jesus Christ for your salvation, there are no options left. There's no other option for spiritual life. The resurrection changes everything. And I pray that we would appreciate And uh glorify God and celebrate Him for the resurrection, not only that He offered Christ, but the resurrection that He offers us as well who trust in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray and uh we'll close our service. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this opportunity that we have to uh glory in your Resurrection, Lord Jesus, Father, we thank you for raising Christ from the dead and that Jesus Christ Himself said that he had power over his own life and death. that nobody could take his life from him, that he laid it down of his own initiative, and that he would raise it up again. And Father, because of his raising, uh being raised back to the life, Lord, we uh we understand that there was a power at work in him That is beyond any human comprehension, beyond any human ability. And Father, that same power is also at work in us who believe today. My Father, I pray that we would appreciate that truth, that we would glorify you for that. And Father, we would also proclaim that to a world that needs the hope of a resurrection. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.