The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well we can't we can't sing songs all day. We're we are Baltimore Bible Church, okay? We are Baltimore Bible Church Amen. Well uh he reigns forever, amen. And uh we could honestly spend an eternity of Sundays speaking about the reign, the lordship, the sovereignty of Jesus Christ. without any fear of exhausting that subject. He reigns forever, and he is Lord over all. The reign of Jesus Christ extends from eternity past to eternity future. In the book of Revelations, Jesus is revealed as the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. In John 1, it lets us know that in the beginning the word was. And that's to say that before there was a beginning, there was the eternal word. And how do you how do you even wrap your mind around that? In the beginning, there was. There already was in the beginning. So before there was the beginning, there was Jesus. And what we know is time has a beginning. Outside of that, there is the eternal word, the second person of the Trinity, who was with God, who was God, and he's not bound by time, but time is bound by him. Before there was the beginning, there was God. Psalm 90 and verse 2 says, Before the mountains were born, or you gave birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Habakkuk 1 verse 12, are you not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my holy one? Psalm 93, verse 2, your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. Revelation 5 verse 13 says, To him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion or rule forever and ever. This is the second person of the Trinity. His reign is eternal, and it's also a universal reign. Not only does the Lord reign eternally, he also reigns universally. His sovereignty has no limits. Matthew 28 verse 18, Jesus came up and spoke to them saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. And that's a truth that's reinforced in Revelation when an angel asked the question, who has the rightful claim to the earth? Revelation 5, verse 2, it says, Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? And the book represented the right to reign over the earth, and no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the book or look into it. Only a person with that kind of authority was able to break the seal. And who has that authority? The answer is Jesus Christ. Revelation 5, verse 6, says, I saw between the throne with the four living creatures and the elders a lamb standing as if slain. And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. This is the Lord Jesus Christ. He has the rightful claim over the entire universe. And there's no place where the Lordship of Jesus Christ does not cry mine. He created it all. He sustains it all. He owns it all, which also reminds us that he is able to reign over us, and it's an inescapable reign. You can't get away from the reign of Jesus Christ. There's no creature that will be able to hide himself from the sovereign rule of the eternal and universal Lord. Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You won't be able to get away from him. He's Lord of creation, created the heavens and the earth. He's Lord of the church. He's the head of the body, the church. He's the Lord over the nations. Every throne, dominion, ruler, authority all have been created by him and for him. Every world leader, every politician, every military leader, every religious leader Everyone who wants to stamp out religion, everyone who wants nothing to do with religion, it doesn't matter whether you acknowledge him or not, you will bow. Whether your last name is Trump, Putin, Biden, Zelensky, or your name is Xi Jinping, all will bow. I have a friend, he wears this small pin on his lapel, and it simply says now or later. Now or later. With the question mark. And when people say, what's the pin for? An hour later, he says, well, when are you going to bow the knee to Jesus Christ? Is it going to be an hour later? It's going to be one of the two And there's not a question about whether or not you will bow. That's already a foregone conclusion. We've already settled that question. We're not asking if you will bow. We're asking when. It's a matter of time. But none of that would be true if Jesus was defeated by death. None of that would be true. Death is described in Scripture as the last enemy. And if Jesus can be defeated by death, we don't have a Savior. We have another sinner just like the rest of us. Romans chapter 5 and verse 12 says, Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin And so death spread to all men because all sinned. If Jesus Christ was nothing more than just a sinner, he would have been conquered by death. Death is a result of our sin against God, and one day, whether it happens suddenly and unexpectedly, or whether it happens after months of planning for your departure, we're going out of here one way or the other. We all have a date with death that we won't miss. And if Jesus is going to be our Savior, he has to reign over death as well. He could not be defeated by death And that's exactly what we see in the life of Jesus. Jesus was not a victim of death. Instead, he willingly gave up his life and death. He wasn't tricked by Judas. He knew that Judas was the devil from the beginning. And on the night of his betrayal, he whispers into Judas's ear, What you do, do quickly. Just in case you think you're fooling me, Judas. I know what you're up to and what you're going to do, just go ahead and do it quickly. He knew the whole time what Judas was up to. Can you imagine that? He the the one who ate bread out of his own hand, he knew was going to betray him. Jesus wasn't ambushed by the large crowd that came to arrest him under the direction of the priest of Jerusalem. Jesus came out to face his attackers, asking, Who do you seek? When they said Jesus of Nazareth, he says, I am, and they all laid flat where they're supposed to be, right? Flat on the ground. Jesus came out to face his attackers and laid them out with nothing more than a word. Jesus was not at the mercy of the Roman authorities who delivered him over to crucifixion. Jesus calmly speaks to Pilate and he says, You would have no authority over me, unless it had been given ye from above. Don't think that you're in charge here. And as it's often been said, it was not the nails that held Jesus to the cross. He could have come down from the cross at any moment. But he chose to lay down his life voluntarily, and that's what we looked at on Good Friday. He offered himself As a ransom for sin, a sacrifice without blemish. Jesus was sovereign even over the very moment of his death, crying out with a loud voice, Luke 23, 46, he says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said that, he breathed his last. He was sovereign over the very moment of his death. He was not a victim of Roman cruelty. He predicted how he would die on multiple occasions. In Mark chapter 8, verse 31, he began to teach them that the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests and the scribes, and be killed. Mark 9 31, he was teaching his disciples, telling them, the Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him. Mark 1034, they will mock him and spit on him and scourge him and kill him. He predicted his death multiple times. But he also predicted his resurrection multiple times. And after three days, he's to rise again. And when he has been killed, Mark 9. 31, he will rise three days later. Mark 10, 34, and three days later he will rise again. And if Jesus did not rise like he said he would, he would be nothing more than just a false prophet. C. S. Lewis, the famous British author and literary scholar, argued in his book, Mere Christianity, that everyone is faced with a decision regarding Jesus Christ. It's been called the trilemma. It's like more than a dilemma. It's a trilemma, right? Trilemma. Lewis writes this. He says, I'm here trying to prevent anyone from saying the really foolish thing that people often say about him. I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say. A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic on the level of the man who says he's the poached egg. I didn't know what a poached egg was before, but it's kind of like a boiled egg where you just kind of crack the egg open in the water on the level of somebody who says, I'm a poached egg. Or else he would be the devil of hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was and is the son of God, or else a madman or something worse. Who is he? Lewis goes on to say you can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and call him a demon, or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God, but let let us not come with any patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. And who in his right mind says, I'm going to die, and then three days later I'm coming back? Who says that? Who in his right mind comes up with something like that? It's like a a story I heard John MacArthur tell about the woman who arrived in the psychiatrist's office with a duck under her arm. And the psychiatrist says, you know, what seems to be the problem? She says, well it's not me, it's my husband. He thinks he's a duck. Those are the kind of people that say, I'm gonna die and come back three days later. I'm gonna die and I'm gonna come back three days later. Jesus' resurrection proved that he was not a liar. He's not a false prophet. He's not a lunatic. The resurrection proved that he was the Son of God with power. He was declared to be the Son of God with power, Romans chapter 1, verse 4. By the resurrection from the dead. His resurrection proved that he was the sinless son of God, as Psalm 16, verse 10 says, You will not abandon my soul to Sheol. You will not allow your holy one to undergo decay. Because he was holy, he would not undergo decay. His resurrection proved that the payment for sin was complete In Romans chapter 4, verse 25, it says, He who was delivered over because of our transgressions and was raised because of our justification, he was raised again for our salvation. The payment for sin was complete. And we'll see in our text today that Jesus' resurrection also proved that his sacrifice was the greatest act of humiliation His sacrifice was the greatest act of humiliation, and because of that, he was raised again from the dead. Flip over to Philippians chapter 2, and uh we'll take a look at verses 1 through 11. Philippians chapter 2. Verses 1 through 11. We primarily turn to Philippians 2 for the example of the humility of Christ. Theologians often refer to this self-humiliation as the kenosis, the self-emptying of Jesus Christ. The Greek word for empty is found in verse 7. It's the Greek word kanao. It's where the word kenosis comes from, the emptying, the humbling of Jesus Christ. We often come to Philippians 2 for his humiliation, but we can also turn to Philippians 2 for his exaltation, which began at the resurrection. Philippians chapter 2, let's start at verse 1. So it's therefore if there is any encouragement in Christ, if there is any consolation of love, if there is any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion, Make my joy complete by being of the same mind, maintaining the same love, united in spirit, intent on one purpose. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interest of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus Who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men Being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. For this reason also, God highly exalted him. and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do come before you today, as we always do, asking for your help, Lord, that you would help us to understand these things that we read. Father, that you would be glorified and honored as your word is preached. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Verses 1-11 of Philippians 2 can be broken up into three sections. Verses 1 through 4, Paul gives an exhortation towards humility. In verses 5 to 8, Paul gives them the example of humility. And then finally, in verses 9 through 11, there's the exaltation from humility. Now Paul identifies the principal reason we're not unified, why we don't see more love within the church, and it's because of pride Selfish motives, he speaks about that in verse 3. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. Talks about them being conceited, considering themselves as more important than others. And also in verse 4, looking out for their own interests rather than the interests of others. There's the exhortation towards humility that we find in verses 1 through 4 Also, we then find in verses five to eight that Paul gives them the example of humility, which is the example of Jesus Christ. It says in verse 5, have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. He is the perfect example of humility And this section here of verses 5 through 8 really takes us into the heart of the incarnation. This is what theologians have called the Christological Gem, a Christological diamond. You know, you just turn it every way and you see all the different facets of who the Lord is, and you're constantly amazed by what He's done for us. Jesus did not empty himself of his deity. Jesus did not cease to be God. He never ceased to be God. Verse 6 says that he existed in the form of God. That's the very nature of God. And he never ceased to be fully God. But rather he emptied himself of the display of his glory, the the free exercise of his rights, the recognition of his supremacy. When Christ entered the world, he let go of the display of his glory that was rightfully his. He was made in the likeness of men, verse 7 says. Being in the likeness of men, he appeared to men as a man. The eternal, unlimited, all-glorious Son of God took on himself all of the human limitations that we have, all of the weaknesses that we have, the frailties that we have The one who created the world was born into the world. The one who holds the universe together was himself held by Mary as an infant. He didn't make an appearance in his eternal glory, but he was made in the likeness of men. He also emptied himself of the free use of his divine rights. In verse 8 it says that he humbled himself, taking the form of a bondservant. He came as a as a servant. He didn't exercise his unlimited power for himself. Had uh power to feed five thousand with five loaves and two fish and actually multiple more, you know, thousands more. That's just counting the men. Jesus fed multitudes but refused to feed himself when he became hungry. He had the power to turn water into wine, but on the cross he said, I thirst. He was the one who had omnipotence, but he himself became weary and he slept. He had omniscience, but he had to grow in knowledge. He refused to display the glory that he had as God, and he refused to exercise the rights that he had. And he also refused to To be recognized with the supremacy that he had as God. In verse 8, it speaks about how he emptied himself of the recognition of his supremacy as God He humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death of the cross. Peter puts it this way that This man was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, and you nailed him to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. Jesus was betrayed with the kiss, was nailed by Roman soldiers to a cross, allowed people to get away with mocking him, Pilate with subjecting him to torture and the worst. kind of cruelty that could be exercised on a criminal to be put on a cross. And we know the answer of why this this emptying of him himself, we know um The answer to that, that he emptied himself of the recognition of this supremacy, is because the the rulers did had no idea who they were nailing to the cross when they did it. 1 Corinthians 2 verse 7 says, We speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the hidden wisdom of God, predestined before the ages to our glory, the wisdom which none of the rulers of this age has understood, for if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Jesus laid down his life on his own initiative. But back in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 9, we start to see the exaltation of the Son. Verse 9, for this reason. God highly exalted him. For what reason? Because he laid down his life. Because he became as a man Because he became obedient even to the point of death on the cross. And because of this, he was highly exalted. For this reason also, God highly exalted him. And again, that started with his resurrection. That he became highly exalted. And this is where we'll focus our attention because against this dark backdrop of humiliation, there's this brilliant and dazzling display of his exaltation. Think about it with me. that Jesus in his incarnation and his humiliation and eventual crucifixion was brought to the lowest degree imaginable. A lower state can't be conceived. This is rock bottom to be crucified. The death of slaves and the worst criminals. But in his resurrection and his ascension and the coronation as king in heaven, he's brought to the highest possible degree imaginable. A higher state can't be conceived. And here in stark contrast, side by side, you have the lowest valley and the highest mountain. The darkest depth and the greatest glory. And it leaves us with this beautiful and majestic picture of the Lordship of Jesus Christ. The picture of the humiliated and crucified Savior will not be the last picture that this world has of Jesus Christ. That's not the last picture that this world will have of Jesus Christ. A Christ on a cross. That's not the last picture that the world has. The last picture that this world will have of Jesus is a victorious, glorified, conquering King. The risen Savior is the one who the world will have their last view of Jesus Christ, his glory, his rights, his supremacy, all taken back. Jesus Christ will be exalted and is exalted in glory and power. And again, as I said, it started with the resurrection. Jesus receives the highest honors. Look again at verse 9. It says, for this reason also God highly exalted him. Because of what he's done, he has been highly exalted. And it's been bestowed on him the name which is above every name He has a glory above all glory. He has the highest honors. The word for highly exalted is a word that could be translated super exalted It's the the the word hooper opsao, which where we get our our word uh super or hyper from the prefix. It's it's super exalted. It's a word that means to exalt beyond degree, it's over the top, beyond what can be measured. And that's why it's translated as is highly exalted. He's exalted to the highest place. Superior over the top exaltation Lord's been exalted to the greatest position that can be imagined, no greater position. And the point is not that Jesus did not already have the highest position before the incarnation. But now after the incarnation, after the death of Christ and his resurrection and exaltation, he's now the reigning champion with some new medals. He's come to conquer, and now he returns to heaven with new honor. He returns as the lamb who was slain, who has accomplished redemption for his people. And the glory that he refused to display on earth is the glory that he now displays in full, blazing glory in heaven. Revelation 1 gives us a Just a brief picture of this if you want to flip over to Revelation chapter 1, just to see a view of the resurrected Savior. Revelation chapter 1, look at verse 12. This is John the Apostle writing, one of Jesus' closest disciples. In verse 12 of chapter 1, he says, Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking with me. And having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands. And in the middle of the lampstands I saw one like a son of man, clothed in a robe reaching to the feet and girded across his chest with a golden sash. His head and his hair were white like wool, like snow, and his eyes were like a flame of fire. His feet were like burnished bronze when it has been made to glow in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of many waters. In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in its strength When I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man. And he placed his right hand on me, saying, Do not be afraid, I am the first and the last and the living one, and I was dead. And behold, I'm what? I'm alive. I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and of Hades. Death did not defeat me, I defeated death, is what he's saying. And the rights that he refused to exercise during his incarnation are now wielded with full power and his exaltation. I defeated death I was dead and now I am alive forevermore. There's no higher position than the throne of Jesus Christ. Matthew 28 he says that all power has been given unto me. He's seated at the right hand of majesty. He's exalted to the highest degree possible. And we're also told that he has the highest name. Flip back to Philippians chapter 2 again. He also has the highest name Philippians chapter 2, it says, again in verse 9, for this reason also God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name. He has the highest rank, the highest dignity, the name above every name. And if you were to say that that name is the name Jesus, you would be right in the sense that Jesus is the one that we're referring to. But there are a few reasons to see the name that Jesus was given here as another name that's mentioned in this passage. Number one, Jesus was called Jesus during his incarnation, during his time on earth, he was already called Jesus. So how is he being given a name after his incarnation? What's the name he's been given after that? So so there's the there's a difference. There's a name that he was given, that Jesus was given, another name Number two, when you read verse 10 carefully, it says that at the name of Jesus, that Jesus has a name. At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow. Well, what's the name that's been given to you Jesus? Number three, every tongue is going to confess something at the end of time, and it's not everybody's going to say that he's Jesus. It's everybody's going to say that he's what? Lord, that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That is the confession that Jesus is Lord. Number four, the highest name. According to the Old Testament scriptures, would have been considered the name Lord. Psalm 97, verse 9 says, For you are the Lord most high over all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods. Psalm 148, verse 13, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. His glory is above all the earth and the heaven. And Jesus is said to be given the highest name, the name Lord. And finally, and probably what's most convincing is that the next verse, verse 10, is a quote from Isaiah 50 or 45, verse 23. Where it says throughout all the and throughout all the section of Isaiah, God is emphasizing his name is Lord, especially in Isaiah 42, verse 8, where it says, I am the Lord. That is my name, and I will not give my glory nor my praise to graven images. And the name that Jesus is given, and here it's a quotation that He's given this name, Lord. I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my praise to graven images. He's going to be recognized as Lord. Every knee will bow, verse then says, Of those who are in the heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and that every knee will bow is a quotation from Isaiah. So the name that Jesus has given is a consequence of his exaltation as Lord. Lord is the name that Jesus is given, and Jesus Christ is Lord, and that's the really the first confession of the believer, isn't it? That Jesus is Lord. If you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God did what? Raise him from the dead, you shall be saved. That's the confession that we make, that Jesus Christ is Lord. And the word which Israel, which the disciples went out to Israel to preach was that Jesus Christ is the Lord of all. And what does it mean for Jesus to be Lord? It means that you acknowledge his ultimate authority over your life. That he's now in charge. The primary word for uh for Lord is curios. It was the use for a master of the house. the owner of a slave. It came to be used for the ultimate allegiance that was given to the Roman Caesar. And Jesus says that this is a glory that belongs to him, that he is to be called Lord. And actually one of the ways that they determined whether or not a person was a true Christian was whether or not they were willing to say that Caesar is Lord. Who's your ultimate allegiance to? And for a Christian, he was unable to say that my ultimate allegiance is to Caesar. You would say that my ultimate allegiance is to Jesus. It's my ultimate allegiance is to the Lord. It's one of the ways that Christians, true Christians were identified. Can you swear by the Emperor's Lord? And a true Christian could not. What else does it mean to call Jesus Lord? It also means that you're acknowledging that he's God, that Jesus is God. Flip back to Isaiah 45 really quick. Isaiah 45 Take a look at uh Isaiah 45 and we'll start at verse verse 17. This is actually a connection to the to the Lordship of Christ as well. Verse 17, it says, Israel has been saved by the Lord. With an everlasting salvation, you will not be put to shame or humiliated to all eternity. For thus says the Lord who created the heavens, He is the God who formed the earth and made it He established it and did not create it a wasteplace, but formed it to be inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is none else. I have spoken not in secret in some dark land. I did not say to the offspring of Jacob, Seek me in a waste place I, the Lord, speak righteousness, declaring things that are upright. Gather yourselves and come, draw near together, ye fugitives of the nations. They have no knowledge, you carry about their wooden idol and pray to a God who cannot save, declare and set forth your case, indeed let them consult together. Who has announced this from of old? Who has long since declared it? Is it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God besides me? A righteous God and a Savior, there is none except me. Turn to me and be saved all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. I have sworn by myself the word has gone forth from my mouth in righteousness and will not turn back. That to me every knee will bow and every tongue will swear allegiance. Now, if you flip back and you you you you examine the text, how many times is God saying that there's nobody besides me? There's none else, verse 18. There's no other God, verse 21. There's no other verse 22. He's the only creator, the only one who's omniscient, the only savior. And then we flip over to Philippians chapter 2, and it says that it's to Jesus that every knee will bow and every tongue will swear allegiance. Who is Jesus calling himself? Who is Paul in this case calling Jesus? He's saying that he's God That he is God and there is no other. He is the true God. There's nobody else. Every knee will bow and every tongue will swear allegiance to him. When you call Jesus Lord, you're also saying that he is God And this verse is carried straight over in the Philippians 2 to say that every knee should bow and confess to Jesus, to call him Lord, to swear allegiance to him, to call him God, and there is no one else. I am the Lord, Isaiah 42, verse 8 says, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another. Jesus is God. And that glory and that name is only to Jesus Christ, the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit. We know that Jesus Christ is the second person of the Trinity, but Jesus here is called God. The one who was in the beginning with God and the one who was God. And why is Jesus given this glory? Why is Jesus given this this title, the the second person of the of the Trinity and here the the one who was who is uh the incarnate one. Why is this incarnate one given this title Lord? Why does he deserve this recognition? He's given this title again in verse 9. It says for this reason. For this reason. Actually, you could translate that word for this reason as because. It's actually the strongest possible inferential conjunction according to grammarians. It means on account of this, as a direct result of this, as a consequence to this. What he's saying is that when Christ admitted to the lowest possible degree, the direct result of that was being transferred to the highest possible degree. The two are related. Because of his humiliation, he now deserves the exaltation. And this is the principle that's stated often throughout Scripture. The fear of the Lord, Proverbs 15, 33. The fear of the Lord is the instruction, is the instruction for wisdom, and before honor comes humility. 1 Peter 5, verse 5. It says that God gives grace to the humble In Matthew 23, it says, The one who is greatest among you shall be your servant. In Luke 14, 11, everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. The principle in Scripture of those who humble themselves are exalted, and the one who was humble to the greatest possible degree was Jesus Christ. And now he is exalted to the greatest possible degree. And that's Jesus Christ. And it only makes sense that our Lord would be the supreme example of the principles of Scripture. And what we find in Philippians chapter 2 is that Jesus, in his humiliation, that he didn't clamor for the best seat. He was among his disciples as one who served. And it's significant to note that Jesus humbled himself. He did not exalt himself. It was the Father who exalted him. And there was no one that humbled himself more than Jesus Christ. From being deprived at his birth, impoverished in his life, all the way down to his death. And that's why when he is exalted, you can't get any higher. You can't get any higher than Jesus Christ. And there are many reasons why Christ deserves supremacy, why he deserves the glory, why Jesus Christ was resurrected. But one of the reasons why is because of his humiliation. Because he humbled himself, he submitted himself. Look at verse 10. It says, At the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and under the earth. And on the earth and under the earth, on the earth and under the earth, universal submission is declared here. The picture that's given of Christ here is complete supremacy, universal submission of the world, that every knee will bow to him. He has the name above every name, and now he has every knee and every tongue that's confessing to him. Every name, every knee, and every tongue. Total universal submission. Everybody is bowing. And this is uh uh clear from the context of this passage that's being quoted here, uh, that it's back to Isaiah 45, that it's It's uh uh again uh that that every knee will bow to him, and this is said to be uh because Jesus is also God. And the idea of bowing is not always an indication of salvation, but it can also be an indication of humiliation. And those who bowed in Isaiah 45 weren't necessarily those that were bowing out of a willing heart in submission and glory to God. They were forced to bow. There are the enemies of God who are forced to bow. And the idea is that you will bow whether you like it or not. I've said it before that even if you don't have knees, God will give you knees just so you can bow. And there's three categories of people that that bow before him, look at it again. Of those who are in heaven Who are those who are in heaven? The holy angels? The saints? All bowing willingly in worship before Jesus Christ is God. We know that the angels bowed before him. Hebrews 1 verse 6, let all the angels worship him. The angels join the saints in the worship of God. They bow before him willingly But there's a second category of people who will bow before him. It says those who are on the earth. When Jesus Christ comes back, there's going to be two categories of people. There's going to be the sheep and the goats. The sheep who enter into the joy of their Lord and the and the goats who are dismissed and enter into punishment. And those two groups will bow. Those who are on the earth when Jesus Christ returns, those will bow. Matthew twenty five, verse thirty one says, When the Son of Man comes in his glory, all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne, and all the angels all the nations will be gathered before him, and will be separated from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left, and all those who are on the earth will bow. But how about those that are under the earth? This is the category of the unredeemed. Even fallen angels, sinners who are cast into hell will bow before Jesus Christ. This is an example. We have an example of this in Mark chapter 5, if you want to flip over to Mark chapter 5 really quick. We have an example of one who is from hell, from under the earth, who bows to Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 5, look at verse 1. It says, They came to the other side of the sea into the country of the Garosenes. When he got out of the boat, immediately a man from the tombs with an unclean spirit met him. And he had his dwelling among the tombs, and no one was able to bind him anymore, even with a chain. Because he had often been bound with shackles and chains. And the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles broken in pieces, and no one was strong enough to subdue him. This is the man who is demon-possessed. Verse 5, constantly night and day, he was screaming among the tombs and in the mountains, gashing himself with stones. This is a man who is uncontrollable. Nobody can contain him. He's breaking his chains, ripping them apart. But look what it says in verse 6. Seeing Jesus from a distance, he ran up and bowed before him. The one who could not be contained with chains rushed so he could bow before Jesus Christ. This is an example of what will happen on that day when Christ returns. Those that are in heaven, on the earth, under the earth, everyone will bow. before Jesus Christ. Even Satan himself will bow. And then finally there's this universal confession. Look at verse 11 back in Philippians chapter 2. Universal confession is that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. All be forced to acknowledge the universal lordship of Christ, forced to acknowledge his deity, his authority. It's going to be undeniable. The word for confess is a word that means to say the same thing, to agree with. Everybody will agree with God on that day that Jesus Christ is Lord, and everybody will say, yes, that's right. He is Lord. And their confession won't be a reluctant, you know, well, I guess so, maybe so. But it will be a full and total agreement, complete affirmation. You are right and I was wrong. Peter boldly declared on the day of Pentecost, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. This Jesus whom you crucified. And what was the proof that God made him Lord in Christ? The tomb was empty. That was the proof. He's been exalted. He's no longer there. God has made him both Lord and Christ. This Jesus whom you crucified. The day will come when everyone will acknowledge it, and this is sobering to think about, that everybody will acknowledge Jesus Christ from the Roman Caesar. Who forced people to hail him as Lord, he'll be forced to bow. Hitler, who forced people to hail him as Hitler, will be forced to bow. Any country that mocks and ridicules the idea of God will be forced to bow? Americans who consider themselves as uh you know the the the the chosen ones, maybe We'll be forced to bow. Every skeptic and detractor and deceiver of our time will be forced to bow, confess. That everything that they've written, everything that they've said about Jesus Christ is wrong and God is right? That they've lied against the Holy One and suppressed the truth and unrighteousness? Every false religion will be forced to bow. Every Muslim, Buddhist, Jehovah's Witness, Mormon will be forced to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Every church attender, every person who's ever professed faith in Christ but did not have Christ in their hearts, will be forced to bow. But for many, that confession will come too late. The Bible is clear that there will be many who appear before Christ. Matthew chapter 7, verse 22, many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord. Did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you. It's a confession too late. You confess me, but it's too late. Because I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. And how much better is it to practice a personal confession now than wait until it's too late? And you just join a universal confession just in order to be cast away from his presence. And this is where history is headed. We're all headed to stand before the resurrected Christ. And why would you wait until the confession won't save you? You can make a confession today that saves. That Jesus Christ is Lord. Confess Jesus Christ as Lord. To believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. You can make that confession today while the confession can still save you. But everybody will be forced to make a confession one time or another. And the question again is, is it going to be now or later? We all will have to confess one day. And what does that mean? What does it mean to confess him? First of all, it means to call him Lord to say that you have the ultimate authority over my life That Jesus, I bow the knee to you. That I willingly give myself over to you. That you're you're you're the one who's in charge. You're in charge of my life. And it's also to acknowledge that he is God, that you are God in the flesh. To acknowledge his deity, that Jesus Christ is God. And those who truly acknowledge him as Lord, truly believe that God raised him from the dead, are those the Bible says will be saved. And what does that mean for us as believers who are here today, those who acknowledge his lordship, those who acknowledge that Jesus was exalted, the response for us is humility. The response for us is humility. That if if if the Lord of glory would come down to this corrupt planet and allow his own creation to spit on him. To mock him, to pull out his beard, to beat him, to hang him to a cross That if the Lord of glory would allow himself to be put to such a low degree, who are we? Who do we think that we are to elevate ourselves above our brothers and sisters in Christ? To consider ourselves and our own interest is more important than our brothers and sisters in Christ. And this is exactly what Paul was after. He says, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. But with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interest of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. Jesus was the example. Jesus showed the way Jesus was the one who did all he could to humble himself, to serve. He did not come among us as one to be served, but as one to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And because Jesus humbled himself, the Bible says that as a result of that, for this reason God highly exalted him. And the Bible says that the last will be first, and the first last. The ones who are highly exalted are the ones who are willing to humble themselves. The exhortation is towards humility. And this is what we find in Jesus Christ, and we find in Christ the greatest example of one who humbled himself, and it's for this reason that the Lord exalted him. And that's what we celebrate today. That Jesus Christ is the risen Savior. He's the exalted Savior. And He's the one that every one of us will stand before one day. Amen. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity to look at your word. And Father, we pray that your word would Continue to speak to us, Lord, even today as we think about the Christ who was risen from the grave, the one who is exalted to the highest place, the one who says in Revelation that he was dead, but now he's alive. Forevermore, that he's defeated death. Father, if Jesus Christ was not resurrected, Lord, we would have a dead and a powerless Savior. One who could not save, one who could not save himself. But Father, we're grateful that we have one who Who is the Savior? The one who has defeated death, the one who is exalted to the highest position possible. It's because we trust in him, Lord, that we will also be taken to be with him So Father, I pray that as we exalt the Savior today and as we think about his resurrection, Father, that we would also be reminded that it was also a result of his humiliation and that we would seek to be Those that humble ourselves before others, put one another's needs above our own. And Father, I pray for anyone who is here today that does not know your son Now Father, that they would trust in you, that they would bow the knee to you, that they would make the confession while that confession still saves, that they would not make the confession when their confession will only condemn them. My father, I pray that you would be glorified and honored for your glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. Speedes and digital files