The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we go ahead and uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? The book of Matthew, chapter 1. Today we have the great privilege of embarking on a journey through the Gospel of Matthew. Uh it's a book that shaped the church more than any other gospel. Um, according to one uh commentator, another commentator states as a matter of fact that mainstream Christianity was from the early second century on to a great extent a Mathean Christianity. And when we think about uh Christianity itself, if you were to examine the letters of the early uh church fathers, the letters of uh Ignatius of Polycarp, uh his friend uh Papius. Um their letters give evidence that the congregations to whom they wrote We're conversant with the the gospel of of Matthew. And uh there's little doubt that Matthew is the high most highly revered and frequently quoted uh canonical gospel. And uh these are just what what uh others are saying about it. One author suggested that Even if you have another gospel that you think might be your favorite, when you actually try to think of the saints of Jesus Christ, you're thinking about Matthew. It's it's just that kind of pervasive, it's that influential. And uh regarding the composition of the book it's been said that in the grandness of conception And in the power with which a massive material is subordinated to great ideas, no writing in either testament dealing with a historical theme is to be compared with Matthew. It contains the greatest quantity of Jesus' teachings, his most famous sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, the most beloved parables. There's material that's found in the book of Matthew that's not found anywhere else in Scripture. And uh for all of us who would call ourselves uh Christians, uh those who would follow Jesus Christ, it's hard to imagine not giving attention to the book of Matthew. Like I said, it contains the greatest quantity of uh Christ's teachings, and if we're to obey all the things that He's commanded us, how else are we going to do that if we don't go to the book of Matthew? Uh so when I thought about the first book that I wanted to cover, uh my mind immediately went to the the book of of Matthew and uh what better way to make sure that we're a Christ-centered church, a Christ-centered fellowship, other than uh drawing to the to the to the feet of our Lord to to learn from him, right? I mean what what better way to to really become a Christ-centered fellowship uh other than walking in his footsteps uh witnessing his acts of compassion, uh sitting at his feet to learn from him, being amazed by his miracles, bearing the awful sight of the cross Rejoicing at the resurrection and joining with the disciples to hear their charge and to be sent into the nations to make all people disciples of Christ. Amen. So I'm eager to dive into the book of Matthew, and it's my prayer that you are as well. So let's turn our attention to the book of Matthew. We'll start at verse 1 The record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham, and we just heard it in the song that we just sang. So appreciate you guys for uh for putting that together. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that as we uh uh dive into this book, Father, that you would speak to us, uh Father, that you would use your word in our lives that you would transform us by by this book. I pray that you would uh use me and and my words to be a blessing uh to your people. Uh Father would remove anything that shouldn't be said. And uh my Father, I pray that they would insert the things that should be said. Father, I pray that what I say would be accurate, rightly representing you, and uh and your word that you've authored. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen If we were sitting in a in a first century church and this book was being read to us, the first words uh that we would have heard would have been Kata Matheon, uh according to to Matthew. Uh the the headings uh or the superscript that's It's traced back to the earliest manuscripts that we have of the book of Matthew. The word gospel appears in some manuscripts, but there are no manuscripts that do not contain the phrase Kata Mathion. All uh manuscripts that we have of this book contain according to Matthew, according to Matthew. Uh there 's no other explanation for the early recognition of this gospel other than that Matthew wrote it. As far back as evidence goes, Matthew is considered the author and the church universally recognized This gospel is coming from Matthew. And that's true even though Matthew himself uh did not identify himself throughout the book Matthew doesn't really refer to himself as the author of Matthew throughout the book. The caption was probably added by those that received the letter. But Matthew doesn't uh he does leave us some internal evidence that he's the one that that authored the the book. There's only one gospel where Matthew is described as a tax collector after He was called to Christ. And it's the book of Matthew. Turn over to Matthew chapter 10. Matthew chapter 10. Look at verses 2 and 3. Says now the names of the twelve apostles are these, the first Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee And John his brother, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew the tax collector. Matthew the tax collector, James the son of Alpheus and and Thaddeus. And uh in the parallel accounts that we have of of this same listing of the the apostles, the other uh gospel writers in in Mark chapter 3 and in Luke chapter 6, they simply refer to him as Matthew They dropped the tax collector part. It's like, you know, Matthew, that's the past. You know, we don't have to refer to you as the tax collector anymore. But for uh for Matthew It was almost as as if he couldn't stop thinking about the fact that God had rescued me as a tax collector. You know, Matthew the the tax collector. He humbly refers to himself as the the tax collector in a kind of a a self-deprecating way. He refers to himself as as the tax collector, uh almost as if to say I I know who I am. I know who I am and I know I don't deserve to be on this list. I don't deserve to be on on this list. After he was called out of uh the tax booth, uh, like I said, Mark and Luke stopped referring to him as the tax collector, but he he knew that he didn't deserve uh to be referred to as anything else. This would have been similar to John's gospel and the uh uh gospel according to Saint John. Uh he refers to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved It's like he couldn't get over the fact that Jesus loved them. And it for Matthew, it's like he couldn't get over the fact that Jesus actually chose me, a tax collector. Matthew couldn't get over this fact that that that he chose him. Tax gathering wasn't an honorable occupation in the first century. Uh might not be as much of an honorable occupation now, who knows, but definitely wasn't in the first century To be a tax collector was to be on the same level as Gentiles and the worst of sinners. In uh Matthew chapter five, uh verses uh forty-six to forty-seven. It says over there, it says, For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? So what is he doing? He's putting tax collection and being a Gentile, somebody who's depart, separated from God, on the same level You know, even even a tax collector is going to love people who love them, right? Even tax collectors do that. In uh Matthew chapter 11, over in uh verse 19 It says that the son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a gluttonous man and a drunkard A friend of tax collectors and sinners. I mean look look at the company that he keeps, right? You know, a drunken a a drunkard, a a a friend, a a a gluttonous, somebody who's gluttonous, a drunkard. Sinners and tax collectors just sandwich right in the middle. You know, being a tax collector was the same thing as being a drunkard, a gluttonous man, or a sinner. Uh corruption and tax collection was commonplace. Tax collecting was basically like organized crime. It was like the first century mafia. It was organized crime, basically. The tax collectors were were greedy, extortionists. Uh they profited from a a Roman system that already heavily taxed their subjects. I mean Romans already heavily taxed them and uh tax collectors just Elevated, made it even more cruel to the to the people that were underneath the thumb of Rome. Jews participated in this business and they were considered the traitors of their own people. Uh for for a person to be a tax collector, you are considered a traitor. You're considered somebody who would who would squander wealth from your own people. According to the standard uh uh uh International Standard Bible Encyclopedia There were two kinds of uh uh taxes that that Rome would take. There were poll taxes and there were toll taxes. Um poll taxes or census taxes was like a an income tax. It was a direct annual tax on people, houses, and lands. You'd pay for a tax on yourself, on everything that you owned, you pay for your house. And basically it was like a yearly reminder that you don't own yourself. You know, somebody owns you. We're going to tax you just because you exist We're going to tax you if you own a house. We're going to tax you if you own land. We're going to basically assess everything that you have and and and reap some benefit uh from that. And this was the the tax that the Pharisees and the Herodians asked Jesus about in Matthew chapter 22 in verse 17 when they said, uh Tell us then, what do you think? Is it lawful to give a poll tax to Caesar or not? Basically they they knew if if Jesus said, yeah, it's it's it's right to give a tax to Caesar, you know, he's going to be mobbed. People hated paying this tax. So he said, you know, so so should we pay to Caesar or not? And you remember his answer, you know, he outwitted him. You know, show me show me a show me a coin. You know, give me one of these coins. Whose face is on this thing? You know, give them what belongs to him You know, and and basically like the uh the the parallel is is whose image is stamped on you? You know, give to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, give to God the things that are God. I'm concerned about giving the things to God. I'm more concerned about that Here's that um there's uh uh another tax here. There's a tax called the the toll tax. Uh toll taxes were basically like uh a sales tax uh sales tax. This is a tax levied on exports, on imports, even on goods that were simply passing through the country. Just because you pass through the country they taxed you? You know, just because you had something If you're traveling the roads of Palestine with goods to buy or sell, you could expect to pay through the nose for it. You know, just because you wanted to sell something, buy something. walk through the land of Palestine with something, you were going to get taxed for it. In the New Testament times, the Roman Romans placed uh many toll stations or the tax booths you know, on the on the roads of of Palestine to collect these taxes. There were uh people known as the the chief tax collectors. Uh uh these were the the Archie uh Talones. Uh they were uh a little further up the chain they got a bigger slice of the pie. Zacchaeus was one of these archae polones, a chief tax collector, is a biblical example of that in Luke chapter 19. A little man by the name of Zacchaeus was making big money. He was a chief tax collector, and it says in uh Luke 19, verse 2, that he was rich. He was rich out of this this this game that they played. It appears that uh Zacchaeus may have owned his own tax booth. You know, that it belonged to him, or maybe he might have owned multiple tax booths and this money was was coming in. He was raking in the the money from these tax booths that he had. And uh after he was uh converted, it said that he was going to give give away half of what he possessed, in addition to giving four times as much if he extorted anybody. He was going to get four times the amount back to him. I don't know about you, but if I give away like half of what I have, I don't know if I have enough left over to get four times as much, you know, what I've cheated people out of. But he was he was rich. He could do it And he was making the the money, like I said, off of the off of the people. Uh Zacchaeus was making the killing and the the people that worked underneath him uh would have been the the tax collectors. He was the chief tax collectors And the people that worked underneath him would have been the tax collectors or also known as publicans. And uh one of these uh publicans was uh A man by the name of Matthew. Man by the name of Matthew. There are these multiple multiple layers in this kind of tax system Uh the collectors on the bottom would get their cut. So Matthew was getting his cut off of the taxes that he'd take in. The chiefs got their cut. The Roman officials got their cut and anybody else in between would get their cut. The people on the bottom were the ones that were just at the mercy of all this overhead. You know, so so they're just being killed, crushed at the at the bottom of this, and uh it's not like it was even a fixed rate. You know, they they could kind of charge you for whatever they thought your stuff was worth. You know, we we think it's worth so much, so we're gonna tax you so much for it It's like you didn't you didn't have a say in it. You're just at their their mercy. Like I said, uh one of these uh tax collectors who was sitting at a booth was uh was Matthew. Flip over to Matthew chapter nine. Matthew chapter nine and uh Verse 9, we'll see what Matthew was engaged in. It says as Jesus went on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting in the tax collector's booth. He's on the road waiting for people to pass by so he could tax him. So I'm sitting in the tax collector's booth and he said to him, follow me. And he got up and followed him. It's pretty amazing. Pretty amazing. I mean he's he's l leaving a lucrative business here. Jesus says two words, follow me. Gets up, leaves everything. Leaves everything and follows after Christ. And uh what grace was this by Christ. To pick somebody who was on the level of uh sinners, drunkards, gluttons, gentiles. And say, I want you. Out of all the people that Christ could have chosen to be part of the twelve, you think about that? Out of all the people he could have chosen to be part of the twelve, he says, I want I want this guy. I want you to be be part of part of my my twelve. And he he left everything and and followed after him. And uh this is the kind of thing that infuriated the Pharisees, right? Infuriated the Pharisees because they couldn't imagine that anybody considered righteous would have anything to do with people like this. What in the world are you doing picking him? If you're really righteous, you wouldn't be hanging around with guys like this, tax collectors. Anybody that's considered righteous would uh be around righteous people, right? If you're in Matthew chapter 9, so look down at verse 10. It says, Then it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners? Like, we can't understand this. Can't understand it. And Christ goes on to say in uh verse 12, but when Jesus heard this, he said, it is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners. These are the kind of people that I'm I'm interested in. I'm interested in the in the sinners. Interested in them. These are the kind of people that I want. And uh when Jesus uh later said to the Pharisees, uh He said something else that was exactly right. He says, Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. Because this these people know they need it. Cruise and processes they know they need help. You know there's a bunch of religious people walking around that they don't think they need anything So Jesus came to call people like Matthew, call people like Matthew to himself. But in addition to this uh kind of internal evidence of uh Matthew, speaking of himself as a tax collector, there's external uh evidence as well. Uh the witness of the early churches that Matthew wrote this This gospel, all the patristic fathers agree that Matthew wrote the first gospel. Irenaeus, he says Matthew issued a written gospel among the Hebrews, and that his gospel was written for the Jews. Origin says that Matthew wrote for the Hebrew. Eusebius says Matthew delivered his gospel to his countrymen. And Papias suggests the same thing, even suggesting that he might have even written first in the Hebrew dialect. And uh the focus of the Gospel of Matthew is uh really to the Jew first and then to the Greek. To the to the Jew first. And uh this fits well with what we know of all the the things that the the fathers, the patristic fathers say about um about uh uh Matthew and his writing is is true of the the book of of Matthew. Matthew understands that Christianity was uh first Jewish and that a a bridge had to be provided between the two testaments, between the Old and the New Testament, and and Matthew fits that that bridge. Uh right sometime during uh AD 50 to AD 70 and during a time when the church is still trying to come to grips with what is my relationship like with the synagogue? I mean, think about it. This is first century Christianity. You know, the the the first Christians were all Jews. So now they're trying to figure out, well, what does this all mean? This is a brand new Well how how do we understand this? And the believing and non-believing Jews alike would be wondering, if Jesus is the Messiah of Israel, then where is the kingdom? Where's the kingdom then? How did Jesus fulfill the Old Testament prophecies concerning the Messiah? I mean, there's a lot of Old Testament prophecy about Messiah. How did Jesus in this short 33 -year lifespan fulfill all these prophecies that the scriptures tell about him? How do we explain the presence of Gentiles in the church? I thought this was a Jewish thing, right? How do we explain the presence of all these Gentiles coming in? And what's God's program for Israel now that the Messiah's been rejected I mean they they knew they rejected him. They crucified him, they put them on a cross. So it's like, well, what's God's program for the Jewish people now? That we've rejected the Messiah. And these are the questions that Matthew answers for us. This is the gospel that proves that Jesus was the Messiah. that was expected, he was expected Messiah, and it goes on to explain that the program of God, now that the Messiah was already rejected, the Messiah was already rejected and now he's ascended. It explains what's the program of God for us now. You know, after the Messiah's already gone uh uh to be at the right hand of the the Father. Uh the basic structure of the entire book could really be built around uh the idea of the presentation, the rejection. uh of the of the messiah. MacArthur called it the uh the Messiah revealed, the Messiah rejected, and the Messiah returning. It could really be built around around that, the the rejection of of the Messiah. And throughout the book of Matthew, Jesus reveals himself as the king that was to come. Jesus is the king that was to come in the book of Matthew. First of all, you have the king. uh revealed. The king is revealed first of all in his genealogy, and we'll take a look at that in a minute. He's revealed as the Christ, the son of David, which is a messianic title pointing to himself as the coming Messiah. There was no hesitation at all on the part of the Pharisees when Jesus asked this question in Matthew chapter 22 and verse 42. Jesus asks this question. He says, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? Immediate answer. What's their immediate answer? He's the son of David. Son of David. It's the messianic title. We know who the Christ is. He's the son of David. According to 2 Samuel 7, the Messiah was to be the Son of David, and Jesus is revealed as the Son of David in this genealogy Jesus was also revealed as the Messiah by his words. The message that he gave is called the gospel of the kingdom or the words of the kingdom. Both in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 9 verse 35 and chapter 4 verse 23 and 9 verse 35 , it says that Jesus was going through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. Jesus' words were filled with the message of the kingdom. In Matthew chapter 13, 19, it says that his message is the word of the kingdom Jesus also is revealed as the Messiah through his works. Through his works. Jesus healed every disease and sickness among the people. If you flip over to Matthew chapter 12, Matthew chapter 12, look at verse 22. Because the crowd started to understand exactly what the works of Christ were saying about himself Look at verse 22. It says, Then a demon possessed man who was blind and mute was brought to Jesus, and he healed him, so that the mute man spoke and saw. All the crowds were amazed and were saying, this cannot be the son of David, can he? They knew exactly what they were saying. This is the Messiah. I mean who who else is going to do more works than than this guy can do? Of course this is the Messiah. But what we also find right on the hills of this is that the Messiah is also rejected. Also rejected. Look at verse 24 But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, This man cast out demons only by Beeldebol, the ruler of the demons. We say, what? After all that you see, I mean this is your conclusion. This is your conclusion. He cast out demons by the work of the prince of demons. And knowing their fellows, Jesus said to them, Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste. Any city or house divided against itself will not stand. If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? If I by be else about cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason they will be your judges. But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, look at this, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. The kingdom of God has come upon you. It's here. Are you willing to accept it? It's here. Why is it here? Because the king is here. Are you going to accept this kind of kingdom? Just a little while later, like I said, Jesus continued to speak about his rejection. Continued to speak about if you flip over to Matthew chapter 16. Matthew chapter 16. It's interesting in verse uh let's look at verse uh 15 in uh Matthew chapter 16 He's talking to his disciples here. Verse 15, he said to them, But who do you say that I am? He's he's already asked, you know, what do the the people who do the people say that I am? You know, some are saying Elijah, one of the prophets, John the Baptist. He says, but but who do you say that I am? Answered, You are the Christ. Messianic title, right? The Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. You know, and here Peter's patting himself on the back. This is great, I got it. Right? He's the Messiah. I know it. I got the answer right. I mean we're the disciples are finally putting this all together. Jesus is the coming Messiah. I mean, we get it He's the King. He's the Christ. And then look what he says in verse twenty-one. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised up on the third day. And they're like, What? I mean we're we're just getting used to the idea of you being the Messiah, right? I mean you're the king, you're the one that was expected. I mean we we get it now. And the first thing he says is, yeah, well I'm gonna be rejected, I'm gonna die on a cross. Here you the the disciples just scratching their their heads. It's like, you know, it's it's it's a it's like you know that that uh you know whiplash, right? Quick jerk around. It doesn't make sense. Why would the Messiah be rejected? But throughout the gospel, there's this like surprise after surprise You know, Jesus is is the stone that the builders rejected. You know, the the very one they needed is the one that they rejected. Until finally, even at the cross, Jesus cries out in Matthew chapter 27, 46, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus is forsaken by everybody. Rejected. But then finally you have the king returning as well. And Maranath to come Lord Jesus. Amen. And this is where where all the pieces that seem to be missing finally come together with uh Jesus uh returning and and this is the explanation that would have brought clarity to the Jews in Matthew's day that are trying to find out, you know, how how does this all work? You know, this this Messiah who's supposed to fulfill all these promises and bring the kingdom and everything else. I mean, how is all this going to work? It it doesn't seem like Jesus' years on earth fulfilled everything that we expected him to And uh even though the work of redemption was complete while he was on earth, that the program's not complete. There's more to come. And uh Matthew, more than any other gospel, fills us in with the The rest of the program in Matthew 16, 27, for the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and will then repay every man according to his deeds. But he says, When I come back, then I will repay every man according to his deeds. Chapter 19, verse 28. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me in the regeneration when the Son of Man When the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, he shall also sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And that's not a reference to the church. This is talking about Israel, the twelve tribes of Israel. Would have been understand as a reference to Israel. And he says that there's going to come a time in the future where I'll sit on my glorious throne and you shall judge the twelve tribes. This is what they're expecting the first time, remember? You know, uh James and John, can I sit on the right and left when you s get into your kingdom? You know, when you set everything up, can I get on the right and left? He said uh you know, that's not for for for me to give you right now. You know, it's not for me to decide that. But this is coming at a later time. I mean their expected expectation was right. They were just in the in the wrong time frame. Matthew chapter 25, 31, but when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. So uh you have all the statements that talk about Jesus coming in in power, Matthew 26, 64. Jesus said to him, This is during his trial, he's speaking to the high priest. You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you hereafter, you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. There's a time when when this will happen and uh there would have been no way to convince the Jews that Jesus was in fact the Christ if there was no second coming. There's no way they could have convinced them that that this is the Christ. And all the Messianic promises are fulfilled, you know, currently. There would have been no way for them to convince them of that unless there was a second coming There's a proper expectation of the prophecies to be fulfilled, and Jesus will fulfill every one of them. So those are just some of the things that we have to look forward to. uh and the the rest of of Matthew during our time together. Uh but if Jesus is to be recognized as the Messiah you have to begin at the beginning. So let's go back to Matthew chapter 1. This is where we have to begin. Let's uh start again at verse 1. The record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Perez and Zarebi Tamar. Perez was the father of Hezron and Hezron the father of Ram Ram was the father of Aminadab, Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan the father of Solomon. Solomon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz. was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David the king. David was the father of Solomon by Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah Solomon was the father of Rahabom, Rahim the father of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa, Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Isaiah was the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Ammon, and Ammon the father of Josiah. Josiah became the father of Zekaniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. After the deportation of Babylon, Jechaniah became the father of Sheeltiel and Sheeltiel, the father of Zerubabel, Zerubbabel was the father of Abbehud Abahud the father of Eliakim, Eliakim the father of Azor, Azor the father of Zadak, Zadak the father of Achim, Achim the father of Eliad, Eliad was the fat Mathon and Mathon the father of Jacob. Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who was called the Messiah. And I know you guys were just thoroughly blessed by my reading of all those names. As evangelicals, we believe that all scripture is what? Right. And what? Profitable. That was a a profitable list. And uh We don't really get excited about genealogies , but it hasn't been that way for all people in all cultures throughout history. It's been said that the culture that is the least concerned with ancestry is our own. The culture that's least concerned with ancestry is probably our own. One thing that uh genealogies remind us about is that we're talking about real people and real history. R. C. Sprohl recounts the story of how a missionary with Wycliffe translators was working on a translation of the book of Matthew. To give the people the Bible in their own language, she wanted to expedite it. So when she was translating through the book of Matthew, she just skipped over the genealogy and said, you know, let me just get right to the heart of the gospel message and just kind of went right into it. And after she gave this work to these people, after ten years of working on it, she was crushed to find out that they didn't really seem interested in the book. You know, so here she 's worked for ten years on the book of Matthew, you know, translating, and she finally gives it to the people, and nobody seems interested to read it. But uh, you know, she kept on you know pursuing and uh came out with the second edition. In the second edition, she included the genealogy And the chief of this tribe said, are you trying to say that this Jesus you've been telling us about for 10 years is a real person? And she said, Yeah, of course. He is a real person. He didn't understand it until there was a genealogy. Until there was a genealogy. Where did he come from? And once he understood that Christ was a real person Real space, real time. The chiefs shortly came to Christ, and soonly thereafter the whole tribe came to Christ. Genealogies are important. Genealogies are profitable. But not only does uh genealogy show us that Jesus Christ is a real person in space and time, it also reveals uh some important things about the Messiah, okay? It reveals that Jesus is the Abrahamic Messiah, verses 1 and 2. Reveals that Jesus is the universal Messiah, verses 3 to 5, and really carries on in verse 6. And then it also reveals that Jesus is the Davidic Messiah. First of all, it reveals that Jesus is the Abrahamic Messiah. Look at verses 1 and 2 again. The record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah, and his brothers. As I stated earlier, Matthew recognizes that Christianity was initially Jewish in its roots, and even the first verse would have connected us back to a rich history. uh from the old old testament. Uh when Matthew mentions the the record of the genealogy, he uses the word uh Biblas Genesteos. Ganisteos. It would have reminded the readers of a similar statement found in the Pentateuch. Biblos was the word for a book, a record. Uh the the word uh Genes, uh it was it's actually the um the the root word of that is is Genesis. Genesis So what it would would have reminded these readers about, these two words together, Bibliost Genesis, would have actually pointed them back to the book of Genesis And uh there's two places where uh those two words are are found in uh Genesis chapter uh two verse verse four. Uh talks about the the uh uh generations of the heaven and the earth, the heavens and the earth And in chapter 5, verse 1, it talks about the the generations of of Adam, you know, the beginnings of uh of Adam, the beginnings of the of the earth, and what it would have uh alerted these people to who read this first gospel Is that this is a new beginning, okay? This is a new beginning. The word book or record, uh, like I said, it's a normal word for book, but can also refer to the opening section of a book and particularly a genealogy The word for uh uh uh uh the uh the genealogy or Genesis, it would have informed these readers that uh uh this begins the story of the Messiah. And uh beyond that, like I said, it would have reminded them that this is a new beginning as well. And everything that Matthew does here is is is so purposeful. It's so purposeful, even down to the choice of uh the order of his words. It's purposeful. Um and I mean just just think about it. If if you look at uh verse one again, the record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Does anything seem like it didn't need to be said? If you say that Jesus is the son of David, why do you have to say that he's the son of Abraham, right? I mean obviously he's a son of Abraham. Why why say both? Son of David, son of son of Abraham. It seems superfluous. That was like like my first thought. You know, doesn't saying you know Jesus is the son of David kind of cover it You know, why do you have to say the the other, that he's the son of of Abraham? But this this book, what Matthew's trying to do is to convey that Jesus is the Jewish Messiah, okay? And uh there would have been no way to draw a tighter connection other than to bring him right back to the father of the race, right? The father of the Jewish people. Uh so he he ties in this this connection between Jesus and Abraham. So there's no need to go back to Adam to show that he's the original or the second Adam. There's no need to go back to that to show that he's tied into the father of the human race. He wants to show that he's connected to the father of the nation Israel So he mentions Abraham as as well. The other question I had is, aren't the names backwards? Son of son of David, son of Abraham. You know, it's it's flipped. You know, Abraham came before David. But the the the order is even purposeful. Because the first thing that uh Matthew uh wants to point us to is that Jesus is the king. Jesus is the king. So he places David's name first. Why? Because David was the king To show that that Jesus is this is this kingly uh Messiah. So he he points to to David first. Uh like I said, and that's all in the first verse. You know, just kind of paying attention to how like Matthew uh constructs things in the in the book of Matthew. And then the verse 2, it picks up with uh Abraham and retraces a familiar and well-worn path for the Jews. Um, you know, uh Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, Jacob the father of Judah. And his brothers. I remember a Jewish uh convert who's actually an apologist. Uh he came to uh the master's seminary to speak for a chapel for us. And uh he said when he was finally convinced to read the New Testament, somebody gave him the book of Matthew. And as he's reading, he's getting to the first few verses and he says, hey. These are my people here. You know, he's kind of expecting this to be this to be a Gentile book, and as soon as he starts reading it, you know, New Testament, the first thing he says, hey, this is these are my people You know, so he's interested in and he became a believer after reading through the the gospel of uh of Matthew. Well what you have here is is uh Uh like I said, it's a well worn uh path uh for the for the the Jews. Why don't you turn back to to Genesis chapter twelve for a minute Back to Genesis 12. Because this kind of goes back to the beginning of the nation of Israel. Genesis chapter 12. And what we find here is that the uh this there's there's a promise that was given to to Abraham. This is why why uh Abraham's name was significant. Like I said, he started the uh um the Jewish nation, but there was a a promise that was given to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12. Look at verse 1. It says, Now the Lord said to Abram , Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you, and I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you. And make your name great, and so you shall be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse, and and you all the families of the earth will be blessed. And there's uh you know basically three things that are promised To Abram here, he's promised a land, he's promised seed, and he's promised a blessing, right? He's gonna be blessed, and he's gonna be a blessing to others. Land. seed and and blessing. And this is the first time we find this promise given to Abram. Flip over to chapter 13, the next chapter there, verses 14 to 18. Basically says the same thing. It says the Lord said to Abram after Lot had separated from him, Now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward. For all the land which you see I will give it to you and to your descendants forever. I'll make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if anyone can number the dust of the earth, then your descendants can also be numbered. Arise, walk about the land through its length and breadth, for I will give it to you Then Abram moved to ten and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and there he built an altar to the Lord. Flip over two more chapters over into chapter fifteen. And we could read the whole chapter here, but uh I'll just point you to verse 18. It says, uh, on that day, the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land from the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates And uh in chapter 15 we actually have uh what what Paul refers back to in uh Romans chapter 4, he refers back to this chapter. As the uh the pivotal point when uh Abraham actually was justified. If you uh you look at uh chapter 15 and verse 6, it says, Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. And God makes a covenant with Abram. Abram, as he's called it at this time, he makes a covenant with Abram. Literally, it's to cut a covenant with Abram. And what's significant about the Lord cutting this covenant with Abram at this time is that when the Lord makes this promise, this solemn uh promise to Abram, Abraham is in a deep sleep. He's in a deep sleep when it happens. And the Lord makes the covenant by himself. It's a unilateral covenant. Nobody else is involved. This is the Lord making the promise. by himself, guaranteeing that everything that he says is going to come to pass. And amazingly, even after periods of Israel's disobedience, this promise continues to be referred to. Flip over to Jeremiah chapter 33. Jeremiah chapter 33 After periods of uh disobedience when many people believe the promise is long lost. God reaffirms his commitment to Israel. Look at uh Jeremiah 33 and verse 25 It says, Thus says the Lord, if my covenant for day and night stand not, and the fixed patterns of heaven and earth I have not established. Then I will would reject the descendants of Jacob and David my servant, not taking from his descendants rulers over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but I will restore their fortunes and I will have mercy on them. This is after Israel's been disobedient. This is after the conquest of Joshua. You know, many people think that, hey, that's when all the promises were fulfilled. This is after that. Where God is still talking about this covenant that I made with with Abraham. It's still it's still intact. It's still intact. And if The day and night cease or the fixed patterns that I have for the heaven and the earth cease, you know, then I'll forget about this covenant. But but as far as we know, the the the the sun's still coming up tomorrow, right? The sun will come out tomorrow. It's coming out tomorrow. God is still concerned about his promise. In Romans chapter 11, verse 29 it says, For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. In the context it talks about Israel. So what God's promised in Abraham has found and will find its fulfillment in the Messiah, Jesus Christ, the Son of the Messiah of Abraham. He's the Abrahamic Messiah. Second thing. Back in uh Matthew. Matthew chapter one again. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, Peres was the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram, Ram was the father of Aminadab, Aminadab the father of Nashan, and Nashan the father of Solomon, Solom was the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth and Obed The father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David, the king. And the second thing that we learn in this genealogy here is that not only was Jesus the Abrahamic Messiah, Jesus is also the universal Messiah. And I'll I'll tell you why why I say that. Again, Matthew is uh just masterful in the way that he makes his points. He's just just masterful in this. Because on the surface, this may just seem like any other genealogy. It's just a list of names, right? What can you really get out of a list of names? But this genealogy would have struck the people who read it, the Jewish people, as odd. Something strange is going on here in this genealogy. Something strange is going on here. For the Jew reading this, there would have been like these neon lights like just blinking Something is it's drawing my attention in. First of all, uh this list is similar uh to what we find in other genealogies in uh 1 Chronicles 1 to 3, uh chapter uh 1 Chronicles chapters 1 to 3 And Ruth chapter 4, we find some of these same names listed. But what would have struck the people who read this as totally foreign is that, first of all, there's four ladies mentioned. Four ladies are mentioned in this genealogy. Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba. First, it it's unusual to mention ladies in a genealogy. Okay? It's unusual to mention ladies. Not that they were never named. But it would have been unusual to have this many in a genealogy. That would have been been strange. Ancient Middle Eastern genealogy , one ancient Middle Eastern genealogy began in this way, let us now praise famous men. And then they started with their genealogy. It was ah to have women included in a genealogy. They're expected to be lists of men. If you compare this with uh the genealogy in Luke, it's only men over in Luke. When they're looking at it in Matthew, it's like, what gives? Why why are these four ladies mentioned? So that would have been the first thing that was strange. Four ladies are mentioned. Second thing that would have been strange, in addition to that, these are Ladies, these are also not the ladies that you would expect to find in this genealogy. There's four ladies that are most often found and kind of singled out, like in the Old Testament. Those ladies would have been Sarah. the wife of Abraham, Rebekah, the wife of Isaac, and Rachel and Leah, the wives of Jacob. Those would have been the four ladies that would have been Expected. If there's gonna be ladies, at least let them be those four ladies. Those four ladies represent us. You know, kind of tied in with the Jewish ancestry What's going on with with this list? What's going on with these ladies? Why are these ladies? Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba, really? Why why in this list? What's even more shocking is that at least three out of the four ladies mentioned were Gentiles. Gentiles mentioned. Tamar, according to an ancient Jewish work known as Jubilees, was an Aramean. Not a Israelite. Rahab was from the Canaanite city of Jericho. Joshua chapter 2. Ruth was a Moabitus And according to Deuteronomy chapter 23, verse 3, no Ammonite or Moabite shall enter the assembly of the Lord. None of their descendants, even to the tenth generation, shall ever enter the assembly of the Lord. But here you have Ruth in here. She's a Moabitus. Bathsheba was married to Uriah the Hittite. Not the Israelite, Uriah the Hittite, and she may have been a Hittite as well. Four ladies mentioned and they might have all been Gentiles in the lineage of the Messiah. Not even the worst of it. Not even the worst of it. At least three out of the four ladies have a pretty checkered past. Look at Genesis chapter 38. Genesis chapter uh thirty-eight. According to Genesis thirty-eight, uh Tamar was married to the oldest of three brothers. Her husband dies, leaves her childless. And the custom at the time was that uh when a woman's husband died without leaving her a child and the deceased husband had a brother, that that brother would marry that widow. The family was expected to marry that brother away to that widow. The practice was called the Leverite marriage. It was described in Deuteronomy chapter 25, verses 5 to 10. This marriage was a practical way to support the widow , preserve the brother's line, preserve the brother's inheritance. Tamara marries the second brother, and this second brother also dies. Under some unfortunate circumstances that we won't get into right now. Second brother also dies. The third brother is too young to marry. There's three brothers, okay? The third brother's too young to marry, and Judah promises Tamar, you know, when he gets old enough, you know, we'll we'll send him to you. So here you have Tamar, she's waiting, she's waiting, she's waiting, right? The brother's old enough and she's still waiting. So uh Tamar comes up with the with the plan. Look at uh Genesis uh chapter 38, verses uh look at verse 12. It says, now after a considerable time, Shewa's daughter, the wife of Judah, died. When the time of mourning was ended, Judah went up to his sheep shearers at Timnah. He and his friend Hera, the Adulamite, it was told to Tamar, Behold your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep, so she knew what path Judah would be walking along. So she removed her widow's garments, covered herself with a veil, wrapped herself, sat in the gateway of Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah, for she saw that Sheila had grown up, and she had not been given to him as a wife When Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot, for she had covered her face. So he turned aside to her by the road and said, Here now let me come into you For he did not know that she was his daughter in law. And she says, What will you give me that you may come into me? He said, Therefore I will send you a young goat from the flock. She said, Moreover, will you give a pledge until you send it He said, What pledge shall I give you? And he said, uh, your seal and your cord and your staff that is in your hand. So he gave them to her and went into her, and she conceived by him. Two kids came out of that. One of the kids was in the line of the Messiah. Perez and Zera were born of immoral and an incestuous relationship. Out of wedlock. I mean out of wedlock is one thing. Incest and you know what she was doing is like totally like off the charts, right? How did she end up in the messianic land? Why on this list? Like these are the things that the Jews want to forget about. You know, not put in blazing colors, you know, in the line of the Messiah. Rahab. We know who Rahab was, Joshua chapter 2. Two spies found her, she was a harlot. Ruth escapes the snare of uh immorality, but uh there might have been a little bit of suspicion about her laying next to Boaz all night. Uncovering his feet. And Matthew doesn't even mention Bathsheba by name if you if you were to flip back to to Matthew. In the Greek it it actually doesn't mention Bathsheba's name. It all it says is is uh literally it says her from Uriah. It doesn't even mention Bathsheba 's name. It's like her from Uriah, and you know who I'm talking about. Her from Uriah Those three words would have conjured all kinds of thoughts in the minds of those that read this genealogy. They would have known exactly what he was getting at. Adultery? Murder? Cover-up? They would have known all that. One commentator comments in the Middle East men and women were exceptionally modest about exposing their bodies, but in this particular story in 2 Samuel 11 through 12 Bathsheba waited until her Hittite soldier husband was away fighting for Israel. Then she decided to take a bath in front of an open window facing the palace. No self-respecting woman in any culture would do such a thing. And actually when archaeologists went back into David's Jerusalem, they found that you know actually where his temple were uh not the temple but the palace would have stood, you know, the uh the old city of Jerusalem would have been like twelve to fifteen acres. And would have been overcrowded. Archaeologists in Jerusalem have found a large stone structure from the time of David that may be his palace, regardless of whether the building discovered was the actual residence. The space between the palace and Bathsheba 's house could hardly have been more than twenty feet. Bathsheba knew what she was doing. And it did with the murder of her husband. So why these names? Why call attention to these names? I'll give you two two reasons. Two reasons why. Two reasons why I think these names were were highlighted. At the end of this list you'll find another woman that's mentioned. Name's Mary, right? Lowly peasant girl didn't do anything wrong. She accepted this conception, you know, from the Lord. A miracle from God? It would have been hard to imagine that the people in her community wouldn't have uh treated her with scorn, right? It's like how how in the world can can you be the mother of Messiah, please? Not with your kind of reputation. Not with the suspicion that's surrounding your life. We don't know where this baby came from. When she received the message from the angel, she responded quietly, you know, let it be according to your word. Luke chapter 1, right? She humbly accepted a She humbly accepted this gift from the Lord that she knew would bring shame on her life. She knew it would bring shame The eyes of the community would have been cast down on her. She would have even been in danger of being stoned to death as an adulteress. Even though she's committed no wrong, right? Why are women like these mentioned in this list? I I think it's to uh to say, you know, hey, before before you make any quick judgments about Mary, let me remind you about some of the things in Israel's past. Let me remind you about a couple of the women in Israel's past before you say that that God can't use a situation like this. There were uh a lot of uh there was a lot of suspicion around Mary's uh life and um I believe it's in uh John chapter 8, you know, when they were speaking to Jesus, they said, you know, hey, we we weren't born of fornication. Well suspicion around you, Jesus. Who's your real dad? We weren't born of fornication. In the second century, there was a Celsus, a pagan, anti-Christian Greek philosopher, wrote that Jesus' father was a Roman soldier named Panthera. No, no, absolutely not a shred of evidence for this. But they they made up all these stories about Mary. Yeah, Mary, you know, is a little loose. And that's how Jesus came to be. I like what Lensky had to say, a commentator who says, let them occupy themselves with these real saints, attested in the Old Testament history itself, and not slander the pure maiden whom God chose to be the mother of his son. Why don't you deal with the real history instead of trying to attack Mary? Another reason I think that uh we have a list like this is that uh God wants to remind us about the kind of people that Messiah came to save. The kind of people Messiah came to save. He was the savior of men and women. He was the savior of Jews and Gentiles. He was the Savior of saints and sinners. Jesus is the expected Messiah. And the question for us is, you know, how are we doing? How are we doing with reaching out to people with the checkered past? Do we reach out to them like the Messiah did? Are we a friend of sinners? That I want you to keep in mind just in uh in closing is this is uh Matthew chapter one, the intent of Matthew chapter one, the authorial intent. Is to give you confidence in this Jewish Messiah. That Jesus is the real deal. If Jesus couldn't prove himself to be the Messiah, uh don't you think his enemies would have pointed that out? They would have been quick to point that out. I mean they they you know when Jesus says you know you know what do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? Immediately, son of David. If it could be proven that Jesus was really not the son of David, it would have been over. They would have paraded that. They would have put it up on a big screen. Jesus is not the son of David. We found something on him. The truth is that they couldn't find it. They couldn't find it. The story matched up. The lineage matched up. He was the son of David. In ancient times there was actually a public record of genealogies. that was housed at Jerusalem. Actually many believe in the in the temple itself. Josephus, who's uh uh quoted in in uh uh one commentator brought us as this He's writing his own autobiography, okay? And he says, I present the descent of our family as I found it recorded in the public tablets. And to those who try to slander us, I wish much joy. Basically saying, you know, I I found my tablets, I found my genealogy. If you really want to slander me, have a ball. It's there. It's on record. I know where my lineage comes from. Or we're told of a rabbi who was a contemporary of Jesus who proved from a genealogical table at Jerusalem that he was the son of David. He was the son of David, not the son of David, but he was a son of David. He could prove it. There were tables that proved it. There's a pain, uh uh staking process, the priest who resided even outside of Jerusalem in uh Egypt, Babylon, foreign countries. They sent their certificates back to Jerusalem so that everybody could be registered. Marriages, births, families. Even after war, they collect all the documents so they could send it back to Jerusalem because we want to know where we came from. These documents prove where they came from. If it could be proven that Jesus wasn't a son of David, they would have done it. The truth is they couldn't. They couldn't. As much as they wanted to attack Jesus, they didn't have a shred of evidence to prove that he wasn't a son of David. This should give us confidence in who Jesus Christ is. Reading a genealogy like this should give us confidence in who Christ is. And uh another thing, on the other hand, all this change at the present day Jewish records have long since completely perished. No Jew could prove himself a descendant of David if he were to claim to be the Messiah today. The time for Messiah and proving that you're the Messiah is over. Nobody can prove that they're a son of David today, because the records don't exist. Jesus Christ is the Messiah that he claimed to be, and we should have confidence in him. He's a gracious Messiah, isn't he? Because he's just like he chose people like Matthew Tax Collector and the four women that showed up on his on this genealogy, uh if you're a believer today, he's chosen you. You've got something to be thankful about. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for uh the time that we've been able to spend in your word. Uh we pray that uh you, Lord, uh, would uh uh just Allow our hearts to rejoice in who you are, who have you declared yourself to be. Jesus Christ is the Messiah. He's the one that was revealed He's the one that was rejected, and he's also the one that's returning. And we say with the Apostle John, even quickly come, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.