The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, I'm going to do something that uh I think I might have only done maybe once Maybe possibly twice in uh in my time as a as a pastor, I'm going to switch the message that I have for this morning. I had a another message that I brought with me in the book of Romans, but uh just after considering how many conversations I've had about uh the events of this upcoming week, I think something's happening this week. After having so many conversations about the upcoming election, I thought I'd switch the message and uh we're going to look at the book of Titus. So take your Bibles and open up to the book of Titus, Titus chapter 3. Titus chapter 3. What we find in the book of Titus is uh uh Titus is an apostolic uh delegate of the Apostle Paul. And Paul is giving him instructions for how he should lead the church, how he should shepherd the church. There's instruction for the church in chapter one and verse five, and those who are to be leaders over the church. He gives instructions for the home, what we're to do within the home, how to organize our homes in a God-glorifying way He gives instructions about the workplace and what our responsibility is to our masters, those that are in authority over us. And he also gives instruction for society as well. How is the Christian to live in a society, especially in relationship to a government that's over him? How is the Christian to live in relationship to the government? Abraham Kuyper once declared that there's not a square inch in the whole domain of our human existence over which Christ, who is sovereign overall, does not cry mine. Every area of life Jesus Christ is to be Lord over. There's no area of life that He does not have jurisdiction When it comes to the Christians' responsibility to the church, to the home, to the workplace, or even to society, Christ has a word to speak. Christ claims authority. Christ claims ownership. And when Paul speaks about the rulers and authorities in chapter 3 and verse 1, he's referring to human government. And even though human governments are corrupt and the authority that they have, the authority that they have is still real, it's been given to them by God. Over in John chapter 19, verses 9 to 11, we have uh Jesus who stands before Pilate in the praetorium. Uh and when Pilate asked, Where are you from? Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, You do not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and I have authority to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no authority over me unless it had been given you from above. For this reason, he who delivered me to you has the greater sin. Jesus acknowledged Pilate's authority, but he did not recognize any ultimate authority in Pilate And even the authority that Pilate had was underneath his own authority. Now, Paul actually speaks about the authority of government over in Romans chapter 13. Every person, it says in verse 1, is to be s in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are established by God. Therefore, whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves. So human government has authority, has real authority, but what we discover in the scriptures is that their authority is not the ultimate authority. And we could have concluded that just by the fact that their authority was given to them by God. You know, if God is giving them their authority, then obviously they're not the ultimate authority. They had to receive it from God. So Jesus recognizes authority in government, and also the other authors of Scripture recognize that authority. But that authority. Is limited. The authority of government is limited. And that's why when the lower authority contradicts the higher authority, We go with the higher authority. Right? That's why when Peter and John stood before the Jewish court who commanded that they not preach in the name of Jesus, Acts chapter 4 and verse 19, it says, Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. For we cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard. Then again in Acts chapter 5, verses 27 to 29, they were reminded about the court's decision to prohibit preaching in Jesus' name. It says when they had brought them, they stood them before the council, and the high priest questioned them, saying, We gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name. And yet you fill Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man's blood upon us And Peter and the apostles answered, we must obey God rather than men. But the question comes up, what if we can prove that our government has a distinctly anti -God agenda? Should we subject ourselves to that? And I think that would be pretty easy to prove when you have at a at a rally somebody crying out, Jesus is Lord, and somebody says, I think you're at the wrong rally. Anti-God agenda. What if our government is foolish and the decisions that it makes, the policies are unwise? Actually putting the country in harm's way, apparently lacking any trace of understanding? What if they demonstrate blatant disobedience and disregard for God's word and God's law? What if they see themselves as above the law? What if they demonstrate that they're being deceived, being led astray because they're listening to small but influential groups of lobbyists What if the counsel that they receive is wrong and doesn't really benefit the people that they're supposed to serve? What if the people in office are slaves to their own lust and pleasures? What if it becomes obvious that they're involved in scandalous lifestyles? Is that a relevant discussion for today? You know, politicians and those running for office in scandalous lifestyles? I mean you hardly want your children to see what's in the newspapers. You know what's being posted? What if the character and the character of the men and women who are in authority over us are corrupt, blinded by their own ambitions, power hungry? What if this is things that these are things that we can prove about those that are in office or running for office? What's our responsibility then? What we find in Titus chapter 3 gives us what our responsibility is. Titus chapter 3, and there's seven aspects of our responsibility toward government given to us here. Shows the rationale behind it, but let me go ahead and read Titus chapter 3, starting at verse 1, and we'll read through verse 8. Titus chapter 3 starting at verse 1. It says, remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good deed, to malign no one, to be peaceable, gentle, showing every consideration for all men. For we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. But when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to His mercy. By the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is a trustworthy statement. And concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently so that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and as we do every Lord's Day asking for your help, Father, we pray that you would open up your word to us. That you would help us to behold wonderful things, Lord, as we read your word. Your word is clear. Your word is authoritative. Your word gives us direction for life Well, so Father, I pray that as we read your words, Lord, that uh you would fill us with uh understanding, and uh Father, that you would also fill us with hope. And so many people that I've talked to just are losing hope. Father, I pray that we would regain focus, Lord, that we would be People, Lord, that are a hopeful people, a people who are a faithful people. Father, that you would uh help us to keep our eyes up. To be expecting the one who is to come from heaven, the true ruler. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen The scripture is uh authoritative in its content, in its communication. It's to be spoken with authority, and uh the convictions that we gain from scripture are to be uh uh followed and and received. And Titus chapter uh three uh brings us an authoritative command uh from the Lord Verse 1, remind them to be subject to rulers and to authorities. Likely this was something that uh Titus had already addressed at uh one point before where maybe Paul had addressed this and he says, hey, re remind them of these things. Remind them. Tell them again. It might have been a question that came up in the island of Crete where Uh Titus was uh ministering and the political uh climate in Crete might be something similar to what we face in our own nation. Uh when Paul spoke of the the Cretans, uh he says that there are always liars, evil beasts, and lazy gluttons. And that would have described the leaders as well. It's not just the people, but this this just describes who's on the island of Crete According to Polybius, an ancient Greek historian, it was almost impossible to find personal conduct more treacherous or public policy more unjust than in Crete. So the local rulers would not have been easy to follow. They might have only been outdone by the Roman Emperor at the time. The book of Titus was written sometime between 62-64 A. D. and the Roman Caesar would have been Nero. And it's hard to imagine a a ruler that was more vile and cruel than the character of Nero. He died at the age of thirty-one, and even the Roman citizens during that time after he died ran through the streets rejoicing that he had died. He persecuted Christians. He practiced every kind of obscenity. He invited, he invented new ways to defile himself and to defile others. There are things that he did that are so sickening that uh we couldn't even mention them here in public. Things that only a depraved and a reprobate mind could imagine. And it would be understandable for some of the Christians, some of the believers to be wondering, what what in the world do we do to respond to that? How are we to live underneath an emperor that's That's so defiled on an island where the men are lazy and evil beasts and gluttons. These are clearly degenerate men, defiled, depraved. But Paul gives seven ways that we can respond even to a depraved government. Be obedient, be subject, be ready for good, be mindful of our speech, be peaceable, be gentle, and be considerate. And the imperative here is in the present tense to keep on reminding them to do these things. And until the government commands you to do what God forbids or forbids you to do what God commands Our responsibility is to be subject to government. It doesn't mean that we we agree. It doesn't mean that we don't speak out. It doesn't mean that we don't try to affect change where we can, but it does mean that we have boundaries and limitations as Christians because our kingdom is not of this world. We're in on foreign soil in that sense. Jesus said in John 18, 36, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting. And again, it doesn't mean that you don't speak out to government when the government is wrong. It doesn't mean that you, you know, kind of muzzle yourself when it comes to the truth. But we don't fight against it. And it's true that this world belongs to Christ even right now, but it's not express you know, it's showing itself underneath his dominion There's going to be a time in the future where that will happen. Revelation chapter 11 and verse 15 says, Then the seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. There's coming a time in the future where the kingdom of this world will expressly, visibly , just obviously become the kingdom of our Lord. The kingdom of his Christ, and it says, He will reign forever and ever. We look forward to that time when Christ returns, but that time is not now And our king has given his subjects orders about how we're to live until he returns. And how are we to live? Number one. To be subject. It's a familiar word. It's the same word that shows up in the context of wives being subject to their husbands in chapter 2 and verse 5. It's the same word that's used for slaves being subject to masters in chapter 2, verse 9. Then it shows up again in chapter 3 in verse 1. It's a word that was used in uh uh a military uh context for falling in rank, falling in line. To submit yourself to authority, to come underneath the authority of another. And like I said, the authority that the government has is a limited authority. It's a derived authority, but it's a real authority, and we should respect it. One example of respect and authority was in Acts chapter 23, if you want to just flip back there really quick. Acts chapter 23 This is uh Paul. He's in Jerusalem. He's falsely accused of bringing uh Gentiles into the temple, and there was a riot that started as a result of that. And on the next day the Roman centurion brought him before the Jewish council, and uh before even hearing Paul out , struck him in the mouth. I mean, talk about unjust suffering. Look at Acts chapter 23, look at verse 1. It says Paul, looking intently at the council, said, Brethren, I've lived my life with a perfectly good conscience before God up to this day. The high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike him on the mouth. And Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewash wall. Do you sit to try me according to the law, and in violation of the law order me to be struck? But the bystander said, Do you revile God's high priest? And Paul said, I was not aware, brethren, that he was high priest, for it is written, You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. Paul Subjected himself to this ruling authority. And uh in this context, the uh the high priest was actually underneath the government authority, was given authority by the government. He says, uh, I uh I was unaware. I was not aware, brethren, that he was the high priest, for again the scripture says, for it is written, ye shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. The high priest in this context, again, he had a real authority, and Paul recognized that, even though the high priest was dead wrong. He was wrong, but he still recognized him as an authority over him. So he subjected himself. Subjected himself Number two, we're to be obedient. Be obedient. It says, remind them to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient back in Titus chapter 3 and verse 1 And uh obedience is implied in the word submission, but it's spelled out explicitly that it means that we obey authority. Uh no exception is given to that. Uh have rulers that defied God, even rulers that defied God, but it was still not uh to be uh uh uh allowable for for those that were underneath them as Christians to uh disregard their authority. It was obvious in the culture where emperors were uh believing themselves even to be gods, that they were defying the Lord who was over them. Actually, remember over in uh Acts chapter 12, Herod, he addressed the crowds in uh Caesarea, and they kept crying out, the voice of a God and not of a man. That was something that was common. It was obvious that these rulers defied God. They accepted the praise that was to go to God alone. But this was not to be an excuse not to obey them. It was not if the ruler defied God that that means that I defy him. You know, they're still supposed to be subject to those who are over them. Number three, they're to be ready to do good. Be obedient and to be ready for every good deed. And this actually brings us to one of the main themes in Titus, good works. It's uh mentioned throughout the book of Titus Uh good works are an evidence of faith. It's the one of the ways that our faith is proclaimed and in the context here good works is towards the government or society as a whole. Have have you ever thought about uh doing good to your government You know, seeking ways to do good. I mean, that's the context of this this command. And there 's three circles in which uh people were instructed to do good. I mean, first of all, you do good within your your family. You know, first Timothy five eight, you know, if anyone does not provide for his own, especially for those of his household, he's denied the faith, is worse than an unbeliever. You know, you look to do good to your your family, you know, to provide for your household. You know, even uh those that were were older parents, you're supposed to care for it for them. Physical needs to to care for that. And Uh you're not to go directly, you know, uh directly to the to the government to to do that for you. You know, we're supposed to be doing that, it's our responsibility. Second circle of doing good is in the church. You know, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10 says, so then while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially those who are of the household of faith. And that that's the kind of um uh you know context for for doing good, the outpouring of love in the first century where people even sold their property to make sure that Those within the church had their needs being met. In Acts 245, they began selling their property and possessions and were sharing them with all as anyone who might have need. And the third circle is towards those in the society, where to do good in the society as well. I recently remember uh talking to to one uh pastor in in baltimore and he told me that the the areas with the with the greatest need in baltimore are the places with the most churches. Many of the churches were even given money at one time. There's one time churches were given money, you know, by uh uh the the city in Baltimore uh to try to help out with needs. And they found out later as they started trying to trace out, you know, where did all the money go, that the money never made it to the community. That shouldn't be the case. You know, not not with the with the church, right? We're to do good, we're to seek to do good, we're to look for opportunities to do good, you know, for for the society and even working with government where we can uh to do good for society. We're to be subject, to be obedient, we're to be ready for good. Number four, we're to be mindful of our speech. Mindful of our speech. Look at verse 2. To malign no one. To malign no one. And I think this is an area where many of us as Christians fail to test, right? To malign no one, which the from the word blasphemet'o, to speak evil of. It's a word that means to slander, to defame, to insult, to injure the reputation of, to abuse with your speech. We get the word blasphemy from this word. And again, does that mean that we don't speak out against rulers? No. John the Baptist clearly spoke out against Herod, the ruler of Judea, when he said in Mark 6, 18, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. That that's speaking up to government. It's pointing out the the sins. So it's not that we don't point out sins. Does it mean that we always speak with with soft and timid words when leaders oppose the the will and the work of God? Is that what that means? It's not what Jesus did. When Herod wanted to kill Jesus, Jesus said in reply to Herod, Luke 13, 32, he said to them, go and tell that fox. Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I reach my goal. You know, so it doesn't mean that we speak in soft and timid words. But it does mean that we don't loosely throw around insults, put-downs, slanderous speech about leaders. We show them respect whether we agree with them or not. We agree with them or not. And that goes for every elected official. And again, that doesn't mean that we don't speak out, that we don't disagree, uh, that we're, you know, soft with all of our words, but it does mean that we're not looking to blaspheme, to slander. You know, to put down. And again, think about the context that they're living in. Nero is the emperor. And now he tells them, don't blaspheme him. It's like if anybody should have been blasphemed, it should have been Nero. But the command from the Lord is don't blaspheme, don't malign, don't malign anyone. It goes for every elected official. Some of the public comments that we hear from Christians are embarrassing. You know, look on uh social media. Some of what we post is embarrassing. It shouldn't be said from Christians. Number five were to be peaceable. Literally, this means not a fighter, not contentious. It's a word that was used for physical combat, especially military combat. It was a word that was used for quarreling in the Greek translation of the Old Testament. It was used for the quarrelsome wife in Proverbs 21, 9, where it says it is better to live in a corner of a roof than in a house shared with a contentious woman. You know, and some people might want to want to build a roof, you know, just get a ladder up to the roof. But it's but here here it's used for being contentious, you know, always argumentative. And we don't bless our government by seeking to overthrow it, to undermine it. We're not revolutionaries. Our job is not to seize government power, create a Christian state. First Timothy 2, 1 and 2 tell us tells us what our response should be to government. What does it say? First of all, then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions, and thanksgiving Be made on behalf of all men. When's the last time you thanked God for government? I mean we pray for government all the time and you know pray that the Lord would change this and change that. How many times do we just say, you know what, Lord, I just want to be thankful for where I am? Where I am. How many times have you been thankful? Thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men, for kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. So our our job is not to trouble, to antagonize. We are content to lead a tranquil and quiet life. That's what we want to do as Christians. We don't want to overthrow the rulers. We just want to serve our God in peace. That we may lead a tranquil and quiet life. You know, we we we pray that the the the Lord would would save those that are in government. You know, and and so many times we've made them into the enemy instead of the mission field, right? I mean these are people that need the Lord. They need to be saved They need to be rescued. And we pray that within our nation that the the work of the gospel would continue and And we we we try to affect change in that direction. It's like I we want to continue to do what the Lord has called us to do. And if government can you know give us room and space for that, well praise God. That's what we desire. The Jews were looking for a military conqueror. They were tired of Rome's domination and taxation. Remember the Pharisees thought they had Jesus in a bind when they asked the question over in In Matthew 22, in verse 17, it says, tell us then what do you think? Is it lawful to give a poll tax to Caesar or not? But Jesus perceived their malice and said, Why are you testing me, you hypocrites? You know, basically they were trying to push him into a corner, you know, to say that, no, we we shouldn't support a crooked government. We shouldn't support a government that's unlawful, that's taking dominion over us. We're not under any man. Why should we pay poll tax? Why should we pay taxes to Caesar? Jesus said, show me the coin used for the poll tax. And they brought him a denarius. And he said to them, whose likeness and inscription is this? And they said, Caesar's. Then he said to them, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. Whose image is on this? It's Caesar's image, just give it to him. But whose image is on you? You're in the image of God, right? So you're to give yourself to God. Give Caesar his money, but you give yourself to God We're not here to bring about revolution, but we are here to bring transformation. And as cruel as the government treated the Christians in the first century, The apostles never instructed the Christians to pick up arms to fight against it. They were allowed to protect themselves personally, but they were never to pick up arms against the state. They were to be peaceable And the next two terms speak in much the same way, verse, back in verse uh three again, or verse two, to belign no one, to be peaceable, to be gentle. Again, the word doesn't mean that you don't request your rights, but that you don't fight for your rights. It uses a word, epe case, which means to be yielding, to be gentle, to be kind. Appears in different contexts where it's contrasted with violence and slander. It's the opposite of a malicious and vindictive, cruel spirit, slanderous words, violent actions. One lexicon says that it's not strictness of legal right, but consideration for one another as the rule of practice. It's being satisfied with less than your due. Less than your due, being gentle, which on the surface seems so totally counterproductive. You know, it would seem that if you want to get anything in this world that you have to fight for it. But our Lord's instruction is don't fight. Our kingdom doesn't exist here. And then he also says we're to be considerate, to be considerate. And the language used here for considerate is purposefully broad. The adjective is for all or every is mentioned twice here. for all men, every consideration for all men, similar to the uh the previous word, but uh this word is uh uh really the opposite of like harshness or sharpness This doesn't mean we're we're gentle with false teaching. We already know that. Jesus had harsh words for the Pharisees, but this is the kind of, again, the kind of speech we're to have towards government. We're to be those that are that aren't argumentative, but we're gentle and showing consideration. Showing consideration. Even if the government is foolish in the decisions that they make, policies that are unwise, putting our country in harm's way, not again that we don't speak up, don't affect change. But how are we to respond as Christians? Even if they demonstrate blatant disobedience and disregard for God's word and God's law. You know, advancing uh you know uh what they call reproductive rights and women's rights when it's really the taking away the rights of an unborn child. Even if government is deceived and being led astray because they're listening to influential lobbyists, counsel that they receive is wrong. People see themselves as above the law. Character of the men and women are corrupt. They're power hungry. What's our responsibility? The Lord gives it to us. This is what we're to be. And the Lord also gives us the rationale behind this. Why are we to be this way? Why would I I'd treat government this way, you know, if If they're not the kind of people that are worthy of my respect, why should I treat the government this way if the election doesn't go in the way that I'm hoping for? Why should I treat government this way? Look at verse 3. For we also once were foolish. Before you go too far in your condemnation of anybody, you need to recognize that such were some of you. Such were some of you. Before we go too far in our condemnation of the ills of society and the political system, the Bible reminds us that government is just made up of people who are just like us. Or just like we used to be, we're reminded to take a good look at some of our old photo albums to see who was in there. And it's emphatic here. He says, for we, we. And it could have been understood that You know, uh, you know, maybe Paul wasn't including himself in this, just saying you need to do this, but he says, no, we. I'm included in this. I'm pointing at all of us, it's inescapable. It's like saying, don't make the rulers out to be like this these distant, removed, and personal enemies. They are people just like you and me. And they have sins, present sins, just like our former sins. And that quiets down the protest just a little bit, doesn't it? When you start realizing that these people that I'm protesting against are just like me. Because the enemy is just like us, if it wasn't for the grace of God. That would be us. And that's where we were. Were you ever foolish without understanding? You know, it still uses that that word for uh uh you know the the the mind, you know, kind of like without understanding, it's like mindless ones. It's like that's how we used to be. We used to be foolish, we used to be disobedient We ourselves also once were foolish, disobedient. We didn't always obey the word of the Lord. How long was it before you submitted your life to Christ? How many years did you live underneath the mercy of God? Where he could have struck you down because of your sin But he allowed you to continue under his grace. And it was just as the Jonathan Edwards says, like he's hanging you by the slender thread, slender thread of his mercy over the pit of hell. And it's only his mercy that keeps him from releasing his finger and letting you go. How long did you live in disobedience to the Lord? How long were you deceived? Disobedient, deceived. It's from the Greek word plana, where we get the word planets from. was actually a word that the Greeks would use to talk about the the planets as they kind of shift and move around the place. And he says, and that's the person who's deceived. He's wandering here, he's wandering there. It's like there's There's nothing fixed about his life, he's just all over the place. How many of us were like that? We were also deceived, led astray Just blowing with the wind. You know? People say this and you blow over there, and then people say that and you blow over there. It's like just stand somewhere, would ya? You know, you look at the politicians, it's just like you just can't make like you can't make up your mind until somebody makes it up for you. Just here and there, all over the place. But that used to be us. That used to be us. Anybody ever enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, sinful desires? He uses the word from the Greek word hedonae, you know, where we get our word hedonistic from. Self-pleasure. That describe anybody? Just pleasure, please pleasing ourselves. Spending our lives in malice, envy, hateful, hating one another. And Paul reminds us that this was you and me. This is us, for we also once were. Yes, you can look at them and you can call it out as wrong, and you know it's not again that you're supposed to be silent about that. Call it out as wrong, but just remember that that used to be you That used to be you. That changes the way that you criticize government, doesn't it? If it wasn't for the grace of God, what makes you different than a corrupt politician? If you're saved, it was only the grace of Jesus Christ. It's only the blood of Jesus Christ to cleanse you from your sins. And Paul reminds us that this salvation did not come as a result of our good deeds. How do we receive this grace? Look at verse 4. But when the kindness of God, our Savior And his love for mankind appeared. This is it right here. This is it. Where do we get this from? It's from the kindness of God It's his kindness that we receive this grace. It's a word that was used to refer to acts of kindness demonstrated by a king, a potentate. It's a favorite word of the Greek translation of the Old Testament for concrete acts of God's goodness. It says God was kind to you. The kindness of God and of God our Savior. And just putting it together here, you know, the kindness of God, our Savior, who is it saying that our Savior is? Our Savior is God. The one who came to save us himself is God. It's speaking about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, our Savior, the one who is God. It's by his kindness and his love for mankind appeared. He uses a different word, not the normal word for love. It's not the word agape, but uh philanthropia, where we get our English word uh philanthropy from. Kindness, benevolence, compassion. It's compassionate towards us. The Greeks and Romans were were not ruled by compassionate governors, but here we are ruled by one who is compassionate. Compassionate, kindness, and his love towards us, love towards mankind appeared. And it uses that that word uh epiphany. It was a A word that speaks about the uh the sun kind of coming over the horizon, you know, the just kind of seeing the first light from the sun. It was manifested towards us, and it's in the person of Jesus Christ. He's made his appearance. And this love is not a love that we have a right to. It's a love that's given to us freely, freely bestowed upon us. Verse 5. He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we have done. Not anything that you've done, not any righteousness that you could give to him, but it's according to his mercy. You know that that describes mercy, it's the feeling of pity or compassion. Compassion of somebody in need. It's basically Jesus feeling pity for you. Because of his pity for you, he saved you. It's the word that was used in the story of the Good Samaritan by the you know the the the one who who came across, you know, uh uh uh one who was beaten up and left for dead. And his heart was stirred for him, and he felt compassion towards him. Mercy ceases to be mercy if you're compelled to give it because the person is worthy of it. It's not mercy if you're compelled to it. And what we have is just the free mercy of his goodness towards us. We receive his mercy. And it speaks about this washing of regeneration, you know, this this renewal, this regenerational renewal that we have is as well. And Paul used this word to speak about being born again. This washing of regeneration, that we've been been born again. And the the the washing, some erroneously teach that this is Speaking about uh baptism, but uh we're never uh spoken uh regeneration is never connected uh to baptism. Rather, regeneration is said to be by the Spirit of God and by the Word of God We've been regenerated by His Spirit and by His Word. And He poured out the Holy Spirit out on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior. This is what we've received. This is what we've received from God. And again, if it wasn't for the grace of God, we would be just like the rulers that we criticize. But God had mercy. God had mercy. And now we've been made those who are in the heirs of this hope of eternal life, according to the hope of eternal life in verse 7. So that being justified by His grace, declared righteous by His grace, we would be made heirs. We've got an inheritance that's reserved, stored up for us for all those who believe, as 1 Peter speaks about. This is an inheritance that can't be taken away, and we have the hope of eternal life. He goes on to say that this is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently. These are things that we're to speak about. Because this is the command of our our Lord. Amen? This is the command of the one who's truly in charge. And this is how we're supposed to live. This is how we're to respond even to governments that are foolish, disobedient, deceived, enslaved. Pleasing themselves, spending their life in malice, envy, hateful, and hating one another. So as you think about this week and what our responsibility is, again, we're not saying that you don't Try to affect change where you can. We're not saying that you don't get involved where you can. We're not saying that you don't speak up and that you don't uh uh speak the truth, uh but we are saying that there's a certain way that we're supposed to do that, and we're not supposed to change the the the mission field into the enemy We've we've we've got we've got work to do as a church, don't we? We've got work to do as a church. And uh the scriptures are authoritative to give us all that we need for life and godliness, even in the midst of a crooked and a perverse generation. Amen. Let's go to our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've uh spent together in your word, even considering some of these things briefly. Well Father, I pray that you would uh help us as your people, Lord, that we would be reminded that regardless of what happens in our nation, that our instructions don't change Father, that we have the same command from our Savior, our Lord, as those who lived under corrupt and wicked governments. Even during the first century, Lord, as we think about these things, Lord, it's it's not too far from where we are today. And uh Father, I pray that uh you would help us to respond as uh those on the island of Crete were to respond to the word of the Lord. Father, I pray that you would uh help us, uh Lord, uh, that uh we'd be a people of hope. Oh Father, that we would recognize that there is a kingdom that will last forever. Father, that we're we're still those who are eagerly anticipating and expecting the one to come from heaven. Father, that we're not left without without hope. Father, that we're a hopeful people, but it's because of the gospel that we have hope. So Father, I pray that we would uh be committed to the Great Commission Father, that we would be committed to the spreading of the gospel, that we would be committed to the building up of the church, to caring for our families, to doing good to those around us. Now Father, I pray that as uh people look at at us, as your people, that they would see something different about us. Now, Father, in the in the world there's just so much turmoil and confusion. I pray that people would be able to look to the church and find clarity. There's something different about these people because they they have a they're part of a different kingdom. That they they serve a different master, that they have a different hope than I have. Even as 1 Peter 3 talks about that, the people should be able to come to us and ask us, what is the reason for the hope that's within you? Now, Father, I pray that it would be evident that we have a hope that the world does not have. So, Father, I pray that you'd grow us in this, sanctify us. Help us to submit ourselves to Scripture and all of its commands. And Father, may ye be glorified and honored in our church and for your glory we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.