The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. We love to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh that's what our our design is as a as a body to exalt our head. the the head of the church, Jesus Christ. And that's what we're going to do as we turn to the book of Matthew, which is a book all about our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So why don't you open up your Bibles to the first chapter of Matthew? Matthew's at the beginning of our New Testament and uh as an aside it's always been at the beginning of the New Testament uh for as long as uh church history is known. Matthew's been the first gospel, even in manuscripts where some of the other gospels were placed out of order, Matthew always came first. And it uh really reflected uh the early church's belief that that Matthew was the the first gospel uh to be written. The the universal uh testimony of the early church fathers was that uh Matthew was the first to write a gospel. Uh the idea that Matthew had to borrow from Mark or somebody else in order to to produce his gospel really didn't show up until eighteen years eighteen hundred years into the church uh history. Uh Enlightenment thinkers uh saw the similarities between Matthew and some of the other gospels and tried to come up with some explanation for for why there were were similarities. uh between the the gospels, but the uh the early uh church fathers consistently said that Matthew was the uh the first and uh placed at the head of the the New Testament. So uh really we're we're kind of beginning with the where the church has begun. You know this is the first gospel and uh it's the the first gospel that we're uh going through together as a as a church, the first book uh that we're expositing to together as a church. Matthew, well we'll start at uh chapter 1, uh verse 1. We'll read all the way down to verse 17, but our focus will be verses 6 uh down to the uh uh down to through 17. Uh we'll start at the beginning. So is the record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers. Judah was the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez was the father of Hezron and Hezron the father of Ram. Ram was the father of Aminadab and Aminadab the father of Nashan and Nashan the father of Solomon. Solomon was the father of Boaz by Rahab, Boaz was the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse. Jesse was the father of David, the king. David was the father of Solomon by Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah Solomon was the father of Rehabom, Rehabam the father of Abijah and Abijah the father of Asah. Asah was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Jor Form and Joram the father of Uzziah Uzziah was the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah. Hezekiah was the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Vasaiyan Josiah became the father of Jeconiah and his brothers at the time of the deportation of Babylon. After the deportation of Babylon, Jechaniah became the father of Sheeltiel And Shechel the father of Zerubel. Zerubabel was the father of Abihud, Abbahud the father of Eliakim, Eliakim the father of Azor, Azor was the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, and Ach Eliad was the father of Eliezer, Eliazar the father of Mathan, Mathan the father of Jacob, Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who was called the Messiah. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Messiah, fourteen generations. It's been said that to begin uh a book with a a genealogy seems to be about the the worst way to catch the attention of an audience. Uh That you could possibly imagine it's it's laborious, it's monotonous, you can hardly pronounce some of the names that you come across. And uh for modern readers who immediately want to get to application and figure out what this means to them, this seems so irrelevant to read through a list of names. But if you were in the first century, if you were a Jew in the first century and you were reading this same list of names, this would have captured your attention, piqued your interest, your curiosity? Cause you to sit up in your seat, take notice, and and pay attention to what you were you're reading here. Because for the the ancient Israelites, genealogy established your rights. Genealogy established your rights. Your rights in the kingdom were established by the genealogy. For example, uh a genealog genealogical accuracy uh was important for determining land boundaries. Land boundaries. After the conquering of the land of Canaan, it was essential to determine what tribe you were from, what your heritage was, so that you knew where you were to live. It was determined by your your genealogy. According to to Numbers chapters uh twenty-six, uh chapter thirty-five, you had to know your tribe, you had to know your family, you had to know your fathers, you had to know what house you're of, so that you could identify yourself and be found in the right location. Your your where wherever you live was determined by your genealogy. The priesthood was determined by genealogy. After the the Babylonian captivity, uh people are returning from the their seventy years of captivity in Babylon, they're returning to to Israel. And uh some of these people are passing themselves off as priests. And the the first thing that they want to do is find out, well, what's your genealogy? You know, before you you assume priestly duties, we we we need to know that you're of the right tribe So it was by looking at the the the priesthood, uh at the at the the list, the genealogy that the priesthood was established. In Ezra chapter 2, uh verse 62, it says, These searched among their ancestral registration, but they could not be located. Therefore, they were considered unclean and excluded from the priesthood. If you couldn't prove by your genealogy that you came from the tribe of Levi Sorry, you know, find another job, right? It had to be proven by the the genealogy. And the royal succession of Judah was determined by genealogy. The Davidic house and the Messiah was to be of the house of David. If you couldn't prove that you came from the house of David, you're not the Messiah. You're not the Messiah. So anyone who would come along claiming to be a Messiah, a list like this is exactly what the Jews would have been looking for. This list of of names and uh many of the Jews would have longed to see a list like this Because they long for the Messiah. They're waiting for a deliverer. And I want to help you just to set the historical context a little bit. I found that the history behind this just totally fascinating. We won't have the time to dig into all the details But I at least want to introduce this to you, okay? Just to kind of catch you up to where a first century Jew would have been during this time. Matthew writes his gospel sometime after AD fifty, uh sometime before uh AD seventy And by this point, it would have been over 600 years since Israel had a king. 600 years since Israel had a king in Israel, a Jewish king in Israel. Over 600 years that the Jewish people have been oppressed. They've been dominated by foreign powers. In Jeremiah 52, you can uh turn back there in Jeremiah chapter 52. We come across the the last king of of Israel, a man by the name of uh Zedekiah, and uh in Jeremiah 52. We read this horrific scene that ended his reign under the Babylonian Empire. Jeremiah 52 started verse 1. Listen what it says here. It says Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned 11 years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libna. He did evil in the sight of the Lord, like all that Jehoiakim had done. For through the anger of the Lord this came about in Jerusalem and Judah until he cast them out from his presence, and Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. Now it came about in the ninth year of his reign on the tenth day of the on the tenth day of the tenth month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his army against Jerusalem, camped against it, and built a siege wall around it. So the city was under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. On the ninth day of the fourth month, the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land. Then the city was broken into, and all the men of war fled. All your warriors are running away, right? Men of war fled, went forth from the city at night. By way of the gate between the two walls which was by the king's garden, though the Chaldeans were all around the city, and they went by the way of Arabah. But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him. Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Ribla in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence on him. The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes. And he also slaughtered all the princes of Judah and Riblah. Then he blinded the eyes of Zedekiah, and the king of Babylon bound him with bronze feathers and brought him to Babylon and put him in prison until the day of his death. Now on the tenth day of the fifth month, which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, Nebuzzar Radon, the captain of the bodyguard who was in the service of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. He burned the house of the Lord. The king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem, even every large house, he burned with fire. That was the last king to reign. In Judah. This is the last game. And the last image that Zedekiah ever saw was his sons being slaughtered before him. That was on purpose. The last image that you will ever see is your son's being slaughtered. Then we're pulling your eyes out. So that's I mean that's the last image burned into his memory. Seeing his sons slaughtered. And everything went black after that. Everything went black. And in a way, this was really representative of the Jewish nation as well. Because everything at this point seemed to go black for the Jewish nation. Started with the Babylonians. They lived under captivity to the Babylonians for 70 years. If you remember in Daniel chapter 9, Daniel is observing that the seventy years is coming to a completion and he's praying. He says, O Lord, the great and awesome God, he who keeps his covenant, loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. He's praying, you know, Lord, remember your covenant to your people. Deliver us. The Jews were allowed to return to their land as the Lord promised, but it was still under a foreign power. In uh 539 BC under the Medo-Persian Empire that followed the fall of uh the Babylonian Empire, there was a king by the name of Cyrus Who issued a decree that allowed the Jews to return to Jerusalem? We find about that in uh second Chronicles chapter thirty-six, twenty-two to twenty-three It says now in the first year of Cyrus King of Persia, in order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he sent a proclamation throughout his kingdom. And also put it in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus King of Persia, the Lord the God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has appointed me to build him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may the Lord his God be with him, and let him go up. So uh he says you can go back to your land, but uh guess he's still in charge. Cyrus, I'm I'm the I'm the king of the world, right? It's my kingdom. There was an initial group that returned under Zerubbabel in 538. The initial group uh along with uh uh prophets like Haggai and uh Zechariah, they uh encouraged them to rebuild the temple. The temple was rebuilt. Worship of Israel was restored. Ezra 1-3. But Zerubbabel was not a king. He was a governor. A second group returned under the leadership of Ezra, 458 B. C. This group of people had a great concern for the law of God, its interpretation, and under Ezra the law of Israel was restored, but Ezra was a scribe. He wasn't a king. Finally, we have a third group that returned under the leadership of Nehemiah. Nehemiah was able to restore the walls around the city of Jerusalem, provided some level of security for Jerusalem, but not a kingdom for Jerusalem. He was considered a governor. He wasn't considered a king. After this period, the Persians were defeated by the Greek Empire, and specifically by a man known as Alexander the Great. And uh he is still considered by many to be the greatest military ruler of all time. The greatest ruler of all time. In 331, Alexander's uh army swept east, gained control of Israel. He established major cities, introduced the Greek language as well as Greek culture. After uh Alexander the Great died, his kingdom was split four ways, uh, and these uh different uh governors kind of took rulership over the uh the kingdom. Uh they they taxed the Jews heavily They attempted to keep the peace by allowing Israel to continue to worship, kind of have some self-government. They didn't force them to serve the Greek gods, but they did exercise control even over their religion. And uh one of the the the rulers uh that came you know after Alexander, uh Antiochus Epiphanes, uh he accepted this bribe to appoint a man who is not the rightful heir to the priestly office, even though he knew that the Jews would hate it. He still did it. Tension between him and the Jews were so thick that when uh Jerusalem heard news, they heard a rumor that uh that uh Antiochus died in battle, uh they took to the streets and started rejoicing. You know, our oppressor is dead. Uh Antiochus uh didn't take so kindly to that. When he returned, he answered by entering the temple sanctuary. Carrying off the equivalent of billions of dollars in sacred objects and treasury. He also allegedly massacred 40,000 Jews in one day. Later, he renamed the Jewish temple for Zeus Olympius, set up a pagan altar, and sacrificed swine on the altar, which would have been absolutely reprehensible to the Jewish people, right? Some say he even stuffed swine down the the priests' throats, forced them to eat pig. It didn't take more than much more than that for the uh the Jewish people to revolt. They actually gained independence for a short period of time, 167-63 B. C. under an age priest named Matthias. He had five sons, one of whom was nicknamed Maccabees, which means in Greek the hammer. And uh these guys were like terrorists in a sense, you know, kinda going around killing people and kinda gained independence for a for a period of of time. But even that was short lived. The Jews soon found themselves under another superpower, the Roman Empire 63 BC, Rome moved in. They're the dominating presence throughout the entire New Testament. Everywhere you go, I mean the fingerprints of Rome are everywhere you look in the in the New Testament. F F. Bruce notes this in his New Testament history. He says the New Testament writings from first to last are set in the context of the Roman Empire. Luke connects the birth of Jesus with a decree issued by the first Roman Emperor Augustus Jesus grew to manhood in a land where paying tribute to Rome was a political and theological issue. It was a Roman magistrate who sentenced him to death. And it was by a Roman form of execution that his sentence was carried out. Like I said, the fingerprints of Rome are everywhere in the New Testament. And the Roman Empire controlled virtually every aspect of Jewish life. The empire was the air that they breathed. It was inescapable. Everywhere they they they went. And uh the Jews are fed up. At this point. By the time they they would have received Massie, they they would have been fed up with all this oppression. Long for the day when they would have their their own king and the kingdom would finally be restored to them. And an extra biblical book called the Psalms of of Solomon actually captures this hope. It's not not in the in the scriptures. It's not a canonical book, but um it kind of describes the hope of the Jewish people. It says this, Behold, O Lord, and raise up for them their king, the son of David, at the appointed time which, O God, ye did choose that he may reign over Israel, your servant. And gird him with strength that he may shatter unrighteous rulers, and may cleanse Jerusalem from the Gentiles that trample her down, and destruction wisely and righteously. Let him expel sinners from the inheritance. And destroy the sinner's pride as the powder's vessel. With a rod of iron may he break in pieces all their resources. Let him destroy the lawless Gentiles by the word of his mouth. They were looking for the Messiah. They're looking for a deliverer. And you can understand why. They're looking for this deliverer So you can understand why a first century Jew would have been on the edge of his seat when he sees the record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Everything in this genealogy is intended to point its readers to Jesus Christ as the coming king. This is the one who is promised. And uh last week we pointed out that uh Matthew is just so masterful in the way that he puts together this genealogy. I mean everything is is intentional in what he writes. The kingship of Jesus Christ is everywhere in the first seventeen verses. Jesus is described as the son of David. Son of David, as we pointed out last time, son of David was a messianic title It's mentioned ten times throughout the book of Matthew, nine times in reference to Jesus Christ. Even the Pharisees immediately responded when Jesus said, you know, who 's who is the Messiah? You know, whose son is he? Immediately. It's David. He's the son of son of David. They they understood that. That was their expectation that the Messiah would be a son of David, and we'll see why in a minute In this genealogy, David is mentioned before Abraham, even though Abraham came before David, David's mentioned before Abraham, and the reason why is for emphasis, because the focus is on the kingship of Israel. David is specifically called the King in verse 6 in Matthew chapter 1 to highlight the connection to the kingship of Jesus Even the structure itself focuses on the kingdom. If you uh look at uh verse seventeen back in uh Matthew chapter one Look what it says there. It says, so all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations, from David to the deportation to Babylon, 14 generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Messiah, 14 generations. So basically Matthew is saying, if you want to outline the whole history of Israel, if you'd like to outline the whole history of Israel, you could say that the history of Israel ascends up to the Davidic reign and the kings. It descends down from the Davidic reign and the kings. So that the kings are the focal point. It goes up to the kings, describes the kings, and it goes down from the kings, right? So that the kings is right in the middle of History for for Israel. It was it was it and Matthew when he put together this genealogy, he designed it like that to show that the focus was on the kingship. The kings are in the middle of the history. And some would even point that the heap point out that the Hebrew letters that are used for the word David, the Hebrews actually use uh letters to represent numbers. And uh if you were to add up the the letters in the name David, it would actually add up to fourteen. You know, so some people say that that even in in that, even in the the name David and why Matthew chooses fourteen generations But point back to that. I want to read too much into that, but I find it interesting. I found it interesting. And finally, right up front, Jesus is called The Messiah, the Christ. And uh Christ is not a part of his name. It's not like it's you know his last name, right? Jesus Christ, like you know, like George Lawson, you know, Jesus Christ The word Christ is a is a title. It's a Christas, the anointed one, the Messiah, in a Hebrew Messiah. uh from where we get our word, Hebrew, uh our word, uh English word uh Messiah. And there were uh different people who were anointed. Uh the word uh uh Messiah means anointed one Christ, the anointed one. And uh there were different people in the the Old Testament who were anointed symbolically. Priests were anointed uh to to dedicate them for for service. In uh Exodus twenty eight, verse forty-one it says, You shall put them on Aaron, your brother, and on his sons with them, you shall anoint them and ordain them. So priests were anointed, prophets were anointed for service in first Kings nineteen sixteen. Uh Jehu the son of Nimshe you shall anoint king over over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shaphat, you shall anoint as prophet in your place. So prophets were were anointed. But the primary reference in the Old Testament is to uh kings being anointed. And when it actually talks about the anointed one, like just by itself, you can assume that it's talking about the king. So you have in uh in 1 Samuel 16, verse 6, where uh uh Samuel comes to uh Jesse's house and he enters, he looks at some of the older sons, he says, Surely the Lord's anointed is before me. This this has got to be the king. He just uses the Lord's anointed because it was like a substitute for King. David referred to Saul as what? The Lord's anointed, right? The Lord's anointed. So the majority of times that we see this uh reference to the uh the anointed one, it's it's a reference to the to the king. And uh right here up front he's saying that the Jesus is the anointed one. He he is the king that you're you're looking for. He has the right to rule. And uh as I mentioned before, there's three sections of this genealogy that follow a a basic outline of the history of of Israel. You have the ascent of the kings of Israel in one through six You have the descent of the kings of Israel from 6 to 11, and you have the absence of the kings of Israel in verses 12 to 17. And uh like I said, the the history here is is is really fascinating. Like I said, we don't have the time to to go over all of it, but there's really this this ascent of uh the Jewish nation until the until they actually reign in Israel. You know, the the Jewish people, you know, have this ascent until they actually reign over over Israel. There's this ascent of the kings of of Israel. The uh the nation of Israel goes from this uh uh small family clan in Abraham to actually becoming a a nation to be reckoned with in in David. And uh verses one through six cover that that period of time. We won't go over all of that. again. But the reigns of David and Solomon are really the golden era of the Jewish kingdom. One author summarizes it this way. The reign of David was uh uh David finished what Saul, the Israel's first king, was unable to accomplish. During his forty year reign, he united the tribes, defeated Israel's enemies, extended Israel's borders by defeating the Philistines, he made Israel safe from her enemies. Finally, he has subdued the peoples of Aram, Ammon, Edom, Moab, thereby extending Israel's borders despite numerous faults. He was a man after God's own heart, and one whom God greatly honored. with a promise. And I want you to see that promise. Turn back to 2 Samuel chapter 7. Last time we looked at the promise that was given to Abraham in Genesis 12 and 15, and this time we'll look at the uh the promise that was given to David in 2 Samuel chapter 7. So the context here is uh David has a desire to build a temple for God. In the ancient Near East, kings typically built temples for their deities, whatever deity they felt actually uh empowered them to win military uh victories. They would build this, build a a temple for, uh and and David, he's been been winning military victories, and he says, I want to build a temple for God You know, what am I doing sitting over here in a palace and you know you have the ark that's sitting over here in a in a tent, right? So he wants to build a temple for God. Let's look at uh 2 Samuel 7 here. Because God doesn't give them the honor of building a temple, but he does give them a promise. He does give them a promise. Look at verse 8. It says now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you, and I will make you a great name like the names of the great men who are on the earth. I will also appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them that they may live in their own place. and not be disturbed again, nor will the wicked afflict them any more as formerly. Even from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and I will give you rest from all your enemies. The Lord also declares to you that the Lord will make a house for you. When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I'll be a father to him, and he will be a son to me. When he commits iniquity I will correct him with the rod of men and the strokes of the sons of men, but my loving kindness shall not depart from him as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. In accordance with all these words and all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. And part of this promise here, okay? Part of this promise would have been fulfilled in David's lifetime, okay? Part of this promise would have been fulfilled in David's lifetime. His name was made great, right? His name was made great. And the Lord did give him rest from all of his his enemies. That happened in David's lifetime. Part of this promise would be fulfilled in Solomon's lifetime. The temple was built for the Lord. And God established the kingdom of Solomon. And even though he sinned, Solomon sinned, the Lord corrected him and still established his reign, right? But part of this wouldn't be fulfilled in either of their lifetimes. Either of their lifetimes. Verse 10 says, I will also appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them that they may live in their own place and not be disturbed again. Nor will the wicked afflict them anymore as formerly. When has that ever happened for Israel? Right? When does that ever happen for Israel? They're not disturbed. I mean, even till this day, right? And then there's this promise in uh in verse 12 that a kingdom would be established forever. What kind of king is able to establish a kingdom that will last forever? Which one of the kings of Israel established a kingdom that lasted forever? If nothing else is clear from this passage, what is clear is that there's one of the seed of David who will sit on a throne in the land of Israel and rule over a kingdom. And with that, the search for the Son of David began. They're looking for who is this son of David who will establish an eternal kingdom? Who will provide us peace from our enemies? Who is this king? So they're they're looking for this this king. They're looking for this Messiah who would give rest and bring the eternal kingdom and Solomon wasn't it Right? Under under Solomon the kingdom flourished, his wisdom was unsurpassed, the nation abounded in wealth. Israel finally took its place on the on the world stage. You have uh the Queen of Sheba who comes to visit Solomon and says the half wasn't even told me About how great this kingdom is? It's like I said, Israel is really positioning itself to be a kingdom of priests, attract the world to itself. But Solomon was not that promised king. Over in uh 1 Kings 11, 4-6, it lets us know that he lacked the kind of uh righteousness to set up an eternal kingdom. It says in first Kings eleven verse four to six it says, For it came about when Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart away after other gods. And his heart was not wholly devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of David his father had been. For Solomon went after Asherah. The goddess of the Sidonians and of Milcom, the detestable idol of the Ammonites, and Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and did not follow the Lord fully as David his father has done. And this is the reason why God says that part of the kingdom was going to be taken away from Solomon. Taken away in verse 33 of the same chapter, 1 Kings 11, it says, Because they have forsaken me. And I have worshipped Ashoth, the goddess of the Sidonians, Shamash, the god of Moab, Milcom, the god of the sons of Ammon, and they have not walked in my ways, doing what is right in my sight and observing my statutes and my ordinances, as his father David did Because they they he had forsaken me, I'm gonna forsake him. I'm I'm gonna take this this kingdom away, at least ten of the tribes. So what we find out is that whoever this king is, he's gonna establish this kingdom that lasts forever, has to be a righteous king. He's going to be a righteous king, okay? He'll be a king who has a heart that is fully devoted to the Lord, similar to the heart of David, a man after God's own heart, he's going to be that kind of king, a Davidic king, a righteous king. And after you have this name Solomon that's uh listed in uh back in Matthew chapter 1, every king that follows was unqualified. Every king that followed was was unqualified. If you go back to uh to Matthew uh uh chapter one again, just look at uh look at the list of uh of the kings that are That are mentioned here. And what this would have done is uh Israel is is reading this this genealogy. What it would have reminded them of is their failure. It would have reminded them of of that that every king who's come before now hasn't been able to establish an eternal kingdom. David was the father of Solomon by Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah. Solomon was the father of Rabom, Rabom the father of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa, Asa was the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, Jor I mean name after name after name they're just saying, Nope, not it, nope not it, nope not it This is the descent of the kings of Israel. And uh the kingdom didn't even stay united past the second generation. The second generation passed David, the kingdom's already split. That's Rehabom, Solomon's son 's legacy. I split the kingdom. You know, how would you like that after your name, right? Hey, I'm Rehabom. I split the kingdom. You know? That's that's what Rehab is known for, splitting the kingdom of Israel. Says in 2 Chronicles 12, verse 1 that Rhabom was after Rhabom was established and strong that he and all Israel with him forsook the law of the Lord. And the vast majority of kings that are examined throughout here don't measure up even to David's standard. Much less the kind of standard that's needed to set up an eternal kingdom that lasts forever. So when God speaks about Jeroboam, he says, uh, you have not been like my servant David. Who kept my commandments, followed me with all his heart, to do only what's right. To abide him, he says, uh he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had committed before him, and his heart was not wholly devoted to the Lord his God like the heart of his father David. About Ahaz. Ahaz was uh twenty years old when he became king. He reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. He did not do what was right in the sight of the Lord his God as his father David had done. And even for the kings that did do right, like a king like Asa, the historian will say this, he did right in the sight of the Lord, yet not like David, his father. It's like David kind of set the bar. And and the kings that come after him don't even don't even match David, much less exceed David, to be the kind of righteous king that could establish the kingdom. There's some kings that climbed a little higher, came a little closer. But the the vast majority of the kings that tried to climb up, they they lost their grip and they plummeted to the bottom of the cliff. And like I said, verses 6 to 11 would have reminded Israel of their their failures, one disappointment after another, one king after another one bites the dust. There is even three kings that aren't even mentioned. in the in the list. Uh Ahaziah, Joash, and Amaziah, uh in the the the the list of uh the genealogy it skips from Joram to Uzziah, uh partly because it wants to retain the the list of of fourteen, uh but also because these three kings were connected to Ahab and Jezebel. So it skips over them. And and that's not a problem because to be a son of was also to be a descendant of. So it could skip, you know, a couple names and and still or retain that that language. But what you find from the list is that none of these people are worthy. Every king that's come before now has been unworthy. Unworthy. None of these are the Messiah. We find in Jeremiah 22, 24 to 30, that things got so bad that right before the period of the deportation to Babylon, a curse is pronounced on Jechaniah. one of the the last kings uh before Zedekiah. Zedekiah is actually uh Jechaniah's uncle. Uh but uh Jechaniah Got so bad that the Lord pronounced a curse on uh on Jechaniah back in uh Jeremiah chapter 22 I just want to read this real quick, Jeremiah 22, starting at verse 24. Listen to this. As I live, declares the Lord, even though Kaniah, another name for Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, were a signet ring on my hand Yet I would pull you off. I will give you over into the hand of those who are seeking your life. Yes, into the hand of those whom you dread, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar The king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans, I will hurl you and your mother, who bore you, into another country, where you were not born, and there you will die. But as for the land to which they desire to return, they will not return to it. Is this man Kenya despised, shattered jar, or is he an undesirable vessel? Why Athea and his descendants have been hurled out and cast into a land that they had not known. O land, land, land. Pay attention, right? O land, land, land. Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord, write this man down, childless. A man who will not prosper in his days, for no man of his descendants, will prosper sitting on the throne of David or ruling in Judah again. You guys catch that? Talked about this guy, Jechaniah in the line of David. He says, call this man childless. He's not going to have any descendant of his rule on the throne of David. Kinda interesting. Matthew chapter one, guess who's in the list? Jeconiah. You say, is this a contradiction? I mean, didn't Jeremiah say that no descendant of Jechaniah would sit on the throne of David? How how does the Messiah come out of this line? How does the Messiah come out of this cursed line? For those that knew their Old Testament, this is a This would have been like a GameStopper, right? If if Jekaniah's on the list, obviously this guy can't really be the Messiah, right? But and I I know some of you are already thinking what I'm thinking, right? The Messiah was not a physical descendant of Jechaniah, because the Messiah was born of a virgin. Born of a virgin. He's not of the physical descent. He was uh wasn't of of the physical descent of of Joseph. So, I mean, again, what you find in Matthew is that like the attention to detail is mind-blowing. Mind-blown. It's through the virgin birth that Jesus can inherit the legal right to rule from Joseph that would have come down from Deconiah, the legal right to rule. But he would have avoided being a physical descendant of Jechaniah through the virgin birth. It would have been impossible for Jesus to sit on the throne if he were the physical seed of Joseph. If he were the physical seat of Joseph, I mean the game's over. Right? If Jesus had been the real son of Joseph, he wouldn't have been able to sit on the throne of David. But the genius of God devised a plan to pass down the legal right. Without passing down the physical descent. It's amazing. God guards every detail and the virgin birth solves it. And Joseph wasn't uh like I like I said, uh you have uh uh Joseph uh who's not the physical father, and that's made clear like if you look down at verse uh 16 in Matthew. It says Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who is called the Messiah. By whom, that word whom, it's in the feminine gender. So it's like there's no mistake about it. This is not Joseph's seed. This is not Joseph's seed. The word whom is is in the feminine gender to say that Joseph is not the physical father, but uh Jesus was Joseph's child legally and being adopted into the family. He had all the legal rights, all the privileges, and even though Jesus was not the physical son of Joseph, there was never any question about who he belonged to. He was considered a son of Joseph in Luke chapter 4, verse 22. It says, All were speaking well of him and were wondering at the gracious words which were falling from his lips, and they were saying, Is this not Joseph's son? He was understood to be a son of Joseph. Even though he wasn't a physical descendant, everybody understood him as the adopted son of Joseph. There's never any argument about whether or not Jesus accepted the rights of his father. So Joseph was known as the son of David, and Jesus was known as the son of David. But not only is Jesus connected to the throne legally through David, there's also a connection physically through Mary. Physically through Mary. We have uh two genealogies of Christ in the Bible, one in Matthew chapter one, the other one in Luke chapter three. They're not contradictory, they're complementary. But in Luke chapter uh three, like I uh in Luke uh Matthew chapter one you have the uh the legal right that's passed down through Joseph. In Luke chapter 3, you have the physical descent that's passed down through Mary. And Mary's line does not include Jeconiah. It's amazing. It's amazing. So Jesus is the actual seed of David through Mary, and he has the legal right through through Joseph Joseph Jesus is not born of the seed of man, but the seed of a woman. Amazing. Which is a very unique phrase, only found in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. So you have even from the very beginning of the book, the you know the chapter we're getting to next in our reading, that uh the virgin birth is even like tucked away in Genesis chapter three, that there's going to come a seed of a woman who's gonna be the deliverer. So Jech and I didn't have the last word on his lineage. And really, Jech and I would have marked this kind of low point in Israel. But God is able to bring beauty out of out of ashes, right? And uh last thing that you have here is you have this uh this absence of the kings of of Israel in the verses 12 to 17. Because after Jechaniah and uh, like I said, Zedekiah, who was actually the uncle, um, was the last king of uh of Israel, you have this list of names. After the uh verse 12, Matthew chapter 1. After the deportation of Babylon, Jeconiah became the father of Sheeltiel, Sheeltiel the father of Zerubbabel, Zerubbabel was the father of Abihud, Abbehud the father of Elichim, Eliakim the father At Zor, Azor the Father of Zadak Zadak the father of Hakim, Machim the father of Eliad, Eliot was the father of Eliezer and the father of Machon, and Bethan the father of Jacob, and we know absolutely nothing. About those names, other than Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel was the guy that brought a group of people back to the land of Israel. But everybody else, we know absolutely nothing about them. No information. Other than Zerubel. And some names don't even show up on this list just for symmetry because these names cover a period of about 500 years. So there were likely other people that were sandwiched in between, but you have this this list of names that we act know absolutely nothing about And it points two things out to me. It reminds me about two things. First of all, uh we shouldn't think too highly of our place in history. I like what uh S. Lewis Johnson said. He said while reflecting on his own genealogy, he said this. He says, last night thinking about genealogy, I got out my own genealogy. I looked at my genealogy in which my family is traced back to County Kent in England near Canterbury. I looked at the list of names and the brief descriptions of the lives of some of them, and they are just names to me, many of them. As I looked at those names, I reflected upon the fact that after all, this is what I'm becoming. I'm becoming a name. And as a matter of fact, I'm becoming not only a name, but it won't be long before even the name will be forgotten if life continues as it is. Here are men who are just men, as I knew them, names, attached to a certain place, and I'm fast becoming only a name, and soon I will be forgotten, and the same is true of all of us. As we uh look at this uh genealogy, we should reflect upon the fact that uh that this is our destiny, right? will be names in the memor memory of our uh uh our descendants, uh but it brings home the the fact that uh that we have a limited time, right? Have a limited time. But I'll quickly add that uh even though we shouldn't think too highly of ourselves, we also shouldn't think too lowly of our places in history either, right? Because God was able to do the miraculous through a list of obscure names. As far as these descendants of Jek and I knew, their line was finished. It's like you know, we have no hope of producing a Messiah. You know, our great-great-grandfather was cursed. Messiah's not going to come through our line. But God was able to do the miraculous through the line of uh Jech and I and here we have the sovereignty of God placed before us, right? And like this this bold and brilliant relief, the sovereignty of God can can work these miracles. No one would have guessed that the Messiah would have come this way. Like I said, the curse would have would have left them thinking that, you know, hey, we're finished. This line is finished. And the Jews were left wondering, you know, how does all this come together? How would they recognize the Messiah when he did appear? It's like the the you know the natural thing would have been to look for the son of Jechemiah, but that's been cut off. So who else do we look for now? Where's the Messiah going to come from? So all they had was was these promises. Promises of God. They had the promise to Abraham in Genesis 17, 6, where he says, I will make you exceedingly fruitful, I will make nations of you, and kings shall come forth from you. They had that promise. They had the promise to Judah in Genesis 49, verse 10, where it says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, so they know it's going to be in the tribe of Judah. There's this promise that there would always be one with the right to reign, even though he might not have actually rained. Judah didn't rain, his sons didn't rain, but they knew that that was the line that the the rain was going to come from. Then there was the promise to David, 2 Samuel 7, limited it to more , says there was going to come a king, he shall build a house for my name, I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. They knew it was going to come through the house of David. But after the deportation of Babylon, there was no clear heir to the throne, and everything seemed to just unravel and fall apart. It's like, where's the hope for us now? Where are we going to find this Messiah from? How are we even going to recognize him if he does appear? But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, and this was the time. This was the time. And these men in 12 through 16, who we know only by name, were the instruments of God to bring about the Messiah into the world. So what kind of confidence should you have in a Messiah who's so perfectly entered into this world? What kind of confidence should that should you have as a result of this? As a result of seeing the sovereignty of God at work. What kind of confidence should you have in a Messiah like this? The sovereignty of God is amazing. In charge of every detail, down to the smallest detail. Why wouldn't you trust in a Messiah like this? Who could orchestrate all of this? Why wouldn't you want to give your allegiance to a Messiah like this? This genealogy would have provided believers assurance And unbelievers, the authentication that they were expecting for the one who claimed to be the Messiah? I mean, how else were they going to recognize the Messiah without a list like this? This list would have proved to them that Jesus had the right to rule. I mean we we're not given the liberty to kind of come up with our own, you know, uh uh test for Messiah. You know, the Bible gives those tests. So it's like the faithful Jews they would have been looking for, you know, well, uh is this guy really authenticated? And this list would have proved it to them. And like I mentioned last week, nobody would be able to prove today that they came from this line. Nobody The the the records are destroyed. Nobody would be able to prove that they're Messiah today. But the time for proving that you're the Messiah is over. This is the one. And lastly, a genealogy like this reminds us that we're speaking about real people and actual history. Jesus was a real person. And the gospel's primary concern is to introduce us to a person to follow. Introduces us to a person to follow, not just principles to live by. Some people look at the Bible like it's just a you know a little list of rules, some things that you get to do, live moral life. No, that's not what it's about. It's about introducing you to Jesus Christ. It's introducing you to a person, Jesus Christ. Christianity is about a person. And Jesus was that promised person. And he's the one that we're looking forward to coming again, a real person in real time. And and you don't know when that time is going to come, right? So we say with the Apostle John, even quickly, come, Lord Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you guys so much for uh the opportunity that we have To look into your word, uh to look at uh some of the things that we can gain even from a genealogy, a list of of names uh that uh seem uh to many of us uh unimportant, uh. But Father, there's there's just so much that you've invested into that genealogy. And it's from that genealogy, Lord, that we have the confidence that we found the right one. That when Jesus Christ is proclaimed to be the Messiah, that he has all the necessary traits , That he came from the right line, that he has the righteousness to establish an eternal kingdom. And Father, we look forward to the uh the the the fulfillment of all the promises that that you've given. We look forward to uh uh the son of of David returning again and uh father we're we're grateful now that we can be a part of of his kingdom And uh that we belong to you. We've given our allegiance to Him. And our Father, I pray that if there are any here who have not given their lives over to Jesus Christ. That today would be the day, that they wouldn't wait any longer to bow their knee to their Lord, the Messiah, the King who was to come. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.