The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and open up to Psalm 73? Psalm 73. Go ahead and read the Psalm for us as we Just bring our thoughts to think about the sovereignty of God and the goodness of God that's found in the Psalm, Psalm 73. I want you to follow with me as I read. Says a psalm of Asaph, Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet came close to stumbling. My steps had almost slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant as I saw the prosperity of the wicked There are no pains in their death and their body is fat. They are not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like mankind Therefore, pride is their necklace, and the garment of violence covers them. Their eye bulges from fatness, the imaginations of their heart run riot. They mock and speak wickedly of oppression. They speak from on high. They have set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue parades through the earth Therefore, his people return to this place, and waters of abundance are drunk by them. They say, how does God know? And is there knowledge with the Most High? Behold, these are the wicked and always at ease. They have increased in wealth. Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure and washed my hands in innocence, for I have been stricken all day long and chastened every morning If I had said I would speak thus, behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. When I pondered to understand this, it was troublesome in my sight. Until I came into the sanctuary of God Then I perceived their end. Surely you set them in slippery places, you cast them down to destruction. How they are destroyed in a moment, they are utterly swept away by sudden terrors. Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when aroused, ye will despise their form. When my heart was embittered, when I was pierced within, then I was senseless and ignorant I was like a beast before you. Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You have taken hold of my right hand with your counsel. You will guide me, and afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you, I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you will perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you. But as for me, the nearness of God is my good. I have made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, as we come before you today, Father, we're just so grateful for your word. Oh Father, for your word that gives us comfort, peace, joy. Oh Father, your word that points us to you. That points us to the truth, Lord. We don't have to be confused. We don't have to allow the thoughts of our own minds, Lord, to carry us away. Father, we can be taken up into your words, into your truth. And Father, I pray that you would use your word today to be a blessing to your people. And Father, that you'd use me as a weak instrument in your hands. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. I read this story a number of years ago and uh just wanted to share it with you as an introduction. Don Saunders and Buddy Stride plan to be gone only for a few minutes Like most Friday nights, February 20th was family time at the Little Stone House where the two Baptist ministers and inseparable best friends lived with their wives and strides four children. On that drizzly night, it meant running out for chocolate donuts in a videotape or two, been sprawling in front of the TV with the kids. After making sure Stride's two-year-old was snug in his car The men got into his 1988 the hotzu and headed down Dallas Road toward the local grocery store. Legally, Louis Serriani Jr. shouldn't have been near an ignition king His license was revoked in 1982 after the state labeled him a habitual offender, but Seriani kept driving. He forged an insurance card and racked up so many moving violations That his record runs eighteen pages, Authority said. He wasn't due to get his license back until august thirty first, twenty nineteen On February 20th, 1998, Seriani was driving again, this time doing an estimated 60 to 70 miles an hour in a 35 mile per hour zone with his headlights off and a blood alcohol level more than twice the legal limit. Witnesses told the police that the big olds he was driving crested a hill and slammed broadside into a small white car turning left from Dallas Road. Donald Saunders and Harold Stride, born eighteen days apart in June nineteen seventy-one, were pronounced dead at Abington Memorial Hospital within an hour of each other The two men grew close as 16-year-old high school juniors. Both loved God and found a bond in their unwavering faith. When Buddy set about finding a congregation he might lead, he made it clear that he came with a partner Their dream was always to preach together and someday to train ministers in France. On the day they were killed, they had received word that they were to be formally installed at Bethany Baptist Church. And Fox chased Philadelphia's pastor and assistant pastor. Stride's little two-year-old boy in the car was fine, and according to the report, Buddy died holding Don in his arms. When the fireman arrived, he told his little boy, You go with the men, I'm going to go see Jesus. And that was the end At the crash scene, Seriani told the police he'd only had a couple of beers. His blood alcohol test at Abington Memorial registered. 22, the equivalent of downing some ten drinks in an hour. Two weeks later, he pleaded not guilty to 21 charges, including drunken driving, driving with a revoked license, and two counts of vehicular homicide. And what makes this story personal to me was that these two men had just graduated from the master's seminary Both of them full of potential for years of fruitful ministry. And when Dr. MacArthur mentioned this story, the first thing that I thought was, what a waste. You know, two two men best friends about to go into ministry together, pastor, assistant, pastor Full of potential, understanding of the Word of God, ready to preach in an expository way and lead people in sound theology, and both of them gone on the same night. All you can say is, you know, God, I know that you're good. I know that you're you're wise, but but some things I don't get. I don't get it. Just yesterday, our sweet little Sophia went home to be with the Lord at three years old. And it could be a real struggle to understand why the Lord would choose to take her when he did. Why would God call someone home who seemed to be so eager in her heart to learn and to grow? It doesn't seem to make much sense to us. The righteous seem to suffer when there are so many who don't even acknowledge God that live their full length of days. And it's an honest question, Lord, why? Why does this happen? But thankfully it's a question that the Bible's not ashamed to address. And for us in many places of Scripture we could turn to, we've turned to Psalm 73 as one of those passages. Just to give you context for the passage, a little bit of background, the author of Psalm 73 is a man by the name of Asaph. If you were to look at the heading of the Psalm in your Bible, you would see the words a Psalm of Asaph, and that's actually part of the inspired text. According to 1 Chronicles chapter 15, there was an Asaph who was one of the professional worship leaders in Israel He was a Levitical singer, and he was appointed as a chief minister before the Ark of the Lord by King David Asaph was the author of some 12 Psalms, and 11 of those 12 Psalms are found in what's called the third book of the Psalms from Psalm Psalm seventy-three to Psalm eighty-nine, and Psalm seventy-three is right at the head of that list of Psalms. And we don't know what the specific circumstances were for this the psalm, the writing of the psalm, but what we do know is that Asaph lived long enough to know that the righteous suffer and are afflicted, and at times it seems like the wicked flourish and seem to prosper. What did ASAF see? What did he see? Maybe he saw something in David's life that made him think about this. Maybe he witnessed David's son Absalom, who tried to steal his father's throne. The pain that it caused for David? Maybe he saw a Shimei that mocked King David, ridiculed him, and seemed to get away with it. Maybe Asaf just experienced his own personal suffering and wondered, does God see this? Doesn't seem to make sense. God, I don't understand why this would happen to me. But whatever the circumstances were surrounding the psalm, it's obvious that Asaf breathed the same air that we breathe. That he walked in the same shoes that we walk in. I'm going to give you five words to summarize what we have in the psalm, and we'll briefly take a look at each section. Confidence, confusion, conviction, confession, and commitment. Confidence, confusion, conviction, confession, and commitment. Let's take a look at confidence in verse one. What does he say? He says, surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. And that's the very first thing that ASAP wants to provide us with is the solid foundation of God's goodness. That is the bedrock of this psalm, that God is good. It's actually the idea that embraces the psalm. It's like bookends. Verse 1 speaks about God is good. And then down in verse 28, it says that God is my good. The goodness of God is what is kind of encompassing the psalm. It's the envelope for the psalm. There's no getting around God's goodness as an established fact. One systematic theologian defines the goodness of God in this way. He says he is in every way all that he as God should be. Think about that. God is all that he should be in every way. He is good in himself He is good for his creatures. He is the fountain of all good. He's represented so in a variety of ways in the Bible, and all the good things which the creatures enjoy in the present and expect in the future. Flow to them out of this inexhaustible fountain. God is the fount of every blessing. Don't we sing that song? Come, thou fount of every blessing. Every blessing that we experience comes from this good God. He is the source of every blessing. And this confidence that God is good is further emphasized by the use of the word surely. Certainly he is. He says, surely God is good, which could be translated as surely, without a doubt. And there's a clear recipient of this goodness. Who receives the goodness? He says, Surely God is good to Israel. God is good to his covenant people, the nation picked out, chosen by God, that entered into a covenant relationship with him. He says, surely he's good to his covenant people. And in the New Testament, books like 1 Peter remind us that all of us who believe in Christ today, that we are his covenant people. We are his people. We're those who partake of the new covenant, right? If you believed in Jesus Christ, you are a partaker of that new covenant. You are his covenant people. You've been picked out, selected by him, chosen. You have a special relationship with God. 1 Peter 1 and verse 2, it says that we who believe are are chosen according to the foreknowledge of God. By the sanctifying work of the Spirit to obey Jesus Christ and be sprinkled with his blood. You've been chosen, selected by God And just like Israel could be referred to as the children of God or the generation of your children, as it says later on in verse 15, all of us who believe in God can also be called his children. And guess what? God is good to you. God has been good to you. And specifically, Psalm 73 says that this goodness of God is reserved for those who are pure in heart Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. And what does it mean to be pure in heart? You know, the Bible is clear that the heart is desperately deceitful. Who can understand it? In Proverbs 20, verse 9, it says, Who can say, I've cleansed my heart that I'm pure from my sin? There's no cleansing agent that can scrub the heart clean from our sin on earth. Jeremiah 13, 23 says, Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? But through faith in Jesus Christ, we know that our hearts can be cleansed by faith. Amen. In Acts 15 and verse 9, Peter recognized that God made no distinction between us and them, between the Jews and the Gentiles, having cleansed their hearts by faith How are our hearts cleansed? It's through faith. We trust in Him. We trust in God. And for us as New Testament believers, we put our trust in Jesus Christ and our hearts are cleansed. So this psalm can be applied to us. We're those who are pure in heart. Our hearts have been cleansed by God. We're those who are his covenant people. He's made promises to us because we belong to him. So we have the psalm that's directed towards us, and we're reminded again that surely God is good And we can sing that the Lord has promised good to me. But the goodness of God can oftentimes be confusing because we often don't experience what we consider to be good in this life. And that leads us to our second word, which is the word confusion. Confusion. In verses 2 to 14, we're introduced to this dilemma. There's a contrast here because what we expect is not always what we experience. Let me say that again. What we expect is not always what we experience. And that can be unsettling. Look at verse 2. It says, but as for me, my feet came close to stumbling. My steps had almost slipped. When he says my steps had almost slipped literally, it could be translated that my steps were poured out. Like what should have been solid ground underneath me is like water. Like I'm just slipping and sliding all over the place. Like I I don't have anything solid to stand on here. It's like every time ASAF tried to get a firm foothold, it's like the ground beneath him was just washing out underneath his feet. Which is sometimes how we can feel in times of grief, can't we? It's like, Lord, where's the bottom to this? Like Lord, where's the stability here? I feel like I'm being washed away because of what I'm experiencing. And Asaf says, I came close to being washed away. My feet almost slipped. I almost didn't recover from this one. And what would it look like for ASAP to slip away? When he says, you know, I almost slipped. I came close to stumbling. What would it have looked like for Asaph to slip away? You know what it would have looked like in this context? It would have looked like denying what he just affirmed. What did he just affirm? He affirmed that God is good. Surely God is good. What would it have looked like for Asaph to slip away? You know what? I'm not sure if I trust that God is good. I'm not sure if I trust that. It would be saying, surely God is not good to Israel. God is not good to the pure in heart. It would be like saying, you know what, I'm not sure if it's worth serving a God like this. How can you serve a God that would allow this to happen? That's the temptation here. Verse 13, if you look, just drop down in verse 13. What does he say there? Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure. And wash my hands in innocence. Do you know what he's saying? I almost came to the point where I said, you know what, God? It's not worth it. It's not worth it serving you. If this is how you treat your children, I'm not sure if it's worth serving you. So he says, I came close to stumbling. I almost almost slipped away. And what could have melted him away from this confidence that he had in God? Look at verse 3. He says, for I was envious of the arrogant. As I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Do you know what that word prosperity is in Hebrew? Shalom. Shalom. Why does it seem like they're at peace? Why does it seem like others have the blessings of God and I don't? So he says I became envious. Of those who were arrogant. You know, and here it is. His expectation did not match his experience. Being good to good people, God being good to good people, that's something that I can wrap my mind around. That's an equation that fits. God being good to good people, that works. But God being good to evil people, I'm not sure how that works. Or even withholding good from good people? Like, I'm the one that's actually trying to serve you and you're withholding goods from me? Like that doesn't add up. Why does it seem like the righteous suffer and the wicked prosper? And particularly arrogant people, wicked people. Real quick, flip over to Proverbs chapter 6. For those of you that have paper Bibles, you can actually keep a finger in Proverbs 6 and in Psalm 73 at the same time. For you guys that are using a digital version, you know, Lord help you, you know. There's nothing that you can do. You can't stick your finger in that, okay? But for the rest of us, right? For the rest of us, for the rest of us godly people here with paper Bibles , I'm just joking. You can stick a finger in Proverbs 6 and take a look at this. In Proverbs 6, it tells us clearly that there are certain things that God hates. Okay? God hates this. Look at verse 16. He says, There are six things which the Lord hates. I remember one time I I I spoke to a lady and she's like, I just I just don't like when people say they hate anything. I don't think that God hates anything. I said, Well, can I show you something There are six things, at least right here. The Bible says that God hates. Six things that he hates. Yes, seven which are an abomination to him Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans Feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies, and one who spreads strife among brothers. God says, I hate these things. I despise these things. These are the things that I loathe. But if you flip back to Psalm 73, this is an overwhelming description of the individuals who are mentioned. Verse 3, it says that they're arrogant, boasters. Isn't that what God says that he hates? Verse 6, it says that pride is their necklace. They flaunt their arrogance. Verse 8, they mock, they speak from on high, as if there's no God above them. Verse 9, they go a step further. They set their mouths against heaven. So even God in his dwelling place is not out of reach for these people. And then down in verse 11 it says, And they say, Does God know? And is there knowledge with the Most High? I mean, like , there's no God to see me. There's no God to hold me accountable? What God is there that would know what I do? Isn't there any knowledge with the Most High? As if God must be pretty stupid. If there is a God, he must be pretty stupid, because I'm getting away with murder. God doesn't know. There's no God to watch over me. This is the height of arrogance. They even mock the living God. Proverbs 6. 17 says, The God hates hands that shed innocent blood, and the wicked of Psalm 73 are known by a garment of violence which covers them. Proverbs 6. 18 says, the God hates the heart that devises wicked plans. And the wicked in Psalm 73 and verse 7, it says they run riot. Their hearts run riot. With the imaginations. And you get the point. The very thing that God says that he hates are the very things that these people are engaged in. And they seem to get away with it. And there's no reason to expect anything but a swift judgment for these people, but instead they seem to be living the good life. Look at verse 3. It says they're enjoying prosperity. I saw the prosperity of the wicked. They're at peace. They seem to avoid sickness and disease. Verse 4, there's no pains in their death. Then it also says their body is fat. And that 's that's that's actually a compliment. In the ancient Near East, there weren't a lot of fat people because there wasn't a lot to eat. If you were overweight, it was a sign that I've got everything that I need. I've got more than what I need. That's what it was. It says their body is fed, it was a sign of prosperity. Verse 5 says they're not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like mankind. And the the word that's used here For men they are not troubled as other men. That word men, it's the uh the Hebrew word enosh, it's from a word that means human frailty or weakness. Meaning that they don't seem to have frailties that other people have. They don't seem to have like the issues that other weak people among us have. It's like they live above the rest of us. They're not plagued like mankind, and that word for mankind there is the word Adam, which refers to the sons of Adam. It's like these people escaped the curse. They're not like the rest of us. Their eyes bulged from fatness, it says in verse 7. And the summary of their lives is found in verse 12. Behold, these are the wicked, and always at ease, they've increased in their wealth. Health, wealth for the wicked, and pain and poverty for the righteous. What's up with that? And this is the confusion that HF is wrestling with. Down in verse 10 it says, Therefore as people return to this place, and waters of abundance are drunk by them. Now it could be understood to say that the the people who follow the arrogant, they keep coming back and drinking up the words of the wicked Faysaf is a worship leader. He might have had a hard time gaining a hearing. But here you have the wicked, and they're getting all the likes and subscribers. Everybody's following the wicked. I mean, they're not even worried about worship. Because look at these guys. They seem like they're the ones who are prospering. Everybody's following after them. They keep coming back to these wells to drink. And it doesn't seem right that people who are far from God live long and healthy lives, and people who are chosen by God, who are pure in heart, face so much trouble. Why does it seem like the wicked are being rewarded? Look at verse 13. He says, Surely in vain I've kept my heart pure, washed my hands in innocence, for I've been stricken all the day long, chasing every morning. It's like, you know, I try to do what's right, and what do I get? I get a spanking every morning. I've been stricken all day long. I've been chastened. That's the kind of thinking that ASAF was was comforted with. Is it even worth it? It's like I'm being punished for doing the right thing. And he almost believed it. He came close to believing it. And this is where we get our third word. The word is conviction. Conviction. Verse. 15, this is when Asaph began thinking like this, and he stops himself because he's under conviction of what he's even thinking. Has anybody ever felt like that? It's like your thoughts start running away with you know away from you. And it's like, hold on, what what was I thinking? Like, why did I allow my mind to go there? Right? It's like, no, come back, come back. It's like you can't just allow your mind to wander. Like that's where I was starting to slip. Let me let me just share this. But the battle is right up here. You know where the battle is? It's right up here. It's your thinking. How do I think? So he's convicted about what he's thinking. And he says, I almost let it out my mouth. Like what I was thinking, I almost shared it. Verse 15 says, if I had said I will speak thus or like this, behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. When I pondered to understand this, it was troublesome in my sight. My thoughts scared me. It bothered me. It was troublesome in my sight that I would think this way. That I I almost got to the point where I shared it with other people. He was convinced that if he verbalized this, that he would have betrayed the generation of God's people. Sometimes people think that, you know, always speaking your mind is a good thing. I'm here to tell you that it's not always a good thing to speak your mind. I remember uh it was H. B. Charles, he says, uh some of us need to s need to pray for the spiritual gift of shutting up. It's not always good to say everything that's on your mind. Yes, you need to be honest with the Lord. Yes, you need to find godly, wise counselors to go to, to share with. But if you say all that's on your mind, you could destroy some people. You could turn some people away from the faith. It's like don't let everything come out of that hole that you have in your face, right? Don't let everything come out Some thoughts you need to keep to yourself. He says, if I spoke like this, I could have led others astray. It would have been a betrayal of the children of God. If you remember again, Asaph was a worship leader. He's a leader. People would have been looking to him for direction, and if Asaph began telling people, you know what, I'm not sure if serving God is worth it. What would that do to people's faith? It could destroy people's faith. It's one of the reasons that James 3, verse 1 says, Let not many of you become teachers, my brethren, knowing that as such we will incur a stricter judgment. You can destroy more people if you're a leader. You can destroy more people if you're a teacher. Asaf realized his doubts could have been dangerous. His words could have been used to damage the faith of others. He realized that if he kept sinking down into this hole, it would only be a matter of time before he pulled somebody else in it. Sinking down in the hole and pulling somebody else down with you in the sinking sand, right? You're just pulling somebody else down right with you. And it scared him. He was convicted about it. And it's like finally he's starting to become aware of his surroundings. He's starting to get his footing underneath him again. But when he finally firmly placed solid ground beneath his feet was when he entered the sanctuary of his God. This is really the turning point in the Psalm. Verse 17. He continued to be troubled until It was troublesome in my sight until, verse 17, I came into the sanctuary of God. Then I perceived their end. The end is literally the after part, the final outcome. And he was convinced when he came into the sanctuary of God. Don't miss or underestimate the importance of being with God's people. Don't underestimate that. Worshiping with the people of God can be a way to clear away the confusion that you have when you're by yourself. When you're by yourself, you can say all kinds of stuff to yourself and all the You know what, that makes a lot of sense. You know? Talking to yourself. No Bible open, nobody else to bounce it off of, but it's like you just sit in there talking, yeah, yeah, self, that was a great idea It's dangerous. I think it was uh Bonhoeffer that says that Satan loves to get a man by himself. He loves to get you alone. But he says it's when I got together with the people of God. Then I started seeing beyond just what's right in front of me. You know, I was looking, but I wasn't looking far enough. Or I was looking, but I was looking in the wrong directions. And when I came into the context of the people of God, I all of a sudden had focus. All of a sudden, I had perspective. All of a sudden, those voices in my head started disappearing. Because other people are starting to talk to me and say, No, that's not right. And reminding me of the truth. That's one of the joys of being together in the book of Hebrews. It talks about encouraging one another all the more as you see the day drawing near. That's part of the reason that you're here. You know, and in Hebrews chapter 10 when it talks about the assembling of ourselves together, you know, it's not just that we get together like, hey, I see you in the pew there. That's great, you know, you're there. Like it's it's more than that. But it's to encourage one another. When you come in here, you might as well put a badge on. I'm the encourager today. You know, when you're greeting people, you know, you see people after church, how can I encourage you? How can I be praying for you? I want to encourage you to keep pressing on after Christ. Don't lose faith. Keep trusting. Keep pursuing. Keep hoping. Like that's what we do. We encourage one another as we get together so that we won't slip back. That's the temptation is to slip back But we get together to encourage one another, to give people perspective, to say, no, keep looking ahead. There's glory to come. It is worth it to follow God. Verse 18 says, surely you set them in slippery places. You know, I thought I was in the slippery place, but that's what's true of the unbeliever. I'm thinking about myself as if I don't have the promises of God. You know, they're the ones who are being cast down into destruction. You cast them down to destruction. How they are destroyed in a moment, verse 19. They are overly swept away by sudden terror is like a dream when one awakes, oh Lord, when aroused, you will despise their form. Lord, there's coming a time when you will wake up to judge the unbeliever. And that's when the end comes. That's what's true. And it's when he entered into the sanctuary with the people of God, where the scriptures were read, where Israel Offered up praise. This is when everything came back into the sharp focus. Convinced by the scripture that he was wrong, we move to the next word in our outline, which is confession. Look at verse 21. He says, when my heart was embittered, so he acknowledged what his sin was, Lord, I was embittered against you. My heart was embittered. I held on to some kind of anger, as if you owed me something. And I was pierced within. He says, then I was senseless and ignorant. I was like a beast before you. How's that one for self-esteem? He says, I was like a beast before you. A beast doesn't contemplate the future. Both in 2 Peter chapter 2 and the book of Jude, it calls beasts unreasoning animals. They're creatures of instinct. And as smart as you might think your fur baby is , he is not contemplating the future. He's not thinking beyond the bowl that's in front of him. You know, pet me, make me happy, make me secure, and looking at the dish, can you add some more snacks in here, please? Right? He's not contemplating tomorrow. They're not thinking like that. You never see them with a a date planner out? You know, let me enter you into my calendar here. They're not doing that And some of you think that they are, you know, but I'm telling you that they're not. And he says, when I was thinking like this, I'm just thinking about the treat in front of me. Like I can't see beyond what's in front of my face. And sometimes that's how we can be as believers. I just want what I want, and I want it, and if I don't get it, like I can't see anything else, but I want this right now. And that's why you got some of your little dogs growling at you when you try to take the stacks away, because all they want is what's in front of them That's how sometimes we can act. Lord, I want what I want when I want it. And if I don't get what I want when I want it, like like I'm I'm out. I'm finding myself in a slippery place. I'm not sure if you're good. I'm not sure if I can trust you. But but he's the master. Yeah, I know, but I I'm not sure if I can trust the master. And that's where ASAP was. He's looking at his circumstances, what's in front of him, and he's thinking to himself, it's not worth it. But now he confesses that this kind of thinking was sinful. I was like an animal when I thought like that. Confession is agreeing with God, that what God says is right, and Asaf is finally at the point where he's starting to think God's thoughts after him. Begins to see the goodness of God. Look at verse 23. He says, Nevertheless, I'm continually with you. You have taken hold of my right hand with your counsel, you will guide me and afterward receive me to glory. The presence of God provided Asaph with comfort. God gave him reassurance. He led him by the hand. He's gripped by God. It's not so much that Asaph was holding on to God as much as God was holding on to him. You know, Asaph was slipping all over the place, but who's got him by the hand? Like God is holding on to him. I am continually with you. You have taken hold of my right hand. You're the one that gave me stability. Even when I was slipping away, he said, No, you're not going because you're one of mine. You know, like Jesus prayed for Peter that your faith would not fail. I've got you. You know, you're secure in my hand. He's provided with guidance. With your counsel, you will guide me. And then he's also provided with eternal hope. With your counsel you will guide me and afterward receive me the glory. What's he now looking at? He's looking at the afterparts. Just like he was looking at the end of the wicked, like, no, there's something in the future for them after this life. Now he's starting to look at himself and like, you know what, there's a future for me after this life. Now he's got the full picture in view. I'm looking at the final outcome. Uses the same word for this afterpart, this afterlife, the future, the glory that's to come. It's clear that Asaph is talking about a glory beyond this life because the very next verse, verse 25, he says, Whom have I in heaven but you? He's thinking about the future now. You know, sometimes people debate whether Old Testament believers anticipated heaven or not, but it's all over the Old Testament. Enoch was received into glory, for God took him. Psalm 49, verse 15 says that God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol or the grave, for he will receive me. Psalm 23, we read it all the time, but it's got the hope of heaven right there. Surely goodness and loving kindness will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord. How long? How are you gonna do that? You're gonna die, right? No, but I'm going to transition into his presence. I will dwell in his house forever. And this forever language that's used in the in the Psalms especially speaks about heaven and eternity. Or like when David says about his son, 2 Samuel 12 and verse 23, but now he has died, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him. But he will not return to me. I'm going to depart and to be with him. The words of departure, words that speak about heaven. And that's taking in the big picture. And if I don't take the big picture in mind and keep the big picture in mind, I can be tempted to become embittered against God. Pierce within my own soul and fall to the temptation of betraying God's people or speaking ignorantly against God or giving up because it doesn't seem like it's worth the pursuit anymore. And God had to snap Asaph back into reality to perceive things rightly. And now Asaph is ready to commit himself fully to God, which brings us to our last word. It's the word commitment. Commitment. Again, in verse 25, he says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you will perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you. But as for me, the nearness of God is my good. I have made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works. First of all, in verses 25 to 26, he recognizes that if he had that if he had God That he had all the reward that he would ever need. If you have God, you have all the reward that you ever need. So he's finally turning his attention to the goodness of the glory of God, which is what heaven is all about anyway, right? It's about God. What's heaven if God's not there? Like heaven is about being with him, recognizing that God is the goal of heaven. That's who I have. I have him, I have God. He is my desire. He's the one that I gain in heaven. As we read earlier in Philippians chapter 1, that to die is gain. Because I gain him. He's the goal. And I've often read this passage in Psalm 73, where it says, and besides you I desire nothing on earth. Besides you, I desire nothing on earth. And I used to think that this meant that apart from you, I desire nothing, or in addition to you, I desire nothing. But that's not what ASAF is speaking about here. It's a word that speaks about proximity. What he's saying is that when I'm with you, I don't want anything else. That when I'm near to you, like everything else starts to fade away. That the nearness of God is my good. That when I'm with you That 's when everything starts to fade. Speaking about the presence of God. In your presence, there's this fullness of joy. There's this old song that we used to sing, Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus. Look full into his wonderful face, and the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and grace. It's as as I draw near to you, like I I gain perspective, and everything else doesn't matter anymore. What should you do during a trial that you're facing in life? Draw near to God. Draw near to God. Find your satisfaction in Him. Turn your eyes to Him. And in drawing near to God and worship, we recognize that we're gripped by his hand, that we're guided by his counsel, and that we have the promise of glory in the future. that everything else starts to starts to lose the the weight of its significance. As far as the prosperity of the wicked, what does that matter anymore? But I'm with God. Even if my flesh and my heart fail, which is talking about the end of life, when your heart fails, you're done, right? My flesh and my heart may fail, and one day your flesh and your heart will fail. And when that happens When my flesh and my heart may fail, God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. When this heart stops beating, I have a new one that starts to beat on the other side. Like I'm going to have a glorified body, but like the life that I have right now transitions into the eternal glory of the presence of God. And one day I will return and have a glorified body that will have all the faculties. And for those that we love that belong to Christ, we'll see them again, because this is the promise of Scripture. That the life does not end here. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. My life continues after this life. And the life of those that we love continues after this life. And that is the hope that we have. And that's what we cling to. And that's the reminder that God is good. How can you say that God is good? Because this life is not all that there is. There's more to come and the second part is better than the first part. That's what we're looking forward to And this would have been particularly meaningful to Asaph. He says, My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Do you remember earlier I said that Asaph was a Levitical singer? Do you know what was uh unique about the tribe of Levi when the land was portioned out? Guess who didn't get a part of the land? The Levites The Levites didn't get a part of the land. Land was given to all of the tribes except Levi. The tribe of Levi was the only one that did not have a portion of the promised land. Why is that? Flip over to Deuteronomy chapter 10. Deuteronomy chapter ten. Look at verse 8. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 8. It says, At that time the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord, to serve him, and to bless in his name until this day. Therefore, Levi does not have a portion or inheritance with his brothers. The Lord is his inheritance, just as the Lord your God spoke to him. In Numbers chapter 18 and verse 20, God says this, that I am your portion and your inheritance among the sons of Levi. Levi, you're not going to get any land on this side because you're going to show everybody that I'm enough. That even if I don't have a portion of this inheritance, that I am enough for you. I will be your portion. I will be your inheritance. And I'm enough. The Levites were a representation in Israel that God was enough. God was their portion. He recognized that God was all the reward that he would ever need. Back in Psalm 73, he says, God is the strength of my heart and he's my portion forever. If I have him, I have all that I need. He's my portion and God is enough. And secondly, he also recognized that God was his greatest good. God was the greatest good that he would ever need. Look again at verse. 28 it says, but as for me, the nearness of God is my good. Being near God is all that I need. The the service in the temple as I'm in in the worship of God's people as I'm hearing God's word, like that's my good. Drawing near to the Lord, that is what I need. And I've made the Lord my God my refuge. The Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works The greatest good that could be received in this life is not a long and healthy life, but a nearness to the presence of God. It's not seeking shelter and positions or power or influence, but it's refuge in our God. The word refuge is used in Scripture to speak of a place of personal safety. When a person was being pursued by an enemy, they could seek the place of refuge. God set up cities of refuge, and he's saying that I am your refuge. But I am the place that you hide in. We learned that in Psalm 91, right? And even after this life is done, the refuge still stands. Because he finds your rest in me, even after this life, that God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. And there's a contrast that's presented in these two verses in verse 27. It says, For behold, those who are far from you will perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you. But in contrast to that, the nearness of God is my good. So he talks about those who are far from God and then those who are near to God. Those who are far from God will perish. Those who are far from God will be destroyed. Those who are far from God are described as those who are unfaithful to Him. But in contrast to that, the nearness of God is my good. I'm the one who draws nearer to God. I've made the Lord my refuge. That's where I find my security. And I will tell of all of your works. That's something to talk about, isn't it? Something to talk about, which is actually how the Psalm ends. He says that I may, the nearness of God is my good, I've made the Lord my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. ASAP came close to betraying the people of God by declaring to them that I'm not sure if God is good But now at the end of the psalm, what is he now doing? I'm telling of all your works. Like now that I got my mind right I got something I can say now. I should have kept my mouth shut before because I wasn't really certain that you were good. But now that I know that you're good, now that I've seen the end, now that I have perspective, now I've got something to talk about. That's the kind of thinking that we want to hear about. Let's tell of the works of God. And that's what the psalm is about. It's all about declaring the goodness of God. How did the psalm begin? Surely God is good to Israel. To those who are pure in heart. And this entire Psalm is an application of that verse. It's telling of verse 28, telling of the works of God, telling of his goodness. He cycles right back to this understanding of the goodness of God. So as he walks through his confusion, he stopped by conviction, which leads him to his confession. Followed by a commitment, which brings about the confidence that God is good, and that brings us back to the very beginning. That's the confidence that he had in the first place. Now we've got something to talk about. I've got something to talk about. I'm confident in this God, and now I can share confidently about this God. We can rest firmly in the and confidently in the foundation of our God and His Word, can't we? We can rest securely in the knowledge that God is good. Do you understand that outside of God that there is no place of refuge? The only place of refuge that we find is in Him. Psalm 73, verse 27, it says, Behold, those who are far from you will perish. If you're here today and you have not come to the knowledge of who Jesus Christ is. If your heart's not pure before him, if you're not one of his children, if you don't belong to him, you're not in a covenant relationship with him, the Bible lets you know that you're far from God. If you have not entered into a relationship with him through faith and by faith alone, you don't have the nearness of God as your good And one day you will perish without him. You can't purify your heart through ceremonies, through good works, through self-effort. The Bible lets you know in Romans chapter 10 and verse 9 that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. And the scripture says, whoever believes in him will not be disappointed If you turn to the Lord, you will not be disappointed. Have you trusted in Him for your salvation? That's the only way that this psalm can apply to you, that the nearness of God would be your good Number two, have you recognized that God is the greatest good that you could ever receive? The greatest good that you can receive is is being found in him. The nearness of God on this side of eternity is the best that you can have in this life. Drawing near to him. You can't seek shelter in positions, power, a physical life, but you can seek your refuge in God. Find safety in him. Find the nearness of God is your good. And do you understand that he is the only reward that you will ever need? And that one day that we will enter into that eternal inheritance. And that's what Asaf finally realized. But the nearness of God is my good, and there's nothing else that I desire but you. There's nothing else that I need besides you And that you're the strength of my heart and my portion forever. God is the eternal reward for those that belong to Him. And if you have that, you have something to talk about. You can tell of his wondrous works. You can tell of what the Lord has done in your life. And how the Lord, and some of you had that story to tell. Like I almost lived. And if it wasn't for the hand of God gripping onto me, that I would have slipped away. But God held on to me. And he's guiding me. And one day he will glorify me. And that's the hope that we have. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Now, Father, we thank you for how your word speaks to us, and your word is good. And you are good. And being near to you is the best that we can receive on this side of eternity. And one day, for those of us who belong to you, we will enter into the eternal reward. Father, we thank you that those who've gone before us, that they've entered into their eternal reward. And because of that, Lord, we can find hope, Lord, and we don't weep as those without hope. You're the God that gives us hope. So Father, I pray that uh as we speak with one another, Lord, that we would speak the hope that we find in Scripture, that we would speak of the goodness of our God, that He's a rock that we can find our refuge in. So Father, I pray that you would keep us. Lord, that you would protect our faith, that you would bring us all the way to glory. And Father, we know that that is your work. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.