The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. The Bible does let us know that we're to entrust the things that we learn to faithful men. So we're going to have one of those faithful men uh preaching uh for us today. Uh as some of you uh know we've been uh doing some mentorship uh training here at Baltimore Bible Church, a mentorship model uh training and seeing some of our men through seminary. Uh so uh we have uh Brian Trussler is uh one of those Men, uh, Eli Jackson, uh as well as uh Sean Drynan and uh Elias Yin is also uh one of the men who's going through that that training uh with us through the masters uh seminary and uh Elias will be preaching uh for us today and uh for those of you who've been uh part of the uh yeah you can you can You can encourage them. As uh some of you uh if you've been in the journey through scripture uh class, you already know what a blessing uh he is and the attention that he gives to the word of god and and st uh the study. Uh so we're looking forward to hearing uh from him And uh also you can be praying for uh both him and his wife, uh his wife uh Yuris. Uh they're uh raising uh three children, Haddon, Ridley, and Gresham And for those of you who know your church history, you'll recognize those names, but you can ask them afterwards about, you know, what's the connection between uh his children's names and church history. Uh but we're looking forward to hearing from you brothers, so come on up and uh minister to us the word of God. My precious home church. I am extremely nervous right now and and uh George made me even more nervous with that introduction. Okay. Well we will be um going through the book of Obadiah, and I was telling Brandon I can't wait to see you all struggling to find this book in the Bible. So you're welcome to use your table of content. It is a The it is a very short book, just one chapter, and um it'll be right after the what's called the major prophets. So if you see Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, keep going, right after Amos, right before Jonah. So we'll be going through the book of Obadiah. When a man is suspected of committing a murder in the United States, a sophisticated legal system activates to determine the man's innocence or guilt. The U. S. legal system is designed with several rigorous steps a suspected murderer must go through, with the express purpose of executing justice, which must remain impartial. Transparent and evidence-driven. The first step is the arrest. By the Fourth Amendment of the U. S. Constitution, a lawful arrest requires what's known as probable cause That a crime has actually been committed and the person being arrested was likely the one who committed it. Then, following the arrest The suspect stands before a judge in his initial appearance, where the man is informed of the charges, he is informed of his constitutional rights, particularly his right to an attorney, and a determination of bail is made. Then the government must again demonstrate probable cause in order to proceed to trial A judge or grand jury examines the available evidence and witnesses and determines whether to issue a formal indictment. If an indictment is issued, the suspect, now defendant, is arraigned where he pleads either guilty or not guilty for the murder with which he is being formally charged Should the defendant plea not guilty, the case now proceeds to trial. Both the prosecution and defense go into discovery, where evidence and information they intend to use at the trial are shared Then, an impartial jury is selected and evidence is presented and assessed. Finally, a verdict is reached And if the evidence is deemed compelling, the sentence, the punishment that must be meted out to pay for the crime, is handed down by the judge to the now convicted murderer. Humans of every culture and every time develop some process for the orderly execution of justice when an evil deed is committed, because we are made in the image of an orderly and just God. And as we creatures gather evidence and execute justice, execute judgment in our earthly courts, our Creator does the same in his heavenly court. In the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, which speaks to what will happen in the last days, in chapter 20, verse 12, we read, And the dead were judged, that is to say, by God, by what was written in the books. According to what they had done. God, the divine judge, has a record of the deeds of every human being he has made. Every instance of sin and blasphemy and unbelief. And the Lord Jesus Christ even warned every careless word. They are all written down in a real book. By a real God, and one day every man will have to give account in a real heavenly court of law An exact and unalterable record will be opened before the heavenly judge as he passes his sentence of divine wrath on all who fall short of the standard of his law. And therein lies the bad news. His standard, as elucidated by Pastor George earlier, demands perfection As it states in James chapter 2, verse 10, for whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has been guilty of all of it. One lie. One sinfully angry thought, even enviously wanting something your friend owns that you don't, and that's called the sin of coveting. That's the tenth commandment. It's as if you have violated all of God's law and you are deemed guilty. And the sentence for your spiritual crime is clear. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. So again, this is the bad news. This is the ultimate problem that plagues every human being. How am I made right with a God that is so holy, so perfect So righteous and so just that he cannot abide even the smallest sin in his eternal kingdom. How can I escape the wrath of God? Can the spiritual debt be repaid? Now, as it turns out, the Lord God not only judges individuals, but he also judges entire nations and people groups. And as we've just seen, when it comes to the judgment of individuals, God, being a just and orderly God, does not pass his judgment arbitrarily or capriciously, but he passes it on the objective basis of his immaculately kept evidence locker The book of Ds, which records every sin committed by every human being from the beginning to the end of your life. And when it comes to the judgment of nations, God similarly ensures evidence is collected and presented such that no one can dare to accuse the divine judge of injustice. Now, God knows all things. And further, there is no higher authority than God. There is no higher court, there's no supreme court that exists above the Lord's court. There is no one the creator has to answer to. He is by definition God. That's what God is. He is, in fact, the very definition of right and wrong. What God is, that is the definition of righteousness. What God is not, and what he despises, that is the definition of evil. So it is quite frankly an utterly nonsensical statement. to even try to accuse God of evil as it would be like saying, light is darkness, square is circle, goodness is wickedness. God is wrong, all equally conceptually nonsense statements. Yet, nevertheless, God glorifies himself by condescending to man and presenting to us and to the nations the evidence of our wrongdoing to further reveal his perfect Exacting justice and holiness. God is holy. That means completely set apart. He is set up completely apart from sin. He is transcendent. He is beyond us. That's what that word means. The Book of Obadiah effectively functions as a national book of deeds. God's evidence locker specifically against the ancient people of Edom Obadiah is Yahweh's formal indictment concerning two sins in particular which made the Edomites worthy of annihilation. This book serves to uphold the integrity of God who does not destroy without just cause, and it serves as a sober warning today for both individuals and nations that would be tempted to commit the same sins. Now let's hear from the Word of God. Let's start with Obadiah verse 1. Quote, the vision of Obadiah, end quote. We don't know much about our author, Obadiah. There are eleven Obadiayahs referenced in the Old Testament, and none of them are likely this minor prophet. Obadiah was a very common name in the ancient Near East. It was kind of like their John Smith But we do know that he was a prophet that received a vision. In other words, this book was not the product of Obadiah's imagination. Obadiah received this directly from the Lord, and he is relaying the message to his audience, which includes us in the present day. Continuing in verse 1, we discover the subject of Obadiah's warning. Thus says the Lord God concerning Edom. We have heard a report from the Lord, and a messenger has been sent among the nations. Rise up. Let us rise against her for battle. Behold, I will make you small among the nations. You shall be utterly despised. The Lord, by his invisible, all-powerful, providential hand, was gathering the nations together and calling them to war against Edom. And the result will be utter decimation. Edom will become small, their population completely wiped out. A bit of background on the people of Edom The Edomite patriarch was Esau, who was the older twin brother of Jacob. Jacob became the father of the Israelites, of course, whereas Esau became the father of the Edomites. We read in Genesis chapter 25 that even the circumstances surrounding their conception was unusual. In verse 22 of Genesis 25, Moses records that when the two boys were in their mother Rebekah's womb, The children struggled together within her, it's written. This must have been an intensely painful and also very disturbing experience for Rebecca, you can imagine. So Rebecca, faithful woman as she was, turns to the best, most reliable, and powerful being she can think of to help. She turns to the Lord God in prayer and asks, if it is thus, why is this happening to me? And Yahweh responds in verse 23, Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other. The older, that's Esau, shall serve the younger, Jacob. The Edomites shall serve the Israelites And indeed, strife characterized the relationship between the people of Israel and Edom throughout their several hundred year history. But it's noteworthy that the aggravation was always one-sided. The conflict began after the Israelites were free from their slavery in Egypt, and they were led by God via Moses through the wilderness. On a journey to inherit the land of Canaan promised to them by God, which is the same land that's partly occupied by the modern-day nation of Israel. The full boundaries of the Israelites' promised land, however, is much bigger. However, on their trek through the wilderness, the fastest path would have been through the territory occupied by Edom. And as such, as recounted in Numbers chapter 20, verses 14 to 21. Moses sends messengers to the Edomites, quote, Thus says your brother, Israel, and then down to verse seventeen, please let us pass through your land. We will not pass through field or vineyard or drink water from a well. We will go Along the king's highway, you will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left until we have passed through your territory. So please just let us peaceably go through your lands, and we'll be on our way. And yet, how did the king of Edom respond? Numbers 20, verse 18. But Edom said to him, You shall not pass through, lest I come out with the sword against you. Talk about heartless. This is Israel's own brother, Edom. And Edom says no and threatens to kill them if they try. And then, once Israel finally inherited the Promised Land, the two nations were directly adjacent to each other, Edom to the direct south of Israel's border, and Edom would repeatedly come into military conflict with Israel. In spite of this abuse, the Israelites were given strict command in Deuteronomy 23, verses 7 to 8, that they were to not abore an Edomite, for he is your brother. And this was in spite of the fact that Edom never reciprocated this courtesy. The Lord showed great patience and grace to the Edomites while they repeatedly abused his brother Israel. But now Obadiah foresees a day when the Lord's patience has run out. So returning to Obadiah, we discover in verses 3 to 4 the root cause for Edom's hateful attitude. And the first indictment the Lord hands down to Edom in the Lord's heavenly court of law, Edom is proud. The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock, in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, Who will bring me down to the ground? Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the Lord. The Edomites took great pride in their geographical strength, which featured high mountains which made their land very difficult to invade. Their capital city, Selah, or Petra, located in modern-day Jordan, was surrounded by steep cliffs and could only be approached by a very easily defensible southeast. Slope, and this made the Edomites a very arrogant people. They could not conceive of a feasible way for anyone to bring them down to the ground, as it says in the text. They were literally perched high on mountains. Thousands of years later, today, even in modern warfare, geography, particularly elevation, continues to be a key driver of a nation's defensibility. Having the high ground is still a relevant feature. So imagine the ancient Near East, before jet bombers and helicopters and drones, how much more impregnable the Edomite homeland must have seemed. So they weren't proud without cause And yet, what seemed impossible to the fleshly earthly minded man, what seems materially and geographically unthinkable The conquest of this mountain dwelling people, the creator of heaven and earth, can accomplish. And the complete erasing of the Edomite people from the pages of history is witness to this fact When was the last time you met an Edomite? They don't exist. Why? Because God promised they wouldn't exist in the next five verses, verses five to nine. Verse 5, if thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night, how you have been destroyed, would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? Obadiah illustrates a very disturbing picture here of Edom's destruction by calling to mind two particular people that would have the strongest incentive to take as much as they possibly can in their task. The first is a thief. What is a thief's motive? He wants to break into a house and steal as much as he possibly can, right? And the second is a grape gatherer in a vineyard. You spent all this time and resources and fertilizer and sweat and toil growing these grapes. You're not plucking just a few and letting the rest rot on the vine. You're taking as much as you can. And yet, even a thief and even the stingiest, most thorough grape gatherer are going to leave some behind. Even the most overachieving thief, you know, he's not going to take every single piece of furniture and item in your home. There will be some things left. He'll take the TV, he'll take the jewelry, but he's not taking your shampoo bottle in the aquarium Even the most diligent grape-gatherer is going to miss a few fruit here and there, not so with the destruction God will bring to Edom. You see, what God sets out to do, he always does it perfectly. And when he does it for your good, as King David rejoiced in Psalm 23:5, my cup overflows. When he blesses you, it's too much. He overblesses. That's the perfect sort of generosity God shows to those he favor. But there is a terrifying inverse to the perfect God. When he has made up his mind to oppose you, there will be nothing left. When the floodgates of his wrath opens, nothing survives. Verse 6: How Esau has been pillaged, his treasures sought out, all your allies have driven you to your border. Those at peace with you have deceived you. They have prevailed against you. Those who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you. You have no understanding. The instrument of God's wrath, ironically, will be Edom's very own allies. Verse 8 Will I not on that day, declares the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom and understanding out of Mount Esau? And your mighty men shall be destroyed, O Temon, so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter. The notion that the Edomite people would cease to exist would have been shocking to Obadiah's audience. It would have been something inconceivable, which is precisely why the Lord gave this prophetic word. God wanted his prediction of Edom's demise recorded so that the world would know that it was the work of his supernatural hand. You see, biblical Christianity opposes the worldly philosophy known as materialism. And by materialism, I don't mean like being greedy about money and cars and clothes, I don't mean being materialistic. The Bible opposes that as well. But I mean the philosophical ideology that the only thing that exists, all of reality, is just composed of stuff. It's just molecules and atoms colliding, the love you feel for your father and mother, the struggles and pains we experience in the world, and even the fate of nations. The materialist claims it is all just the product of matter. Things that can be measured and discerned with the five senses. There is no soul. There are no spiritual forces as it's claimed. According to Karl Marx, nations rise and fall according to purely material economic causes. But according to the Word of God , Even a nation with the strongest material circumstances, a land literally built on a mountain, if the nation is weak spiritually They are vulnerable to the destruction of the Lord. You see, we worship a God that reveals himself to be supernaturally long-suffering. As it states in 2 Peter 3, verses 8 to 9, the Lord is willing to wait thousands of years now by this count before he comes to judge the world. And the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but he is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. The Lord is long suffering. But he is not endlessly suffering. His patience does eventually run out And a nation that continually spits in the face of God, putting their confidence in their material, geographic, economic, military strength rather than trusting in the Lord, invites destruction. It could be today, it could be tomorrow, it could be hundreds of years in the future, as the Lord wills. But rest assured, the nation's sins are being actively recorded in God's ledger. Edom 's arrogant boasts about their invulnerability were being carefully noted by Yahweh throughout their existence, and their day of punishment has finally come. So the first charge against Edom is they were proud. Pride inherently robs glory from God. And that's because pride is the manifestation of a heart that believes He is God. Pride was the root of man's first sin in the Garden of Eden, where man was instructed that he could eat of any fruit, of any tree, in the whole world. But just one fruit from one tree, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, just one tree. Don't eat this one. And yet, instead of obeying the Lord, Adam and Eve made the irrational determination that God did not know what was best for them. But declared with their actions, I'll be the judge of what fruit I should or shouldn't eat. Thank you very much. I am the captain of my ship. That's fundamentally a high-handed, treasonous, arrogant, prideful act, and that heart attitude has defined the human condition ever since, including the ancient Edomites. Now, the second charge the Lord lays against Edom starts in verse 10. Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever. On the day that you stood aloof, on the day that strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners entered his gates and cash lost for Jerusalem, you were like one of them. Obadiah prophetically foresees a future day, a day that will be fulfilled by the destruction of Jerusalem by King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon in five eighty-six BC, where Israel specifically the southern kingdom of Judah would be in great need, and their brother Edom outrageously would be just like one of the heartless Babylonian invaders. We see the callousness of Jacob's very own brother, his own flesh and blood, in verses 12 to 14, where there is a progressive escalation of Edom's wickedness against Israel. First, a wicked attitude of gleeful gloating over Israel's misery. Verse 12, but do not gloat over the day of your brother and the day of his misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. Do not boast in the day of distress. But it doesn't stop there. Verse 13. Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Do not gloat over his disaster in the day of his calamity. Do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity. After the Babylonians tear down the walls of Jerusalem and murder the people and raise the city, who comes strutting in afterwards, adding insult upon injury? The Edomites. Imagine being at a funeral mourning the death of your family member. The Edomites barge into the funeral parlor and then rob the grieving family. They loot Amen. They loos the already ravaged city But it gets worse. Verse 14. Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives. Do not hand over his survivors in the day of distress. There were some Jews who were frantically attempting to go south to escape the Babylonian horde that entered from the north. And what did the Edomites do? They stood at the exit. caught the escapees and turned them right over to the Babylonians for enslavement. This is the classic anatomy of sin. Sin is like weeds in a garden, it always grows. Left unchecked and unrepented of Sin always gets bigger and bigger and more audacious and more reckless until it becomes unmanageable and destroys you. The CEO that embezzles embezzles millions of dollars from his company's treasury and ends up in prison for fraud. It didn't begin with outright theft. His sin began as a little germ in his mind, a lust for a lifestyle that he couldn't support, or just a small little accounting discrepancy here and there. And it just grew and grew from there, one lie begetting another, until one day he's now committing a felony. Edom began with a little gloating over his brother's misfortunes And it ends with robbery and outright enslavement. 2 Timothy 3, verse 13, evil people and impostors will go on from bad to worse. Sin always progresses, and the only thing that can interrupt the runaway effect of sin is confession and repentance, asking the Lord to provide his sanctifying power to cleanse us from the sin. Now, entering verse 15 in Obadiah, the scene now shifts. Up to verse 15, the indictment is against one particular nation. the ancient Edomites, charged with two particular sins of pride and mistreatment of Israel. But now, notice, the charge broadens. Verse 15 states, for the day of the Lord, this is a technical theological term, by the way, in the Bible, that can refer to either a particular moment of judgment against a specific nation or the day of God's final judgment in the end times. And here it is the latter. The day of the Lord is near upon all the nations. All the nations. All nations are now in view. And this is where the text becomes directly applicable to our situation as present-day Americans living in the year 2025. As you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually They shall drink and swallow and shall be as though they had never been. The mountain in view here in verse 16 is clear by the adjective. holy mountain, as well as the immediate next verse, verse 17, we are talking about Mount Zion, the hill of Jerusalem, which is called holy because it contained the temple. In other words, suddenly, due to the inclusion of verses 15 to 16, Obadiah, the book of Obadiah is no longer just a past record of the sins of an obscure, now extinct ancient people. But rather the fate of the Edomites is meant to serve as a warning to all nations that dare to commit the same sort of evil. And the specific evil in question is the mistreatment of the people of Israel. In verse 16, the archetypical sin of Edom is the Edomite coming through the open gates of Jerusalem, destroyed by the Babylonian invaders Looting the city, and then drunkenly celebrating their rival Israel's downfall on her most precious and holy site, Mount Zion. But then God, who loves irony, turns the table. As you have done, it shall be done to you. You're having fun drinking on my holy mountain? You, all present and future nations that exult over the misfortunes of the Jews, I'll give you something to drink. The cup of God's wrath God's fury is repeatedly depicted as a cup throughout Scripture. Isaiah 51, verse 17, depicts the quote, cup of his wrath that was given to Jerusalem in that case. And Jeremiah 25, 15 calls it the cup of the wine of wrath that the Lord makes all the nations to whom I send you to drink. This is undoubtedly the drink in question in Obadiah 16. And once again, it is a cup threatened against all nations, not just the ancient Edomites. Edom stands as an example, an archetype, but their abuse of Israel is a sin that the Lord warns all nations and all human history to be careful to not likewise commit. It's a sin that was anticipated by the Apostle Paul, guided by the Holy Spirit in Romans 11, verses 18 to 21, where he warns Gentiles: do not be arrogant toward the branches. This is a metaphorical reference to Israel, the natural original branch that was broken off from the olive tree of Christ due to sin. Continue in Romans 11, verse 18. If you are, if you are arrogant, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you. Then you will say, Branches were broken off, so that I, the Gentile, might be grafted in. That is true. They, Israel, were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand firm through faith. So do not become proud, but fear. For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. Apparently, it was anticipated by the Lord that there is a characteristic tendency among Gentiles to begin to be arrogant towards Jews. And the Lord here wanted to preemptively nip that tendency in the bud. And sadly, this is even a tendency that can infect professing Christians. Note that this passage in particular, Romans 11, was specifically written to professing believers. This tendency comes from the fact that the Jews are a branch that has been presently broken off. They are not in the Lord's favor today. They are, for the most part, hardened in their hearts, as it states further down in verse 25. Some of the most rank unbelievers, some of the greatest haters of the Lord Jesus Christ today, as they similarly were in Jesus' day at his first coming, are ethnically Jewish. And that can tempt non-Jewish nations, especially a strong and self-reliant nation, to despise Israel in her present weakness. It can tempt the Gentile believer, enjoying the blessings of God operating through the church, to look down upon the hardened, rebellious, Christ-haten Jew with contempt. And yet, returning to Obadiah, verse 16, the Lord threatens all nations. If you exult And drink in celebration over the tragedies of Israel, even if the tragedy is caused by the Lord Himself as a chastisement of Israel's sins. You will drink my wrath. You see, the Babylonian horde that destroyed Jerusalem was sent by the Lord. God destroyed the temple in order to punish Israel for her wickedness. But that did not give the Edomites the right to morbidly celebrate her downfall. Why? Why does God care about Israel? Why this particular nation? Why not Germany? The United States? China? Canada? Why Israel? The truth is, there is no discernible earthly reason. Hear the Lord's explanation in Deuteronomy 7, verses 6 to 8. This is very interesting. Why did God pick Israel? Deuteronomy 7, 6-8. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples. But it is because The Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers. Do you hear a bit of circularity in that reason? Verse 6. The Lord your God chose you to be his treasured possession. Verse 8, why? Because he loves you. Okay, yes, but why does God love Israel? Because Israel is his treasured possession. Why is Israel God's treasured possession? Because he loves Israel. There is no reason given. God simply decided, binding himself to an unconditional covenant starting with Israel's patriarch Abraham in Genesis 12, 1-3, to attach his name to this nation. On an individual level, it's the same mystery behind why he chose you, why he chose to save you instead of all the millions of other people that reject Christ. Why did he reveal Christ to you and not your neighbor? Why did he choose Israel instead of another nation to be his elect possession? Now, that does not mean every individual Jew is this possession, by the way. As Romans eleven just stated, the majority of individual Jews since the time of Christ, unfortunately, are not believers, and if they don't repent, they will individually face the judgment of God. Israel is currently in a state of partial hardening, but the Jewish nation as a corporate entity is and will always be the Lord's possession. So much so that in Zechariah chapter 2 verse 8, the Lord states, He who touches you, Israel Touches the apple of my eye. That's a reference to the pupil. God so identifies himself with this nation that when he sees Israel being abused, it's like someone poking him in his eye. It's unbearably irritating. It's enraging, in fact. This is the mystery of the doctrine of election. The doctrine of why God chooses some to save when every single human being deserves hell. And that mystery, that lack of any kind of discernible reason, is why God receives all the glory. In Obadiah 17-21, a glorious promise is given to Israel. Though Jacob will suffer at the hands of his treacherous brother Edom, we read in verse 17, But in Mount Zion there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy, and the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions The house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble. They shall burn them and consume them, and there shall be no survivor for the house of Esau, for the Lord has spoken. Israel's enemies, including Edom, will be crushed. Israel will be restored to her full strength and glory And particularly for Edom, this prophecy of Edom's complete annihilation found fulfillment through multiple stages. In 581 BC, approximately five years after Nebuchadnezzar raises Jerusalem. The Babylonians then turn their sights on the Edomites, and by the 5th century BC, the Edomite people are forced out of their territory by the Nabataeans. only much later reappearing on the world stage in the form of the Ijumeans, but then finally 80-70 simultaneously with another destruction of Jerusalem. Jerusalem, this time at the hands of the Roman general Titus, Titus also eradicates the Edomite people once and for all, and you never hear about them ever again. So who shall be the ultimate possessors of the ancient Edomite homeland, currently largely occupied by the nation of Jordan? Verse 19. Those of the Negeb shall possess Mount Esau, and those of the Shvelah, so these are the Jews, shall possess the land of the Philistines. They shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead. The exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath And the exiles of Jerusalem, who are in Sephiroth, shall possess the cities of the Negez. Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule uh to rule Mount Esau, and the kingdom shall be the Lord's. There will come a day when a generation of Israelites will finally repent on mass and trust in the Lord. And what a glorious day that will be, including for us Gentiles in the church. Because as explained again by the Apostle Paul, going back to Romans eleven, verse fifteen, the mass repentance of Israel is the signal of the final arrival of the kingdom of God. Paul writes, if Israel's rejection, their rejection of the Messiah, means the reconciliation of the world, that's how the gospel came into the whole world. What will their acceptance mean? But life from the dead. God foreknew Israel would reject their Savior at his first coming, and this was designed to reroute the gospel to all nations But once Israel returns to their Savior, it signals the arrival of the kingdom of God and eternal life in the renewed heaven and earth for all who love the Lord. The world ever swayed from one extreme belief to another by every wind of doctrine as described in Ephesians 4:14, rarely gets its opinion of Israel right. You have on the one extreme the fleshly, worldly, originally, explicitly irreligious political movement of Zionism that preaches Israel can never do wrong. They are owed their land. It's not a gracious gift from the Lord, it's their due. The first generation of Zionists like David Ben Gurion, as described by Israeli historian Benny Morris. were actually explicitly anti-religious, accusing God of abandoning Israel during the Holocaust. The Zionists gave no deeper consideration to why tragedies like the Holocaust keep occurring to their people. No inward reflection of why they were suffering and why they had no divine protection. No mourning over sin. And so Zionism states, if God won't help us, we'll do it ourselves. We'll make ourselves a nation. We will possess the land, promises owed to us through our own means. And sadly, even many professing Christians have syncretized They've mixed their Christian belief with the fleshly cause of Zionism, believing Israel can never do wrong, which completely ignores the fact that this current generation of Israel is not a repentant people. They are not believers. They continue to reject the Lord, and we as the church need to imitate our spiritual forefathers, the apostles, in continuing to call the Jews to bow the knee before their Savior. The Apostle Paul, what was his habit? As described in the book of Acts, he would regularly reason with the Jews in the synagogues, pleading with them to acknowledge their true Messiah, the Lord Jesus But today, the wind of doctrine has now blown many to the opposite extreme. This is what happens when you are so-called Christians that are utterly ignorant of the Bible. And it appears it's become quite fashionable today, tragically, even among professing believers, particularly among those that call themselves Christian nationalists. To now all together despise the Jews and to relegate all of Western civilization's problems to the Jews Again, no self-reflection, no self-awareness, talk about blame shifting. America's degeneracy is never my fault. I never contributed to it as a Gentile with my own personal sins. No. Everything is a Jewish conspiracy. It's all the fault of the ADL, the Anti-Defamation League. It's the Israel lobby. It's the Jew, George Soros, the shadowy puppet master behind every societal ill. The Israel today, it's claimed, they're not even comprised of true ancient Israelites. They're just a demonic Ashkenazi counterfeit. And look, I'm not condoning the cause of the ADL or George Soros. But this sort of blame shifting, rabid, oftentimes ignorantly ahistorical anti-Jewish hatred is exactly what the Holy Spirit anticipated. and warned the Gentiles against in Romans 11. This conspiratorial thinking about an alleged shadowy Jewish cabal was exactly what the Egyptians of Moses ' day were guilty of They saw the great success of the Jews in Egypt and how they were multiplying in great numbers. And so, without any just cause, they decided to oppress and enslave the Jews. This is the sort of unthinking, demonically inspired hatred the Arab states continue to be guilty of to the state, brainwashing their children from birth to hate and seek to butcher the Jews. But a reclamation of biblical thinking provides a much-needed, balanced, measured, wise assessment of Israel that is so missing in today's conversation. I expect, as a Christian that believes the Bible, for the nation of Israel that is partially hardened according to Romans 11, 25, to not act like the church. Yes. Of course I expect the Jews to commit sin. They are an act of rebellion against their covenant God. And I anticipate the Jews to continue to suffer. insecure borders and attacks and persecution as divine chastisement for their rejection of their Messiah. Perhaps there may even come a day where they'll be once again temporarily driven off their land. It could happen They're not guaranteed the land of Canaan until they bow the knee to Christ. And yet I also expect, again, according to Romans 11, for there to be fleshly and satanic temptation to unfairly malign and antagonize this people, to exaggerate their faults and apply double standards to to them and to become arrogant toward this people, because they remain the treasured possession of God, who will, once again, in the future, be used by God when they finally repent. Satan continues to want to assault and destroy Israel and encourages his children to do so as well, not so much because Satan hates Israel. But because Satan hates God, and God continues to associate himself with this particular people group. God has yet unfulfilled plans with Israel, and Satan wants to see those plans thwarted As detailed in Revelation chapter 20, it is the ingathering of a generation of repentant Jews that initiate the beginning of the millennial kingdom, where Satan is seized and thrown into the bottomless pit for a thousand years. It is the reign of Christ on the throne of the Israelite King David that leads to Satan being ultimately judged and thrown into the lake of fire. Since the very beginning of human history, since the murder of Abel, Satan has been very interested in thwarting the promises of God, which Prominently feature yet unfulfilled covenants involving the nation of Israel in order to somehow escape his doom So, as Gentiles believers in the church, we ought to be very interested in the protection of and the fulfillment of God's promises to this people group, because the plain and literal fulfillment of the promises to Israel gives us. Gentile Christians, confidence that the promises he has made to the church will also be plain and literal and secure. The Lord promises in Matthew 7:18, the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. I sure hope that's literal. I sure hope my understanding of that word church is literal. Surprise, every time you see the word church, it was actually a secretly figurative allegory for some other entity, completely, that will appear 1,000 years later. Oh well. Too bad for you for not understanding your own Bible in your time It's an incredibly insulting and again arrogant thing to claim that our spiritual forefathers, Abraham Isaac, Jacob, David, and Obadiah did not understand their own scriptures because they needed to wait for the mystery of the church to be revealed that purportedly mutates the promises to Israel into an alleged fulfillment in the church. Imagine how that undermines every plain and literal promise of God. What happens to John 6. 37? All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. Is that a literal promise? Is your personal election secure in the palm of Jesus Christ? Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Is that a real promise? Am I able to understand this verse in its normal, literal, and plain sense? If Israel isn't Israel, as the context of the Old Testament promises demands, the Bible becomes an utter mystery. It becomes a book of riddles that will cause you to read every passage of Scripture with a nagging doubt in the back of your mind that there is some secret, hidden meaning locked away from you that you may never be able to discern. And so Obadiah warns all the nations, and will do well to heed it, as Americans today. Do not imitate the sin of the ancient Edomites who perished because of their mistreatment of the Jewish people. Now, we began the sermon laying out the bad news. And once again, our problem is there is a God, and that God is a holy judge that, like any righteous judge, cannot stand evil. And we are evil. But here's the good news. The Lord has mercifully provided a means of escape And for the individual person that escapes, that escape is through faith and repentance in the Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, God the Son. There is no possible way for us to reach God. Once again, James 2. 10 makes that impossible for whoever keeps the whole law, but fails in one point He has become guilty of all of it. And so Romans 3. 10 makes it clear. None is righteous. No, not one. The only way to have a right relation with God is God had to come down to man. And this was done in history through God the Son becoming the God man Jesus Christ who took on the likeness of sinful flesh. According to Romans 8. 3, he himself was not a sinner, but it was important for him to take on the likeness, because Jesus became an acceptable sacrificial substitute that lived the perfect life we could never live, and then suffered the death and wrath of God that we deserve to suffer, such that Romans 10, 13 declares Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Anyone who confesses that they have no righteousness in and of themselves, they agree with God That there is no way to earn their own salvation, and then throws himself completely at the mercy of God, pleading for Jesus to be his covering. To be his atonement that protects him from the holy justice of God. That man and woman will be saved. So, how to escape the wrath of God? At the individual level, you must repent and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, how about at the national level? After all, in the context of Obadiah, we are talking about nations more than individuals. How does a nation escape the wrath of God? Well, at its root it's the same means, repentance and faith in Christ. But practically speaking, it's a very difficult question It already takes a miracle for one soul to be transformed to follow Christ. How do you reform millions of souls that comprise a nation? What is the best shot at practically seeing that occur? It appears throughout Scripture that when it comes to the actions and destinies of an entire nation, an entire people group, singular righteous believers living in the nation are no longer the driver. At the macro scale of a nation, the dominant force really becomes the providential hand of God. Of course, God dominates all things at all scales, but just practically speaking, it's very hard for Billy Bob, the lone Christian in the huge city of Baltimore, to move the whole city to repentance, right? It's certainly possible, by the way, God has powerfully used individuals in the past, but that does not appear to be the normal pattern laid out in Scripture. To further establish my point, consider Proverbs 21, verse 1, which states, The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. dominating driver in the decision making of world leaders. Entire empires, like the Egyptians and Assyrians and Babylonians, empires and great powers today, rise and fall seemingly at their appointed times by God's sovereign decree. In the prophetic book of Daniel, specifically chapter eleven, we see very specific nations gaining and losing power and making treaties and moving through history, all controlled like chess pieces in the hand of the Lord. But against this backdrop of the Lord's sovereignty, before we fall into complete fatalism, the world will burn, what's the point? Let's just Get into our holy huddle. Let's just build our Christian compound on a farm. Let the world do whatever it wants. I couldn't care less. Why does BBC have a scatter week? Why do we bother trying to build relationships in the Baltimore community? Why interact with the world at all? The whole world will go the way of Edom. What's the point? The point is this. What every Christian living in any nation today needs to remember is that though they, by themselves as individuals, may not be able to wield much influence in the direction of their community and nation. They are part of an extremely relevant, extremely influential counter force that holds back societal decay and has, as history has shown, through movements like the Protestant Reformation, can produce real pockets of spiritual change for the better. And that force is called the church. Churches are what the Edomites lacked in the days of Obadiah and the prophets. And that makes all the difference in the era we live in today. The Lord Jesus Christ describes the church in Matthew 5. 13 as salt. Salt is a preserving agent. It prevents the growth of bacteria, it prevents decay. The church is also called in verse 14 the light of the world, a town built on a hill. We illuminate the world to its problems of sin and the solution of Jesus Christ. We inject sanity into the conversation that says every religion teaches basically the same thing. There are multiple ways to reach God Men can be women, two women can marry each other, a fetus is just a clump of cells. As the world attempts to rapidly drag itself into health. Faithful churches filled with individual Christians exist as a powerful countervailing force, empowered by the Lord Jesus Christ. And where a genuine church exists, there will always be hope for at least some degree of communal repentance, transformation, and reform Now, these reforms will never be permanent, sadly. They're always going to be imperfect and temporary. This is why we eagerly anticipate the Lord's return. He has to make the changes permanent. But in the meantime, the church is given a mandate to speak out against the culture and be its salt and light. So how does a nation escape the wrath of God? What is the best chance at seeing the repentance in the United States of America, even if only locally and temporarily? It does not happen in a vacuum. And it does not happen with the power of the flesh, with social justice movements or mere political machinations and elections. The critical engine of national change is and always will be the church. How seriously do you take the church? How big of a priority is ministry in your life? Are you cognizant of the teachings of 1 Corinthians 12 that you individually are a critical piece? In the body of Christ, that you were given a unique gift that we all need to operate at full capacity. Are you aware of the church's posture as a lifeboat? to the community around us, that we aren't a monastery isolated in the mountains. We aren't a walled garden. Do we have a deep profound understanding that our work of evangelism and discipleship, when done by the power of the Lord and the clear, plain, faithful exposition of the Word, and not by the fleshly means of Flashy marketing and gimmicky seeker-sensitive preaching has the power to literally change the community around us. May the Lord give us, Baltimore Bible Church, greater appreciation of and zeal for the mission of the church as the salt and light of our state and country that perhaps we may not suffer the fate of the Edomites. Please bow your heads with me and let's go before the Lord. Father God, as we reflect upon the nation of Edom that no longer exists today and their twin grievous sins, of pride and arrogance in themselves and mistreatment of the people of Israel who you have called your elect treasured possession. We pray that we would not imitate that sin, that we would take the lesson of Edom to heart as individuals and as a nation if you would be so merciful to bring about some measure of repentance. Father God, please use our church in particular. Please use each of our members with the gifts you have given us. Lord, thank you for involving us in your mission of evangelism and discipleship. And church work, even though you could have done it better yourselves. Thank you for giving us that great pleasure and joy in participating in your work. In your sons, name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.