Amen. And uh we're grateful that because of of Christ and his sacrifice, that our our souls can have new life and arise, amen. Well, uh it's a joy to be with you again this week and to open up the Word of God uh with you, and it's my prayer that as we work through today a challenging text that you would leave with the same kind of encouragement that Daniel received when these words were first revealed to him. So if you would take your Bibles and open up to Daniel chapter 9. Daniel chapter 9 As we pointed out the last time we were here, the revelation that Daniel receives is an answer to prayer. That's an answer to Daniel's prayer for his people, for his people Israel. But the vision The Daniel receives, uh, reaches far beyond Israel and extends to the blessing and the hope for the entire world And the answer to Daniel's prayer is still our hope for today. The answer to Daniel's prayer for God to forgive, to take action, to deliver his people. was answered by the promise that transgression would come to a conclusion, that sin would ultimately come to an end, that iniquity would be atoned for, that everlasting righteousness would be brought to the earth. That all visions and prophecies would come to a close and that the holy place would be anointed. And that's an answer to prayer that every believer can rejoice in and we've only just begun to work our way uh through this magnificent prophecy and all that's found just in verse 24. We're in uh chapter 9 verses 24 to 27 and all that's found just in in 24 This is just an incredible prophecy, and the future is here revealed to us so that we might know that God will be glorified, that his people will be comforted, and that as Romans chapter 8 and verse 21 says, that the creation itself Also we'll be set free from its slavery to corruption and to the freedom of the glory of the children of God And Psalm 30 adds this thought, Psalm 30 and verse 5, for his anger is but for a moment, but his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may last for a night, but a shout of joy comes in the morning. And what that reminds us of is that there is coming an end to trouble. And can we say amen to that? There's coming an end to trouble. There's an old song that I remember that said, trouble don't last always. It's uh bad grammar, but it's great theology. Trouble will not last always, right? There's an end to trouble, and we can say, thank God, that there's coming an end to trouble And this prophecy in Daniel points all of us beyond the temporary troubles of life. Daniel's captivity in Babylon would come to an end. And would really result in a much greater freedom that would come when God wraps up all vision, wraps up all prophecy, and brings in everlasting righteousness. And that's what we find in Daniel Chapter nine The curtains of creation will not close with trouble having the last laugh. There's there's a saying that he who laughs last, laughs what? Best and who sits in the heavens and laughs. God does. God sits in the heavens and God laughs. God scoffs at those that would oppose him. And we'll get there later in Daniel chapter twelve, but it's revealed that the world is heading for even more trouble and distress than we've ever seen before. Actually if you take your your Bibles and flip over to Daniel chapter 12 just to show you this, Daniel chapter 12. Started verse 1 here. It says, Now at that time, Michael, the great prince who stands guard over the sons of your people will arise. And there will be a time of distress such as never occurred since there was a nation until that time. There's coming a time of trouble like we've never seen before. But thankfully that's not where the story ends. It doesn't end with the trouble such as has never occurred since there was a nation. Look at the second half of verse 1. And at that time At that time of the greatest distress, the greatest trouble, at that time your people, everyone who is found written in the book, will be rescued. When the world becomes the darkest, that's when God says, I will bring you one who will rescue you. You will be rescued. Look at verse 2. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake. Those these to everlasting life, but the others to disgrace and everlasting contempt. We're not there yet. We're not there in chapter twelve yet, and uh we haven't seen this yet. But just to think about this is incredible, isn't it? That that when the world becomes the darkest, that at that time there will come one who will rescue And those who are dead, those who die in the Lord, will be resurrected to life to enjoy the freedom of the sons of God. That is incredible to think about. Just as the world gets it to its absolute worst, God will say, That's enough. That's enough. And just like God places boundaries on the seas and says, Thus far you shall come and no farther And here shall your proud waves stop? There's coming a time when God will say no to the destruction, the dismay that we experience in this life. He's going to say, okay, that's enough. This is where your proud wave stop. This is where you're going to cease. His people will be rescued, and those who have already passed on into the presence of God will arise from the dust of the ground, and there's going to be a global takeover Heaven and earth belong to our God. And there's coming a future not only for heaven, but also for this earth In Daniel chapter 12 and verse 13, if you look just a little bit further, in verse 13, Daniel is told, but as for you, go your way to the end. Then you will enter into rest and rise again for your allotted portion at the end of the age. That's that's pretty specific, isn't it? He says you're going to rise again and you're going to experience, you're going to f Find your allotment. You will receive your allotment, your allotted portion at the end of the age when those who are rescued on this earth are met by those who rise up from the the dust of the earth. He says, at that time you're going to receive your appointed portion. Pretty specific. And I guess my my question is, do you have room in your understanding of the end times for that? But if you get nothing else from today's message, mark this down. There is an expiration date for trouble. There is an expiration date for trouble. God has placed a limit on the world's distress. And Daniel marks his calendar with seventy weeks. And today we'll jump into what that means and hopefully bring some clarity to this section of scripture for us. So let's turn back to Daniel chapter 9 and we'll start at verse 24. Daniel chapter 9, starting at verse 24. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city To finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do come before you today as we always do. Father, as we recognize that this is your word and these are your people. And your people eat from your word. This is what the sheep need. This is what nourishes the sheep. This is what blesses the sheep. It's your word, Lord, that brings us health, that gives us stability. Father, it's your word that even gives us life. We've been born again by this tree. And Father, I pray that as we open up your word, the words of life, words that are profitable, all of Scripture is profitable. Father, I pray that we would find profit in what we read, even today. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse 24 opens up with 70 weeks. 70 weeks. I remember when I was in uh in junior high, my teacher was uh trying to explain to me the the benefits of the metric system because all the measurements come in groups of ten. So uh ten milliliters make a centimeter, ten centimeters make a decimeter, and ten decimeters make a meter, and you can work your way all the way through the system to kilometers and beyond. But in English, we use things like inches. And how many inches come in a foot? Twelve. And how many feet make up a yard? Three And so the people who don't use our system, that can become confusing because it's like why twelve? Why twelve? Why pick the number twelve? Why is that significant? But for us it makes sense because that's what we use all the time, right? There's twelve hours in each portion of the day. There's twelve months in every year. We buy eggs in a dozen, unless you get them from Costco, and then you can get them a lot bigger. We buy roses in a dozen if we can afford it. We pick up du donuts in boxes of a dozen, unless you come right before the donut shop closes. I was uh with my friend Todd Murray and He was telling me a story about when he pulled up to a donut shop right before it closed and they just gave him everything that they had. And he was telling me the story as we're going to a donut shop. Right before they closed, and guess what? They gave us everything they had. We came home with like three boxes of donuts, you know, three dozen donuts or whatever. So uh So, but it's just natural for us to think in dozens and twelves, and for the ancient Israelite, it would have been just as easy to think in units of seven. Just as easy as it is for us to think in units of twelve, it would have been just as easy for them to think in units of seven. And why would a unit of seven make sense for them? Are you ready for a little Bible study? We're not in a rush, are we? We're not going anywhere, right? Why don't you flip over to Exodus chapter 31? Exodus chapter 31. Just a little Bible study on this What we find in Exodus 31 is that the Sabbath day came in a unit of seven. Look at chapter 31 and verse 13. Exodus started verse 12. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, But as for ye, speak to the sons of Israel, saying, Ye shall surely observe my Sabbath. For this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that ye may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you. I've I've set you apart, I've sanctified you, and part of that setting you apart is to recognize the Sabbath day. Look at verse sixteen. So the sons of Israel shall observe the Sabbath to celebrate the Sabbath throughout their generations. As a perpetual covenant, it is a sign between me and the sons of Israel forever, for in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth, but on the seventh day He ceased from labor and was refreshed. And uh the Lord didn't need a break because he expended all of his energy. Uh this is actually a model for us. And so you have this order of six days you work and the one day that you you rest. So it's it's the week. It's a the seventh day in the week. And that was important to Israel But not only was the seventh day in a week important to Israel, so was the seventh year in a cycle of years. Why don't you uh look a little bit forward into the book of Leviticus, Leviticus chapter twenty-five Take a look at verse one, Leviticus twenty-five, starting at verse one. It says the Lord then spoke to Moses at Mount Sinai, saying, Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land which I shall give you, Then the land shall have a Sabbath to the Lord. But it's not a week here. It's not six six days of a week. Look what he says in verse three. Six years you shall sow your field, and six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather its in its crop. But during the seventh year the land shall have a Sabbath rest, a Sabbath to the Lord, ye shall not sow your field nor prune your vineyard They were allowed to to harvest their crops, but whatever grew after the harvest, uh they were supposed to leave it alone, let the land rest. They weren't to to sow or to prune it, just Just reap the benefits of being the people of God. It was a recognition that God gave them this land that they had and that God was the one who provided for them, even if they didn't work for that year on that land. God was still providing And just like God provided manna, you know, on that that sixth day, provided twice for the seventh day, in the same way God was responsible to provide twice as much as they would need in that six years so they could have it for the the seventh year. There's a recognition that hey God is above us. He provides for us. We can rely on him. We can trust in God to provide for that seventh year even if I'm not plowing that field But did Israel recognize God is the one who provides everything? We've looked at this before. The answer is no Second Chronicles chapter 36 and verse 21 says they were carried away to Babylon to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed its Sabbath. God was keeping track You know, you might have missed it. You might have uh thought that I forgot about it, but I didn't forget. The land is going to enjoy its Sabbaths, and it's going to keep those Sabbaths for 70 years until 70 years are complete And 70 wasn't a random number. They were sentenced one year for every Sabbath year that they missed. Every Sabbath year that they neglected, you're going to be charged one year for every year you didn't fulfill my command. And seventy of those years is what God charged to them. Seventy-sevens The Sabbath years were that important for Israel. Count every six, mark the seventh. They weren't supposed to round it up, round it down, they weren't supposed to, you know, approximate it. Uh they weren't supposed to to think of, well, these years are enough because that's a type of you know the seventh year. They weren't to do any of that. Seventh year was supposed to be on the calendar, posted on the refrigerator. God would hold you accountable for it. Number three, not only was every seven years a point uh important, seven times seven years was also important. Are you are you starting to get the idea that the calendar was important here? Calendar was important. Seven times seven is what 49. I I think I heard a couple of you say it. Forty-nine. And after the 49th year was a year known as the year of Jubilee. Jubilee. And the word Jubilee simply means a ram's horn. It was a trumpet, you know, and the ram's horn was a trumpet that was blown throughout the land to let everybody know, hey, the Jubilee has begun. They blow the trumpet. This is the year of Jubilee. What happened in the year of Jubilee, if you're still in Leviticus, look at chapter 25 and verse 8. 25 and verse 8. It says, you are also to count off seven Sabbaths of years for yourself. Seven times seven years, so that ye have the time of the seventh Sabbath of years, namely forty-nine years. And ye shall sound a ram's horn, again that's Jubilee, abroad on the tenth day of the seventh month On the Day of Atonement, ye shall sound a horn all through your land, ye shall thus consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim a release through the land to all of its inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee for you, and each of you shall return to his own property, and each of you shall return to his family. You shall have the fiftieth year as a jubilee, you shall not sow nor reap its aftergrowth, nor gather in from its untrimmed vines for it is a Jubilee, it shall be holy. To you you shall eat its crops out of the field. So for that 49th year, after they've already taken that Sabbath on that 49th year, they were to take an additional year on the 50th year because it's the year of Jubilee. Now can you imagine getting a fresh start once in life? Can you imagine that at least once in your lifetime that all your debts are erased? I mean that's that's what Jubilee was. Can you imagine an entire nation Being governed like that. At least once every fifty years, all of your debts are canceled. Whatever property had been taken from you was returned to you. If you were a slave, you'd be set free. And believe me, you would be keeping track of the years as it gets closer to the year of Jubilee. You're not rounding up, rounding down. It's like, no, it's going to be on that date. That's the year that you would look forward to. Look further down into verse thirty-nine. Verse thirty-nine. It says, If a countryman of yours becomes so poor with regard to all to you that he sells himself to you You shall not subject him to a slave service. He shall be with you as a hired man as if he were a sojourner. He shall serve with you until the year of Jubilee. He shall then go out from you, he and his sons with him, and shall go back to his family, that he may return to the property of his forefathers. This would have been the great countdown. Whatever his debts were, canceled, fresh start, year of uh emancipation and restoration it's been called. And it served as a Sabbath rest for the entire land. The year of Jubilee was a reminder to Israel that I am the Lord of all. I'm the Lord of all. You think that land belongs to you? Nope, it belongs to me. That that land that you're living on, that land that you're farming, that land that you put your house on, you you think that's yours? Nope, that's mine That's mine. Leviticus 25, 23 says, the land, moreover, shall not be sold permanently, for the land is mine. It belongs to me. The people, you know, the the people that you might have working for you, you you think they belong to you? Nope, they belong to me. Down to verse 55, for the sons of Israel are my servants. They're my servants whom I brought out from the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. I'm in charge. I'm the one who's the Lord over all. And guess guess who owns time? This time that you're living in, you think that's your own time? You know, time is your own? No, your time is mine. It belongs to me. The Sabbath years were considered a Sabbath to the Lord Even the time belongs to God. Have you realized that everything that you are and everything that you have belongs to your Creator? You think you belong to yourself? You think you can do whatever you want with who you are? I can make my own decisions about what I do with my life and how I run my life. You think that you have that choice? You think God's left that over to you as if you belong to yourself? 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20. For those of you who are believers, you should know this verse. 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20 Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? You don't belong to yourself. So you have been bought with the price, therefore glorify God in your body One of the the you know just just recently you know as I've been thinking about these things, it's like, you know, why why you know as Christians do we you know walk in obedience and serve and all these other things? It's because God is worthy of it And you don't belong to yourself. God is worthy of your service. You know, sometimes you can think of, well, I do it for this reason or that reason or for this person or that person. No, you you you live your life for God. You you don't belong to you. I belong to somebody else. And I need to make sure that I'm honoring God with what belongs to him. I've got an account to give. I do not belong to myself. You know, just like you go out and rent a car You know, some of you some of you might, you know let's let's scratch renting a car because you might drive to rent a car harder than you drive your own. Let's say you borrow a car from one of your brothers, your sisters here in the church. I I I I assume that you take good care of it, right? Because I know I have to give this back. This this doesn't belong to me. You stay in somebody's house, you you want to make sure you do what they ask you to do, tide you up, whatever. Why? Because the house doesn't belong to me. It belongs to somebody else And your body, it's not for you to do what you want with it, when you want with it. No, my my body is not mine. It belongs to God Realize that you belong to God. Acts 17 speaks about even as unbelievers, and as Paul was speaking to the unbelievers, says, you know, uh, we live, in him we live and move and have our being. Like like you're you're you're his creation. He's the one who even keeps you alive. That breath in your lungs belongs to God. You you don't have a right over your life in that sense. And this would have been a powerful reminder that that God owned them. And he's the one that provides them with rest. They had to exercise their faith. They had faith. They had to trust in him. God had to provide even when they didn't show their own harvest. God was the one who provided for them and they had to walk in obedience to him. And that day of Jubilee actually started on the day of atonement, when the ram's horn was blown and also signaled the forgiveness of God's people on that day But my point here is that ancient Israel would have been keeping track of the sevens. Seven days in a week, the seven years and a cycle. the seven times seven to get to the fiftieth year of Jubilee. It wasn't not a strange thing for them to think in terms of sevens. So when we get to Daniel chapter 9 and verse 24 , And we read this in uh Daniel chapter 9. It literally says, uh where it says uh the God has appointed uh 70 weeks for his people. The literal Hebrew rendering of that is that seventy sevens have been decreed for your people. Seventy sevens. And the question is, seventy sevens of what? There's seven units. Seventy units of seven. Seventy units of seven is what it says, and some of you might have that footnote in your Bible that shows that that works for weeks is actually units of seven. So the question is, what what kind of units of seven are we talking about? Are we talking about the the seven days in a in a week? Are we talking about the the the seven years in a cycle? Are we talking about the seven times seven? I mean it's like there's there's all these sevens that they're they're thinking of. But if you back up into the the context in verse two, it lets us know that Daniel is thinking in sevens of years Verse 2, it says, In the first year of his reign, I Daniel observed in the books the number of the years, which was revealed as the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet, for the completion of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. So Daniel's already been thinking in terms of years, not weeks, and the Babylonian captivity was a result, like we mentioned before, in part of them neglecting the Sabbath years, the seven cycles of years. So how many of those Sabbath years, those seven, those sevens, did Israel neglect? They neglected seventy of those sevens. Seventy of those seven years. And there's a parallel now between those seventy-sevens and the seventy-sevens in verse 24. What we're talking about is a cycle of seven years. Those are the seventy-sevens. that are mentioned in Daniel chapter 9 and verse 24. They neglected the 77s, and God says, I'm going to decree for ye 77s. There's a parallel between the two. And uh this again is just not some random number that God pulled out of a hat. He's doing this for a purpose. 77s 70 times 7 is 490, and that's how long Israel neglected to be obedient to the Lord's Sabbath commands, and uh 77s would be cut out of history so that the Lord could deal with them The word for decree in verse 24 only shows up here in scripture. Basically means to cut off, to decide, to appoint. I've separated out for you this portion of time, these 77s of years, these four hundred and ninety years, I've set aside to specifically deal with you. I've separated out this time for you. And all the seventies, uh all the sevens of years don't come together in the text. They're divided up into segments of 7, 62, and 1. And that's what the text itself provides us with. But those 70 years are divided up into 7, 62, and 1. Down in verse 25. It says, so you're to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebel Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks. And 62 weeks it will be built again with plows and moat, even in times of distress. And then down in verse 27, there's this final week, and it says, and he, and we'll talk about who that he is will make a firm covenant with the many for one week. So we have a seven, we have a sixty-two, and we have a one that all total up to seventy. That's what the text itself does. That's how the text itself breaks that down. So the question is, why is it broken up and what's going on? So the first Thing that we have to look at is the summary of the plan. We already looked at that in verse 24. There's a summary of the entire 70 weeks. Seventy weeks have been decreed for your people, your holy city. to finish transgression, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to steal up vision and prophecy, to anoint the most holy place. And those seventy weeks, again on a high level, what were those seventy weeks about? God is doing away with sin and bringing in righteousness. That's what those 70 weeks are about. He's doing away with sin, he's bringing in righteousness, and it centers on Jerusalem and the coming of the Messiah. And we covered that last time. That's a summary of the plan. But that's just the first part of the plan. There's the second part. The restoration of the city. Look at verse 25. It says, So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until Messiah the Prince There will be seven weeks and sixty-two weeks. There's a prophecy here about the holy city, Jerusalem, that it would be restored, rebuilt, and that's exactly what happened. The city was torn down and was built back up, and God was true to his word. But there's some debate about what decree it was that issued this rebuilding of the city, and uh we know of at least Three kind of returns to Jerusalem. We know that under Cyrus, the king of Persia, he made a decree in the year 538. uh that allowed the Jews to return and rebuild the temple. Following his decree there were waves of Jews that Jewish people who returned to Jerusalem under Jerubabel and uh 538 under Ezra in 458 and under Nehemiah in 445 BC. And if you flip back Past uh Psalms and Job and Ezra, you'll find the book of Ezra and Nehemiah if you uh would turn back to to uh Ezra, the book of Ezra, just to show you this in Ezra chapter one. And this is this is incredible to think about That's for chapter one. Listen what it says here. Ezra chapter 1 starting at verse 1. It says now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia In order to fulfill the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he sent a proclamation throughout all his kingdom And also put it in writing, saying, Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, The Lord the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has appointed me to build him a house. In Jerusalem, which is in Judah Judah. Whoever there is among you of all his people, may his God be with him. Let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel. He is the God who is in Jerusalem And uh this is something that was already predicted 200 years before Cyrus conquered Babylon, uh back in Isaiah chapter 44. The Lord already predicted that there would come this conqueror by the name of Cyrus. He says that this is my shepherd, he will perform all my desire, and he declares of Jerusalem she will be built, and of the temple your foundation will be laid. That's incredible to think about. 200 years before you're even on the scene that God calls you out by name? Do you understand how how sovereign the Lord is? The detail But there were these stages in that plan for Jerusalem to be rebuilt. And the first part of that plan was for the temple. And Cyrus is the one who decreed the rebuilding of the temple, specifically the house of the Lord. That's what Cyrus was. responsible for. That was the initial focus of Cyrus's decree. That's what they were given permission to do. And There's some who think that, well, that that that had to be all of it, wasn't it? But the prophecy in Daniel 9 was for the rebuilding of the city. And part of a city, what actually distinguished the city from just villages, was the building of a wall. The wall around it distinguished villages from a city. So the primary characteristic of a of a city was also the walls in ancient times Uh cities were places where you know there was a boundary, you know, it was fortified. Cities were fortified, walled in for their own protection. So there's a difference between a city and a village, and that's not what Cyrus decreed for Jerusalem. He decreed for the temple, not for the city to be rebuilt, not for the walls to be rebuilt, which is the difference between Ezra and Nehemiah. Ezra is the building of the temple, Nehemiah is the building of the the wall. So that's what we have we have is this this difference between The two, actually in uh the book of Ezra, he had the people uh of the land discouraging the people of Judah, and they actually sent back letters saying that, hey, they're they're rebuilding their city, they're rebuilding their walls And they had to to show proofs that Cyrus had already made a decree that they could build up the temple. Hey, we're here building up the temple, just like Cyrus said we should. You know, Cyrus has given us this decree to build up the temple. But they sent a complaint that, hey, they're building the walls up again, and once they build up the wall, they'll be their own fortified city. They won't pay tribute back to you So uh they try to come up with this uh this kind of uh uh uh uh really confusing things. They 're trying to uh oppose the work of God, uh you know, try to stop the work from going forward. And this is where the details of the text are really helpful for us because Daniel 9 speaks about a plaza and a moat. The plaza would have been beyond the gates. and you don't have a gate without a wall, and uh a moat would have been around the walls and you don't have a moat unless you have the the walls around the city. So They all had to come together. They had to come together. And where do we find this decree to actually build up the wall? Where do we find that decree? Why don't you flip over to uh the book of Nehemiah The book of Nehemiah. Look at Nehemiah chapter one. Start at verse one here. Says the words of Nehemiah, the son of Hakaliah, now it happened in the month Chislev in the 20th year, while I was in Susa, the capital. That Hanani one of my brothers and some men from Judah came and I asked them, concerning the Jews who had escaped and had survived the captivity in about Jerusalem They said to me, the remnant there in the province who survived the captivity are in great distress and reproach, and the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have burned with fire. Then I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days, so I was fasting and praying before the God of heaven. I said, I beseech you, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God who preserves the covenant and loving kindness for those who love him and keep his commandments. And something should start to sound really familiar about Nehemiah's prayer. Who does this sound like? Sounds just like Daniel. This is the same kind of prayer that Daniel was making for the city. So here Nehemiah is and he's offering the same prayer Let your ear now be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer of your servant, which I am praying before you now, day and night, on behalf of the sons of Israel, your servants, confessing the sins of the sons of Israel, which we have sinned against you, I and my father's house have sinned We have acted corruptly against ye, ye have not and have not kept the commandments nor the statutes, nor the ordinances which ye commanded your servant Moses Remember the word which ye command at your servant Moses saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and Do them, though those of you who have been scattered were in the most remote parts of the heavens, I will gather them from there and will bring them to the place where I have chosen to cause my name to dwell. They are your servants, your people, whom you redeemed by your great power, by your strong hand. O Lord, I beseech you. May your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and the prayer of your Servants you delight to revere your name and make your servant successful today, and grant him compassion before this man. What what man is he talking about? And it came about in the month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of King Artaxerxes, that wine was before him, and I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence, and it's not a good idea to be sad in the presence of the king when you're tasting his wine before him to make sure that it's not poisoned. You know, for you to have a sad expression on your face uh might cause the king some concern, you know, that you're drinking this wine before him and you're upset, you know, you're startled, something might be up with the wine. Since I was very much afraid, I said to the king, Let the king live forever. Why should my face not be sad when the city, the place of my father's tombs, lies desolate, and its gates have been consumed by fire? And the king said to me, What would you request? So I prayed to the God of heaven. I said to the king, and see how he prays right in the middle of this conversation. I said to the king, if it please the king, and if your servant has found favor before you, send me to Judah, to the city of my father's tombs, that I may rebuild it. In verse 7. And I said to the king, if it pleased the king, let letters be given me for the governors of the provinces beyond the river that they may allow me to pass through until I come to Judah. In verse 6 says, so it pleased the king to send me. So he sent them. He sent them back to rebuild the walls. And this is the decree, the decree of Art Xerxes. For the building, the rebuilding of the city and its walls. And the it's one of the best known dates in ancient history. It's known when our Xerxes came to power as 465, and the 20th year would have been 445 And if you're interested in working through all the details, you can check out the book Chronological Aspects of the Life of Christ by Harold Hohner. And Hohner argues that the timing works out if you take 445 BC And you add the number of years, you know, the Sabbath years that, you know, after the building of the city, if you add up the years in Daniel chapter 9, that you actually land on the day of the triumphal entry. Calvin suggested that it was the day of the baptism of Christ, but there's good, good and strong evidence that it would be the triumphal entry. Actually flip back to flip over to the book of Luke real quick, Luke chapter 19. Luke chapter nineteen, take a look at verse forty one. This is Jesus as he approaches Jerusalem, verse 41. Says when he had approached Jerusalem, he saw the city and wept over it, saying, If you had known in this day Even you, the things which make for peace, but now they have been hidden from your eyes, for the days will come upon you when your enemies will throw off a barricade against you. and surround you and hem you in on every side, and they will level you to the ground and your children within you, and they will not leave in you one stone upon another, because you did not recognize the time of your visitation You did not recognize the day. And it could be that Jesus is not just referring to a period of time, but to this day. You should have known this day But either way, if you take the decree of Artaxerxes and you move forward in the number of weeks of of years, you know, seven weeks of years uh plus uh which is forty nine, and then you add the the sixty two weeks of years, if you add up those weeks of years that she land during the time of Christ. It's amazing. It's amazing. To think about the the Messiah being predicted to come in that time frame. Now if we're back to Daniel chapter 9. Verse 25. So you are to know and discern that from the issuing of a decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem. That's the time that we're talking about this this uh uh decree by Art of Xerxes, until Messiah the Prince, there will be seven weeks And sixty-two weeks it will be built again with plaza and moat, even in times of distress. And uh all you have to do is look at the book of Nehemiah to know that the wall was built during a time of distress. They tried to stop the the uh building of the the walls. Those who were building the walls had to carry, you know, their work instruments in one hand and a sword in the other to defend themselves, you know, because they're they're uh in distress, they're being opposed for the work But the city was rebuilt just like Daniel said it would be. If you uh move in in history to that uh that period of time after that uh the building of the city, he said it would be uh seven uh seven weeks for the the building of the the city and then uh sixty two beyond that uh for the the coming of the Messiah and uh what makes this so significant Is that it's a divine confirmation that all of history is operating on God's schedule. As R. C. Sprohl would say, there's not one maverick molecule in the universe. There's not one event that's not planned for, planned for. And even the distresses that we face in this life are not a surprise to God. The rebuilding of Jerusalem, the arrival of the Messiah, the prince are clear evidence to us that everything else that God has promised will also be fulfilled. And don't miss this. I think that sometimes we can get caught up in all the details of the prophecy that we fail to uh uh acknowledge that that this is a prophecy about Christ So this is saying that the Messiah is coming. Messiah the prince. The one who has been designated as the ruler of the world, that this one will come. The word Messiah, it's uh the Hebrew word Mashiach, which means anointed, the anointed one. You have different figures that were anointed, you know, priests were anointed, you know, uh Prophets were anointed, but the uh kind of like the primary designation of the anointed one was the king. And that's what we find in the uh the book of uh of Psalms in Psalm 2 where it speaks about the anointed one. The anointed one. This is the one who the Lord Himself is designated in verse 1 of Psalm 2. Why are the nations in an uproar and the peoples devising a vain thing? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers take the uh take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. This is the one, like I said, the one who laughs Last, last, this is the one who is to come. This Messiah, he was already predicted he would come and he will come again So don't miss that this is a prediction of the Messiah, that the Messiah would come after this Jerusalem was rebuilt with plaza and moat, and that seven weeks and sixty-two weeks that he would come. But he would also be cut off and have nothing in the the next verse, and we'll get to that. But even though the Messiah would be cut off and the temple would be torn down, that's not the end of God's story. Like we said before, the trouble doesn't last always. Trouble will see its end. And we can thank God for that. And those many who would interpret this passage and uh hold to the literalness of the destruction of Jerusalem that hey uh Jerusalem's going to be torn down in uh uh in in this time and uh after the 62 weeks that Messiah would be cut off, the people would have nothing, the city would be destroyed, the sanctuary would be destroyed. They would look to the literalness of that, but not look to the literalness of the restoration as well. There's coming a restoration. There's coming a jubilee for the people of God, and we should long just as much for Israel to receive that restoration as we do for ourselves, right? There's coming a time when Israel itself will receive that that year of Jubilee where they will receive this release, property being restored, debts being canceled, they'll be set free to glorify God. There's coming a time when that will happen for them And creation itself, like I said, will be set free from its slavery to corruption and the freedom of the children of God, and that will be a glorious day. We're looking forward to that time when uh God brings about everything that He has promised, these seventy weeks. is in order to bring about the completion of this end of transgression and the bringing in of righteousness, and we're looking forward to that prayer being answered. If you do not hold to a future plan for Israel, If you do not hold for this future redemption of these people, basically what you're saying is that Daniel's response to this prayer, oh Lord forgive, oh Lord hear, oh Lord, answer. That basically the response is uh well they'll just all be destroyed. And you know, the kingdom will be taken away from them and there's nothing left for them. Is that the encouragement that Daniel is praying about? Or is it that no, there's coming this destruction, but there is an afterwards. There's a second chapter to God's story. Yes, they're going to be broken down. Yes, there's going to be opposition, but there is more to come. Just like the Messiah who was put to death, this Messiah who was cut off, that he's coming back. And even though the city would be torn down, that there's coming a future city that won't be torn down And that's what we're looking forward to. This is something that we can all rejoice in that God has the last say in his story. And this is his story. This is what he's doing. And we can look forward to all that this means and We've got more to cover and hopefully that'll just uh kind of set it up for what we have to jump into next time because there's a lot of details to work work into here, but uh let's go before the Lord in prayer and ask his blessings on uh those who are uh coming into membership even today. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh this time that we've had together. And uh Father, we uh just trust that uh your word would um uh really resonate with us, Lord, that we would Think about uh these promises, uh Father, that these promises are true. Uh Father, that the uh the the time frame that you've set apart uh for Israel to be dealt with, Lord, that that all those things will come to pass just as ye've indicated that they would. And Father, we've already seen in history the 69 weeks already fulfilled. And Father, there's that one that we still have to get to. My father is that one that uh we'll uh look forward to you, Lord, even as uh uh we look to the the text of of next week. Uh so Father, I pray that you would uh uh just give us a Just a confidence in you, a confidence in your word of being fulfilled, that you are the God who hears prayers, who answers prayers, and Father, a God who will rescue your people. And our Father, we're grateful that we've been rescued because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And that there's coming a time when we will even be resurrected, Lord, to uh take back what's uh uh really been so ravished Lord uh in this life. Father the uh the creation that that groans our father will one day uh receive its freedom freedom from captivity Lord as The sons of God are revealed. And even as Colossians chapter 3 says, that when Christ is revealed, that even we will be revealed with him in glory. Now Father, I look forward to that day. I pray that we as a church look forward to that day. There's glory to come. So Father, I pray that you would uh uh uh help us to reflect upon that glory which uh belongs to you and uh will be reflected in us. In Jesus may praise you and give you thanks, Amen.