The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and open up with me to the book of Romans? We're back in Romans chapter 6. As I've said, we're in a Section of Scripture, Romans chapters 6, 7, and 8, that's agreed to be the central passage on sanctification, which is the Christian's pursuit of holiness, our growth and obedience. our daily battle with sin. This is the section that we're in and really the primary text that you'd want to walk through as you think about these issues regarding our sanctification. And just this week I was reminded that our liturgy as a church, uh speaking about our order of worship, the way that we structure worship, the way that we relate to God. Uh that the way that we we even structure our our worship and approach to God is in recognition of our battle with sin Think about it this way. The Lord's Prayer. The Lord taught us how to pray, right? Matthew chapter 6, we we find that the Lord's Prayer, which is really as many as titled the Disciples' Prayer, because he's teaching the disciples how to pray. But how did the Lord teach us how to pray? Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and do what? Forgive us. Forgive us our debts. It's a recognition that daily we sin. Just as we come to the Lord and daily we need bread, give us this day our daily bread. So this is a daily prayer. What are we coming to the Lord with? Lord, forgive us our debts, forgive us our trespasses. Forgive us our debts as we have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Our prayers are a reminder that we struggle with sin. We struggle with those who sin against us. We need to forgive those who sin against us if we expect to be forgiven, and that we will be tempted to sin again, so we need God's deliverance from evil. It's a recognition of our battle with sin. Think about the elements that are included in the worship service like the Lord's table as we'll observe that today in communion First Corinthians chapter 11 speaks about the Lord's table. It says, therefore, in verse 27, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner shall be guilty of the body and of the blood of the Lord, but a man must examine himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup, for he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself, if he does not judge the body rightly. The Lord's table was an opportunity for self-examination. Why? Because we sin And it's a recognition that we battle against sin, that we have to have a time specifically where we can contemplate, you know, how do I approach the Lord and have I, and in the context of 1 Corinthians 11 uh references the divisions and factions that existed within the church. How am I dealing with those around me? I mean all of that is contained in 1 Corinthians 11 in our approach to the Lord. And then we have the psalms, hymns, spiritual songs that we offer up to the Lord, our service of worship as we sing songs of praise and adoration to God, offering encouragement to one another. In Ephesians chapter 5 and 19, Colossians chapter 3 and 16, it mentions these categories of songs that we bring before the Lord, psalms, hymns, spiritual songs. The Psalms that are mentioned are likely referring to the Psalms of David as it does elsewhere in Scripture. We have many Psalms that are specifically addressing the battle with sin. So if they're singing through the Psalms, they're also singing about this battle that they have with sin. Scriptures like Psalm 32, Psalm 51, even at the end of Psalm 19, let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer, as we come before the Lord We're recognizing that that I need what's inside of me to be changed so that I can approach the Lord. Hymns and other word that's used to refer to theological praises to Christ as God, and no sooner do we think about Christ as God than we also think about his sacrifice for sins This is what we we we bring before the Lord. You're the Lord, you're God, and you've also died for my transgressions. And then finally, there's this category of spiritual songs, our response to the truth from God's word. And how do we respond to the greatness of our God and the forgiveness that comes through our Savior, Jesus Christ? What should our response be? Our response is praise, it's thanksgiving, and it's also dedicating ourselves to His service There's actually a whole category of hymnity, of songs, that are titled Songs of Consecration. Or songs of obedience, songs of commitment, or simply sometimes titled The Life of Christ. And this is the response that we give to the Lord. Similar to how Isaiah, as he recognizes that he's a man of unclean lips in the midst of a people of unclean lips, who he recognizes his sin, he recognizes the greatness of God, his own sinfulness And then when he recognizes that he's cleansed, what does he then do? Lord, here am I? Can he send me? Lord, here am I? Send me. He's dedicating himself to the service of God. That's the order. The greatness of God, sinfulness of men, recognizing our forgiveness, and now we're ready to serve. We're ready to commit ourselves before the Lord. And there's a whole category of songs called songs of consecration. And in this category of songs you'll find songs like this, Take My Life and Let It Be Consecrated, Lord, to thee. Take my moments and my days. Let them flow in ceaseless praise. Let them flow in ceaseless praise. Or how about this? Come, thou fount of every blessing, tune my heart To sing thy grace. Streams of mercy never-ceasing call for songs of loudest praise. And then there's that line, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, O take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Find songs like I am thine, O Lord. I've heard thy voice and it told thy love to me, but I long to rise in the arms of faith and be closer drawn to thee. Consecrate me now to thy service, Lord. Be the power of grace divine. Let my soul look up with a steadfast hope. And my will be lost in thine. Draw me nearer, nearer, blessed Lord, to the cross where thou hast died. Draw me nearer, nearer, Lord, to thy precious bleeding side. For songs like Have Thine Own Way, Lord. Have Thine Own Way. Thou art the powder. I'm the clay. Or songs like All to Jesus I surrender, All to Him I Freely Give. I will ever love and trust Him. In His presence, daily live. There are a number of other songs that would fit into that category, but our prayers, our order of service, the songs that we bring before the Lord and worship, all of these recognize that the Lord I need you if I'm going to fight this daily battle with sin. Lord, I need your help. Lord, have your way in my life. I surrender everything to you. Consecrate me now to your service, Lord. Draw me nearer to you. God, I need you. No, Lord, I need you. Every hour I need you. It's this prayer that, Lord, I want to be fully dedicated to you, but I keep getting in my own way. I keep tripping up. There's these temptations around me that take me down, but Lord, I want to be drawn to you. Lord, I want to be obedient to you. That is the cry of my heart. And if you're a believer, you know what that is. You have an inward desire to please God, don't you? 2 Corinthians 5:9. Therefore we also have as our ambition, whether home or absent. To be pleasing to him. Lord, I want to be pleasing to you. Our inner man longs to please God. That's our heart's desire. We can praise God that He's given us all that we need for life and godliness in His Word. And we want to make full access, have full access to all of that, Lord, because I want to be obedient to you. And thank God He doesn't command us to make bricks without straw. He gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. And Romans chapter 6 is an armory in this battle This is an arsenal that the Lord has given to us. And we'll continue to walk through this together. But Romans chapter 6, and I'll start at verse 8. Why don't you read, follow me as I read? Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again, death no longer is master over him. For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life that he lives, he lives to God. Even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lusts And do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today as we do every Lord's Day, asking that you would open up your word to us, help us to understand what we read in it. Father, I pray that you would uh uh use uh uh these words, Lord, uh Lord, to uh uh to to give us all that we need, Lord, that you would supply us with all that we need to be obedient to you, to walk in holiness before you. That's our desire, God. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Verses 8 to 10 in Romans chapter 6 focuses on this amazing reality that our spiritual life is connected to the resurrection life of Christ. And this is an important idea that appears really several times throughout this section that we're connected to the life of Jesus Christ, and this idea of his resurrection physically is connected to our resurrection spiritually. Over in verse 8 it says, Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. So his resurrection has something to do with our resurrection, and we're talking about the spiritual resurrection that's taken place, that we're now alive. We're no longer dead. We're now alive. We've been made spiritually alive before God. Verse 9, knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead is never to die again, death no longer is master over him. Verse 10: for the death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life that he lives, he lives to God. And notice that Paul says that this is what we believe. We believe in these things. We believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and we believe that that has a connection to us. Verse 8 says, we believe that we shall also live with him. It's a statement of faith. I believe this. Just like we would say we believe in Christ, we believe in his resurrection, we also believe that we will live with him. That that our life is is now bound with Jesus' life and that we have a spiritual life given because of him. And there's all kinds of spiritual implications to our connection to Jesus and his resurrection, and we explored that last week together, and basically what we said. Is that what happened to Jesus physically happens to us spiritually. So Jesus was raised from the death never to die again, and physically that happened with him. And we're also raised to life never to die again. Physically, death could no longer hold Jesus. Jesus physically cannot be bound by death, and spiritual death has no hold on us. Spiritually, there's no tyranny from the old life Jesus died for sin physically and also to any relation to sin physically, but spiritually for us, we've been set free from any relation to sin. We're not bound by sin anymore. And because of Jesus' resurrection, he now lives before the Father in an undistracted, uninterrupted life, and he's also given you the ability to live your life to God. And it's important to catch this. If you're a believer, all that is true about this is true whether you believe it or not. Like this is what happens to you. Spiritually, this has happened. This is true. Statements of fact. The grammatical term is it's it's in the indicative. It's just telling you what is true. Christ really did rise from the dead. He never will die again. Death does not master over him. He does live to God. And if you're a believer, that really does have an impact on your life spiritually. End of sentence, period. That's true for you. But then Paul moves from what's true, just categorically true, this is true of you, period, to now the imperative. Now let me tell you what to do with that. Verse 11, based on all that I've said that's true, now you have a responsibility and an obligation based on that truth. And the first obligation that we have is consideration. Consideration. Verse 11. Even so, and we could translate it therefore thus, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. That's the command. Because all of this is true, now this is what I want you to consider. This is what I want you to think about. We don't consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God in order that it might be true. We're dead to sin and alive to God, and that's why we should consider that that's true. Do you get the difference? These things don't become true because you believe it. Rather, we are to believe these things because they're already true. And there's a reason Paul reminds us of who we are before he instructs us about how we should live. And this is where the strength of biblical transformation and sanctification is found. It's based in what is already true, it's based in reality. So Paul is not a motivational speaker. This is not a TED talk. This is not the power of positive thinking And if the reality of our death and resurrection with Christ does not exist, then there's nothing that Paul can say right here that would change that. So what he's doing, he's saying that because this is true, not now you're took to live out that reality. It's already true And if it wasn't true, Paul's words would just ridicule us. For example, I love what John Murray says in his commentary. He says it's mockery to tell a slave, don't behave like a slave. Why? Because that's what he is. You know, it's it's it's a mockery. In the same way it would be mockery to view a dead body and say, hey, look alive. Why? Because he's dead So it would be mockery to say, like, hey, this is what you need to do. But now when Paul comes to us and says, consider this to be true , the reason why it's not mockery, it's not ridicule, is because it is true. I want you to believe what is true, to consider what is true. You are dead to sin. You are alive to God. So consider that to be true. And that word consider it's the Greek word legizome. Often used for calculating, adding up numbers. The numbers don't lie. And in the same way, this is reasoning that does not lie. It was used for careful thinking, reasoning, drawing a careful conclusion. It's the same word that's used over in Romans chapter 8, verse 18, for I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared. I consider This is how I've calculated it. This is this is this is what what what reasons out to be true. The sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that's to be revealed in us. I've added it up What we have coming in glory is far it far outweighs whatever we suffer in this life. That's just what's true. And you're to consider that to be true. I love what the same words used over in James chapter 1, where James says, consider it all joy, my brethren. When you encounter various trials. Why? Because it has a good result. So like when you add it up, when you pull out your calculator and you're adding this up and you're looking at the trials and you're looking at what the the result is, it's like, you know what? Whatever trial I'm going through is worth it in the end because of what the result will be. So it's like we're to think about things differently because of what is true. And that's what the word consider is pointing us towards. Like know what's true and then respond to that truth. We can think about trials differently because of what is true. We can think about temptations differently because of what is true. Which means you can't just hide behind your labels When he says, consider what's true, that you're dead to sin, the life to God, you can't say, well, I know that that's what it says, but that's not really true for me. That's that's not it might be true for somebody else, but that's not true in my life because you don't understand what I've been through. Ever heard somebody talk like that? You you don't know my story. You don't know what I've been through. You don't know what experience I've had. How can you say that I'm supposed to consider this joy or I'm supposed to deal with this temptation? You don't know what my life has been like You don't know how I was raised? You don't know my past? You don't know my upbringing? You don't know my condition? You don't know what I've suffered You're more than just a sinner who is expected to sin. You're a saint who's actually expected to be holy. And it's because we're dead to sin that we can put sin to death. It's because we're alive to God that we can walk in newness of life. It's because we're free that we can live not like slaves. It 's because we have the power of God at work in our life that we can walk in obedience, and that should be our consideration when we're faced with temptation and sin. Remember who you are. That was kind of a review from last time. But we're to consider what's true. That's the first responsibility. Consider consideration. Number two, confrontation. First is consideration. The second is confrontation. Look at verse 12. Therefore, based on that, based on your consideration, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its lust, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin As instruments of unrighteousness. But based on what's true, you need to now confront your sin. You need to attack your sin. You need to resist your sin. Don't let it rain in you anymore. Sin is personified here. It's given human characteristics throughout the section in Romans. Sin is seen as having various occupations. In verse 6, sin is seen as a cruel slave master. Knowing this, that our old self was crucified with them in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves of sin. Sin is seen as a cruel slave master. Down in verse 23 in Romans chapter 6, sin is seen as a wicked boss that pays cruel wages. What do we get? What kind of payment do we get from sin? Verse 23: For the wages of sin is death. How do you like that? But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Sin is a wicked boss. What kind of payment is that for serving you all my life? You get death at the end. And then in verses 12 and 13, sin is an evil dictator. It's an evil king who seeks to reign over us. And when Paul says, do not let sin reign, he uses uh the the Greek word basilua, which means to reign or to rule as a king. Don't don't let sin be your king. Sin is like a dictator who gives authoritative commands and he says, don't let sin rule over you. But here's the good news. Sin is a king who's been dethroned. He's been deposed. He's removed from his position. Murray writes this, he says, it's not to be supposed that sin is conceived as reigning in the believer, that now he is exhorted to terminate that reign of sin. Think about this. It's not like sin is at the height of its power, still sitting on the throne, and then Paul comes along and says, hey, don't let that guy reign. You know, it's not like he's walking into to Nazi Germany while Hitler's at the the the height of his power and say, hey, don't don't let him reign over you Because he does rain. He is raining. So how can you just walk in and say, Don't let him rain? I mean, what am I supposed to do, right? And you might be right that Hitler should not rain, but the fact is that he still is raining. But the words, don't let Hitler reign over you, would have been entirely different if you said the same thing on May 8, 1945. Which was celebrated as Victory Day in Europe. It's the day that the uh the surrender of Nazi Germany was ratified and it followed the suicide of Hitler. So now if you walk in and say, hey, don't let Hitler reign over you anymore, now it makes sense. Because he's not there to rule and reign over me. So why am I still following after him? Why am I still following his his his edicts, his plans for my life? Like now I have nothing to do with him anymore. So now when you come in and say don't let sin rain, I've got the power not to let him rain You understand the difference? And the reign of sin ended the day you were united to Jesus Christ. The reign of sin ended. It was your personal V-Day. This is your personal victory day. Your day of victory over sin. The old man was crucified, as Romans 6 verse 6 says, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him, in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. And that's not something that you did. Your old self did not come to be crucified because you put him up there. God did that work in liberating you. It's like the Allied forces that came in and liberated. Now you've been set free from the reign of sin, and now Scripture says to you, now don't let sin reign. But just because an evil dictator is overthrown doesn't mean that everybody's happy that that evil dictator was overthrown. And there are some people who actually enjoyed the rule of the evil dictator because they remember how things used to be, right? I mean we understand that. When the ruler was in charge, he used to say things that made me feel good about myself When that ruler was in charge, he brought our nation prosperity and power. People respected us under that ruler. I liked when that ruler was in charge. And even in a liberated nation, you can have sympathizers who long for the way that things used to be. And that's how the lust of the flesh can be described. The lusts of the flesh are like the sympathizers to the old regime. Now the the new you is is is now established. The old man is dead, the new you is in place, but you still have this flesh that's like sympathizing and remembering how it used to be. I I remember the old regime. I kind of like the way the old regime operated. I like the way the old regime made me feel. And you have like this unredeemed part of you that's still saying, like, I think things were actually better under Nazi Germany. I actually liked it back there. And that's where the battle is. There's these sinful impulses and desires that are still resonant, even though there's a new regime, they're still in there doing guerrilla warfare and still trying to battle it out because they like the way that things used to be. And that is your flesh. In verse 12 specifically, it says this: Do not let sin reign where? In your mortal body. That's not the old self. That's the remaining unredeemed part of who we are. The old self is crucified. It's no longer in charge anymore. We're under a new regime We're a new self. The old self is dead, and dead is dead. But Paul says that that sin still remains. We still have this flesh that we deal with, the the mortal body that we're dealing with. And what does that mean? It means that we still carry around in the new self these unredeemed desires, impulses, cravings that miss the way that things used to be. Flip over to Galatians 5 because I think this will help you out with this. Galatians chapter 5. Take a look at verse 13 Verse 13 Paul says, You were called to freedom, brethren, and here he's talking about freedom from the Mosaic Law. Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh. The flesh is always looking for an opportunity. But through love serve one another, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, Ye shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if ye bite and devour one another, Take care that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. And again, the references to these fleshly desires. For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that ye may not do the things that ye please. But if you are led by the spirit, you are not under the law. And this helps us make sense of another passage, and I know that I'm getting ahead of myself, but flip back to Romans chapter 7. It's worth reading what Paul has to say here as well. Romans chapter 7, starting at verse 18. Paul says, For I know that nothing good dwells in me, but where? That is in my flesh. Again, he's not talking about the old self, he's talking about the flesh. For the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I am doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me, so the new me, this new man, is not part of the rebellion. But the rebellion is still there. The rebellion exists, but the new me is not part of that old rebellion. But the flesh still wishes that things were back the way that they used to be. He says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. The new me who wants to do good, evil is still present there. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man, but I see a different law. Where? Where does he see it? In the members of my body. The flesh, waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin, which is in my members. Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from what? The body of this death. It's this mortal body that I walk around in. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then on the one hand I'm myself with my mind am serving the law of God, but on the other, with my flesh, the law of sin. We have these mortal bodies that are still in rebellion against the new regime, but one day we'll be set free even from that rebellion. In Romans chapter 6, verse 12, Paul says, Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body. When he says that, he's letting us know that there's coming one day that even that rebellion will come to an end, because the body is mortal. It's coming to an end. One day these bodies will perish, and the rebellion will perish with it. We'll receive new bodies, but until that time when we receive those glorified bodies that have no rebellion in it, we have to stay in the fight. And that's what we do. We fight, we battle against the unredeemed impulses, desires that we have still remaining in our flesh. I was reading this week in uh Jerry Ragg and Paul Shirley's book, Free to Be Holy. Listen to what they say. I love this. He says we naturally want things to be easy and comfortable, without a struggle, completed by this weekend. But sanctification doesn't work this way. God doesn't offer a secret formula or previously hidden insights that will now somehow make sanctification a breeze. We're tempted to think, well, I just want to be holy right now so I can please the Lord and everything. But if you think that God gets more glory from making your sanctification quick and easy, then you haven't understood how sanctification works. I I I like this. I mean this this this is helpful because even the battle that we have against sin also glorifies God. It glorifies God that we battle against sin. You ever you ever think about like who put the tree in the middle of the garden? God did that. God did that. He put the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the middle of the garden. Why? Because it glorified him to have that tree in the middle of the garden. You know, Genesis 131 says that everything that God made was what? Good. Even the tree of the knowledge of good and evil was good. It was a good test for mankind. I want you to walk around and say no to that tree. And that glorifies me. For you to look at that and say, nope, I'm not going to eat you. Not going to eat from you. That's glorifying to God. And for us, as we're walking through this life and we're still having to battle against sin and temptation, you're like, oh, this is such a struggle, but you know what? God is glorified in your struggle. He's glorified when you say yes to him and no to sin. God is glorified by that. We glorify God by doing that. He says this in the book. It says, it's true, God could take us all home right now, and there wouldn't be another sin committed by any of us. And in God's perfect timing that will happen when all is accomplished and all sin is finally ended. But for now he saves us and leaves us here to serve him in faith for whatever purpose he calls us. Every time you believe his truth, desire his will above your own, resist the flesh, stand against temptation, obey Jesus Christ, you put on display his perfections, and bring him glory, which will be made known throughout all of eternity. Right now, as ye battle against your sin and your flesh, you are glorifying God. So, what does Paul say in 1 Corinthians 9:27? But I discipline my body and make it my slave. I will discipline myself. The Lord is glorified when we discipline our flesh and say no. No. And even though the flesh longs for the old man to be in charge, that old man is dead and buried. He's not coming back. But even though the flesh longs for those days and the impulses, it still glorifies God to continue to say no to sin. It's a fight with the flesh that the flesh will never win because the old man will never return. He's not going to get his desire ultimately. The flesh is not going to get the desire of the old man coming back. It's a battle that we have to continue to fight against the rebellion. But before we move on from this point, it's also important to point out and understand that it's not the physical body on its own that's sinful. But it's the desires and impulses that are kind of contained in this physical body that are sinful. You know, Adam was created with a body that was originally without sin, so it wasn't the body itself that was sinful. Jesus came in a body, you know, the word became flesh, but even though Jesus became human, incarnate, that didn't mean that he became sinful. And one day we'll have glorified bodies that will not sin, so it's not just the body itself that's sinful, but it's this lingering kind of you know impulses, desires, the the unredeemed humanity that still longs for the old days. Over in Matthew chapter 18, verse 9, Jesus said, If your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it from you. Does anybody think if you pluck out your eye that you're going to be less sinful? No. I mean you can have no eyes and still be sinful. I know guys that are blind that are still struggling with lust. It's like, why are you struggling with lust? You can't even see anything. But they still struggle with lust. It's not just the physical members of our body like, hey, if I get rid of this, I'll be done with with sin. The point that Jesus is making is not to mutilate your body, to literally pluck out your eyes, but to take serious measures with your sin. You know, people don't struggle less. you know, uh uh with one or one hand or one foot than the rest of us, amputees still sin. And there have been figures in church history who believe that sin could be dealt with through physical means and found out too late that dismembering the physical body does not deal with the lust of the heart Origen was a church father who was so convicted by his own sinfulness that he castrated himself. You can explain that later. But he did not deal with his sin by surgery. You don't take care of your sinfulness by cutting off limbs and parts of your body. And then he said later, the believer amputates the passions of the soul without touching the body. Unfortunately, you found out too late, right? You can't deal with your sin by just mutilating the body. I read an article back in 2011 that reported that an Italian man tore out both of his eyes in the middle of a priest's homily or you know service at a Catholic Church in Italy. Pulled out his own eyes and gained nothing. Nothing. You don't gain anything. There's no physical procedure that can cure the heart of sin. Even if you get a heart transplant, you're still a sinner when you wake up. It's not going to help you. Jesus said over in Matthew 15, 19, for out of the heart, and it's not the physical heart, right? Out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders, and It's that central part of who you are, how you think, your mind, your soul. Like it comes out of that. And external actions only are a reflection of what's going on on the inside. Sin is an inside job. That's why James says, but each one is tempted when he's carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when sin has uh when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. It starts on the inside and then it works its way out into the members of the body. And it's those members that are often presented as instruments of unrighteousness. Back in Romans 6. 13, it says, do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. The Greek word for instruments there. Oplon could either be translated as tool or as a weapon. And there's a good reason for seeing the word instrument here as a weapon. Why? First of all, Paul uses the word consistently with the idea of warfare. For example, in 2 Corinthians 10 and verse 3, it says, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons, same word, of our warfare are not of the flesh. So Paul uses this word consistently for the weapons of war. In addition to that, the immediate context of Romans 6 is this regime change, that we're no longer under this reign of the old man, that we're now a new man, but we still have this battle going on, so it's in the context of war. But the command is not to continue to use those members of your body and give them over to the enemy. Don't give your weapons to the enemy. Why would you supply the enemy with weapons against your king? Don't become the arsenal for the enemy. And how often do we allow the enemy to have access to our weapons? You know, the head and shoulders, knees and toes, knees and toes. Eyes and ears and mouth and nose. Do you present your eyes to the sins of covetousness when you walk through the mall, when you're online? Do you give your eyes to lustful images? Job 31, verse 1 says, I've made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? Do you present your hands to clicking on what you shouldn't, browsing where you shin it, touching what you shin 't? Do you present your body to immodesty? Do you present your members to fornication? Do you use your hands to touch or to take what doesn't belong to you? Ephesians 4. 28, he who steals must steal no longer, but rather must labor performing with his own hands what is good. Do you present your tongue or your keyboard to complaining or gossip or slander or abuse of speech or lying? Colossians 3. 8, but now you also put them all aside, anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abuse of speech from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices Do you present your ears to gossip or slander? Proverbs 18, verse 8 says, The words of a whisperer are like dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the body. Do you present your stomach to gluttony, unbridled eating? And even beyond our physical members, the physical members of our body. This prohibition includes all the natural abilities and skills and strengths that we enlist in the service of the enemy. Anything that you're giving over to the enemy is like another tool, another weapon, another instrument. We're to refuse, we're to resist. Jerry Ragg and Paul Shirley write this: if you're naturally outgoing, stop stepping over people in order to exalt yourself and be noticed. If you're quiet and timid, stop coddling yourself in a corner and pay attention to others' needs. Stop using your education, experience, accomplishments for self-in-interests 1 Corinthians 10 31. Whether then you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all for the glory of God. Use your body for his glory. Use the members of your body for him. You've been bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. You've been given power to veto sin. You've been given veto power. You have the power to say no. Sin is already, the old man is already dethroned. You have the power to confront and resist sin. And when you're faced with the temptation to sin, first responsibility. Consideration. Remember who you are. I'm united to Christ. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. I've been given power. I'm no longer a slave. That's our first responsibility. Consider this. Think about this. Second responsibility, now because of what is true, I'm going to confront sin. Sin's going to be confronted. It's going to be resisted. I'm not going to let sin reign. And then the third responsibility is consecration. Consecration. We are to be fully dedicating ourselves to God, to his service, and that's what consecration means. It's declaring something to be sacred, fully dedicated to God, and that's what should be true of us. There's no sacred secular division here. All of our life should be dedicated to God. Look at verse 13 again. And do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. But, and here's the contrast. Present yourselves to God. Consecration. Present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. And it's important that we see what Paul is doing again. He's building these commands off of what's already been communicated to be true. The indicative is foundational to the imperative. So Paul does not say, make yourselves alive from the dead. No, that's already happened. But he says, present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead. We're only able to present ourselves alive because that's what we are. And he doesn't say, make your members instruments to God. No, that's already true. Your body, every member of your body, already belongs as an instrument to God That's what's true. So we're not to make our members instruments to God, but we're to present the members of our body as instruments of righteousness to God. Present them. It already is. Now you're just presenting it In one sense, we already belong to God because He He owns us. That's true for believers, unbelievers, all of creation, from the ants, the smallest ant to the greatest angel. We all belong to God. But for the believer, you belong to God in a special way. There's a special way that you belong to God. You're a special possession of God. And even your physical body, in some way, has been united to Christ Scripture calls our bodies members of Christ. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 real quick. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is a context where Paul is addressing those who are separating the spirit from the body as as if what you did with your body didn't matter because, you know, the body's going to perish anyway, kind of made excuses for all kinds of immorality. And uh this kind of thinking still lingers around today. You know, you ever you ever talk to somebody that you know you talk to somebody and they say, well, I know what that person is doing, but he has a good heart. What does that say? It's like, you know, like the outside doesn't matter anymore? Like what he does with his body doesn't matter because he supposedly has a good heart? No, the Bible says that out of the heart come all these actions, adulteries, fornications, everything else comes out of the heart. So what sense does it make to say, well, I know he's committing all this sinful, you know, all these sinful actions, but uh he just has a good heart. He has a good heart. No, no, like the actions are showing what's in his heart. That's what's going on. So people try to separate the heart, the inside from the outside, but You know, Paul here in 1 Corinthians 6 says like, no, like all of you belongs to God. Look at verse 15. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Your bodies, members of Christ. Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? May it never be. Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? You're uniting to her For he says, the two shall become one flesh. But the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him. Flee immorality Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the immoral man sins against his own body? Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own For you have been bought with the price, therefore glorify God in your body. Your body belongs to God. The members of your body are the members of Christ's body. He says it's members of his body. And should I take the members of Christ and engage in sin? Do you understand that your body's not your own? It's not your body, your choice. It's Christ's body and his choice. You belong to him. 1 Corinthians 12:27. Now you are Christ's body and individually members of it. Ephesians 5:30, we are members of his body. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely, and may your spirit and soul and body be preserved complete. God is concerned about the sanctification of your body. It matters. What you do with your body matters. So God is concerned about the sanctification of the physical body. Your body belongs to Christ. So not only are we collectively as a church the body of Christ, but individually, you as a Christian are members. And also considered to be the body of Christ, because your body belongs to Him. Which means you are to be a weapon in the hand of the Master, to present yourself to the Master. And just as Jesus having risen again lives to God, you are to lift to God. And every part of you is to be dedicated to God. Like I mentioned before, there's no line of separation between secular and sacred. Because as a believer, whatever you do is to be consecrated to God. Colossians 3:17 says, Whatever you do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through him to God the Father. Whatever you do, whatever you're doing. You can ask yourself two questions about whatever you do. Number one, can I do it in the name of Jesus? And number two, can I thank God when I'm finished with it? Two questions. I think it simplifies a lot. Can I do this, whatever I'm about to do in the name of Jesus? I'm gonna watch this in Jesus' name. And when I'm done, I'm gonna thank God. Praise God. You need to ask yourself, can I do it in the name of Christ? Can I turn around and thank God because I've done that? Because all you do should be in the name of Jesus and thanksgiving to God. And we'll see later on in Romans chapter 12. That Paul says, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God to present your what? Your bodies. Living, holy, sacrifice, acceptable to God All that we do should be in active worship, from preaching a sermon on Sunday to changing a diaper on Monday. Everything that you do should be done to the glory of God. And you know what? That's a fight. That's a fight. But praise God that it's a fight that God has given us every resource. And supplied us with every ammunition that we need. And just to remind you of where we started this whole section, Romans 6. 1, what shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may increase? You know, and the question again was, does grace bust open wide the door for sin? You know, is grace just a get out of jail free card you can use however you want? You know, don't Christians just teach you that you can live however you want in any way that you want and grace covers the bill? The idea that grace promotes sin, but what does Paul say in verse 14? We won't cover it today. We don't have time for it today. But what does he say? He says, for sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. Grace doesn't free us to sin, grace frees us from sin. It's able to do what the law couldn't do. The law could not give you power. All the law could do, the law is like a mirror. It just shows you what's there It points out the truth. It says, no, like that needs to change, that needs to change, that needs to change. It's just holding up the mirror. But it doesn't change anything. You know, you look at the mirror in the morning, you say like, man, my face is dirty. You don't pick the mirror off the wall and start scrubbing your face. The mirror's not gonna help you The mirror is there to tell you what to do. Pick up the rag, pick up the soap, run the water, wash your face. But the mirror can't do anything for you. All it's going to do is show you what's there. The law can't help, but grace can. The grace can. Grace has come to give us power. You are no longer under the law, but under grace. Law can't help you, but grace can. Grace doesn't free us to sin, it frees us from sin. The law caused sin to abound, remember that? But grace gives us the power to obey. Grace provides power. And one day grace will lead me all the way home. All the way home, where the battle with sin will finally be over. Grace will take me all the way home. First John 2, verse 17. The world is passing away, and also its lusts. One day we won't have to deal with the lusts of the flesh anymore. The world is passing away and also its lust, but the one who does the will of God abides forever. One day, as Paul says, we will be set free from the body of this death. The fight's going to be over, brothers and sisters. But until that time comes, you need to glorify God by staying in the fight. I'm going to keep on battling against this sin because this is what glorifies God. And God has given me every tool that I need, all the ammunition that I need to battle against this sin. And that's what glorifies God. So when you're faced with the temptation to sin, what's your first responsibility? I'm to consider. Consider what is true. Think about what's true. I'm dead to sin. I'm alive to God. I'm not a slave. I've been given power. You need to think about that. Consider that. Consider that to be true. Number two, you need to confront the sin. Resist the sin. Don't let sin rain. It has no authority over your life anymore. Don't let it rain over your life. And our last responsibility is to consecrate ourselves to God. Fully dedicating ourselves to God and his service, and that's what should be true of us. And we continue to pray, don't we? Take my life and let it be. Consecrate it, Lord, to thee. Take my moments and my days. Let them flow in endless praise, ceaseless praise. Take my hands and let them move at the impulse of thy love, not at my own sinful impulses. Let them move at the impulse of thy love. Take my feet and let them be swift and beautiful for thee. Take my voice and let me sing always only for my king. Take my lips and let them be filled with messages from thee. Take my silver and my gold, not a might with I withhold. Take my intellect and use every power as thou shalt choose. Take my will and make it thine, it shall be no longer mine. Take my heart, it is thine own, it shall be thy royal throne. Take my love, my lord, I pour at thy feet its treasure store. Take myself, and I will be ever-only all for thee. Ever only all for thee. Is that your prayer? As we consecrate ourselves to the Lord, Lord, Lord, I'm in the fight, I'm in the battle, and I need your help. And praise God that He gives us all the help that we need. We've been given grace, and grace is the power to say no. And we can fully consecrate ourselves to God because of what He's done in us. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and uh Father, we thank you for uh your word Father, your word gives us all that we need for life and godliness. We thank you for your spirit who dwells within us. Father, we thank you for the grace that's been given to us as a power to say no to sin and temptation. Now, Father, I pray that we would walk in the light of your truth. And Father, we thank you for the forgiveness of sins that's been offered to us. Now, Father, it's uh because of your grace that we stand. It's because of your grace that will be brought all the way home. One day we'll be done with the battle with sin. One day it will be over. But Father, until that time, I pray that we would stay in the fight. Father, that we would continue to battle, that we would continue to resist, that we continue to dedicate ourselves to you. We belong to you. Every part of us belongs to you. And so, Father, I pray that you would be pleased in our lives and that we would be dedicated always, only, all for thee. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.