The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're in Matthew chapter 28. And uh Matthew is still hanging on by a thread. Uh we still have a few more uh messages to go before the end of the book, but we're uh quickly approaching the last stop on the train. So Matthew's hanging on by a thread and some of my pages are probably hanging on by a thread as well. The last time we were in Matthew together, we examined the response of the woman of Calvary who followed Jesus from Galilee to the cross. to the tomb where Jesus was buried. And as we saw last time, these women were committed ministry partners. These women were committed ministry partners and all they knew was uh What Jesus spoke about in the future and regarding the kingdom of God, which is what they were looking forward to. uh really missing out on what he said about his own death and uh resurrection. Uh but during the the ministry of of Jesus these ladies were part of this inner circle of support. Luke chapter 8 verse 3 says that they were contributing to the support of Jesus and the disciples out of their private means and Mark 15, 41 says that when he was in Galilee, they used to follow him and minister to him, and there were many other women who came with him to Jerusalem. So so these ladies were his ministry partners, and uh these ladies have just as much invested in Jesus as any of the other disciples, and that's what we looked at last time. These ladies uh gave up their means to support Jesus. Uh they gave up their time to minister to Jesus Some of these ladies even gave up their sons to follow Jesus, not knowing how the lives of their sons would end. Salome even offered her her sons to drink of the cup that Jesus would drink, not knowing at all what she was committing herself to, because the cup that Jesus would drink uh was the cup of the wrath of of God and even his own death. But she offered his son her sons up for this. She offered up her sons, not knowing what the end would be, not knowing that he was talking about death And at least one of these ladies was at a personal risk to follow Jesus because her husband was one of Herod's stewards. She's mentioned in Luke twenty-four, verse ten, and uh Luke chapter eight and verse three. So these ladies placed all their trust, their hope, their lives into the hands of Jesus, and those hands that they placed their lives into were nailed to a cross. And Jesus died. And when Jesus died, all of their hopes died with Jesus. And this wasn't the kind of kingdom that they were dreaming of. When Salome asked if her boys could sit on the right and left hand of Jesus when he entered into his kingdom, this wasn't the kind of kingdom that she was thinking about. The cross was something that completely shattered all of their hopes, their expectations. It was devastating and brought any plans that they had with Jesus. to a complete end. And this was what they considered the sad and tragic ending to an otherwise glorious story. They're coming to the tomb on this day, on this Sunday for closure, to gaze upon Jesus one last time, to pay their respects, to mourn Jesus' death, to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives, and to try to move on. That's why these ladies appeared on the third day. Back in Matthew chapter 28 and verse 1, it says, Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave You 're here on the third day just to look at Jesus one last time. Then according to John chapter 11 and verse 39 They understood that the Jewish people wanted to open up the grave after four days because decomposition had already set in. The third day was the last day that they could enter into this tomb. So here they are on this last day. arriving as early as they can on the day so they can say their last goodbyes. But before we get into the text for this morning, I just want to clarify something about the resurrection. And what I want to clarify for you before we get into the text is the timing of the resurrection. Why don't you look back at uh verse one again? Already read it, but it says, now after the Sabbath As it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave. So it's clear that Jesus rose on the first day of the week, which would have been what dead? Sunday. It's the day after the Sabbath, the day after Saturday. And that's repeated several times throughout Scripture. And uh Jesus rose on the day after the Sabbath. that Jesus was crucified on the day before the Sabbath, which would have been what day? Friday. Friday was also called the day of preparation, because that was the day that everything had to be prepared. for the following day. So Jesus bowed his head on a Friday afternoon, sometime around 3 p. m. was placed in the tomb by 6 p.m. that night Because the Jewish people began their Sabbath celebration at sundown on Friday, so before six o'clock Jesus had to be in the grave. And that's why the tomb that Jesus was placed in was a nearby tomb Because they didn't have a lot of time to find any other tomb. It was sundown on Friday. John chapter 19 and verse 42 says, Therefore, because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there And over in uh Luke chapter uh twenty-three, and you can just flip over there real quick, uh Luke chapter 23. It lets us know that the same thing if you look at verse 54 and uh Luke 23. Luke twenty-three, verse fifty-four. It says it was the preparation day. And the Sabbath was about to begin. So here they are on Friday, the preparation day. The Sabbath day is about to begin because the sun is coming down. Verse 55 it says, Now the women who had come with him out of Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid. Then they returned and prepared spices and perfumes, and on the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment. So why am I going through these details? I'm going through these details because there are some people who see a contradiction between the details of the burial And the prediction that Jesus made that he would be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights. Over in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 40, Jesus said For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Now some people say, well, that that doesn't add up. Friday to Saturday is one day, one day, Saturday to Sunday is two days. So what happened to the third day? You know, Friday to Saturday is one, Saturday to Sunday is two. What happened to the third day? And I actually grew up in a church where they taught that Jesus died on the Thursday, just so they could try to get in three days and three nights. But it's clear from the passages that we've already looked at that Jesus died on a Friday and he rose on a Sunday. So so what are we supposed to do with this prediction where Jesus said that he'll be in the Grave, the heart of the earth, for three days and three nights. We're supposed to understand it within the context of the scriptures. And any part of a day was considered a full day. That's the way that the Romans, the Greeks, and the Jewish people also spoke of their days. So when you think about it, it's really the same way that we speak about uh days today as well. If uh you went on a vacation and uh you told me, you know, I spent three days in at Ocean City. And I said, wow, really? Three days? What did you do? And then you told me, you know, I well I arrived on a a Friday afternoon, you know, eight crabs at uh on the bay seafood. Uh we spent all day Saturday at the beach. On the boogie boards and sometime around Sunday after lunch we got ice cream at Van Der Wendy's. We need to stop by Van Der Wendy's on the way home from Ocean City. We stopped by Van Dwendy's on the way home and uh and that was it. Then you don't look at I don't wouldn't look at a person like that and say, Well you liar. You told me you spent three days. He said it was a three-day vacation. That means that you had to arrive on midnight Friday and stay all day Saturday and all day Sunday and all day Monday. I mean you can't have, you know, just just uh part of the day on Friday and part of the day on Sunday. It's got to be three full days. I can't believe you lied to me. I just can't believe it. Like we we don't do that. You know when we talk about three days, we said like any part of those three days is three days. And if if if I were to call you a liar because you know you didn't stay a full twenty-four hour days, you know, for each day that you're at Ocean City, you'd wonder what planet I came from, and you probably wouldn't want me to come with you the next time you go on a vacation, right? I mean that's that's not how we we speak. And the common expression during this time was that any part of a day was considered a full calendar day. That's just what they called it And any part of that day was considered what they would call a day and a night. Why? Because that night belonged to that day. You understand what I'm saying? That night belonged to that day. It was just the way that we speak of a calendar day. And then the Talmud, which is a Jewish commentary on scripture. in uh tradition, it says this that a day and night makes one onah, which was uh the the word for day and any part of an ona is as the whole So when something happened on that calendar day, it was referred to as the day and the night. It was referred to as the whole day because it happened during that time period. It belonged to that day. So there's no biblical way to get three full 24-hour days between Friday and Sunday morning. But Jesus was still in the grave for three days. Because he was in the grave on each part of those days. He was in the grave on Friday, in the grave on Saturday, in the grave on Sunday. And that was the same way that Jewish leaders understood today. And the reason why we know that the Jewish leaders understood those three days to be those three days is because they set a guard at the grave on Saturday night. They wanted to make sure that he didn't get up on the third day. You know, if if if they were waiting for the the third day, like you know, the twenty-four hour days, they would have waited until Monday. But no, they they had to convene this like emergency council on the Sabbath, break their Sabbath regulations, in order for them to convene this council so they could get a guard at the tomb on Saturday They wanted a guard at the tomb on Saturday to make sure that he didn't rise on that Sunday. So uh they they had the common understanding that the third day is the third part, uh any part of those those days was considered a full day. So Uh anyway, I just wanted to uh to bring that up before we uh jump into our text uh because the third day is a Sunday. Uh that's the same understanding that we have, it's the same understanding that they had, and it's on the third day, which is the first day of the week. where everything begins. It begins on the Sunday. We call Sunday uh the weekend, but it's actually the week beginning. And after this Sunday, there would be no Sunday that would ever be the same after this Sunday. The first day of the week became the day when the church gathered together to break bread. Acts chapter 20 and verse 7 says, On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul began talking to them, intending to leave the next day, and he prolonged his message until midnight. Maybe maybe we can stay here for a couple more hours today. Paul was there till midnight preaching on the Lord's Day, the first day of the week. It was on the first day of the week. When collections were received by the church, 1 Corinthians chapter 16, verse 2, says, On the first day of every week, each one of you is to put aside and save as he may prosper, so that no collections be made when I come And like I said, it was called the Lord's Day in Revelation chapter 1 and verse 10. John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like the sound of a trumpet. So that the church gather together on the day that Jesus rose from the dead. They then gathered together to think about the time that the Lord rested. They gathered together to think about the time that the Lord resurrected. That's when they gather together as a church. And then Paul turns around and says this in Colossians chapter 2. Therefore, no one is to act as your judge in regard to food or drink or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. The substance has come. We don't have to go back to the pictures anymore. Christ is the substance. It's all the Sabbath days represented the rest that we find in Jesus Christ. And that's why we gathered together on a Sunday to remember in whom we have our rest. So let's turn our attention back to that first Sunday that changed every Sunday, that first Resurrection Sunday, Matthew chapter 28. Our focus will be verses 9 to 10, but I'll start at verse 1 just for the sake of context. Matthew chapter 28, starting at verse 1. So it's now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave Behold, a severe earthquake had occurred, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. The guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men. The angel said to the woman, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who has been crucified. He is not here. For he has risen just as he said. Come, see the place where he was lying. Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Behold, I have told you And they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy and ran to report it to his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and greeted them. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. Why don't you bow your heads for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning as we always do. Father, asking for your blessing upon your word. Father, asking for your blessing upon your servant. Even today, as I Preach the word of God. I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, Father. My Father, we pray that you'd help us as those who gather together to remember the day that the Lord rose from the dead. Now, Father, that we would rejoice and that we would long to see him. That we would long to see the face of our Savior, knowing that when we see him, we'll be like him. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. What will it be like to finally behold the risen Christ? What will that be like There's something about that that should capture the imagination of every believer because that's what we long for as Christians. 1 John 3 verse 2 says, we will see him just as he is. 2 Timothy 4 and verse 8, Paul says, In the future there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing. That's that's the definition of the believer. We love the appearing of Jesus Christ. We're looking forward to it. Philippians chapter 3 verse 20 says for our citizenship is in heaven from which we also eagerly wait for a savior the Lord Jesus Christ. We're like the hymn writer, we just sang the song, uh, who wrote this line, Lord haste the day When our faith shall be sight. Like, like, Lord, can can you speed it up a little bit? I'm looking forward to the day when faith turns to sight. We want to see him. And on that first day, there were a small group of ladies who didn't have to wait because the Savior actually appeared to them. And this is our first point, the presence of Christ in verse 9. This is the first part of verse 9. It says, and behold, Jesus met them and greeted them. And this is just like one shacking day after another. You know, the the word behold is often used uh for a shocking event. It calls attention uh to itself like uh earlier when the earthquake uh uh occurred the angel appeared it says behold like like look at this can you believe it So here you have this this shocking event. Behold, Jesus met them. The Lord appears like out of nowhere. But notice the timing and the placement of the Lord's appearance. The Lord doesn't appear to these ladies while they were still in the tomb. The Lord shows up after they've left the tomb and they're on their way to the disciples to obey the word of the angel. Look again at uh at verse 8. It says, and they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy, and ran to report it to his disciples, and behold, Jesus met them. And he gives them the exact same message that the angel already gave them And you may scratch your head and wonder, it's like, well, well, why didn't he just show up at the tomb? Like, like why why why why send the angels there? Like why wait until they They gather together their spices. You know, he could have saved them a trip. Just you know, appear before them like before they leave the house and say, hey ladies, like, you know, don't worry about the spices. I'm here. Why wait until now? And why didn't Jesus just give them the message directly to go and report this to my disciples instead of sending the angel to give the exact same message? Like why double up on the message? Why wait until they're already on their way before Jesus appears? Why not show up before they left? But if you pay attention to scripture, you'll see that God will often wait until you're on your way before he meets you. Can I get an amen? God waited until Moses stretched out his staff before parting the Red Sea. God waited until Joshua circled around the city of Jericho before knocking the walls down God waited until Elijah prayed for the sending of the fire on Carmel and the rain on Israel before he sent it. God waited for the three Hebrew boys to refuse to bow. to the idol before he delivered them from the fiery furnace. And Jesus waited until after these ladies were already on their way to report the good news to the disciples before he shows up. But that's not how we like things, right? I mean we we like to walk by sight and not by faith. You know, we want to receive the payment all up front before we obey You know, you know, Mr. Angel, you know, I appreciate you sending the message and all that, but um, you know, before I go and report that Jesus is alive, can can I see him? Like first, before I go and tell him that that he's alive You know, think about it. These ladies didn't have the privilege of seeing Jesus before they were sent with the message that he's alive And they ran out of the tomb by faith. They ran by faith. They didn't walk by faith. They ran by faith. Some of us have a hard time walking by faith. These ladies ran. And we're required to do the same thing. We won't necessarily get all of the details, all of the answers, all of the confirmation up front for what Jesus asked us to do, but I believe that he will meet us on the way. I I uh you might be terrified maybe of of sharing the gospel. But what does Jesus promise us? He says in Matthew twenty eight, Lo I'm with you always, even until the end of the day. Just get busy. I'll be there. I'll meet you there You might be facing a level of persecution for your faith. 1 Peter 4 and verse 14 says, if you're reviled for the name of Christ, you're blessed. Why? Because the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Don't don't worry if you're being persecuted. I'll be there. You might be timid about confronting a believer about their sin, but Jesus promises in Matthew chapter 18 and verse 20, for where two or three have gathered together in my name, I am there in Their midst. That's not talking about your prayer meeting. That's in the context. Follow the context. Matthew 18 is talking about church discipline. He says, if you're going to confront somebody about their transgression, I'll be there. I'll be there. And you maybe find yourself in some kind of crisis filled with anxiety, but God promises that if you lay your request before Him, Philippians chapter 4 and verse 7, that the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And then in verse 9 it says this, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. What is God saying? He's saying, I'll be there. You just go and I'll meet you. You go. And it's often on the way as we're going that Jesus meets us and here while these ladies are on their way, walking in obedience to the word of the angel, that Jesus met them. And look at the way he greets them. He just greets them in such a familiar way. The Greek text actually gives the greeting translated in some of your versions as uh some versions say greeting, some versions say hail, uh, some versions say rejoice. It's just translated in the Nazbi as he greeted them. And it's done that way because when Jesus greeted them, he was just using a familiar greeting of that time. The familiar greeting was uh chirate, uh which is a word that means rejoice. But it was just a common greeting that that was basically like like hello, hello. So in this case it's not a command to, you know, hey, rejoice, why aren't you rejoicing? You know, it's it's in the com uh the imperative here, but it's not a like this kind of command, like what's going on here? It's just the common dream, like, hey, how's it going Like if we say hi or we say goodbye. You know, you actually know that that uh that word goodbye is a contraction of God be with ye. But we just say goodbye all the time. We don't even think about like, you know, what are we really saying when we say that? It's God be with ye. You know, God be with you. But here it was just used as like this kind of normal, natural, familiar. Everybody used it. Hey, how's it going? Rejoice. But my point is that when Jesus appears, he appears in a familiar way, and he speaks to them in these kind of familiar terms. He was recognizable. He spoke to them in a familiar way. And Jesus, just as Jesus was recognized, we can know that when we receive our resurrected bodies, we'll be recognized as well. Uh we won't have to send out like some kind of APB for our our loved ones in heaven because we can't recognize them. It's like no like you'll be able to recognize one another when we get there. But but Jesus just greets them in this familiar way, familiar way as he he uh he speaks. to them. So it's just this natural greeting. He's familiar with them. This is the moment that these ladies have been waiting for. Jesus greets them in a familiar way, but as they respond to Christ, they don't greet him in a familiar way. Jesus' greeting was familiar and natural. Their greeting back to him was anything but familiar and natural. Because what we have in verse 9 again is the praise of Christ. Look at the end of verse 9. It says, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Even though these ladies greet Uh uh Christ greeted these ladies in a completely familiar and natural way. They greet him in a way that's completely unnatural that they would greet with uh anybody else or unfamiliar to anybody else. And here we have the the praise of Christ, which is our our second point here. They don't greet Jesus with like, hey, you know, Jesus says hello, and they say, hey, hello, how's it going? They don't greet Jesus as a friend, like this kind of familiar friend. They greet Jesus as their Lord And look at how they respond to Jesus. First of all, they take hold of his feet. If you're taking hold of somebody's feet, where do you have to be? On the ground. They're taking hold of his feet because they're on the ground, flat on their faces before Jesus Christ. They don't greet Jesus with a hug and a high five. They bowed low, put their faces to the ground before him, which is a recognition of Jesus' position of authority and superiority. They were submitting to Jesus Christ Bowing was a common common way in the East that you'd greet any ruler or king or a person deserving great respect. It wasn't just a religious sign, it was also a sign of dependence, it was a sign of reverence If you recognize that you were dependent on someone, or you recognize that you were in the presence of someone who was in a greater position than you were, you bowed low before them. For example, remember when Joseph was made second in command in Egypt? Actually, why don't you uh flip over here to Genesis chapter 41 just to take a look at this Genesis chapter 41. And we remember that uh out of all that his brothers meant for evil, the God used it for good. So here we have uh Joseph who goes from the pit to the palace And in verse uh 43, look at what it says. Actually, I'll start at uh I'll start back at verse 41. Pharaoh said to Joseph, see, I've set you over all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh took off his signet ring from his hand and put it on Joseph's hand and clothed him in garnets of fine linen and put the gold necklace around his neck. He had him ride in his second chariot, and they proclaimed before him, Bow the knee! And he set him over all the land of Egypt. The people of Egypt, they were to recognize that they were dependent on Joseph's wisdom for their very lives. Joseph was placed over all of the resources of Egypt and whenever he approached, it was bow the knee, recognize who this man is Recognize his position over you. You are dependent upon him. Even Joseph's brothers who came to Egypt a little bit later in the text in Genesis chapter 42 and verse 6 it says they bowed down to him with their faces to the ground. Not even recognizing that this is their own brother. But they're flat on their faces before him, assuming the position of dependence and reverence. It's kind of like when uh Esther came to King Ahashuarus to beg for her life, the life of her people, she fell on her face before him, fell at his feet. Esther chapter 8 and verse 3 says then Esther spoke again to the king, fell at his feet, wept and implored him to avert the evil scheme of Haman the Agagite and his plot which he had devised against the Jews And often in in scripture when you see a a person in a position of desperation, you'll find this phrase that they fell at their feet. Of a p person who was in a position to help. They fell at their feet. So it wasn't just a religious sign of worship, it was a sign of dependence, it was a sign of great reverence. It was the way that you would uh respond to men of great power and dignity. Another example is uh is Lot when the angels approach in uh Genesis chapter 19. When Lot rose up to meet them, he bowed down with his face to the ground. So it was a way to show great respect. And there's many illustrations of monuments in Egypt, Assyria that show people falling to their knees, stretching their bodies out until their faces hit the ground before them. And this is what these ladies are doing. They're bowing down before Christ, grabbing his feet as a sign that they recognize Jesus as the one that they're dependent on, and the one who deserves great honor and reverence. And if you can imagine anything about being in the presence of Jesus Christ, this is where you start. Okay? This is where you start Because you have to recognize Jesus as the one who deserves all glory, all honor, all reverence. You're dependent on him for everything. You need to recognize who he truly is. Even the men who would have considered Jesus their closest friend knew that they couldn't treat Jesus just like one of the guys. They don't deal with him in these kind of familiar buddy-buddy terms. Over in uh Luke chapter 5. Why don't you flip over there? Luke chapter 5. Do you remember what happened when uh Jesus called Peter into service for the second time? Peter was out fishing in Luke chapter 5. Jesus told him to cast his net on the other side of the boat in Luke chapter 5 and verse 5. Look what it says here. Luke chapter 5, verse 5. It says, Simon answered and said, Master, you know, this is after Jesus told him to cast his net out. Simon answered and said, Master, we worked hard all day and night. Caught nothing But I will do as you say and let down the nets. When they had done this they enclosed a great quantity of fish and their nets began to break. So they signaled to their partners in the other boat for them to come and help them, and they came and filled both of the boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw that, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, go away from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. I am a sinful man, O Lord. When Peter began to recognize that the one who commanded him to cast his nets was actually the same one who controlled the seas, he didn't respond in some kind of familiar way. He didn't respond, you know, slapping high fives to Jesus. Oh, Jesus, that was great. Hey, Jesus is my homeboy. That's not how he responded to Jesus. There was this immediate recognition of who this person is. Over in the book of Revelation, you have the Apostle John who recognizes that he's in the presence of the resurrected Christ As Jesus manifested his glory. Revelation 1. 17, it says, when I saw him, John talking about seeing Jesus. And remember, this is the Jesus that he leaned against his breast, right? This is his friend. This is the one that he spent time with. But it says here that when I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man And he placed his right hand on me, saying, Do not be afraid. I'm the first and the last and the living one, and I was dead, and behold, I'm alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and of Hades. John was arguably the closest friend of Jesus Christ. But he doesn't deal with him in these kind of familiar categories. He's not flippant and careless in the presence of the Savior. There's a respect and reverence that Jesus deserves. Which should really which should really inform the way that we come to church on Sunday, shouldn't it? Should really inform the way that we come to church on Sundays. When we when we gather together on Sunday mornings as a church. It's not to sing familiar songs to a familiar friend in some kind of casual way. There's to be a tone of reverence and respect in who we worship. Our goal isn't to make things familiar and as casual as possible, as if we're really not doing anything very significant here. And even the music that we sing should maintain a level of respect for who God is. Yes, God is a friend of sinners, but he's not your homeboy, right? Yes, Jesus draws near to us, but if you can't tell whether you're singing about your Lord or whether you're singing about your girlfriend, something's wrong. You know, I love the way you hold me. Like really? Like like that's what you want to offer to the Lord? Just like, you know, a song that you could sing to your girlfriend? It doesn't demonstrate that Jesus is other than you, that he's holy, that he's distinct from his creation. And that's made clear by what the ladies do next because the next thing they do is they worship. They worship Matthew 28, verse 9, it says, they came up, took hold of his feet, and worshipped him, which only belongs to God alone, right? When when Satan tried to tempt Jesus in the wilderness, he finally pulled off his mask. You know, he's he's kind of going this way and that way, but he finally pulled off the mask. Okay, Jesus, let me know what I'm really after. I'll let you know what I'm really after. This is what I really want. Just bow down and worship me. I'll give you everything if you would just bow down and worship me But the way that Jesus responded was, go Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Nobody else gets the worship that belongs to God. Worship only belongs to him. There's a glory that only belongs to God. Isaiah chapter 42, verse 8 says, I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. There's a glory that only belongs to God that he does not share with anybody else. And worship is what we do when we ascribe and recognize the glory that belongs to God alone. We're recognizing God for who he is. And when the creature tries to steal from the creator what only belongs to him, it doesn't end well. It doesn't end well. That's why Satan was kicked out of heaven. That's why Adam and Eve were kicked out of the garden. Because they both tried to become like God. We want some of that. Like we don't want to just reserve that for God. We want some of that for ourselves. And that's the ground that you don't tread on as a creature. Over in Acts chapter 12, why don't you flip over there? Acts chapter 12. There was a man by the name of Herod Agrippa I. Who was the grandson of Herod the Great. And the book of Acts reports an event that took place in Herod Agrippa's life. Why don't you take a look at it? Acts chapter 12, starting at verse 21. Listen what it says here, verse 21. It says, On an appointed day, Herod having put on his royal apparel, took a seat. on the Rostrum, which is a raised platform, and began delivering an address to them. And people kept crying out, the voice of a God and not of a man. The voice of a God and not of a man. And immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and died. Josephus records that on the second day of a festival in Caesarea, Agrippa appeared in a theater with a robe made out of silver. The people seeing his robe sparkling in the sunlight cried out flatteries, declared him to be a god, and begged for his mercy. And while the king was basking in his praise, he had a severe It had severe stomach pains, was carried to his house and died. It doesn't end well when you try to steal from God. We don't need to be glory thieves, right? Stealing glory that only belongs to God. You don't play around with worship that belongs to God alone. And uh that's why holy men and holy angels refused to be worshipped. In the city of uh Lystra, a man was healed by Paul and The men of the the city in Acts chapter fourteen, they said the Gothev have become like men and have come down to us. Speaking about Paul and Barnabas They began calling Barnabas Zeus and Paul Hermes because he was the chief speaker. You know, Zeus was the great god, and you know, Hermes was like the one who sent the messages for the gods So they said, hey, well Barnabas is this and Hermes, like that's that's Paul. In Acts chapter 14 and verse 14 it says, but when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their robes and rushed out into the crowd. Crying out and saying, Men, why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you, and preach the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain things to a living God who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. Don't don't don't worship us. We're just like you. We reserve worship alone for God. Acts chapter 10, Cornelius fell down at Peter's feet to worship him. But Peter said, Raise up! Stand up I'm just a man like you. Over in Revelation chapter 22, the apostle John was overwhelmed by the revelations that were given to him. Revelation 22, verse 8. He says, I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things, and when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things. But he said to me, Do not do that. I'm a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren, the prophets, and those who heed the words of this book, Worship God. It kind of reminds me of that uh that scene in uh Lord of the Rings where uh Frodo 's trying to give the ring to to Gandalf and he's like, what are you doing? Like don't give that to me. Like that doesn't belong to me. I can't hold on to that It's like the same thing the angels like, what do you what are you doing? You don't give worship to me. Get up. I'm just a servant like you. I don't deserve worship. That's the way that all holy angels and holy men responded. Don't worship me. Worship belongs only to God. There's no question who these ladies thought that Jesus was. When they bowed down to him and gave him worship. But the bigger question is, who did Jesus think he was? Because Jesus received the worship, right? If there was ever a chance for Jesus to say, hold on, hold on, what are you doing? Please get up, ladies. Please. I'm just like you. I'm just just one of you. Just one of the guys, just one of the girls. I mean, come on, just get up. Where's the outrage? Where's the cry of shock and horror? Like, like, come on, get up, don't, don't do this, don't give this to me. Obviously, Jesus received it because he thought he was worthy of it, right? Worship is at home with Jesus Christ. The Trinity for the early church was more of a matter of worship than it was of hammering out doctrine. The early church knew that Jesus was one with the Father because he was being worshipped along with the Father. Athanasius, who was an early defender of the Trinity, argued if Christians have worshiped and continue to worship Christ He must be considered God. To admit otherwise would be to accuse the church of continuous blasphemy in its prayer and practice from the first century onwards. In other words, he's saying the whole church worships Jesus Christ Why does the whole church worship Jesus Christ? Because they understand and be God. That is the only way that worship would be offered to Jesus Christ. You can't get away from Jesus being God. If you read your Bible, you cannot get away from it. It's everywhere. And these ladies recognize who it is that they're kneeling before. This is God in the flesh. We go from the presence of Christ and the praise of Christ, and then finally We get to the proclamation of Christ in verse 10 back in Matthew chapter 28. Verse 10. It says, Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and take words of my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. And just like the angels who spoke tenderly to the ladies back in verse 5, Jesus speaks words that would have brought even more comfort to their souls. Whatever fear they had about meeting the Lord and whatever guilt they had for not believing in the Lord, I mean it all just evaporated with the word of comfort that came from Christ. And would you notice that it was Jesus who calmed their fears about meeting him? Because apart from the words of Christ, it would be a terrifying thing to meet the Lord, right? Not everyone is greeted by comfort when they see Jesus Christ. There's going to be unbelievers who cry out for the mountains and the rocks to fall on them. Revelation 6, 16. Saying, fall on us, hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne. The appearance of Christ isn't good news for everybody. But for these ladies who loved the Lord, who trusted in the Lord, this is a good thing. Even though their faith was weak, their faith was wavering, I mean that's why they came to the tomb in the first place. Because they weren't trusting in his resurrection, Jesus still brings them this encouragement because he knows that their faith and their love is real. And that's why Jesus meets them on the road. Why else would Jesus meet them on the road? He's here to encourage these ladies. That's what he's here for. Think about this. They already saw the empty tomb. They already talked with the angel at the tomb. They were already reminded about what Jesus predicted. They were already on their way to the disciples. They even had the message about the meeting in Galilee. Like why did Jesus show up? Like they had all the information What did the appearance of Jesus add that these ladies already didn't have? They already had the message. He added his personal confirmation. Jesus added himself. He brought himself like I am the comfort. I am the help. Personally confirmed the words that they were hearing by the angel. And now they're able to say, you know, I've heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you, right? They're able to say, I've seen him. They didn't need to see the resurrected Christ in order to obey the command to tell his disciples to meet him in Galilee. But Jesus adds graciously this confirmation by his personal visit. And this is just a demonstration of the grace and mercy of Christ that's multiplied and given in abundance. He didn't have to do this, but he did. And these ladies are able to return to the disciples with more news than just you will see him, but now they're able to say, we have seen him. We've seen him. And even after this, the disciples didn't believe. Over in Luke chapter 24, in verse 10, it lets us know the response of the disciples after they received the news about the resurrection of Christ. In Luke 24 and verse 10 it says, Now there were uh they were Mary Magdalene and Joanna and Mary the mother of James, also the other women with them were telling these things to the apostles. But these words appear to them as nonsense And they would not believe them. Over in uh verse twenty-one, it says, uh, but we were hoping that he was the Christ. This is the uh disciples on the road to Emmaus. It says we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this It is the third day since these things happened. But also some women among us amazed us when they were at the tomb early in the morning and did not find his body. They came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive. Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the women also had said, but him they did not see It's like like we don't really believe the ladies because we we didn't see them for ourselves. And then Jesus replied and says, Oh foolish men and slow apart to believe In all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? That the ladies came back with the credible testimony, but the disciples didn't believe them. So, what was their confirmation? What did they rest on? I've seen them. I don't care what you say. I don't care if you don't believe me. I know what I saw. I was there. I heard his words. I saw him. I fell at his feet. I touched him. I've seen Jesus. And it's this overwhelming grace of God that gives evidence on top of his word. We should take God at his word. But often God will confirm his word to us because he knows that we're weak, right? God knows where we are. God knows we're flesh. That's why back in Exodus 3, God appeared to Moses in a burning bush and said, You know, come now, I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt. Moses is hesitating and he's hemming and he's hawing like, you know, I don't know about this. Then in Exodus chapter 4 and verse 2, he says, God says, what's that in your hand? He said a staff and he said throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground and it became a serpent. Now did God have to show Moses some magic tricks in order for him to obey? No. I don't have to turn your staff into a serpent for you to follow me. I'm here talking to you. Who do you think you're talking to? Like your parents used to say. Who do you think you're talking to? But here you have Moses is like, oh yeah, I don't know. Well they believe me. Why me? Why not send my brother and shit God 's just like just throw your staff on the ground I'll give you an added confirmation, even though you don't need it. I'll give you the added confirmation. Why? Because I know you're weak. Over in Judges chapter 6. We have uh the angel of the Lord appear to a man by the name of Gideon. Over in uh Judges chapter 6 and uh verse verse 14. It says that uh that the Lord looked at him And said, Go in this your strength and deliver Israel from the hand of Midian. Have I not sent you? So here he is. He's sent by the Lord. And then over in verse 17. It says this. It says so Gideon said to him, If now I have found favor in your sight, then show me a sign that it is you who speak with me. And over in verse 21, there was a sign. The angel consumed the sacrifice in fire that Gideon had prepared. So it's like, I'll give you the sign Then look down at a um I'll I'll go ahead and read it for you. Judges chapter 6 and verse 36. Says then Gideon said to God, If you will deliver Israel through me as you have spoken, behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece only and it is dry on all the ground, then I will know that you will deliver Israel through me, as you have spoken. And it was so. When he rose early the next morning and Squeezed the fleece, he drained the dew from the fleece, a bowl of a bowl full of water. Then Gideon said to God, Do not let your anger burn against me that I may speak once more, please Let me make a test once more with the fleece. Now let it now be dry only on the fleece, and let there be dew on the ground. So God did so that night, for it was dry only on the fleece, and dew was on all the what are you doing? Like you can't take God in his word? Like he's consumed a sacrifice by fire and like that's not enough. And now he he performed your little like you know magic trick with the dude, and it's like that's not enough. Like, oh don't be mad at me, but can you Can you do this too? It's just like, like, give me a break. But that's where we are, isn't it? It's like we're weak. We hear the word of the Lord and it's like, oh Lord, how do I know? Oh Lord, can I really trust this? And like the Lord graciously in his providence He'll confirm his word through different ways, archaeology, through science, through your own testimony. It's like, oh, I can't trust the Lord. It's like you should have known that from the beginning But here we are. This is where we are. We're weak. And it's the same that was true for the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. That Jesus. Miraculously, consistently, over a period of time, forty days, gave all these confirming proofs. Acts chapter one, verse three says, To these he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many convincing proofs Appearing to them over a period of forty days and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. They saw him, they touched them, they heard them, they walked with them, they sat with them, they ate with them, they broke bread with them, they watched him eat, he cooked breakfast I mean just like everything that you could think of, Jesus is showing, I'm I'm alive, it's me, it's not a ghost. Mike McKinley in his uh book The Resurrection in Your Life says this, I don't know much about ghosts, but it seems certain that they don't have bones and they don't eat fish. Like like Jesus is just going overboard to show that I'm alive. And in between this meeting with the ladies, like Jesus continues to show up And he does this in order to bring conviction that you can believe me. You can trust in me. I know you're weak And these men, the disciples who would soon turn the world upside down, they needed to be convinced as well. And Jesus shows up to them. And there's this meeting in Galilee that he's put a date on the calendar. It's like scheduling this time, I'm going to Galilee. Why? So I can show myself to you. Over 500 brethren at once, according to 1 Corinthians 15, so that they all could see him. This is not a hallucination. All 500 of you are seeing me at the same time. Like you can touch me, feel me. It is I. Jesus multiplied confirmations to make sure that they didn't waver so that Peter could say in 2 Peter 1, 16, for we did not follow cleverly devised tales. When we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 1 John chapter 1. John says, What was from the beginning, what we have heard, what we've seen with our eyes, what we've looked at, touched with our hands concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testify and proclaimed to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was manifested to us. What we have seen and heard we proclaim to you also, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. They were going to be his witnesses. And even at the cost of their own lives, they'd be willing to lay their lives on the line for the resurrected Christ. And Christ says to these ladies, go and go and tell my disciples I'm going to meet them. He confirms his word through his personal presence. And now he says, go out and proclaim it. I'm here. Go tell my disciples. I'm going to meet them. And he calls them my brothers. Familiar term that he uses for the disciples. My brothers. Hebrews 2 verse 11 says, For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one Father, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren. And Romans 8 verse 29 says that he's the firstborn among many brethren. Jesus uses these familiar terms for his disciples. These disciples who have Not believed in him? These disciples who have denied him? These disciples who have abandoned him. He now turns around to them and he says, I haven't abandoned you. I'm not ashamed to call you my brothers. I'm with you. But again, Jesus is not just our big bro bro up in heaven. He's still our Lord. He's still our God. But he shows his familiarity with us. He says, no, I'm accepting you. You you are my brother. I'm not ashamed to call you my brethren. It's kind of interesting you never find in scripture where the disciples referred to Jesus as their brother. It was Jesus who referred to them as my brethren It was this this way that he was showing a familiarity with them that didn't go the opposite way. And these ladies in Calvary were the first to behold the risen Christ, and you can only imagine what that was like To see the risen Christ. What would it be like to see the risen Christ? There's a young boy by the name of Bart Only three years old, when his parents divorced, his family decided that it was best for him and his brother to stay with their father, but nobody knew how abusive his father would become. Even though his father didn't drink or abuse drugs, he had a very short temper and often took out his frustrations on his son. Bart says, I was like the punching bag if he was not embarrassed or cut off in traffic If he was embarrassed or cut off in traffic, whatever, he would take a swing at me. But things took a dramatic turn during Bart's freshman year at high school. His father was diagnosed with cancer And Bart said, I got a front row seat to see this guy go from being a monster to falling desperately in love with Jesus. By the time he passed away when I was a freshman in college Not only was he my best friend, he was like the godliest man I ever have ever known. I'd never seen a person change like that before, and I've rarely seen it since. I grew up thinking that if the gospel could change that guy, it could change anybody. There was no denying it. For years, while his dad went through treatment, Bart became like his nurse. The two would spend hours talking every night while Bart administered his father's medicine. He said, that's when things really changed because it went from us really not having much contact to talking for two or three hours every night until we fell asleep. He said, I finally got the dad that I always wanted. And then he left His dad passed away when Bart was only 19 years old. At his father's funeral, Bart's grandmother made an offhand comment. She said, I can only imagine what your dad's seeing now. And Bart became obsessed with that phrase. For years, Bart would write the phrase, I can only imagine on anything that he could get his hands on. And eventually Bart Marshall Millard would pen these words with it. I can only imagine what it will be like when I walk by your side. I can only imagine what my eyes will see when your face is before me. Surrounded by your glory. What will my heart feel? Will I dance for you, Jesus, or in awe of you be still? Will I stand in your presence or to my knees will I fall? Will I sing hallelujah? Will I be able to speak at all? I can only imagine. I can only imagine. And the song became one of the top selling Christian singles of all time. What will it be like to finally see the risen Christ? There's something about that that should capture the imagination of every believer because that's what we long for, right That's what we long for. 1 John 3. 2 says we will see him just as he is. 2 Timothy 4. 8 says we've loved his appearing. Philippians 3:20 says we eagerly wait for a Savior. And we're like the hymn writer who wrote the line, Lord haste the day when my faith shall be sight. Lord, can you speed it up? I want to see you. I want to see you. Amen? Let's bow our heads forward to prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and uh Father, we are so grateful. So grateful for this account of these ladies who saw Christ. For the joy that filled their hearts, for the fear, for the wonder, for the worship that they gave to Christ as they adored him. Father, I pray that we would look forward to that day, that day that we long for, that we would look forward to the day when we finally see our Savior. But Father, that even now that we would love His appearing. And that we would purify ourselves because we have that hope within us that one day we will be like him. Father, I pray that you fill our hearts with fear and adoration of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.