The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 9? Matthew chapter 9. We're back in Matthew again this morning. And again, Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends the truth of Jesus Christ. is the king, uh, and it's a privilege to open up the gospel uh once again to see the truth of of what it says. Uh Because there's people that that look at these words and and don't see the the words for for what they they really are, we really understand that uh even the ability to appreciate the things of Scripture uh is a gift of uh God's grace and we'll learn even more about that. and uh today's message. But uh we'll be covering uh Matthew chapter nine verses twenty-seven uh to thirty-four, but let's just go ahead and read through uh verse thirty-one uh together. Matthew chapter nine, starting at verse twenty-seven to thirty-one. It says as Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, Have mercy on us, son of David. When he entered the house, the blind men came up to him, and Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this? They said to him, Yes, Lord. Then he touched their eyes, saying, It shall be done to you according to your faith. And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them, see that no one knows about this. But they went out and spread the news about him throughout all that land. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you uh this morning. We thank you so much for Your truth, my Father, we thank you that we have confidence in your truth, that your truth is sufficient to save, and your truth is sufficient to sanctify. My Father, we uh we're sanctified by your truth. Uh we we grow by your truth. And our Father, I pray that uh this morning that your truth would be made clear. Ah Father, that you would uh conform us into the image of our dear Savior Jesus Christ, and uh that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. John Newton, who wrote the hymn Amazing Grace, wrote these words about spiritual blindness, spiritual blindness. He says that the gospel truth is compared to light, and men by nature are stark blind with respect to that light. A blind man, if he is ingenious and inquisitive, may learn to talk about the light, the sun, or the rainbow in terms borrowed from those who have seen them, but it is impossible that he can have a just idea of either Neither can all the learning or study in the world enable any person to form a suitable judgment of divine truth until the eyes of his mind are opened by grace. And that's the Really the picture that Scripture paints for us prior to coming to faith that we're spiritually blind. We're spiritually blind. In Ephesians chapter 4. Verse 18, it says, being darkened in their understanding, speaking about those before faith, they're excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart. Before coming to faith, we're spiritually blind, darkened in our understanding. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 4, it talks about Satan, the God of this world, small G God of this world. who has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14 , speaks about the natural man apart from the Spirit of God. It says the natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. And John Newton went on to say that those that are spiritually blind are like a blind man who says that he knows what scarlet is like. The scarlet is like the sound of a trumpet. And he could hardly talk about spiritual things without betraying his ignorance of them. You know, for a blind man to describe different colors to you would be just as much as you could before you came to faith to describe the things of of the faith. To describe the things of of the scripture, to talk about spiritual reality. And blindness is really an appropriate way to describe our spiritual condition before coming to faith in Jesus Christ. We're shut out from the light of the beauty of the gospel. We 're unable in our condition to correct ourselves. We can't correct anything about it. And we're unable to come to a clear picture of the reality. around us. And that's really the picture of us before we come to faith. And in Matthew chapter 9, we have a uh a picture that's introduced to us of uh two men who weren't spiritually blind. These are two men who are physically blind. A blindness that was a physical condition, which we're going to talk later on about how our spiritual condition could also be illustrated by their physical condition. But we have these two blind men that come to Jesus, uh, but they actually see clearer than anybody around them These two blind men that come to Jesus actually see Jesus clearer than the people who had full sight. But we're introduced to these blind men in the passage before us in Matthew chapter 9. Uh the two blind men who followed cr crying out, have mercy on us, son of David. Leon Morris in his commentary observes that uh there are more miracles in the scripture giving uh to the giving of the sight to the blind than any other single category of miracles. That's the fascinating. Fascinating. And we frequently find blindness encountered in the scriptures Jesus healed every disease and affliction in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 23 talks about that. But out of all the healings that are mentioned by name, blindness comes up at the top of the list. And uh part of that was because uh blindness was just so widespread in the ancient Near East. MacArthur notes that uh blindness was common in ancient times. as it is still common in undeveloped parts of the world, the fact that Jesus healed more cases of blindness than any other kind of disease reflects its pervasiveness. unsanitary conditions, infectious organisms, blowing sand, accident war, malnutrition, excessive heat all combined to make blindness a constant danger and many infants were also born blind because of various diseases that were suffered by the mother during pregnancy, so it was really a common condition during this time. And even though there were some people that were were very honored, you know, looked up to, significant people who suffered with blindness, like Isaac suffered with blindness, Jacob, you know, kind of the father of the of the Jewish people, suffered with blindness. It was often considered a punishment if you were blind. In uh Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight, uh we actually find a list of different cures or curses uh that Israel was threatened with as they prepared to go into the promised land. And uh One of the things that Israel was threatened with was blindness. There are different curses. Starts in verse 15 of chapter 28 of Deuteronomy. It says, But it shall come about if you do not obey the Lord your God, to observe all his commandments and his statutes with which I charge you today, that these curses will come upon you and overtake you. And then in verse 28 it follows up and says this, that the Lord will smite you with madness, with blindness, and bewilderment of heart. So blindness was actually considered a curse. a punishment by God. You find in the in Sodom and Gomorrah that the uh the the men that tried to approach the angels, they were struck with blindness. It was the punishment. Uh Samson, because of his disobedience, his eyes were actually gouged out as a punishment from God, and you have other cases of blindness uh as as punishment in the scriptures. Uh blindness was Also associated with poverty and hardship, which was also considered a punishment by God by many. In Mark chapter 10, there was a blind man. uh near Jericho who was healed by Jesus and it says in verse 46 that he was a beggar. He was a beggar. John chapter 9, the the man who was born blind, we looked at him last week, but he was also said to be a beggar. And there's little doubt that the two men that approach Jesus here are also beggars. In a society where even healthy and fully sighted men had a hard time finding employment, you can only imagine what it would be like for those that were blind. And then on top of that, it was considered ceremonially defiling. Ceremonially defiling, ritually defiling. religious services that couldn't be performed with defective eyesight. Leviticus chapter 21 verse 20, it actually prohibited men with defective eyes from joining the priesthood. And uh then there was a religious community around the the the Dead Sea, uh the Dead Sea where the Dead Sea scrolls were were found, uh Qumram community, and one of their scrolls said this about Jerusalem. It says, No blind people may enter it. Jerusalem. All their days, lest they defile the city. That's how this community looked at the people who are blind. And because of this, many of the blind were were outcasts. There were religious outcasts rejected by the religious community. There were social outcasts in John chapter 9, even by, in this case by his own parents, this blind, the gentleman who was born blind was rejected even by his parents. economic outcasts. There's no room in the economic structure for beggars, and that's what they were. But what we find in this passage is that the the physically blind were were granted insight. Into the word of God and revelation of His truth that even the most educated and religious among them were totally blind to So uh their blindness was uh was no barrier uh to understanding the the revelation of of God. And and this is what we uh what we find is that the the blind eyes, these men who have blind eyes, saw clearly They saw clearly. We'll also take a look at seeing eyes that saw dimly and blindly, but let's take a look at the uh the blind eyes that saw clearly. Look at verse 27 again. It says as Jesus went on from there, two blind men followed him, crying out, Have mercy on us, son of David. Have mercy on us, son of David There's this plea for mercy. Have mercy on us, son of David. And we've already witnessed a number of events on the same day. This is the same day where Jesus raised the little 12-year-old girl to life back from the dead. He healed a woman of a of a an issue of blood, had suffered with this disease for twelve years. All this happened on the same day And Jesus is returning to a house in Capernaum. Maybe he's returning to Peter's house. Maybe he's returning to Matthew's house because just before there was a celebration for Matthew coming to faith in Christ. But as he's going to the house, whatever house it is, he's followed by these two men, and they're screaming out. That's literally what the word cry means. They're screaming out, have mercy on us, son of David! It's full of passion, fervency, desperation. It's a cry for pity, for help. But what I want you to notice about this is that it's full to the brim with theology. Son of David. Why do they call him son of David? Why why do they call him that? There's nobody else that addresses Jesus like that in the the book of Matthew so far from from what we've seen This is the first time we've heard that used as a personal address for Jesus. Why don't you flip over to 2 Samuel chapter 7? 2 Samuel chapter 7. When these men cry out. Have mercy on us, son of David. They knew exactly what they were talking about. They knew exactly what they were talking about. They recognized Jesus as the anointed one, as the Christ. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, we have David finally having rest from the warfare, and his attention is turned to the house of the Lord. At this time, the ark was dwelling in a tent. And David wanted to see a better resting place for the symbol of God's presence among his people. But God says, instead of you establishing a house for me, you know, you're not going to build a house for me. I'm going to establish a house for you. I'm going to establish a house for you. And the house was a picture of the royal rule and the lineage of David. Look at 2 Samuel chapter 7, starting at verse 12. It says, When your days are complete, you will lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. And uh we do know that uh Solomon uh built uh a house for the for the Lord, but but what we have in this prophecy is is a mention of a kingdom that will be established forever. And you can believe that wasn't Solomon. You can believe that wasn't Solomon. Even beyond Solomon, uh, who would commit iniquity? There was a kingdom that was promised to endure forever. Look at verse 16. Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. That's the son of David that Israel was looking for. Who who is this son of David? Who is this this one in the royal line who will establish a throne that will exist forever? Who's the one that's going to establish a kingdom that's going to exist forever? It was a son of David that was still In uh Jeremiah, uh the book of Jeremiah, and Jeremiah writes uh some 350 years after Solomon, so we know he's not talking about Solomon Jeremiah writes this in chapter 23, verses 5 and 6. Behold, the days are coming, yet future, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. And he will reign as king, and act wisely, to do justice and righteousness in the land. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. This is his name by which he will be called the Lord our righteousness. This one who is coming as king will be known as the Lord our righteousness. They're looking for this son of David. Who is the son of David going to be? Isaiah writes about the same son of David in Isaiah chapter 9, verse 7. It says, there will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom. to establish it, to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on. And listen to this, forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this It was the expected coming Messiah who would be the son of David, who would act wisely, who would do justice, who would act righteously. And he was the one that Israel was looking for, and he's the one that these two blind men identify. These two guys who didn't see one miracle, literally, they never saw one miracle of Jesus Christ But they're able to identify him as this is the one. This is the son of David. Listen to these words in Isaiah chapter 29, verses 18 and 19. It says, On the that day, on that day The deaf will hear the words of a book. We read this earlier today. And out of their gloom and darkness, the eyes of the blind will see. The eyes of the blind will see. The afflicted also will increase their gladness in the Lord, and the needy of mankind will rejoice in the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah 35, verses 4-6 says this. So say to those with anxious heart, Take courage, fear not, behold, your God will come with vengeance. The recompense of God will come, but he will save you. Then the eyes of the blind will be opened. And the ears of the deaf will be unstopped. Then the lame will leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute will shout for joy, for waters will break forth in the wilderness and streams in the Araba. You can believe that these two verses were verses that the two blind men meditated on frequently. Then the eyes of the blind will see. This is the one that we're looking for. The Messiah is the one who will open our eyes. This is the one that we're looking for. And here you have these men, like I said, they've literally never seen a miracle. Never seen a miracle, but they've heard enough about the ministry of Jesus to put two and two together and they say this is the one. This is the one that we've been waiting for, the one who has complete power over disease. He can heal the lame. He can heal the deaf. He can heal the mute. He can heal the blind. This is the son of David. Son of David, have mercy on us. This is the Messiah. They see it all so clearly. Physical blindness, like I said, it's no prevention of spiritual insight. Faith comes by what? Hearing, hearing by the word of God. They heard enough to trust in the Messiah. And they made this connection between what Jesus did and who he was and the relationship between Jesus and David. And they're persistent in this request. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on us. We know who you are. We know you're the Messiah. We know that you're the coming one. Have mercy on us. Because they understand that the Messiah is also one who will have great compassion on his people. So they walk here by faith and not by sight. They couldn't see his face. But they could hear his wondrous deeds, and the one who could raise the dead could open the eyes of the blind, and their faith was more precious than sight. They had they they were able to see in their heart the eternal realities that people around them couldn't see. And here they they come to Jesus with this request, have mercy on us, we know who you are. And it's a persistent request, persistent request. If you look back again back in uh in Matthew, back in Matthew chapter 9. Let's us know that they were persistent in their their request. Have mercy on us. And verse 28, when they entered the house, the blind men came up to him. And Jesus said to them, Do you believe that I am able to do this. And apparently uh Jesus didn't respond to the first cry for help, but that doesn't faze these men in the least. They they even they even follow him into the house. You know how many people do that? No, I'm I'm just There's no barriers here. I'm walking right into the house. They don't respect any kind of personal private space, right? You know, they just walk right into the house. Like I said, they're professional beggars and they're they're getting it on right here. Utterly convinced. about the identity of Jesus, and they won't let him go until they receive a blessing. You know, sometimes I hear people talk about faith. As if uh you know faith is just, you know, name it and claim it, right? You know, people kind of talk about faith like that as if you know great faith is just getting whatever you want. You know, and you just believe that you have it, and then you just kind of walk in the reality that that I already already have it. I have my healing, I have my money, you know, I can't pay my bills, but you know, that bill is paid in Jesus' name. Uh you might need some uh counseling, you know, some financial counseling to to get some help there. But the people with great faith in the scriptures, they're not people who just get what they want the first time they ask for it. That's not great faith. That's not what great faith is. Great faith is realizing that even when you don't get what you ask for, there's no place else to go. That's what great faith is. And and really what they they remind me of is of uh you know Jacob back in uh Genesis chapter 32. When uh Jacob was uh approaching the territory of of Esau, his brother who had he had deceived so many years ago, you know, robbed him of his birthright. And he's coming up with this elaborate scheme how he's going to protect himself and his family against Esau. And if you remember that story, while he's alone somewhere in the middle of the night. There's uh somebody else who meets him before Esau meets him. You know, this this uh visitor in the night who he faces off with in the dark in a wrestling match. But somewhere during this wrestling match, he realizes that the person that I'm contesting with here isn't just a man. This this isn't just a man that I'm I'm dealing with here. And even though his muscles might have been crying out in pain He's uh used up every last ounce of strength that he has. He refuses to let go of this person that he's wrestling with. And you remember what he says? I will not let you go until you bless me. I know you're not just a man. I know you're not just a man. I won't let you go until you bless me. Holds on because there's no place else that he can look, right? Holding on for dear life. The book of Daniel, Daniel's three, friends, they stood firm in the face of trial by fire. Literally by fire And they were willing to be incinerated. Why? Because there's nowhere else that we're going to go. We don't even have to think about how we're going to answer you, okay? We're not going to bow down to your golden image. We're not going to do that. Faith is being willing to hold on to Christ regardless of the circumstances. That's not true faith isn't like, hey, whatever I ask for, I just get it all the time. That's not true faith. True faith is I'm gonna hold on to Christ even if he doesn't give me what I ask for. Because there's no place else to go. That's faith We have in Matthew 15 the Gentile Canaanite woman who cried out after Jesus to cast the spirit out of her daughter. Jesus didn't answer her a word, walked on. And the woman keeps shouting after Jesus. Why? Because you know there's no place else to go. Where else am I going to go for an answer like this? Faith is not about getting whatever you ask for. It's not turning away from Christ when you don't get what you asked for. That's faith. And these men, these blind men are persistent in faith. And uh Jesus draws out from them this profession of faith as well. And uh you know, I'm not sure where you are and the kind of prayers that you've offered up to God, but Be persistent in your faith. There's no place else to go but to Christ. So they they come to Christ with this persistent faith. And also this profession of faith is as well in verse 28. When he says, uh, do you believe that I am able to do this? And they said to him, Yes, Lord. And that's that's one of those questions that kind of seems unnecessary. It's like, you know, well, you know, Jesus obviously they they believe that you're able to do this. Why else would they be following you, right? You know, why why ask them, do you believe that I'm able to do this? They've already professed that before. Son of David, have mercy on us, right? Why why draw this out of them? It's not a wasted verse. Just want to let you know that. And their faith right here is made explicit in Jesus Christ. Spelled out. There's nothing subtle or hinted about their faith. He removes any doubt or confusion about his identity here. When he says, do you believe, listen to this, do you believe that I am able to do this? Who does Jesus make himself out to be here? Do you believe that I am able to do this? When uh God was speaking to Moses out of the the burning bush, and Moses came up with all these excuses, you know, not to to f to do what he was supposed to do and go before Pharaoh and ask to let the people go. Exodus chapter 4, verse 11, the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Or who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Who makes man seeing or blind? The scripture says this God does that. Jesus turns around to these two men and says, do you believe that I am able to do this? Who are these blind men now confessing Jesus to be? They're confessing Jesus to be God. There's a recognition of his deed here. A recognition that giving of the sight is in the Lord's hands. And Jesus, you are Lord. So they say, yes, what? Lord. Yes, Lord. Incredible. When you when you have uh Daniel or Joseph predicting the future, they say, you know, doesn't that power belong to God? You know, can't I pray to the Lord and he'll give me that? Elijah and Elisha, they performed Miracles, it was clear that Elijah and Elisha acted as servants, but Jesus acts as the master. Like I am the one who does this. It says, do you believe that I am able to do this? Explicit faith in Jesus Christ as Lord. And if you doubt anything about these blind men, it's answered right here in their response. Like I said, these blind men could see clearer than anybody else around them at this point. Jesus is the Messiah. He's the Son of God. He's the Son of David. Jesus is God. Yes, Lord. We believe you are able to do this. And believe they poured all the meaning they could into that term. It's not just a respectful greeting. They recognize who they're standing before here. And they are provided with sight from the hand of the one that they trusted in. And it's not their their faith that healed them, but it's what it's who they put their faith in. It's who they put their faith in. Faith is like a, it's been said faith is like a bucket From which we draw from the inexhaustible fountain of God's mercy and goodness. And it's not the bucket that fills you up. It's not the bucket that refreshes you. It's the inexhaustible fountain that you dip your bucket in. That's faith. Faith is that instrument. You dip your bucket into that inexhaustible fountain of God's goodness and mercy. Another statement was faith is like an old purse which by itself is worthless, but fill it with money and it makes a man rich, right? It's what you put into that container that makes you rich. It's not the faith itself. It's who are you putting your faith in? Who are you putting your trust in? We put our faith and trust in God. And then they're given the provision of sight in verse twenty-nine. He touched their eyes, saying, It shall be done to you according to your faith. In verse thirty, their eyes were opened. And uh we know that Jesus didn't have to touch anybody to heal them. You know, Jesus could uh could raise people from a sick bed by just the word. You know, Jesus didn't have to touch their eyes. But here you have this this gentle you know, a sweet picture of Jesus in a in a personal way addressing these men, touching their eyes in a personal way to communicate his expression of love and care for them. And the miracle was a confirmation of their faith. He says, as ye have believed, it shall be done. According to your faith, it shall be done. We know that they had faith because what? It was done. It was a confirmation of their faith. The miracle was a confirmation of their faith. They put their trust in Christ. And there was a visible evidence that they had trusted in Jesus Christ. And listen to this, the first face that they saw was the face of their Lord. Isn't that incredible? Incredible. Charles Spurgeon, he told the story of a blind man who was speaking to a fellow saint, fellow believer, and the blind man said, you know, I've been blessed in a greater way than you have. And uh the man said, what do you mean? I've been able to see all my life and uh you've been blind for all of your life. And he says, yes, but you've been able to see uh uh fine, but the first look that I will have will be the sight of the face of my blessed Savior. I've been blessed more than you have. And here you have these two blind men. The first face they see is the sight of their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And next you have in uh verse 30 there's this prohibition to share, which is kind of strange. Look at verse uh 30. Their eyes were open. And Jesus sternly warned them, see that no one knows about this. And you're like, what? You know, I've just received one of the greatest gifts. You know, I've had an encounter with Jesus Christ and now I'm supposed to be quiet about it? Supposed to be quiet about it? What is going on here? It's puzzled a lot of the interpreters. You know, uh why did Jesus give such a serious warning about not sharing this miracle with anybody? I mean, wouldn't it be impossible for these men to keep it quiet? Wouldn't it wouldn't people know just from looking at 'em than figure it out anyway Wouldn't Jesus want people to know about his power and you know just shout it from the rooftops? And what about all the other people that he healed and encouraged even other people to share what I've done to you? Remember the the demoniac in uh Ghidara, he says, go back to your city and tell everybody what happened. And just briefly I want to think about that question with you because We want to make sure that we understand as much as we can about our Lord. You know, Jesus didn't say things for nothing, right? First of all, Jesus wasn't okay with their disobedience. To say, hey, I'm I'm telling you not to do it, but uh no you're gonna do it anyway, ha ha, kinda link link. That's that's not Jesus, okay? That's not what he's doing here. Uh some commentators just ignore the warning like Jesus didn't really mean it. Uh but the language that he uses here is actually very strong. It's a stern warning. Stern signifies a strong emotion, a strict charge. It was actually a word that was used to describe the snorting of horses. So it's like, you know, kind of like a vehement, like, don't do this. Don't don't share this with anybody. Second, uh, it wasn't because he didn't want people not to know about his miracles. Now, I mean his miracles were his credentials. Remember that? And uh when John the Baptist His disciples came to Jesus and said, Hey, are you the one, or should we be looking for somebody else? And on Matthew chapter 11, Jesus answered and said to them, Go and report to John what you see and hear. The blind receive sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have the gospel preached to them. Those are the credentials for his messiahship. You want to know if I'm the one? Look at what I'm doing. Look at what I'm doing. So it's not like Jesus wants to cover this up, like I don't want anybody to know. Sometimes Jesus sworn people, uh, uh, and this is one possible answer. Jesus warned people about broadcasting his miracles because sometimes the crowds that would gather around him prevented him from freely doing what he was supposed to do, which was to preach the gospel and reach other cities. Mark chapter 1, Jesus healed the leper. Same word, sternly warned him not to tell anyone. But in Mark chapter 1, verse 45, it says he went out, began to proclaim it freely. Spread the news around to such an extent that Jesus could no longer publicly enter a city, but stayed out in unpopulated areas and they were coming to him from everywhere. So it actually prevented him from being able to travel about freely to spread the message. But there there might have been another reason, and this is really what I think it is, that Jesus wanted to keep the men quiet about this miracle. And why don't you flip over to Matthew chapter 16, uh, just so you can think about this with me here. Matthew chapter 16. I think this is uh significant to think about because during Jesus' ministry, there were a lot of opinions about Who he was a lot of opinions that were circulating about who Jesus Christ really was. Look what it says in uh Matthew chapter 16 and verse uh 14 Verse 16, it says, uh4 of chapter 16. It says, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, still others Jeremiah, one of the prophets. Then he said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you. But my Father who is in heaven also say to you that you are a Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall have been bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. Then he warned the disciples that they should tell no one that he was the Christ. And I'm like, what? I've just got this revelation from heaven. God speak it to me. You know, Peter, finally, he's got it right, right? God is speaking to me. He's told me that you're the Christ. And now you tell me, don't say anything. It's like if anything I would say that would be right would be this. You know, at least let me say one thing that I know is right. You know, you're the Christ, the Son of the Living God. But he says, don't tell anybody. Don't say anything And what follows, listen to this, what follows right after he warns his disciples, don't say anything, don't tell, don't broadcast this that I'm the Christ. Look at verse 21. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples That he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and raised up on the third day. There was a reason that Jesus told his disciples to keep quiet. And really you have the two that are linked together. The proclamation of Jesus being the Messiah linked to his death. Flip over to Matthew chapter 21. If you think about it, it was really the public proclamation of his identity that really sped up the crucifixion. The public proclamation of his identity that really sped up the events leading to the crucifixion. Jesus was operating on a divine timetable. He knew what his time was. He knew that his time had not yet come. But when his time came, when it was time, his time was up. It was time for him to be glorified. Look what it says in Matthew chapter 21. Look what it says in verse 9. It says the crowds going ahead of him and those who followed were shouting out, Hosanna to the Son of David. Here it is, messianic fulfillment. Jesus, you are the son of David. Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. Hosanna in the highest. Publicly using messianic terminology to refer to Jesus. And look what it says in verses 15 to 17. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that had been done, the children who were shouting in the temple, Husannetis the son of David, they became indignant and said to him, Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes, have you never read, out of the mouth of infants and nursing babes, have ye prepared praise for yourself And he left them and went out of the city of Bethany and spent the night there. Couldn't be held back any longer. This is this is the time. Shout it loud, everybody. I mean, if if these people didn't cry out, the rocks would cry out at this time Jesus is the Son of David. This is the Messiah. Public proclamation. This was his time. This was the time. Luke 19, 40 says, I tell you, if these became silent, the rocks, the stones would cry out. And within a week, within a week of the public proclamation, Jesus was on the cross. Within one week. Publicly proclaimed Jesus as the Messiah. Next week he's hanging on the cross within one week. John chapter 12, 23 and 24 says Jesus answered them saying, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. This was his time. Right after this proclamation. This is the time. This is the hour. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and what? Dies. It remains alone, but if it dies, it bears much fruit. Jesus was operating on the divine timetable. He knew that it wasn't time for this loud proclamation, public proclamation. Son of David, son of David. That's it's not the time yet. It 's not the time, guys. This is not the time. The time will come because we're not going to be able to hold this back. The time will come when the public proclamation will come, but it's a week after the public proclamation happens that Jesus is hanging on the cross. It led to his death. Like I said, Jesus is on the divine timetable and he knew it. He understood that, but these men didn't know it. These men had no clue. But in verse 31 it says they went out spreading the news about who Jesus was. These two men proclaim it throughout the land. Could have come up with a thousand reasons why this is a good thing. This is a good thing for me to do. Uh but we need to trust God's word even when it doesn't make sense to us, right? Need to trust God's word. God knows what he's doing. So we have blind eyes that clear see uh uh that see clearly, blind eyes that see clearly And actually you have these seeing guys that see dimly. Look at verses uh 32 and 33 back in Matthew again, Matthew chapter 9. So as they were going out, so here the the blind men are going out, and another group of people are coming in. As they were going out, A mute demon-possessed man was brought to him. Verse 33, after the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke, and the crowds were amazed and were saying, Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. Nothing like this has ever been seen. We're really we really don't have a lot of details about this exorcism, this demon being cast out We don't know who brought this demoniac to Jesus. No information about that. In many cases, we're told something about the parents or friends or something. We have no information about who brought this demoniac to Jesus We don't know anything about the demoniac himself. Nothing about his life. Any details about how the spirit was cast out. We don't know anything. We don't know what he said after the spirit was cast out. So he had this this spirit that made him mute. And it says that he spoke, but we don't even know what he spoke. We have very little information about this mute man. Matthew really doesn't focus. On the miracle itself. It's really interesting. What you have Matthew focusing on is the words of the crowds after the miracle. And that's that's really what the focus is in these verses. It's not on the miracle. The miracle is just the context to hear what the people are saying. After the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke, and the crowds were amazed. And we hear what they say. And they were saying, Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. Nothing like this has ever been seen. Jesus has cast out many demons already. We know of that. Matthew 4. 24, 8 verse 16, 8. 31 to 32. Now Jesus has complete command over the supernatural world, absolute authority over demons. And this was something that the nations had never seen before. There are Jewish methods of exorcism that were completely ineffective. According to one source, there was a Jewish mode of dealing with demon possessions. It was a to use incantations, magic formulas, and one Jewish book prescribed a sacred root, you know, get get get a get a root out of the ground called the Abaras. And stated that if it was used correctly, the demon would come out through the nostrils. This is uh their method of getting rid of the demon world. You know. Actually, I think it's it's true that if you go back in the history, you know, uh with the uh the phrase God bless you, that it it came from kind of a similar root that people thought there was you know demons coming coming out through your nostrils. You know, at you. God God bless you. I mean that was great, you know. Let me get you some more roots over here, you know. So um But anyway we have this uh group of Jewish exorcists uh in Acts nineteen. We learn about them in Acts nineteen, the sons of uh Jewish chief priests. And I'm not saying don't say God bless you. If you want to say God bless you, you're okay, okay? I just want to let you know that. But Acts 19, you have the sons of a Jewish chief priest who tried to use the name of Jesus as some kind of magical incantation. Remember that, Acts 19? You know, they they uh attempted to name the name of Jesus over the evil spirit, saying, In the name of the Lord Jesus, I adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preaches to come out. And it says that the evil spirit answered and said, I recognize Jesus and I know about Paul, but who are you? Who are you? And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, subdued them all, overpowered them so that they fled out of that house, naked and wounded. They should have stuck with the roots or something. It's like, just leave Jesus alone. Leave Jesus out of this, right? And here you have the crowd. They knew their leaders don't have control over the demonic. Our leaders don't have this kind of control. And there's some today who try to explain away the supernatural based on modern psychology. You know, but but that it doesn't do justice to the facts here. They understood what a demon looked like. They understood that what the the actions of a demon were. Uh there weren't a group of people on a witch hunt just trying to find, you know, something. Th these people n understood what they were talking about. And you have uh the the the the the the demon here that's that's exercised with uh uh Jesus casting the demon out. We don't have all the details in this passage, but uh it's clear that there was a supernatural agent at work in the life of this man. And the crowds reached the conclusion that we haven't seen anything like this. This totally blows us away. Krause had eyes to see. They were at least willing to acknowledge the wonder of Jesus, but they were in reality blind. In reality blind. They saw dimly. And throughout the gospel of Matthew, you'll see that there's a response from the crowds. You have really three primary responses to Christ. You have the disciples that committed themselves to following Christ. You have the religious leaders who committed themselves to opposing Christ, and then you have the crowds in the middle who just like stood for nothing. They they they didn't commit themselves to anything. Just blow blow around in the breeze. Oh that sounds good today. We'll go over here. Oh what what you doing over there? Oh yeah, that sounds good Trials are just going this way, that way, aren't rooted anywhere, firmly indecisive, faithfully double-minded. You can't count on them. And that's one of the reasons Jesus says, I'm not committing myself to you either Can't commit to me, I'm not committing to you. John chapter 2 says Jesus on his part was not entrusting himself to them for he knew all men in verse 24. Jesus wasn't going to commit to the fickled crowds They had a fascination with Jesus. Superficial attraction. No submission to him as Lord. They have all this high praise. Oh, we've never seen anything like this. Isn't this amazing? Isn't this wonderful? Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. But it's not enough for them to actually commit themselves to Christ. They don't want to join the circle of the disciples. They just want to Like I said, they they kind of want to stay on the perimeter. You know, they kind of want to warm themselves by the fire. Remember we talked about that? Want to warm themselves by the fire, but they don't want to get in close. I just want to be close enough so I can see the display, see the amazement. Oh, isn't that a great fireworks show over there? Look at what Jesus is doing over there. But they don't want to be enclosed. They aren't committed. And the Pharisees determined that even that's too close for them because they want to get in on the act in verse 34. It says, but the Pharisees were saying, he cast out demons by the ruler of demons. And here we have the seeing eyes that were completely blind. Seeing eyes that were completely blind. They can't deny that something miraculous just took place. I mean there's there's just no leg to stand on. The miracles that Christ gave were demonstrated were too powerful, too numerous, too verifiable to refute. They can't refute this. They can't charge him with uh, you know, he's doing something illegitimate. They know this is a real miracle. They can't convict him of sin because he hasn't done anything wrong. In John chapter 8, verse 46 he says, Which of you, speaking to these religious leaders, which of you can convict me of sin? Tell me something that I've done wrong. They can't pick out one thing. Can't give them a solid answer. So since they can't find fault, they invent it. They can't find any fault, so they invent it. They they charge him with eating with tax collectors and sinners. Isn't it so despicable? They they charge him with you're you're not you're neglecting our fast. You know, the the fast and the rituals that we do. You don't do that with us. They charge him with claiming power to forgive sins. How dare you say you can forgive sins? And then the paralytic gets up just to prove that what he said he can actually do. They charge him with doing his best work on the best day. Why are you doing it on the Sabbath? Let the work be done during the middle of the week. Now they they have no idea what it takes to heal anybody. But just just do it on the in the middle of the week. Don't do it on a Sabbath day. What is that? I can't do God's work on God's day. But here they they're just trying to dredge up anything. Just something. Something. Can I charge them with something, please? And the only effect that Christ's miracles had on these Pharisees was to drive them into open blasphemy and opposition. Oh, he cast out demons by the ruler of the demons. That's what he's doing. And their standard of accusation against Christ, they seem to always come back to this idea that, oh, he he just must be doing it from a different source. They can't attack what he's doing because they know that he's doing it They know that he's casting out demons. It just must be the ruler of demons, something. Trying to get out of it. And this is where evil has reached the height of blindness. Height of blindness. Like I said, the crowds were blind. But at least they could acknowledge that, hey, this is amazing. At least they could acknowledge that They were still blind, but at least they could could see dimly that, you know, hey, this is amazing what Christ is doing here. Here you have the Pharisees, they see the same thing, and they willfully gouge out their own eyes. Because they refuse to acknowledge who Jesus Christ is. Refuse. Calvin said that when an unbeliever is determined not to believe, no fact or reason, no matter how obvious and convincing, can enlighten him. The person who is sold out to darkness refuses to recognize the light, even when it is blindingly clear. When wickedness has reached the height of blindness, There is no work of God, however evident, which it will per which it will not pervert. You know, nothing is too low for these people to go. And there is so much the greater reason for dreading that blindness which arises from the Lord's vengeance on the wicked after long-suffering, meaning that after the Lord has continued to have mercy and mercy and long-suffering with you, that it's even more wicked to turn against God. Because they've seen all the miracles. What else can Jesus do to prove himself? He's done everything. You have this spiritual blindness, and that drove them further into darkness. They shed out the light of life. The beauty of the gospel, willfully disobedient, like I said, they gouged out their own eyes when it came to his miracles, refused to recognize Jesus, refused to recognize themselves as beggars. Refused to acknowledge the darkening of their own understanding. And one of the things that you see with the scribes, there was just this constant jealousy and envy. Constant jealousy and envy of Jesus Christ. So listen to what's going on here. The crowds are saying, we've seen nothing like this in Israel. Scribes, Pharisees, we haven't seen anything like this with you. I mean that's what they're feeling. We haven't seen anything like this. The scribes talk and nothing happens. Jesus talks and demons flee. Storms are settled. The devil raised. Sins are forgiven. He has authority. He has words like nothing else that we've ever heard. We've never seen anything like this. And here the Pharisees and the scribes are just like, what in the world? My kingdom is like slipping through my fingers. What can I do to stop this? So they dredge up anything. Oh, he's just doing it by the ruler of demons. Because they can't come up with anything else. That's how low they've gotten. Instead of recognizing their spiritual poverty and saying, I can't do anything like this, Lord. Lord, can I come and follow you? They hold on to their own pride, hold on to their own kingdom, like those in Revelation chapter 3, verse 17. It says, Because you say I am rich, and I have become wealthy, and I have need of nothing. You do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Who are the true blind people on that day? It was the Pharisees. It was the scribes and Pharisees. They were the true blind people on that day. And they're trying to stop Jesus from casting out demons. Whose side are they really on? Trying to stop Jesus from casting out the demons? Who are you working for? They don't acknowledge their need. They don't acknowledge Jesus. They don't seek God's mercy. They don't trust in Jesus. They're poor and blind and naked. And here's the kind of paradox, right? It's when I admit that I'm blind that I can actually see. But when I hold on and say I can see, that's when I'm actually blind. Jesus is looking for the people who are going to come to him and say, Lord, I am blind and poor and miserable. Miserable and naked. I need help. You need to come to the end of yourself in desperation. Just like the the two blind men who came to Christ. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Is that you today? Do you cry out to the Lord for mercy? Do you recognize who you really are before God? Want to have you beat on your breast like the publican Lord, be merciful to me, the sinner. It's me. I'm the one that needs help. I need you, God. I can't do this on my own. I can't see. I need you to lead me. These are the kind of people that Jesus is is looking for. People who understand that they're living in the dark. And they reach out to Jesus because he's the only hope for light that they'll ever have. Jesus is the light, right? That's who we come to. John Newton understood what it was like to live in the dark, referenced him earlier, the author of Amazing Grace. By age 11, he was already accompanying his father on sailing expeditions on the Mediterranean, and he spent the majority of his waking hours in the company of sinful sailors. And you can imagine what was what that was like. Newton squandered his father's numerous attempts to provide him with a settled career. Due to his own foolishness, he was forced into service in the Navy, was severely whipped for attempting to desert his post, and shortly afterwards he was transferred to a civilian slave trading ship. He was a slave trader. And eventually gave way to a life of unbridled sin and blasphemous rejection of Jesus Christ. That is John Newton. And after he came to faith in Christ, he could cry out like Paul, oh wretched man that I am. And he wrote these words for his own tombstone. He says this. He says, Once an infidel in libertine, a servant of slaves in Africa. by the rich mercy of Jesus Christ, preserved, restored, pardoned, and appointed to preach the faith that I once labored to destroy. Once he was uh told to stop preaching, then he says, what? Can the old African blasphemer stop while he can still speak? He says, I can't stop speaking about Christ. I can't stop speaking about the goodness of his grace and how he saved me. I can't stop speaking about that. We have uh a different problem than the uh the the two blind men had. The two blind men had had the problem of being quiet We've got the problem of opening our mouths and saying something. Let the redeemed of the Lord do what? Say so! And here you have uh John Newton, and he had to say something. What? Can the old African blasphemer stop while he can still speak? And then he wrote those words, Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind. But now I see. I hope that's your story this morning. I hope that's your story. That you were once blind, but now you can see because of the light of the gospel of his grace. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh the opportunity that we have to uh take a look at your word once again. Uh Father, we pray that You would bring it in all of its fullness and richness to us, Father, that you would help us to meditate deeply on your word and that our lives would just rejoice in the truth of your scriptures. Father, I pray that you would uh do your work in our hearts. And Father, that uh for those that might be here that are uh still blind, uh Father, that they would acknowledge their blindness, uh, because only when we acknowledge that we're blind can we truly see. So Father, I pray that we would uh look to you. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.