The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. No guilt in life, no fear in death. This is the power of Christ in me. From life's first cry to final breath, Jesus commands my destiny. Amen. I want to take your Bibles uh with me and uh open up to Romans chapter four. Uh we're going to continue to work our way uh through the the book of Romans, and uh believe it or not, we are picking up steam, so Uh working through our uh uh through the book of Romans, we're in chapter four, and we're in the middle of a section in uh Romans chapter four where Paul is defending The reality of justification. Justification is that great doctrine that teaches us that sinners receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. Sinners receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, and specifically this blessing is said to be true for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. No distinction. And that's what verse 22 reminds us of. And that's what Paul has been unpacking for us in the section of Romans. And this promise of justification is so valuable and such an incredible and precious promise that Paul takes an entire chapter to defend it and say, don't lose sight of this. Don't loosen your grip on this. Don't let anybody rob you of this blessing. Don't let anyone shake this confidence that you have in your justification. Don't let anyone make you think that I may have faith in Christ. I know faith in Christ is important, but there's still something else that I might be missing in order to make it complete. Don't let anyone make you think that you're justified by faith alone, but service charges and data fees may apply. You know, it's like that advertisement where they advertise something is free, but then they put the little asterisk next to it. And then there's this whole contract of Things that you have to read, all kinds of things that you have to pay for before they give you what they said was free. Recently Jennifer and I have had to do some car shopping and for those of you who have had that experience, you know there's the sticker price and then there's the out-of-door price, right? And the two can be very different. All kinds of taxes and fees. But Paul wants to let us know that when it comes to this great salvation that we enjoy, there is no asterisk on the side. There's no hidden fees, service charges. If anyone comes to you and tries to convince you uh that you've you've missed the fine print regarding your salvation and that there's uh prerequisites and More requirements that you need to fulfill before you can receive the blessing of your salvation, they are thieves and robbers In verse 9 of Romans chapter 4, Paul introduces us to some of these thieves and robbers. Look at verse 9 of chapter 4. He says, is this blessing then on the circumcised or the uncircumcised also? Why did he write that? It's because there were those who were trying to argue That the blessing of justification, this salvation that we have by faith alone in Christ alone, that that's only for those who've had the right of circumcision. And that was the position that many of the the Jewish people had according to Acts chapter 15 and verse 1, for it says, some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses You cannot be saved. What were they saying? They're saying, you know, I I I know it says free, but there's a fine print here that you need to read. There's an additional contract that you have to fill out before you can partake of this free salvation So Paul argues against this kind of idea. He warns us against these thieves. In verse 10, Paul asks the question, when was Abraham's faith credited as righteousness? Abraham is considered the father of circumcision, so how about him? How was he justified? When was he declared righteous? Verse 10. How then was it credited while he was circumcised or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. What does that mean? It means that ceremony had nothing to do with it. Ceremonies have nothing to do with your justification. Not even Abraham had to be circumcised before receiving the righteousness of God through faith. And if anyone comes to you and says that there's some kind of ceremony or ritual or service that's required for you to have a right standing with God, you can reject them as thieves and robbers. Philippians chapter 3 and verse 2, Paul says, Beware of the dogs. Beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision, for we are the true circumcision who worship in the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. And that's what these ceremonies point you to. It's pointing inwards. If you have trust in them for your salvation, it's pointing you inwards instead of being what they're intended to be, which is a sign that points you outwards. If you think that they're the salvation itself, it's pointing you inwards. If anyone tries to convince you that worshiping on a certain day, refraining from certain foods, wearing certain clothing, participating in a certain service, Being baptized in a certain way, coming to a certain place, being blessed by a certain priest or pastor or holy person who has the anointing, whatever that means. Somebody who has a special connection to God is somehow necessary for your salvation. They are thieves and robbers. And this is not the only place that Paul addresses this idea. Just really, real quickly, flip over to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians chapter 3, just to show you a parallel passage where he addresses these same concerns. The book of Colossians has been called one of the most Christ-centered books of the Bible, if not the most Christ-centered book of the Bible. If I were to sum up the book of Colossians, And I know David's already ahead of me to sum it up because he just had to do it yesterday, but if I were to sum up the book of Colossians, it would be that Jesus is sufficient and Jesus is supreme. He's supreme and he's sufficient. He's first of all and he's all in all. Jesus is supreme. He's be considered the first of all. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 18. It says, so that he himself might come to have first place in everything. But he's not only supreme, he's also sufficient because he's all in all things. In Colossians chapter 3 and verse 11, it says Christ is all in all. And then down in chapter 3 and verse 16, we read these words as Paul is addressing some of these same concerns regarding ceremonies and external things. Look at what he says in verse 16. Colossians chapter 2 actually. Colossians chapter 2 is where we want to be. Colossians chapter 2. He says, therefore, no one is to act as your judge in regard to food or drink or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. So there were those who tried to convince the Colossians that they had to keep the Jewish dietary laws and feast days and ceremonies. And Paul says, don't let them do that to you. Don't let them judge you. Verse 18, let no one keep defrauding you of your prize by delighting in self-abasement and the worship of angels, taking his stand on visions he has seen, inflated without cause by his fleshly mind. And not holding fast to the head, from whom the entire body, being supplied and held together by the joints and ligaments, grows with the growth which is from God So there were those who tried to convince the Colossians that they need to have some kind of spiritual or charismatic experience. You know, they need to be touched by an angel. They need to go under extreme fasting if they really want to connect themselves to God. Have they seen a vision? Have you spoken in tongues? Paul says, don't let them defraud you. Don't let them rob you of your prize in Christ. Don't let them make you think that you're missing out on something. Verse 20. He says, if you've died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world. Why as if you were living in the world do you submit yourself to decrees such as do not handle, do not taste, do not touch? Which all refer to things destined to perish with use. It's just about what's on the outside. In accordance with the commandments and the teachings of men, these are matters which have to be sure of the appearance of wisdom. It looks wise And self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. And here Paul references religious legalism, you know, the you can't touch this theology. As if Christianity is about what you don't do. This is the idea that your relationship with God is based off of what you don't eat, what you don't wear, who you don't associate with. You know, if you have your ears pierced and makeup on, you know, that's more important to some people than whether or not you understand that you've been justified by faith alone in Christ alone. Because it's all about what's on the outside. And Paul says they're defrauding you. They're wrongly judging you. They're trying to rob you of what belongs to you in Christ. The substance belongs to Christ. And if you pay attention to what Paul is saying here in Colossians, he's saying that you can recognize false religion because false religion takes the focus away from Jesus. False religion robs Jesus of his glory in his rightful place. It makes you focus elsewhere instead of on Christ. Verse 17, look at this. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Verse 19 At the end of verse 18, it says, inflated, they're inflated without cause by his fleshly mind, and not holding fast to the head. And who is the head? To Jesus Christ. Verse 20. If you've died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why as if you were living in the world do you submit yourself to these decrees? So you see that Paul is just bringing him back to Christ, bringing him back to Christ. Christ is the substance, Christ is the head. You've died with Christ. The goal of your Christian life, the growth of your Christian life is found in Christ. So if anyone tries to convince you that grace alone, by faith alone, and Christ alone is not enough for your eternal salvation, they are thieves and robbers, and they're distracting you from Jesus Christ. And back in Romans chapter 4, Paul uses Abraham as the illustration to prove that ceremonies and rituals and religious services are not necessary for your salvation. But there's two more dangers beyond ceremonies that Paul warns us against in this chapter, and it's the law and lineage. Ceremonies, law, and lineage. In verse 13, he addresses the law. Verse 13 of chapter 4 says, for the promise to Abraham or to his descendants. that he would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. The promise is not through the law. And then down in verse 16 , We learn that the promise is not through physical lineage. Verse 16, he says, For this reason it is by faith, in order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants. Not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. It's not in being able to trace your line back to Abraham, your physical line. It's all who are descendants of Abraham by faith. So it's not about your physical lineage. It's not by law. It's not by lineage. It's not by ceremony. So let's jump back into our passage. We'll start at verse 13. Romans chapter 4, verse 13. It says, for the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void and the promise is nullified. For the law brings about wrath. But where there is no law, there also is no violation For this reason, it is by faith, in order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants, not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, A father of many nations have I made you, in the presence of him. whom he believed, even God, who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which does not exist. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we Come before you, Lord. We're grateful for your word. We're grateful for what you've revealed in it. And Father, I pray that you would help us to understand these things, that we would apply these things to our lives. Father, we thank you for uh just the care that and attention uh that's being given to our salvation. Father, what a what a rich treasure we have in Christ. Father, I pray that we would understand these things, that we would uh be uh defenders of these truths, that we would not allow anyone to rob us of what we have in Jesus. My Father, I pray that you would be glorified and honored in our lives. Help us to have just a glory, Lord, that we're giving to you. Now Father, that we're giving you all the credit for this great salvation, that we would rejoice in what we have. And now Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. Abraham was given magnificent and precious promises. And we mentioned the last time we were together that the covenant uh that was given to Abraham was not limited, you know, the promises that he was given were not limited to a single nation. There were global implications of what Abraham was promised, and this is just incredible. Back in Genesis chapter 12 and verse 3, he was told that in you all the families of the earth would be blessed. That's a promise that's global. You know, every nation will be benefited in some way by this promise that God was giving to Abraham. In Genesis 17 and verse 5, it's God says, no longer shall you be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I will make you the father of many nations. You know, Abram means exalted father, but Abraham means father of a multitude. So God changed Abraham's name to signify that he wouldn't just be a father over one nation, but over a multitude of nations across the earth. So it's an expanding promise. In Genesis chapter 22, verse 17, it says, Your seed shall possess the gate of their enemies, and your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. In Genesis 26, this promise is reiterated to Isaac, and he's told that I will multiply. God says, I will multiply your descendants as the stars of heaven, will give your descendants all these lands by your descendants, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. And then God speaks to Jacob in Genesis twenty-eight and verse fourteen and says, Your descendants will also be like the dust of the earth. You will spread out to the west, to the east, to the north, to the south, and in you all And your descendants shall all the families of the earth be blessed. So there's this global nature to the promises, this global language. That's being used. Contained in the promises themselves, that there's this expanding promise to all the families of the earth, all the nations of the earth. The whole world is going to be blessed through you. You're going to have the gates of your enemies. All this is given to Abraham. So it's not surprising when we hear Paul speak of the promise that was given to Abraham or to his descendants, is that he would be heir of the world. And the messianic promise makes it explicit in Psalm 2, verse 8, where God says to the Son, Ask of me. And I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, that's the lands and the people in it, the very ends of the earth for your possession. So the seed of Abraham Would rule the ends of the earth. According to Genesis 15 and 8, there's a specific boundaries That the Lord made uh when he made this covenant with Abraham to your descendants, I've given this land from the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates. There were these boundaries to the land. And those boundaries are still included in the promise and still going to be fulfilled, but there's also an expansion that includes the entire earth. And that's the kind of promise that we find in the Beatitudes that Christ gave in the Sermon on the Mount. We've talked about this last time, where Christ says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted, and blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. So who's included in this promise that was given to Abraham? Everyone who believes in Christ. Those who are connected to Christ are connected to these promises, and they're also those who inherit the earth. So it's not exclusive. We're included in this promise to Abraham. There's a number of passages that speak about the future inheritance of the world. And 1 Corinthians 6, I'm not sure if you ever paid attention to this, but in 1 Corinthians 6, Paul is chastising the Christians for taking one another to court. Remember that? You know, you should be able to go to the to the least among you to decide between the brethren. I mean, why are you going to the unbeliever to decide between brothers, right? But then he says this. Listen to what he says in chapter 6 and verse 2. He says, or do you not know that saints, the saints, will judge the world? When is that going to take place? It's not happening now, by the way. Okay? There's going to come a time when the saints will judge the world. Flip over to Matthew chapter 19. Matthew chapter 19. This is after Jesus addressed the rich young ruler and commented about how difficult it is for those with riches to enter into the kingdom of heaven. Why is it difficult for rich people to enter into heaven? Because they trust too much in their stuff instead of trusting in Christ. So he says it's it's difficult for a rich man to enter into heaven. And then Peter jumps in. He says, you know, hey, I'm not rich. Verse 27, he says that it says, then Peter said to him, behold, we have left everything. And followed you. We didn't let what we had stop us from following you. You know, Peter gave up his fishing business so we could follow after the Lord. He says, What then will there be for us? And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that you who have followed me in the regeneration When the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And Jesus specifically promises his disciples that they would rule and reign on the earth. There's going to be these twelve thrones, and you're going to rule over the nation of Israel, the twelve tribes of Israel. But when would that happen? When's that going to happen? In the regeneration when? When the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne. Is Peter ruling today? No. Forget what the Catholic Church talks about, okay? Peter is not ruling today. Peter and the disciples are not ruling from thrones today. They did not rule during their time on the earth. They all died, and most of them died as martyrs. So this passage is not being fulfilled today, but there's coming a time in the future when these disciples will be resurrected. And they will reign and rule on a regenerated earth in the time of this regeneration. And when does that happen? When the Son of Man comes. And when the Son of Man comes, they will be set up on thrones and rule over the twelve tribes. And guess who's going to be with them? We are. We are. Revelation chapter 3 verse 21 says, he who overcomes, and that's a reference to all believers Believers are overcomers, according to uh first John 5 and verse 4. He says, He who overcomes, I will grant to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame and sat down with my father on his throne He who has an air to hear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. In Romans chapter 8 and verse 16, actually you can flip over there real quick. Romans chapter 8 and verse 16 It says the Spirit Himself testifies. I know you're still flipping, but you'll get there. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, what are we? Heirs. Heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him, so that we may also be glorified with him. That's a dominion over the entire earth But that dominion is for an age to come, and the age of the regeneration, and the age when Christ, the Son of Man, will come. It's when he comes that that dominion comes, and the saints will be resurrected to enter into that dominion. None of the saints of God are going to miss out on that rule over the earth. We'll all join Christ for that rule. All the resurrected saints of the ages will come back and rule. Daniel chapter 12 and verse 13. Daniel was told, but as for you Go your way to the end, and then you will enter into rest. Meaning you're you're gonna die, Daniel, right? And rise again, you're gonna be resurrected. For your allotted portion at the end of the age. You're going to be resurrected to join in this reign with Abraham and all of the Old Testament saints And the New Testament saints will come marching in and we'll be a part of that reign and rule as well. And the promise to Abraham included all of this. It's incredible to think about, like it's it's like in a seed form, you know, and you just kind of add water and it just keeps on growing and growing. This this promise to Abraham included all the boundaries of Israel. It included the gates of his enemies. It included the blessing to all the families of the earth. Abraham was going to be a part of it. So if Abraham was going to be a part of this blessing, this promise that was given to him, guess what has to happen to Abraham? He has to be resurrected in order to enjoy it. Because he didn't receive any of this while he was on the earth. He has to be resurrected so that he can be part of that kingdom. He died before he saw the fulfillment of this. There's so much that's contained in this promise that was given to Abraham. It included the land, the seed, the blessing, the Messiah. Resurrection, the world to come. And the question that Paul asked in Romans chapter 4, and this is where we get dive back into the context, the question that Paul asked in Romans chapter 4 is: did any of that depend on the law? All these precious promises that were given to Abraham, did any of that depend on his law-keeping? The promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law but through the righteousness of faith. He received it as a promise. It was a gift. He didn't have to earn it. He didn't have to work for it. God just said, I will. I will do this. And there's a number of reasons why the promise that was given to Abraham did not depend on the law, and we'll work our way through these. And again, this was the argument of the Jewish people that And some of the sect of the Pharisees said it's it's necessary to circumcise them and also to direct them to observe all the law of Moses. And basically the Pharisees were saying, the only way that anybody can be a part of this promise is that they're circumcised and they're obeying the law. That's the only way you can be a part of this. But what does Paul say? For if those who are of the law, in verse 14, if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void. And here's our first point, okay? If the blessings of salvation All this inheritance that's given to Abraham, all the the precious promises that we have, the future kingdom, if if all of that was given to those who kept the law, it would empty the empty faith, it would empty faith of its meaning and purpose. Faith would become useless. The word void that's used here where it says that faith would become void is the Greek word kana'o, which speaks of being empty, barren, desolate. to be stripped of all things. It's the same word that was used for Jesus in his incarnation, who voluntarily took on himself the limitations of man. Never ceasing to be God, never losing any of his uh essence, nothing of his essence, nothing of his divinity, Jesus didn't lose anything regarding who he was, but he laid aside the prerogatives, the use of the the free use of these attributes for his own benefit. He laid that aside. Instead of coming down as one who was rich, he came among us as one who was poor. 2 Corinthians 8:9 says, For you know the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, so that you through his poverty he became poor, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. So if justification was given to the people of the law, as if somehow you first had to be a lawkeeper and then justification was made effective, that would make faith impotent. It would strip faith of its significance. Faith would have no benefit. Listen to this. When we believe in God for our salvation, What we're admitting is that I don't have the resources on my own. That's what we're saying when we trust in God. We're saying I don't have what I need to receive this salvation. I just have to come to you and just believe you for it. There's nothing that I can do to work my way up, like we quoted in the song earlier. Nothing in my hands I bring, right? Simply to the cross I cling. There's nothing that I can do to get there from here. Lord, would you remember me when you enter into your kingdom, right? It's just turning to him with the with the look of faith. Lord, would you receive me So faith is is is the the the the instrumental means that connects us to this salvation when we believe in God for salvation what we're saying is we don't have the resources in ourselves flip over to Galatians chapter 2 Galatians chapter 2. And just in so many ways, this is a parallel to what we read in the book of Romans. Galatians chapter 2. Take a look at uh verse fifteen, Galatians chapter two, verse fifteen. This is uh Paul and uh and back in the context, he's speaking about himself and and Peter and really speaking to all the the rest of the Jewish people. Verse 15 he says, We are Jews by nature, and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed. in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ. And not by the works of the law, since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified What Paul is saying is this that if the law was what we needed to be justified, then what are we doing believing in Jesus for? If the law was sufficient, what in the world are we doing believing in Jesus Christ? Even we had to believe in Christ. It was an admission that the works of the law don't work. To trust in Christ was an acknowledgement that the works of the law were not doing the job. If you're already wearing a belt, you don't need the suspenders, right? If it's already working for you, why do you need something else? And even as a Jewish man, Paul abandoned the works of the law to embrace Jesus by faith, counting everything to be dung in order that he might receive the righteousness of Christ. James Montgomery Boyce puts it this way, law is man-directed It points to human abilities while faith is God-directed. It points to God's accomplishments. So if you're approaching salvation by trusting man in your own ability, you cannot be trusting in God and his accomplishments at the same time. You can't hold on to both. And the idea of faith is a trust, a reliance. You're trusting in him outside of yourself. And if you're going to Attain salvation somehow by working the law, by obeying the law, faith is made void and empty. And the inheritance cannot come by your work. In other words, what's the purpose of faith if you could do it yourself? You have to admit that my works have no value And it's only trust in Christ. So faith would be made useless. Number two, if the blessing of salvation were only given to those who are lawkeepers, the promise of God would be pointless. The promise would be pointless. Back in Romans chapter 4 and verse 14. He says, For if those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made void, and the promise is nullified. What does that mean? If the blessings of God and the future inheritance and righteousness of justification were somehow based on our obedience, it would make the promises of God null and void. The word nullified means to be useless, to be abolished, to render of no effect, to be canceled out. And why would that be the case? Why would the promise be made useless? Why would the promise be pointless? It's because the condition can never be satisfied. If it's based on the law, you obeying the law. If that's what the promises are based on, you obeying the law, that condition will never be satisfied. So the promise doesn't mean anything. When my kids were young, we were in Arkansas. We had a Chick-fil-A at the bottom of our street. And sometimes we'd come home from church and I'd say, you know, hey, hey guys. You can have whatever you want on the menu of Chick-fil-A, but only for today. Whatever you want on the menu of Chick-fil-A. And you know, sometimes their eyes would get wide. Anything we want? Fuck yeah, anything that you want you can have from Chick-fil-A, but just for today But there's a problem with that, because Chick-fil-A is not open on Sundays. So the condition could never be met. So the promise is empty, right? You get the point? Don't worry, we still fed our kids. They still had plenty of Chick-fil-A. Our kids are not starving. They're doing okay. But a promise is pointless if the conditions can never be met. If God made obedience to the law a condition To receive the promise, we would never receive the promise. Why is that? Because we could never obey the law. There would be no one to receive the promise. Romans chapter 3 verse 20 it says, Because by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. Why is that? Because no flesh can keep the law. So the promise is pointless. I'm promising you, like Abraham, I'm going to give you this inheritance and your descendants, and you're going to become heir of the world, but it's only if you keep the law. Well then the promise is meaningless Because I can never keep the law. D. Martin Lloyd Jones says this law means failure. Law means failure. Therefore, the promise If the promise had been made through the medium of the law, what God was giving as it were with his right hand, he would be taking back with his left hand There would have been no promise at all. It would have no value whatsoever. Another author says this were the promises of God suspended in the least on human merits or human strength, all men would perish. James chapter 2 verse 10 says, whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he's become guilty of all. It's hopeless. It's hopeless. So if God is making a promise that is based somehow on the law, the condition can never be fulfilled. If God says to Abraham, I'll make you a great nation, I'll bless you, I'll make your name great, you're going to be a blessing, and you, all the families of the earth, will be blessed. But the condition can never be met. Do you know what that would make out of God? It would make him a liar. He would make him say that I'm going to do something that I know I can't do. He would make promises that he has no intent on fulfilling. The blessings of God, if they're connected to our obedience, the promise would become pointless. Number three, if the blessings of salvation were only given to those who are lawkeepers. The blessings of God would actually turn out to be curses. If it was based on our law-keeping, the blessings of God would turn out to be curses. Why do I say that? Look at verse 15. For the law brings about wrath. There's no way to pick up the requirements of the law without also picking up the wrath of the law. If you want the blessings of obedience, you also have to take the cursings of disobedience. And this is the utter folly of trying to place ourselves under the yoke of the law. Flip back to Galatians again. Galatians chapter 3. Galatians chapter 3. Take a look at verse 10. Galatians chapter 3, verse 10. Listen what Paul says. For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. Why is that? Why are we under a curse? For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by how many things? All things written in the book of the law to perform them. You can't pick and choose when it comes to the law It was all or nothing. It was all binding, or none of it was binding. And the violators of the covenant were to be put to death. The law came with the curse. In Leviticus chapter twenty-six and verse fourteen it says, But if you do not obey me and do not carry out all these commandments, if instead you reject my statutes, if your soul abhors my ordinances so as not to carry out all my commandments, and so break my covenant I in turn will do this to you. And then Leviticus goes on for another 26 to 27 verses describing the curse of God upon them. Listen to some of these curses. I will appoint over you a sudden terror, consumption, and fever. I will set my face against you so that you will be struck down before your enemies. Your strength will be spent uselessly for your land will not yield its produce, and the trees of the land will not yield their fruit. I will act with hostility against you. I will also bring upon you a sword which will uh execute Vengeance for the covenant. I will send pestilence upon you. I will act with wrathful hostility against you. My soul shall abhor you. I will lay waste your cities as well, and will make your sanctuaries desolate. I will not smell your soothing aromas Take it away from me. I will make the land desolate. I will scatter among the nations and will draw out a sword after you. As your land becomes desolate and your cities become waste, you will perish among the nations, and your enemies' land will consume you. You know, people love to pick and choose when it comes to the law. They try to claim the blessings on their lives, but the law comes as a double-edged story. There were two mountains, remember that? Deuteronomy chapter 11, 29. It shall come about when the Lord your God brings you into the land where you're entering to possess it, that you shall place the blessings on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebel. And people love to claim the blessings of the law. You know, we're blessed in the city, we're blessed in the field, we're blessed when we come and when we go. But there's another side to that, right? Because if you disobey, you're cursed in the city. You're cursed in the field. You're cursed when you come and when you go. You know, nobody's making songs about that, right? That's why 2 Corinthians 3. 7 calls the old covenant the ministry of death. The ministry of death. Why is it a ministry of death? Because you can't keep it. So what does it bring to you? It brings death to you. Letters engraved on stones. The law brings wrath. And why would you place yourself under the yoke of slavery that you could never bear? When it was suggested at the Jerusalem Council that Gentiles be placed under the law of Moses, listen to what Peter says. Acts 15, verse 8. And God, who knows the heart, testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he also did to us. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why do you put God to the test by placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? We're not able to bear the weight of the law, which is why Jesus came to bear the weight for us. Which he did what we couldn't do. He was able to bear the weight of the law in our place. He was able to give God perfect obedience. God still demands perfect obedience, but instead of receiving it from us, he receives it from his son. And praise God for that. And the weight of the curse of the law, Jesus became that curse for us. Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. In order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, it says, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. The blessings of God can't come through the law. Because the blessings come with the curse. Blessings of the law come with the curse of the law. The blessings would become cursings. Number four. If the blessings of salvation were only given to those who are lawkeepers, the blessings of God would be baseless or without a foundation. The foundation is baseless. It's baseless. There's nothing underneath it. Why? Because again, the law brings about wrath, but listen to this: where there is no law, there is also no violation. And what does that mean? There's a reason why the promise of this blessing of salvation was not given to lawkeepers. Number one, when God made the promise to Abraham, the law of Moses did not even exist. So how can this promise be given to lawkeepers when the law of Moses didn't exist? In Galatians chapter 3, verse 17, it says, What I am saying is this, the law which came 430 years later, does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God. So as to nullify the promise. For if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on a promise. But God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise, which came four hundred and thirty years before the law even came about. No law of Moses when God made the promise to Abraham. The law of Moses did not exist. And there's those who try to get around this. There's Jewish scholars who teach that Abraham obeyed the law before it was even given. There's ancient Jewish texts that try to argue that Abraham offered first fruits, that he kept the Feast of Tabernacles, that he observed the Sabbath laws. But there's no evidence in Scripture anywhere that Abraham obeyed the Mosaic Law. The word Sabbath doesn't even appear until Exodus chapter 16. He didn't have the law. He wasn't under that law. Now that doesn't mean that people didn't sin before Moses. God still governed people by the law that was written on their hearts, but the specifics of the Mosaic law, they didn't have it. So we have the law of Moses that was given 430 years after Abraham, but secondly, in addition to this fact, Salvation has never been based on the law to begin with. God saves apart from the law, period. Back in Romans chapter 3, verse 21, it says, but now apart from the law. The righteousness of God has been manifested being witnessed by the law and the prophets, apart from, without the law, separate from the law. And some interpreters have pointed out that the word law is not defined. It's not even just Mosaic law, but it's any law. God does not save by law. And if God does not bring salvation through the law, then there could not be any objection when he brings that salvation apart from the law, because that's not how he works anyway. He never brings salvation through the law It's always been by grace. God saves outside the box. You know, you ever have uh you know one of those uh kind of mind games where you know people are trying to connect all the dots within the box and they can't do it? And what you actually have to do is go outside of the box in order to connect all the dots. God works outside the box of the law. Like I don't have to work in the box in order to bring salvation. I work outside of the box in order to bring salvation. And outside of the box is grace. God saves outside the box, and that's what he's always done, because salvation never depended on us. It's always been of grace. In verse 16, it says, for this reason it is by faith, in order that it may be in accordance with grace. And this is the final point here. If the blessings of salvation were only given to those who were lawkeepers, the blessings of God would be graceless. The gift would be graceless. It would no longer be a gift. When the text says it's by faith, Paul's referring to the blessings of justification. The blessings of justification. It comes by faith. For this reason, it's by faith And why does this blessing have to be by faith alone? It's because if it's not by faith alone, then it's not by grace alone. And there's this inextricable, inseparable link between faith and grace. Because what faith demonstrates is that I am no longer trusting in myself. I'm wholly leaning on God to save me. Faith is dependent on God. Works are dependent on self. Faith looks outward, works look inward. Faith receives, works earn. Faith is compatible with grace, but works are incompatible with grace. Because if it's by grace, it's no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. You don't work for a gift. If you worked for a gift, it wouldn't be a gift, it would be your wages And if God is compelled to give you grace because of the work that you do, it's not grace. Any contradiction. It's a contradiction of the definition. It's not a gift anymore. And if God is compelled to withhold grace because of a good work that you failed to do, it's also no longer grace. Because it's not a gift. So faith and grace are these kind of two inseparable links because salvation has to be all of faith, meaning it's not of myself, I'm trusting in somebody else. Because if it has anything to do with me, then it's not of grace. So faith and grace are connected. And if it's all of faith, that means it's all of grace. And if it's all of grace, I've said this before, it's all of Christ And if it's all of Christ, guess who gets all the glory? He does. God does. Christ gets all the glory. It's all of faith Which means that it's all of grace, which means that it's all of Christ, which means that He gets all the glory for my salvation. No part of this salvation can be traced back to me to give me some kind of credit for it. It's opposed to works. Romans 3. 28, we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works. Romans 4. 5, but to the one who does not work. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, not as a result of works. 2 Timothy 1. 9, he saved us and called us with the holy calling, not according to our works. I mean, how many times do you have to say it, right? Justification is apart from our works. It's given to the one who does not work. It's not a result of our works. It's not according to our works. That doesn't mean that we don't do good works, but we're we're saved unto good to good works, but our salvation has nothing to do with it. And what this means is that this righteousness comes from outside of us. It comes from God as a gift. And we'll get to the next point, the next Lord today. As we talked about the lineage, that it's not based on lineage, the next major point. But as we think about these dangers to justification, each of these dangers are still with us today. Ceremonies, law, lineage. And if you wonder if those dangers are still among us today, just go around the street and ask some people, are there are they saved? And if they say, yes, I'm saved, then ask them, well, how were you saved? How do you know that you're saved? Well, you know, I've been baptized. You ask people, are they saved? They say, I've been baptized. I didn't ask you that. I asked you, are you saved? Well, I've been baptized. I attend such and such a church I sent my offerings to this ministry. I watched this preacher online. I didn't ask you any of that. I asked you, are you saved? Do you know the Lord? Well, uh I'm I'm a member of such and such a church. It's all about the ceremonies. I've been baptized. I attend. I give them these offerings. I listen to this preacher. It's all about the ceremonies. Now all of a sudden they think they're saved because of these external ceremonies. Ask somebody, are they saved? They say, well, I try to treat people the way I want to be treated. That's not what I asked you, right? I try to treat people the way I want to be treated. You know, I I don't hurt anybody I don't hurt anybody. I try to do what's right. I help people when I can. That's salvation based on the law. Yes, people are they are they saved? And then they say, well, my father is a minister. My mother serves in the church. My mother is the first apostle of such and such a church You got some other things we want to talk about, but our family attends the church. I was raised in the church. I mean, from the time I can remember, I've always been a part of the church. And again, that's not what we've asked you. We've asked you, are you saved? Are you saved? Do you know the Lord? These dangers are still with us. These dangers are still among us. And for those of you who are in the truth, those of you who've accepted the truth, don't let anyone try to convince you that there's something that's missing from your salvation. Because the substance belongs to Christ. Anybody who's directing you away from Christ is trying to direct you into a false religion. The substance is Christ. Don't let anyone judge you. The substance is Christ. Don't let anyone defraud you. Jesus is the head. Don't let anybody try to make you submit to their decrees because you've died with Christ. Christ is the center. And we should not let go of these blessings that we have in Christ. Just by way of illustration, flip over to Genesis chapter 32. Genesis chapter 32. If you remember this scene, this event in the life of of Jacob He's fearful of his brother because he's tricked them for so many years. You know, Jacob was a was the heel catcher He's always trying to manipulate his way to the top, as if he had to manipulate his way into the blessings of the Lord. And in Genesis 32, he's about to face Esau, and he's fearful of what's about to take place. And in verse 24, it says, Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until daybreak. When he saw that he had not prevailed against him, he touched the socket of his thigh, so the socket of Jacob's thigh was dislocated while he rustled with him. Then he said, let me go for the dawn is breaking, but he said, I will not let you go until you bless me. So he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. He said, Your name shall no longer be Jacob but Israel, for you have striven with God and with men and have prevailed. Then Jacob asked him again asked again, asked him and said, Please, then Jacob asked him and said, Please tell me your name But he says, What is that that you ask my name? What is it that you ask my name? And he blessed him there. So Jacob named the place Peniel, for he said, I have seen God face to face, yet my life has been preserved. Now the sun rose upon him just as he crossed over Penuel, and he was limping on his thigh, therefore to this day the sons of Israel do not eat the sinew of the hip which is in the socket of the thigh because he touched the socket of Jacob's thigh and the sinew of the hip Jacob is wrestling, he's fearful, he's wrestling with this man until the the break of day. And uh we can get into that later, uh, who that man was, but I believe it's a pre-incarnate uh appearance of Christ. So here he is, he's rustling and saying, I uh I won't let you go, I won't let you go until you bless me. But but here, when Jacob is wrestling with this man all night, is Jacob changing his mind? You know, you wouldn't bless me, but now you are going to bless me because I can prevail over you and wrestle you to the ground? The blessings that Jacob received were already promised him. In Genesis 25, God already promised Rebekah that the older Esau would serve the younger Jacob. In chapter 27, Isaac told Jacob that he would be blessed. God appeared to Jacob in Genesis chapter 28, and he told him this in verse 15: Behold, I'm with you and will keep you wherever you go. And will bring you back to this land, for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised. In Genesis 31, God tells them again, Return to the land of your father and to your relatives, and I will be with you So by the time we get to Genesis 32, and Jacob says, I will not let you go until you bless me, was that because it wasn't already promised that he would be blessed? No, he's now becoming fearful. Am I going to lose this blessing? Like, please, please, I I need like some more assurance Are you going to give me what you promised to me? You know, he's wrestling God down as if like, you know, I need to wrestle these blessings from you. But Jacob, this is what was already promised to you So it's not like, oh, you know, I won't let you go until you bless me. You know, that that shouldn't be the attitude that it's like, I don't know if I'm going to be blessed. The attitude is I want to hold on to what you've already promised me. God had already promised him these blessings. And we don't want to allow these blessings to go. We don't want to allow our fingers to slip on the confidence that we have in these blessings. Jacob was losing his confidence, and that's why he wrestled. With the angel all night. That's why he's wrestling with this man all night. That's why he's wrestling with this pre-incarnate appearance of Christ. He's wrestling because he's starting to lose hold on these blessings that were already promised to him. The blessings already belong to you, Jacob. And I want to tell you, believer, that the blessings of salvation already belong to you. You already have the blessings of your salvation. And the Lord has promised you these blessings. This is what we have in Christ in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 23. Just want to read this for you. In Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 23, we read this. It says, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. Listen to this, for he who promised is faithful. The Lord who promised you these blessings of your salvation, the Lord who promised you the blessings in your justification, the God who promised is faithful. He is faithful to his word. He will fulfill his word. He will keep his promise to you. And if God has promised you that all you need to do is trust in Jesus Christ for your salvation, then that's all that you need to do. All you need to do is hold on to the promises that He's given you. Don't let anybody try to convince you that there's some ceremony or there's some ritual or there's some law that you have to keep. No, it's not about that. It's about Jesus. If you're not bringing me Jesus, don't come to me with it. Jesus is all that I need. When I breathe my final breath, who are you going to be holding on to? Are you going to be holding on to Jesus? Or are you going to be holding on to some baptism that you did 20 years ago? The only way that I know that I can enter into eternal life with confidence is if I have Jesus. God, that's all I need. He's all I have. He's all I want. I want Jesus. Give me Jesus. We're all coming to a time when it's we're coming to the last stop, right? You understand that, right? We're all heading to the last stop. And unless you're holding on to Christ, you don't have a hope. If you're trusting in some kind of ritual or ceremony or Sabbath keeping or whatever you want to add in that box, if you're trusting in anything else besides Christ, it will not take you to heaven. Flesh and blood cannot enter the kingdom of God. There's nothing that you're going to do to enter into that glory. It's all about Jesus. He's the one who takes me from here to heaven. I trust in him. He's the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father except through him. He's the door into heaven. I go to heaven through the door, through the entrance. And if I don't have Jesus, I have nothing. I need Jesus. He's made precious promises to us. In the Hymn Amazing Grace. John Newton writes these words, the Lord has promised good to me. His word my hope secures. He will my shield and portion be as long as life endures The earth shall soon dissolve like snow, the sun forbear to shine, but God who called me here below will be forever mine. Do you know that God is yours today? Have you trusted in Jesus Christ? And do you know that God is yours? If you don't, we would beg you to turn to Christ and find in him life. That's the only place that you can find security. Find security in Christ. Give me Jesus. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had Now, Father, we thank you for your word. Your word is clear. Your word is rich. Your word is powerful. Your word gives us all that we need for life. All that we need for death is found in your word. That when we breathe our final breath, that we would sing, give me Jesus. And when I come to die, give me Jesus. And for all of our life, I pray that we would seek after Jesus. That he would be our vision. Be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Give us Jesus. We want Jesus. So, Father, I pray that our focus would be on Him, that we would never loosen our grip on Him, and that we would recognize that we've already been given these precious promises And that we just want to hold on to your word, hold on to what you've promised us in the scriptures. We have precious promises in your word, God. May you be glorified and honored. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.