The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're back in the book of Romans today, and uh we'll be taking a look at Romans chapter 2. And while you're turning there, let me go ahead and remind you of where we've been, because I know it's been a while Uh the overarching theme of the book of Romans as a whole is the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God. We find that the Greek word for righteousness or Also translated justification. It's used some sixty-nine times in the book of Romans, and that's a lot. It's a a word that's used more times than sin, salvation, life, death, spirit, flesh, faith. Or even the word for gospel. And even when we get to the word gospel in the book of Romans, where the gospel is introduced, one of the main questions is how does the gospel work with God's righteousness? Does the gospel contradict or violate God's righteousness? In other words, how can God be both righteous and let guilty and sinful people go free? The two don't seem to go together because if if God is righteous, he should punish guilty people. His righteousness is at stake But the dilemma is answered by the cross of Jesus Christ. As Romans 3. 26 says, the cross is the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. God can set men free because his son paid the price And it's through the cross that God demonstrates that He is righteous because He takes sin seriously and because He judges sin severely. And that's a demonstration of the righteousness of God and His grace. But what Paul does in the first few chapters of Romans is he places before us the righteousness of God in his judgment And the first few verses of chapter two speak about this and really lets us know that it's through his judgment that his righteousness is put on display. The first few chapters explains that apart from Christ, men are both under the judgment of God and now heading toward the judgment of God. His wrath is both revealed and it's reserved for a later time. Back in chapter 1, he began with the wrath that is revealed now against idolatrous and pagan Gentile sinners. Romans chapter 1 verse 18, it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. That 's the wrath that's revealed right now that God is giving people over to their sin, sexuality, homosexuality, depravity, all mentioned in chapter one. But then there's another demonstration of the wrath of God that's reserved for later, that's stored away for later. And it's this this wrath that's stored away for the hypocritical, self-righteous sinners Who point the finger at everybody else, everybody else's sins, but they stubbornly refuse to deal with their own. And that's what Paul addresses in Romans chapter 2 and verse 5, if you want to take a look at it with me. Romans chapter 2 and verse 5. It says, But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, You are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. So there's a revealed wrath That's coming upon men right now. And then there's a reserved wrath that's stored away for the future. But both demonstrate the righteousness of God, that God takes sin seriously. And when we speak about God being righteous, it's important that we understand what we mean by that. When we say that God is righteous, what we mean is that that God deals with his creation consistently and he always acts in righteous ways. And this is one of the ways that theologians have distinguished between the the holiness of God and the righteousness of God. When we speak about God's holiness, in addition to saying that God is separate from his creation, that God is other, we're also saying that God abhors sin and that he himself is perfectly pure. When we speak about the holiness of God, it speaks about who God is in Himself. In 1 John 1 and verse 5, it says, This is the message we have heard from him, and announced to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. But when we speak about the righteousness of God, we're taking that idea a step further. And we're saying that God demonstrates His holiness by acting in ways that are consistent with his nature and specifically among his creation. And that's an important aspect of righteousness to point out that when we're talking about the righteousness of God. We're talking about how God always does what is right in his actions and in his relationship with us. So for instance, God is righteous in all that he does. And Psalm 145, 17 says, the Lord is righteous in all of his ways, all of his actions. God will fulfill every promise of his word because he is righteous. In Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 8, it says, You have fulfilled your promise. And why? For you are righteous. That's why you fulfill your promises. Because you act consistently with your character. Even the survival of Israel was dependent on the righteousness of God. In Ezra chapter 9 and verse 15 it says, O Lord God of Israel, you are righteous. Why? For we have been left an escaped remnant as it is this day. We survived because you fulfilled your word. You're true to your word, God. You are a righteous God. You're a God who acts consistently with your character. When God brings judgment on the sinner. That's a demonstration of the righteousness of God. Daniel 9, 14. Therefore the Lord has kept the calamity in store and brought it on us, for the Lord our God is righteous. And when God forgives the sinner, even that's related to the righteousness of God, because it's in fulfillment of his own word that God remains true to his promise. 1 John 1, verse 9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and what? Just or righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. God forgives us. Why? Because he's determined to fulfill his word. But this is what I said I would do if you confess your sins. That I'm faithful and just and righteous to forgive you of your sins. It's not because of what you've done, it's because of what I've committed to do that this happens. And when God rewards righteousness within us, that's also consistent with his character 2 Timothy 4 verse 8 says, In the future there is laid up for me, this is what Paul says, the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award me on that day. And not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearance. God will reward us, why? Because he's a righteous God and because he follows through with his word. And the concepts of righteousness and justice can really only properly be understood in their connection to God. You can't really talk about justice unless you talk about God. You don't really understand righteousness unless you understand God Even when you talk about the way that things ought to be, when you say that something ought to be like that or that person ought not to do that. Anytime you say something like that, you're acknowledging that there's a God who is the ultimate standard of righteousness. He's the ultimate standard of good. Otherwise, like why should anything be anyway? What ought to be anything if there is no God? When I say that something ought to be this way, it tells me that there's a standard and that there's a design. In the same way when people speak about justice and what's right, it's an acknowledgement of God. Even if it's misapplied, it's improperly understood. They know that there's an ultimate standard of justice. Just like if I'm putting together a piece of furniture or I'm working on a car or a piece of equipment, and I say, you know what, that bolt ought to go right here. Right? If I say that, that's acknowledging that there's a design that this fits with that because that's how it's been designed to fit together. So when I talk about the world that I see around me and say that things ought to be different, things ought to be like this or ought to be like that, I'm by that acknowledging that there's a God who governs over everything And that there are things that should be a certain way because that's how they're designed to be. So when people speak again about justice, it's really an acknowledgement that there's a God who is righteous. There's a God of justice. There's an ultimate standard. And as believers, we understand who that ultimate standard is. God is the highest possible standard, and by him all other laws are judged Even unbelievers understand that there needs to be an ultimate standard and accountability to that standard. There's a German philosopher by the name of Immanuel Kant Who argued that we can't know if God exists. And he criticized traditional arguments for the existence of God. Even though he says we can't know that God exists, he still made arguments for God because he says we have to affirm the goodness of God in order for ethics to be possible. In other words, how can we talk about right or wrong if we don't also acknowledge that there's a God? And he found that every person has some sense of oughtness. Things ought to be a certain way. R. C. Sprohl summarized Kant's arguments in this way. He writes, Kant and concluded from a practical basis that if ethics is to be meaningful, then somehow, somewhere, justice has to prevail. Because if in the final analysis the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer, why should anybody endeavor to be righteous? Justice is absolutely essential, concept, for a meaningful ethic. Kant went on to speculate that for justice to occur, certain things must follow. I found this fascinating. Think about this. In order for justice to occur, certain things must follow. We must have life after death Because we have to go someplace where the ultimate verdict can be rendered on our behavior. For that to happen, he said, we must have a judge who is himself perfect. And a perfect judge must also be omniscient in order not to overlook some detail that might clear the guilty. He must know every imperfection, each aspect of all the extenuating circumstances for why people behave as they do. The perfect judge must also be righteous, not given to bribes or corruption, to render an impartial decision, unmotivated by self-interest. Even that does not guarantee that justice will prevail, Kant said. To ensure that justice prevails, the perfect judge must also be omnipotent. He must have the ability and the power to make certain that his decision is carried out. Kant argued that if ethics is going to be meaningful and if society is going to be possible, we must affirm the existence of God. But we don't have to rely on Kant and his reasoning to talk about God. We know that God is true and that God is righteous because of what the scriptures have to say. And it's clear in Scripture that God is a righteous God. He's always righteous, everywhere righteous, altogether righteous. And the question that's tackled in Romans chapter 2 is, is God consistently righteous? Is he consistently righteous? How does God deal with people who on the surface appear to agree with him? Is he always righteous, consistently righteous with those people? What if people side with God? They say, you know what, I think that the God is right in his judgment against sin and they call out sin Does God allow those people to get away with their wrongdoing? What if we're pro-life, pro-family, pro-law and order, we stand against corruption, the influence of anti-God agendas? Does that put us on God's good side? Does it kind of brush away the sins that we commit because, you know, hey God, I've sided with you on these issues? Can we remind God that we voted for Him so that we get some kind of favor in return? What if we're pro-decency and anti-racist and we can't stand chauvinists, we're sickened by those who have an immoral lifestyle? Does that get God's attention? Maybe it gets your attention, I don't know. What if we promote that the Bible is the authority? We're among those who say, I I agree with the Bible. I'm in favor of the Bible. That's what the Bible says. What if that's us The Bible said it, I agree with it, and that settles it. You know. I like what uh what R. C. Sprohl said, you know, you can take out the middle portion because if the Bible said it, that settles it, whether you agree with it or not. If God said it it settles it. But you can say I I agree with the Bible. Does God somehow excuse your wrongdoing because of that? More than that, what if we're connected to the right group of people? We're connected to the people of God. We find ourselves in the assembly of the righteous. Does any of that influence the way that God deals with us? Does God look at his approval ratings first before he brings judgment? What we learn in Romans chapter 2 is that none of that influences God on the day of judgment. Romans chapter 2 addresses a group of people who thought they could watch the judgment of God from a safe distance because they agreed with God about sinful people. They didn't consider that they were also part of the target for that same wrath of God. This Proverbs 30, verse 12 says, There is a kind who is pure in his own eyes yet is not washed from his filthiness. For Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 35, you said, I'm innocent. Surely God, surely his anger is turned away from me. And then God says, Behold, I will enter into judgment with you because you say I have not sinned. Whereas Isaiah 65 says the self-righteous consider themselves holier than thou. I actually used to think that that was just a term that people made up. It's actually from Scripture Isaiah 65, verse 2 says, I've spread out my hands all day long to a rebellious people who walk in the way which is not good, following their own thoughts. Of people who continually provoke me to my face, offering sacrifices in gardens and burning incense on bricks. It's a picture of false religion. Who sit among graves and spend the night in secret places, I mean this is defiling themselves ceremonially among the dead, who eat swine's flesh and the broth of unclean meat is in their patch, which is a violation in that time of the Levitical law But what do they say about you? Verse 5, they say, Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am holier than you. You know, the same people who are involved in all these atrocities are saying, stay away from me because I'm holier than you are. They've been eating swine's flesh, sitting among the graves, and they want to say that you're going to defile them by being too close. And what does God say about these people? He says, they are a smoke in my nostrils. A fire that burns all the day. He says, those who judge others and excuse themselves, God says they're like smoke in my nostrils. They're a constant irritation to me. And Romans chapter 2 says that they're storing up wrath for the day of wrath. So let's take a look at Romans chapter 2. We'll start at verse 5 and read down through verse 11. Romans chapter 2, starting at verse 5. It says, but because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to each person according to his deeds? To those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. But to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath, and indignation, there will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek. But glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, for there is no partiality with God. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. We're so grateful for this text. And Father, we pray that you'd open up its meaning to us, help us to understand what we read. Father, I pray that you'd help us to apply what we read, that we wouldn't be like those who come before your word, like a man who looks at a mirror and forgets what he looks like. Now, Father, I pray that we would apply these truths to our own hearts. Now, Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is the passage about the judgment of God. The judgment of God. And before we jump into our outline for the passage, there's a number of observations that we can make about God's judgment. Just from verse 6 alone. Number one, the judgment of God is personal. God's judgment is personal. Who is the one who's judging? Verse 6, who will render to each person according to their deeds? Who is it? It's God. It's the righteous judgment of God who will render to each person according to his deeds. But the one who renders judgment is God. You will not be judged by your community. You will not be judged by your friends, by your family, by your loved ones, or even by yourself. Sometimes I talk to people who say, you know, I don't feel bad about the decisions that I make. You know, I've made my decisions for myself, as if they're the final judge. God is the one who judges us. 1 Corinthians 4 and verse 4 says, For I'm conscious of nothing against myself, yet I am not by this acquitted. The one who examines me is the Lord. God is the one who examines us. You know, people say only God can judge me as if that gets them off the hook. It only puts them on the hook. God is the one who judges us. Number two, God's judgment is unavoidable. It says He will render to each person. He will. There's no getting around his judgment. In Matthew chapter 13, the judgment of God is described like a dragnet. According to one commentator, these dragnets that were used in ancient times could be as large as a half mile, and they sank deep and dragged along the bottom of the sea, picking up everything in its path. And this is a picture of the judgment of God. The earth is like a great sea being swept along by a silent net. To the shore of eternity. Nobody escapes. And men can roam around within the net, but they can't get out of the net. They have no clue that the net all the time is being pulled closer and closer together Tighter and tighter together. You can't avoid the judgment of God. God's judgment will also be individual. What does he say? Who will render to each person That's mentioned several times in our text in verse 9. For every soul, verse 10, to everyone, you won't appear before God in a group. Your community won't be standing with you. It will not matter what your family background is, what nation you were born in. Your ethnic group will not stand in solidarity with you. Your church cannot help you at that point No religious leader will stand with you on that day. Your pastor, your priest, your religious leader will not be able to help you. Every person stands before God alone. Every one God's judgment is also final. We learn about that in verses 7 and 8. To those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. That's the end. But to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath and indignation. There's a final destination: eternal life or wrath and indignation. And it's final. There's no getting out of the judgment of God after it's meted out. And God's judgment will also be impartial. Impartial. Your judgment won't be based upon what ye say you are Your judgment will be based upon who you really are. And how do we know who we really are? Jesus tells us in Matthew chapter 7, verse 16, you will know them by their And that's essentially the same thing that verse 6 is saying. Who will render to each person according to his deeds. There's going to be an objective judgment of each person, every individual life, and the fruit of their life will verify the truth of their life. It's going to be a judgment based on reality. And the evidence of that reality is a changed life. And that's why verse 11 can say that there's no partiality with God. Because on the day of judgment, not only will God be able to point to the satisfaction of his son, Jesus Christ, as the ground for our salvation, He'll also be able to point to the evidence that that salvation has really entered your heart because he'll be able to demonstrate that your life has also been changed. You know, Jesus on the inside, working on the outside, oh what a change in my life, right? And if you've read the rest of Romans and you're familiar with your Bible in general, you might be wondering, at this point, you know, is that right that our works are going to be brought up in judgment? You know, I I I thought the the Bible says that, you know, but to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. That's what Romans 4. 5 says How about Galatians chapter 2, verse 16? Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ. And not by the works of the law. How about Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9? For by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one can boast. And all of that is 100% true, okay? We're still Protestant. I haven't forgotten that we celebrated Reformation Sunday, a couple Sundays ago. The Bible clearly teaches that we're justified by faith and by faith alone. Before God, without works, we're justified by faith. And for that reason, there's some commentators who look at a passage like this and they say that, you know what, Paul is just speaking hypothetically. He's just saying that you know, if if we could you know give works to God, but we really can't give good works to God, so you know, these works are just kind of smoking hypothetically. And they point to uh you know chapter 2 verse 7, you know, doing good, you know, seeking for glory and honor and immortality and eternal life. And they say, well, but but nobody really does good though. No, nobody does good. You know, isn't that what you know the Bible goes on to say in Romans chapter 3 verse 12, all have turned aside, together they've become useless? That that there's none who does good, no, not one. So so really we're speaking hypothetically. And I I understand where some commentators go there, how they they reason in that way If you're talking about being good enough to stand before God in salvation, the entire world is justly condemned before God. There's nobody who's getting to heaven based on their good works There's nobody who's going to be able to stand before God and say, God, I've done enough good works to be accepted by you. But I do believe that Paul is talking about Good works that actually are a proof of your salvation. And why do I say that? Number one, Paul expected and commanded Christians to do good And Paul's going to tell us later on in this same book in chapter 12 and verse 2 to be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Romans 12 9 says abhor what is evil, cling to what is good. Romans 13 verse 3 says, Do what is good Romans sixteen and nineteen says, For the report of your obedience has reached to all. Therefore I am rejoicing over you, but I want you to be wise in what is good and innocent in what is evil. You know, so how could Paul say that we're to do good? He expects us to do good, abhor the evil, cling to what's good, how can he say all that if he turns around and says, well, we can't do good anyway? Now that's not what Paul's saying here. Clearly, Paul expected and commanded Christians to do good. In addition to that, if you look at verse 6 in chapter 2. You should see that this verse is set apart in your Bibles as a quotation. In my Bible, the New American Standard, it's in all caps. to show that this is a quotation. So we have to understand where was this quoted from to understand the original context. So uh just for a minute, flip back in your Bibles over to Proverbs chapter 24. There's two passages that are being quoted. And I know today's more like a classroom than a you know than a sermon, but uh this is the work that I had to do to get here, okay? So you're gonna go through it with me. Proverbs chapter 24 Look at verses eleven and twelve There it says, deliver those who are being taken away to death. And when he's saying deliver those taken away to death, the assumption is that they're being taken away unlawfully, unjustly. So he's saying, deliver those who are being taken away to death. And those who are staggering to slaughter, oh, hold them back. Verse 12, if you say, see, we did not know this, you know, you're playing ignorant, you know, as if you don't know that these people are being put to the slaughter. Does he not consider it who weighs the hearts? And does he not know it who keeps your soul? No, God knows what's in your heart, what's in your soul. And will he not render to man according to his work Then we have the same wording repeated over in Psalm 62. Psalm 62, the same same language is used over there. If you want to flip over there, Psalm 62. And here we're encouraged to trust in God because men can be so untrustworthy. Psalm 62, look at verse 8. Actually, I'll start at verse 7. On God my salvation and my glory rests. The rock of my strength, my refuge is in God Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Men of low degree are only vanity, and men of rank are a lie. And the balances they go up, they are together lighter than breath. Do not trust in oppression. Do not vainly hope in robbery. If riches increase, do not set your heart upon them. Once God has spoken, twice I have heard this that power belongs to God, and loving kindness is yours, O Lord For you recompense a man according to his work. It's according to his deeds that they will be judged And the truth that's taught in both of these passages, you know, Proverbs 24 and Psalm 62, is that we cannot depend on men to do what's right. Right? Proverbs 24, even the innocent can be put to death, you know, brought to slaughter. Psalm 62, men can lie about us. They can oppress us with People with power, the men of uh you know without power, the men of low degree, and the men of power, those in rank, people can oppress us, but God will repay in the end. God will repay God will repay them and God will reward us. And that's the the background for this quotation. So there's people who do real wrong, real wrong who are punished, and those who are innocent who are rewarded. That's the context of where this quotation comes from. Number three, if you remember the context of Romans chapter 2, Paul is condemning those who judge others for what they're practicing themselves. You know, so the context here is judging according to works, according to what they do. You know, back in verse 1 of chapter 2, you have no excuse everyone who passes judgment, for in what you judge another you condemn yourself You know, so it's their practice that betrays who they really are. Again, we're known by our our fruit. And number four Why do you think Paul is talking about those who are actually doing good? Why do I think Paul's talking about those who are actually doing good? It's because he's pointing out the distinction between those who repent and those who do not. Look at chapter 2 and verse 4. Look what he says here. He says, Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God When Paul is talking about rendering to each person according to his deeds, he's not talking about the difference between one group that works righteousness and gets to heaven because of the righteous. He's talking about a group that realize that they're sinners and they've repented. And now they've been transformed. It's not through their own self-effort that they are heading to heaven. It's because they've recognized their sin, they've turned from their sin, now they're trusting in Christ. So there's the repentant, and then there's another group who doesn't think that they need any repentance. They they they think that they're they're good enough on their own. You know, he's talking about these two groups of people, but both are sinners. One group recognizes their sin and repents, the other group thinks that they're righteous enough on their own and they have no need of repentance. So this is not speaking about works, righteousness, doing enough good to earn salvation. We're talking about two groups of sinners, one who recognizes their need, they hunger and thirst after righteousness. They repent, and there's another group who's satisfied with their own righteousness. They don't come to Christ. They don't come to salvation. They don't think that they need a change. They come as they are and they stay as they are. That's the difference. And also you have this language that's used all over scripture, you know, about God repaying those who sin and recompensing, you know, us according to our deeds. So what we have here is is Paul is talking about those who are righteous as a category of people, those who've repented of their sins, they're the ones who are heading to heaven. And then there's those who are sinful who don't recognize their need, and they're heading to destruction. That's what Paul is talking about here. And the self-righteous person Who refuses to repent, ultimately at root, he has a theological problem. Like I mentioned before, you know, all of our problems at root are really theological. Theological problems. You know, the flagrant rebellious sinner who suppresses the truth and unrighteousness, he doesn't acknowledge the true God. Romans 125, they exchange the truth of God for a lie, worship and serve the creature rather than the creator whose was forever. But how about the hypocritical sinner, the one who thinks that he's righteous? How does he have a theological problem? His problem is that he doesn't think that God is righteous. He thinks that God will let me slide. As long as I agree with God that God is right and the Bible is true and I show up at church, I've been baptized, whatever it might be, I've gone through whatever ceremony it might be, as long as I've done that, I think I'm okay with God. They don't think that God is righteous. He convinces himself that God will judge others and will leave me alone. Somehow I'll be able to escape the God who says that he's impartial in his judgment As long as I say the Bible is true, it doesn't really matter if I follow it or not. As long as I'm associated with a religious group, it doesn't matter if I live out the truth or not. As long as I condemn evil, it doesn't matter if I practice it And that's exchanging the truth of God for a lie. You're betraying the true God by your actions. And with that, we can finally share the outline for the passage. Last time we were here together, we started to take a look at the structure of verses 6 through 11. And you might have heard the term chiasm before. That's a word that we use to describe. Two parts that mirror one another. So two parts of this text are going to mirror one another, and there's three pairs of mirrorings that happen in this text. You have verses 6 and 11 that go together. Verse 6, God will render to each person according to his deeds. And verse 11, there is no partiality with God. Those are two parts that belong together, two halves that are communicating the same truth. Verses 7 and 10 go together. Verse 7, those who by perseverance and doing good seek for glory, honor, immortality, eternal life. Verse 10 But glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Those two go together. You know, this is speaking about those who receive eternal life and glory and honor and peace. So those two go together And then verses eight and nine also go together. Verse eight, but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey in righteousness, wrath and indignation And then that's mirrored in verse 9. There will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And what shows up in the middle of this kind of mirroring, the chiasm, is the wrath of God. And that's your outline here. And we'll examine these mirrored sections together. And hopefully with the background out of the way, this is just going to naturally fall into place and we'll move a lot quicker. But number one, God is an impartial judge. We'll take a look at both halves together. Verses 6, verse 6, and verse 11. Like I said, we've already seen this idea in verse 6 that God is the one who judges according to our deeds. Verse 11, there's no partiality with God. That word partiality literally means that God doesn't receive the face He's not a respecter of persons. He doesn't judge us based on external observance, external appearances That's not how God judges us. And He doesn't recognize any privileges that you might have had in this life. Your status doesn't matter. Your achievements doesn't matter. Your title, your rank, it does not matter And that would have been important for the Jewish people to understand and to hear because they sought safety in their background, in their heritage, in their status, in their ceremonies, through their rituals. Matthew chapter 3 verse 9 says, Do not suppose that you can say this is Jesus talking here, that we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that these stones God is able to raise up, able to raise up children of Abraham. You know, if God can create people from the dirt, he can create sons of Abraham from the rocks. You know, you think God really needs you? You know, that's the bottom line here. God doesn't like look at your birth, your pedigree, as if like, hey, you know, you know, because of how you've been born, just come on in. Philippians chapter 3 verse 4 to 7, Paul talks about his pedigree, you know, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of the Hebrews, as the zeal of persecutor of the church. He's talking about his religious zeal. And he says all of it meant nothing I'm not accepted by God because of how I've been born and my religious ceremonies and rituals. I'm not accepted by God because of because of any of that. It's not because of what I've done or who I who I am, you know, how I've been born. Colossians chapter 3, verse 23 It says for he who does wrong will receive the consequences of the wrong which he has done and that without partiality. God is looking at us according to who we truly are. And you can't pay God off Deuteronomy 10. 17 says, For the Lord your God is the God of gods, the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, the awesome God, who does not show partiality or take a bribe. And we saw it a couple weeks ago in the book of James that we're not to be partial. We're not to be partial. Why? Because God is not partial. You know, that's why when you know we speak about you know uh again uh you know the problems that we have that at root it's theological. You know, when we don't see God as being impartial, it's like you know that you know we think that somehow we can get away, you know, without with our uh partiality. You know, people want to talk about again the justice of God, but uh they want their justice without God. You know, we understand that justice comes from God. You know, and even in in James, you know, when you think about uh not being partial, you know, in scripture it says uh you shall not follow the masses in doing evil. Ye shall not testify in a dispute so as to turn after a multitude to pervert justice. Don't pervert justice. And then it says in verse 3, nor shall ye be partial to the poor man in his dispute. Don't be partial to the rich, don't be partial to the poor. You know, treat everybody equally. You know, that's that's what scripture commands us to do. So if anybody was reading James and You know, we read about the you know the the poor man who was told to stand over there or sit down by my footstool, and you were thinking, no, you should put the the rich man to stand or put him by the footstool. That's still wrong Either way you go, you're not to be partial. It doesn't matter if you're rich, you're poor, you're to treat everybody equally. Why? Because that's what God does. He doesn't receive us based on what's external. God doesn't judge people on external appearances. He's impartial, an impartial judge. Number two, God is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Look at verse 7. To those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. You know, so what he's rendering is eternal life to those who are seeking for glory, honor, and immortality, what does he what do they receive? Eternal life. That's how you understand. the passage here. Eternal life is for those who persevere in doing what's right. And then verse 10, but glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And again, the idea is not that anyone earns eternal life by good works or deserves eternal life by good works. Rather, they demonstrate that they're on the way to eternal life by their good works. And that's the idea that's present here in perseverance. Perseverance in doing good. Uh the words for perseverance is hipamonang. It speaks about bearing up under, persevering, doing what's right One illustration, if you remember the parable of the sower in Luke chapter 8, it speaks of the same thing. Luke 8 gives a parable about the different responses to the Word of God And for one of these soils, this is what it says. Verse 15, the seed in the good soil, these are the ones who've heard the word. in an honest and good heart and hold it fast and bear fruit with perseverance. They bear fruit with perseverance. It's only those who bear fruit with perseverance who prove to be the true believers It's not the good fruit that makes you a good plant. It's because you're a good plant that you produce good fruit. So the fruit is the evidence of who you really are And it not just what you do, but it it shows that there's something at work on the inside of you. In Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13, it says it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God causes us to work, and he also changes our desires so that we desire what's right. We desire to work for his good pleasure. He produces that fruit within us. God is at work on the inside of us to produce that. And it's also changing our motives. What's the proper motivation look like? Back in uh chapter two of Of robins. What does the proper motivation look like? It says to those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and immortality. He's he's changing our desires. We're seeking after certain things. That's an invisible, you know, reality. You know, the seeking after you know this this glory and honor and immortality. That's invisible, but how do we know that that is a reality? It's because it it it works its way out in the good works. But we have this desire that's changed. We seek for glory The glory that we long for is no longer the glory of men. Jesus said in John 5. 41, I do not receive glory from men. And later on in John 5. 44 he says, How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and you do not seek the glory that is from the one and only God? We're way too concerned about what people think about us and not concerned enough about what God thinks about us. Seeking glory from people, I mean, what is that? Like what what does it matter what people think about us if if God is not the one who's looking at what we do and saying that yes, this is right First Thessalonians 2 6 says, nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others. You know, contradicts the word of God. Let him be accursed. And later on he says that, you know, he wasn't least than the greatest apostle. Like I I don't care what people think about me. It's what does God think about me? Am I am I following God's word in my life? Like I said again, we're way too concerned about what what people think The only glory that we should desire is to reflect the glory of Jesus Christ. And one day, those of us who belong to Jesus Christ, we will reflect his glory. I think that that's what Paul is getting it after uh getting after here when he says over in Romans eight eighteen, But I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which will be revealed in us There's going to come a time when you will reflect the glory of Jesus Christ. And that's what our aim is. That's what we're desiring. That I would reflect the glory of Jesus Christ. And that's what happens when we're raised in glory. You know, there's going to come a time when, you know, whatever remains or left of you, you know, will bust out of the ground. be recreated and we will stand in the glory of our Savior. First Corinthians 1543 speaks about that. It says the the body, the natural body, it's sown in dishonor, it's raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, we will one day, even our physical bodies, reflect the glory of Jesus Christ And even right now, for those of us who are saved, we're being constantly transformed into the image of the one who created us. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 says, But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory. You know, that's our goal in life, that I would reflect the glory of Jesus Christ. And if you could seek after that, why would you be worried about the glory of men? Why do we seek after glory from men? Also, we're to seek the honor that comes from God. The word for honor, it's time. It means uh it refers to value, a price, a recognition of what's worthy or what's uh important. You know, I don't know how many times I've I've heard uh stories about one teacher or one coach or a parent who communicated that they valued something about their child and it changed the course of their lives. Remember uh R. C. Sproul, he told the story of uh one teacher who told him, Don't let anybody tell you that you can't write. You know, he said that you know for a long time he felt like he he he wasn't able to to write and you know some people kind of you know, criticized his writing. You know, he got like a really scathing, you know, kind of uh criticism of his writing when he was I think it was in college or something like that. He said he had a teacher that says, Don't let anybody tell you that you can't write You know, that she appreciated what he had to say. And uh he said that humanly speaking, uh that she was responsible for him to continue to write And now we have 139 books from R. C. Sprawl, you know, because this one teacher told him, like, no, don't let anybody tell you you can't do that, that I value this, that this is this is something that's that's valuable Can you imagine what it'll be like when on one day we hear the master say, well done, good and faithful servant? You're faithful with a few things, I will put you in charge with many things. Enter into the joy of your master. That the master would look at us, that Christ would look at us. and say that I value what she've done while you've lived this life, that she's done a good job. Well done. Well done, good and faithful servant. And those who persevere in the faith are those who will hear those words. Now, 1 Peter 1 and verse 7 says that the proof of your faith being more precious, again, it's valuable. Our faith being more precious than gold, which is perishable, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And also immortality, which is an easy one to define. The focus here is not this life, but on the life to come. That the believer, the believer seeks what is to come. We seek glory that's not from men, and honor that doesn't come from this world, and an eternal life that's that's um uh beyond this life. It's an eternal focus Again, 1 Corinthians 15 says, this perishable must put on the imperishable, and this mortal must put on immortality. All of it describes eternal life. And this life is described as glory, honor, and peace in verse 10, that we have peace with God, peace with the God that's created us. And you can't have this kind of life apart from faith. Hebrews 11, 6 says, without faith it's what? Impossible to please God. Those who come to God must believe that he is and that he's a what? rewarder of those who seek him. So here it says that we're those, those who have faith, are those who seek after him. And those who actually are able to do what's right. We're able to do things that that that the world it's it's for the world it's impossible for them to do. That I can do good works, I can please God. He's the rewarder of those who seek after him. Without faith, you don't please God. You don't seek after God. Absolutely impossible. But by faith, we pursue after God. Continuously, actively seeking after him, and that which is internal and invisible is demonstrated in our lives, so that God can demonstrate that he's not impartial. Because the internal and invisible, the seeking after glory and honor and immortality, is made visible by the perseverance in good works. So God can point to the to the good works of his believers and say, No, look, look at what they've done. It's not only just internal, it's something that's made visible, it's demonstrated. I would say that even the thief on the cross, you know, what did the thief on the cross do? He went from uh criticizing Jesus to defending Jesus. There's something that changed in his heart that now I'm not going to speak evil of Jesus anymore and blaspheme. I'm now going to defend him and call him the master And how did we know that he sought eternal life? Because he turned to Jesus and says, Remember me when you enter into your kingdom. And today Jesus says, You'll be with me in paradise. He became a seeker of God. The Lord changed something in his heart, and now he had a desire for the Lord. And On that day, you know, the last day, the Lord can look at this servant and say, Nope. There was a there was a change in his life He truly had a desire for me, and look at what the Lord has done. Look at what I've done in his heart. And that happens with every believer. Without faith you don't please God, you don't seek God, but with faith that that what comes necessarily is a change of of desire and a change in actions. And that's how God demonstrates that I'm not partial. I'm not partial because the internal and invisible becomes external and visible. That's a demonstration of the impartiality of God. My question for you is: does this describe your life? Do you seek the glory of God above the glory of men? Do you seek the honor of God above the praise of men? Do you have a heavenly focus? Are you seeking the things of above? And if that's true for you, it's going to be demonstrated in how you live. You can't just say that, oh, that's just like this desire that I have, and it never shows up in your life. There's some something that's that's tangible, that's that's visible, that comes out of a life that's truly transformed. But there's another kind of person who shows up in the middle pair of verses here, and it's the self-righteous hypocrite. Look at verse 8. It says, but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath, and indignation There will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek. This completes the thought here. It's a central point in the structure God will render wrath and indignation, tribulation and distress for those who do evil. Wrath is the strongest kind of anger. It's a settled disposition, a hatred. Toward sin, toward indignation, it's the Greek word thumas, it speaks of a strong feeling of passion and rage It was used to describe the physical breathing that's exhaled in the pursuit of an enemy. You know, somebody's pursuing after you, and it's you're just like in a rage going after that person. That's the word that was used, indignation, also used for the the venom that was spouted out of a of a snake. Tumas, indignation, against the prey. Next word, tribulation. It's for the crushing pressure of affliction, even persecution. And then distress. That's what belongs to those that are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey in righteousness. Wrath, indignation, tribulation, and distress. The word for distress means a narrowing. That you're put in a narrow place. You're confined, you're restricted. It meant to be trapped. And all these words together that describe this wrath of God, it's a settled anger, a passionate rage that pursues his enemies, that it catches you. With the crushing pressure of tribulation, and that you won't be able to escape from it. That's a terrifying picture of the wrath of God. And those who receive this wrath of God, verse 8, says they're the selfishly ambitious. The word for selfishly ambitious is a word that was used for a day laborer. You know, somebody who wasn't really there to give, he was there to receive. It was also the same word was used for politicians who got into office just because they had their own desires that they wanted to be met. And often they became contentious because they're they're at they're in it for themselves. They're like the the son in uh Luke chapter 15, the pr the the the story of the prodigal son. Remember the the other brother Verse 29, it says, But he answered and said to his father, Look, for so many years I've been serving you, and I've never neglected a command of yours, and yet you've never given me a goat so that I might celebrate with my friends, as if the father owed him And that's the internal, invisible motivation of the self-righteous sinner. You know, I've been serving you all this time, and you've never given me anything. What am I getting out of this? That's the heart of the unrepentant sinner. And it's made visible. How is it made visible? That internal heart, that selfish ambition. How is it made visible? Verse 8, they don't obey the truth. They know it's true, but they don't pay attention to it. They don't practice what they preach It's like Matthew 23, where Jesus described the scribes and Pharisees who seated themselves in the chair of Moses. They're speaking the law of God And Jesus says, therefore do what they tell you to do, but do not do according to their deeds. Because they say things and don't do them. They're they're hypocrites, they they don't practice what they preach. Hypocritical sinners. They don't obey what they know to be true They condemn others for the same things that they commit themselves, and they're committed to obeying unrighteousness. That's in the middle of this text. They obey unrighteousness. And what do they get? Wrath and indignation. Wrath and indignation. And this is the same thing that Jesus spoke about in Matthew 7. That not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, Will enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my father who is in heaven will enter Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in your name and cast out demons and in your name perform many miracles? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. I don't have a relationship with you. Their hearts were far from him. So we can't trust in our religious works, baptism, church membership, church attendance, religious affiliation, religious background, your family background. Heritage, associations, none of that matters when you stand before the Lord, because his judgment will be based on the truth. His judgment is based on what's true. And again, it doesn't matter if you're Jew or Greek. And that was said a couple times. Just like salvation was first to the Jew and also to the Greek, judgment is also first to the Jew and also to the Greek. You know, so for anybody who says, well, you know, he said that salvation was first to the to the Jews, yeah, but judgment is also first to the Jews. I'm impartial. Those who get the word of salvation first are also the ones who are judged first. It's impartial. The first in the line of blessing is the first in the line for judgment. And if you're not walking in obedience to the Father as well, how do you know what kind of faith you have? The Bible lets us know that we need to check our faith. Examine yourselves to see if you're in the truth. And the question is, is have you truly repented of your sins and are you following after Christ? Are you going to be like the people in Noah's day that when the rain began to fall and they began to bang on the door, but it was too late? Or Esau, who Hebrews 12 says was immoral and godless, who sold his birthright for a single meal, and even afterwards when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected because he found no place for repentance. It's too late. It's too late. And there's many who will criticize others. They'll say that they agree with God. They agree with God's word. But when it comes to their own lives, they're not moving an inch. In uh Ludeck, Germany, there's a large brick Built Lutheran Cathedral, and there's a number of inscriptions written on the inside of it. And one of the famous inscriptions that was written there is a poem by an anonymous author. In the poem, he imagines the words of the master on the final day. Listen to these words. I thought these were powerful words. He says, You call me master and obey me not. You call me the light, and you see me not. You call me the way, and you walk me not. You call me life and desire me not. You call me wise and follow me not. You call me fair and love me not. You call me rich and ask me not. You call me eternal and seek me not. You call me gracious and trust me not. You call me noble and serve me not. You call me mighty and honor me not. You call me just and fear me not. If I condemn you, blame me not. There's coming a day when all of us will be judged. We're all going to stand before the judge who is impartial, and there's going to be nobody who will be able to blame the judge on that day. If I condemn thee, blame me not. Because it's evident. It's evident. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Well Father, we pray that uh you would speak to us, Lord, through uh your truth, Lord, and uh even in these uh passages, Lord, where uh we wrestle through uh some of the interpretation, Lord, we're we're grateful that There's clarity because of just the consistency of Scripture from cover to cover. Father, I'm always amazed by the scriptures and just how consistently they speak about truth And Father, as we think about the judgment, Lord, that is to come, that we'll all stand before the righteous judge. And Father, it won't only be because of what we say, Lord, but it will be because of who we are. And that our words will be demonstrated even by how we live. That the Master would be able to point to even our works as a defense of our true faith, that those who truly believe that their lives are transformed. So Father, I pray that we would all examine ourselves, Lord, that for those of us who claim the name of Jesus Christ and we haven't uh seen any evidence of uh his working in our lives, Lord, I pray that that today would be the salvation for us. Now Father, that we would look to Christ maybe even for the first time, to say that Lord, I haven't seen the evidence of you at work in my life. And Father, that we should not ignore that. That we should not feel comfortable just because we can point out wrong in others if we don't see righteousness in ourselves. So Father, I pray that you would Help us to examine ourselves in the light of your word. Father, that we would look at your word as the word that is true. It speaks the truth, Lord. Your word is truth. And Father, I pray that we would follow after the truth, that we would be those that uh would be seen as those who who pursue after righteousness, that we would have a hunger and thirst for righteousness, because that's what's true of your children. Now that we hunger and thirst for what is right. So Father, I pray that you would work that righteousness in our hearts for your glory, God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.