The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. And we understand that as Christians, that we live in a world that is completely underneath the sovereign care of our great God. Amen. God's in control of everything. God is all knowing. God is all-wise. God is all good. God is all powerful. God rules over all as Psalm 115 verse 3 says, He does whatever he pleases. But that sovereign control does not mean that life for the Christian now becomes easy. I remember a brother sharing a story with me about what not to do when you're sharing the gospel. He was sharing the gospel with this one individual that he ran into, and the person started raising objections to trusting in Jesus But for every objection that this individual raised, he says, well, don't worry about that. Jesus will fix that. The guy was saying, well, I. I don't know if I can really follow God right now. You know, I'm really struggling. I'm trying to find a job. And my friend would respond by saying, hey, don't worry. Jesus will fix that. Then the guy says, you know, got really difficult relationship with my my wife and uh really struggling in my marriage and my friend responded, don't worry, Jesus will fix that. And then he talked about some struggles that he was having with his health, and my friend responded again, don't worry about your health. Jesus will fix it. You know, you have to fix it, Jesus Now every every problem, every issue that he raised, he says, hey, don't worry about that. Jesus will fix it. And he was just trying to urge him to get to the sinner's prayer. And the guy finally just prayed with him so he could get him off of his back, and he never saw the guy again. But the way that he was presenting Jesus wasn't how the Bible presents Jesus. The Bible doesn't present us a Jesus that just fixes all of our problems. You know, you have no worries in life, no difficulties, no trials, no temptations. You don't have to worry about anything. You know, Jesus is Jesus is the one who'll fix that. You know, wondering how you're going to pay your rent, he'll work it out. All your money spent, he'll work it out. Say you got a light bill due? He'll work it out. You even got a gas bill too. Jesus will fix it. Don't worry about it. He'll work it out. That's the kind of Jesus that we'd like to present to people. Jesus will fix it. He'll fix it. We got the fix it, Jesus. You know, the the handyman Jesus. He'll just come in whenever you got a leak and fix that Jesus will fix it out. He'll work it out. That's not the truth, because in fact you might not have ever known trouble until you became a Christian. As an unbeliever, you might have had it easy. Got along well with your family and friends. No worries. But now it seems like you become a Christian and trouble has your name on it. trouble knows your address it already has the postage on it signed sealed and delivered to you And the living life has consequences attached to it. Living life for Jesus. And as we look back over this this past year, I know that many of you, many of our members here, their lives have been filled with challenges. We've talked with many of you who've faced unexpected decisions to make regarding your jobs, significant trials in your family, long-term illnesses that we're still praying for. Even those of us who are dealing with the loss of a loved one. There are some of you who have even faced persecution for righteousness' sake because you stand for Jesus Christ and you're Family and friends turn away from you because of your stand for Jesus Christ. And here we are approaching another Thanksgiving season. And you might be wondering, you know, how how do I give God thanks in the midst of the trials that I'm Going through. I know I should give thanks, you know, and everything I should give thanks. But you know what? This year I'm I'm really struggling with that. I'm really struggling with giving thanks. I know scripture teaches us in everything give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. But I just want to be honest, you know, this this year, it's a struggle. Not that I don't have things to be thankful for, but but there's the trials that have weighed me down this year, and it's kind of hard to pick my head up What we're going to do is take a look at the book of Hebrews because I think Hebrews gives us some help and the kinds of trials that we face will be in Hebrews chapter 12. And Hebrews gives us some help regarding difficulty because the people that are being written to face difficulty. And they need to be reminded that Jesus Christ will not just fix everything. That's not what they had to be reminded of. But they had to be reminded that Jesus. Is better and because we have what's better, that we can be encouraged even in the difficulties that we face One author said that the book of Romans reveals the necessity of the Christian faith, and the book of Hebrews reveals the superiority of it. That's why the book of Hebrews has been called by some the book of better things. Because everywhere you turn in the book of Hebrews, Jesus Christ is being compared to some character or ritual or symbol or ceremony, and every time Jesus comes out on top. Jesus is better. Throughout the book of Hebrews, it lets us know that Jesus offers a better hope, a better covenant, better ministry, better promises, better blood, a better tabernacle, better sacrifice, better possessions, a better country, a better resurrection. And then chapter 11, verse 40 just puts it this way. God has provided something better for us. We have Jesus. And the idea that you should walk away from uh with this book of Hebrews is that if I have Christ, I have all that I need. If I have Christ, I have the best. Because it doesn't matter what you compare Jesus to, he always comes out on top. And that would have been particularly helpful and important for the original readers of this book. Because it's written to a group of people who are tempted to throw in the towel. They're becoming discouraged. They're tempted to quit running the Christian race. The primary recipients of this letter were Jewish people who came out of Judaism in order to follow after Jesus Christ, but they soon discovered that following Jesus doesn't mean that you're guaranteed your best life now. You know, they didn't read that book, right? In Hebrews chapter 10, the author lets us know that they already endured a series of afflictions. In chapter ten and verse thirty two it says, but remember the former days when after being enlightened you endured a great conflict of sufferings. Partly by being made a spectacle through reproaches and tribulations, and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated For you showed sympathy to the prisoners and accepted joyfully the seizure of your property. They had their belongings taken away from them Knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one, therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward, for you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what was promised. For yet in a very little while he who is coming will come and will not delay, but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. This is a warning that the Hebrews needed. Because this was a group that faced a lot. And the warning is don't turn away from Christ. I know that you're going through a lot. I know that you're experiencing a great deal of conflict, of suffering, of persecution. You're experiencing shame being made a public spectacle, that there are reproaches and tribulations and difficulties. People are ridiculing you because of your affection for Christ You've lost your property, possessions because of your love for Jesus Christ. But don't turn away. Don't turn away from him. There's those who felt like I can't keep going down this road any longer and were kind of like the children of Israel in the wilderness who were on their way to the promised land and they kept turning their their head around their shoulders to look back at Egypt. Numbers chapter 11, verse 5 speaks about the way that the children of Israel started to talk about Egypt. They said, we remember the fish which we used to eat free in Egypt. The cucumbers and the melons and the leeks and the onions and the garlic, I mean, that tasted pretty good back there. They just happened to forget about the slavery. You know, they they they they had the fish that was free, but they were a slavery. They were slaves. And now they're tempted to go back Tempted to go back, to turn away. Many of you remember the name John Bunyan. He wrote the book, The Pilgrim's Progress, and for more than Uh 200 years after its publication, it was the number one book behind the King James Bible. Christians would uh have a King James Bible, Fox's Book of Martyrs, and the Pilgrim's Progress. That was like their diet. You know, they turn to it often. And in his book, The Pilgrim's Progress, he uh shares a story about Christian and a friend who joined them for the journey named Pliable. And as they're going to the celestial city, he falls into this swamp. And Playable turns over to Christian and says, is this the happiness that you told me of? If we have such ill fortune at our first setting out, what will we expect between now and our journey's end? If I get out again with my life, you shall possess the brave country alone. And then he gave a desperate struggle or two, and he got out on the other side of the slough, next to his own house, and Christian saw him no more. Pliable didn't have the heart to continue. He didn't have the endurance of faith. He shrunk back. But that's not true of the genuine believer. The genuine believer perseveres. The genuine believer endures. And what should you be thanking God for in the midst of your trial? How can you give God praise even while you're under affliction? You can thank God that your trials haven't caused you to turn away from Him. Thank God for that. You know, think you know, talk about something to be thankful for during this Thanksgiving. Thank God you're still a Christian! Because that's God that's working in your heart to protect you, to keep you. Thank God that you're still trusting in Him. All throughout the book of Hebrews, there's the warnings, don't drift away, don't go astray, don't fall through, don't fall away, don't shrink back, don't come short. Rather, what we're called to do is to hold fast, enter in, press on, draw near, endure. The true believer can't say, I've fallen and I can't get up. And Hebrews 12 reminds us of some of the means that God uses to help us to endure, and we can thank God for these faithful reminders from Scripture. Take a look at Hebrews chapter 12, we'll read 1 through 3. Hebrews chapter 12, 1 through 3. It says, therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us lay aside Also, let us lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith. Who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him. Who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself so that you will not grow weary and lose heart? Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for your word. Your word that sustains us. During times of difficulty when we can't pick up ourselves, Lord, that your word picks us up and carries us forward. Now, Father, I pray that we would lean on your word and Father, that we would be thankful for all the precious promises that we have because of Christ. Father, I pray that you'd help us to endure, to persevere, even during the trials that many of us have gone through during this past year. My Father, that you would be glorified and honored through your word, and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. What can you do to remind yourself of the perseverance and endurance that you need in Jesus Christ? The first thing that we're told to be mindful of is to consider our surroundings. Consider your surroundings. Look at verse 1 again. It says, Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Think about your surroundings. We're surrounded, surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses. And who is this great cloud of witnesses? The first word in verse 1 gives us a clue about who these witnesses are. It says, therefore And if you've done any Bible study, people say if you see a therefore, you have to figure out what it's there for. What's the therefore there for? It's to point us to the preceding context. And what's in the preceding context? It's chapter 11. What's in chapter 11? I'm glad you asked. Chapter 11 is the hall of faith In this chapter, we have this long list of faithful Old Testament saints who had an assurance of things hoped for and the conviction of things not seen. They lived by faith. They died in faith. Many of them not even receiving all of the promises that they believed in. But as verse 13 says, chapter 11, verse 13, all these died in faith without receiving the promises. But having seen them and having welcomed them from a distance and having confessed that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, that they they looked forward to what even came beyond their own lifetime. That I have such a confidence in God and His Word that even if I die without receiving those promises, I know that I'll get them on the other side. They trusted in the Lord. Men like Abel who died because his deeds were righteous and his brothers were evil. Men like Enoch who honored the Lord in the midst of his generation, a wicked generation, and he was taken up and was not seen anymore. Men like Noah in chapter eleven and verse seven, who built the ark without ever seeing rain. I mean imagine that. God says it's gonna rain. What's that? What is rain? Water falling from the sky? He's never seen it before. But he trusted God by faith that Lord, if you tell me water's going to drop from the sky, Water's going to drop from the sky, and I'm going to build this ark, never having seen that before, but I trust in you. Men like Abraham, one of the greatest examples of faith, who left his land for a land that he did not know. Promised that he would have kids when and and a great legacy when he didn't even have one child yet. His wife had never conceived, but he trusted in God and even took his own son to sacrifice him, trusting that if this child dies, he's going to get back up because God has made me promises. And I trust in the promises of God. And these bygone saints become the cloud of witnesses that surround us. The word cloud was one of the ways that the uh the Greeks spoke of a large host of people. You know, men that were so tightly compact together that they looked like a great cloud or a sea of people. And it says that there we have like this sea or this cloud of witnesses that's already in glory. And that can be an encouragement to us. They're witnesses, but you know, it's not saying that they're watching over us, you know, like we've got, you know, those that have gone on, they're you know watching over our lives and checking us out. You know, kind of like the angels watching over me, my Lord, right? You know, we've got the witnesses watching over me. You know, sometimes people say that and you, you know, you can understand the sentiment, but it's like, you know, yeah, I know mom 's looking at me now. I know Dad's he's proud of me now. It's like no, I I think he's got better things to do if he's in heaven. He's got somebody else to to look at and behold rather than you know seeing you know if he r you know raced well in your track meet, you know. We have a God that has raised these witnesses up, and now having raised them up, they're receiving a portion of their reward. We're to look up and say, you know what? They're already there. And and I can be faithful because they've already shown the way. They've been faithful ahead of me. And I can look up to them as as examples. You know, we have the faithful examples who are here, but we have the examples that have already gone on. You know, they're kind of like the retired jerseys, you know, in a basketball stadium to remind you of those that have done well before you. And we can be reminded that, no, there's people who have been faithful ahead of me, and we can live the Christian life with endurance. And the the race that we run, it's not a sprint. It's a marathon. It's a long-distance race. And we're to run with endurance. And that's what it says at the end of verse 1. Let us run with endurance. That word endurance, it's the Greek word hypomone. It's from the word hoopa meno from two words. Hupa, which means under, and meno, which means to remain or to stay. It means to stay under, to bear up under. And the idea is that instead of looking for the first exit, the first way out, that you you endure, that you bear up. That that that you you go through some of the pain in order to get the gain, right? You know, some some of you uh understand that a little bit more than others. I I remember when I you know, started trying to run to to get in shape a little bit and uh I was tempted to stop not because of uh you know running out of energy but because of the pain It's like shin splints. What are those? Oh now you're gonna know. You're gonna find that out. It's the the pain. But you have to get through that, bear up under that if you want to see the results And this is what the Lord is telling us to do. Run the race with endurance. Get up under that strain and keep going. Don't give up. Don't look for the first exit out. And remove the things that are entangling you. Lay aside, this is what it says, let us lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. Weights. It's a word for that which slows you down. You know, we're not carrying anything extra for this Christian race. You know, the Roman and Greek runners would put themselves on a strict diet. They didn't want to even carry any extra pounds when they raced. Even normal clothes were too bulky. You know, we we strip down so that nothing prevents our movement. And what's the wait for you? You know, you have the sins, which are obvious, you know, to get rid of the sins, but what are the things that are holding you back? What are the things that are preventing you from pursuing Christ's likeness like you should? You know, for some of us, maybe it's social media. A little too much time, you know, checking out the likes and thumbs up, thumbs down. Entertainment, a little too much time on the the YouTube, on the T V. Netflix A pastime becomes an obsession where all of a sudden you can't put it down and it's like, well, I got my Bible here, and but hey, somebody liked my post. And then you make your decision to check that out instead, and before you know it, hours have gone by. What's stopping you? What's preventing you? What's getting in the way of your pursuit of Jesus Christ? Lay it aside. Whatever is slowing you down, put that aside. I'm not saying you shouldn't have any kind of free time, but but if that that free time is preventing you from Christ time You need to lay it down. And when those sins entangle us, that word entangle is a word that literally means to encircle, like engulf you, like a python wrapping its coils around you and taking you down as its prey. You know, and some of us are getting entangled with things that we shouldn't get ourselves entangled with. You know, we forget that we're soldiers and we're in a battle. And we're getting ourselves too involved in the everyday affairs of this life. This life is passing away. And for some of us, it's like we can tell like the sand's going through our fingers more rapidly than it used to. You used to think you had a whole lot of time ahead of you to do this and to do that. And then you start looking down, it's like, my goodness, time is just just drifting away. I I didn't even like how did I become 50? How did that happen? Half a century. How did that happen? So Hebrew says, lay it aside. Wait aside. Don't let it get in the car with you because if sin gets in the car, it won't just want to stay in the passenger seat. It will want the wheel. We 'll want to direct your life. So we need to discipline ourselves. So consider your surroundings. Look at those who have gone ahead of you. Look at that Lord who's carried them and that same Lord can carry you and fix your eyes on Jesus The author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Fix your eyes on him. And we can thank God for the faithful examples that we've had before us. But we should give God great thanks for the Savior who's gone before us. Amen? And this is the second point. Consider your Savior. Consider your Savior. Fixing our eyes on Jesus. What are you supposed to bring to mind when you're tempted to crumble under and give in to the great conflict of suffering? What are you to consider? What are you to think on? What are you to dwell on? What does the scripture say? Fix your eyes on him, on Jesus. Literally, it's it's to turn away, look away from everything else. Just like an athlete would keep his eyes on the finish line ahead of him, the believer is to keep his attention focused on Jesus. One lexicon says, giving attention to the one thing, to the exclusion of all else. Look with undivided attention. And while we can find encouragement in the cloud of witnesses, our faith does not rest on the cloud of witnesses. As wonderful as their examples might be, our faith is to rest completely on Jesus Christ alone He is our leader. Our faith is founded on him. He is the author of our faith. My hope is built on nothing less but what? Jesus' blood and righteousness, it's on him. And when Hebrew says he's the author and perfecter of faith, it's just another way to say that you're complete in him. From beginning to end. The Revelation 22, 13 says, Jesus says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. The words from beginning and end share the same root as author and perfecter. I'm the author and perfecter. The beginning and the end. Our faith begins and ends with Jesus Christ. He's the beginning, the ending, and everything in between. And in Hebrews 12, it also indicates that he's our chief example. The word author here in verse 2 could also be translated as the one who is our captain, our prince, the one who's our leader. He's the pioneer. And Jesus leads the way for us in his example, and Jesus led the way in suffering. Jesus led the way in suffering. Do you think Jesus received hostility against himself? Do you think Jesus endured persecution? Jesus becomes our example in that, and he ran his race to the very end. And the end for Jesus was the cross. All the way to the very end he ran his race. Luke 18 and verse 31 says, Then he took the twelve aside and said to them, Behold, we're going up to Jerusalem. All things which are written through the prophets about the Son of Man will be accomplished. It's all coming to an end. And he accomplished even death on the cross for the joy that was set before him. He knew that there was something beyond the cross. He accomplished the Father's plan of redemption to bring many sons to glory. And it was the Father's plan to give the nations to him as a gift, as an inheritance. And the Son would provide the redemption by bearing their iniquities and leading them home to glory. But the only way that that could happen is if he accomplished suffering through the cross. So Hebrews 2 and verse 10 says, For it was fitting for him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, and bringing many sons to glory, to perfect the author of their salvation through sufferings. Jesus went through sufferings not just as our Savior, because he is that, he is our Savior through his sufferings, but he also went through sufferings as our example. Follow me. And the way that he walked was the way of the cross. You know, he didn't say, pick up your lazy boy and follow me. Pick up your couch and follow me, right? Pick up your cross and follow me. It's a way of suffering. So now Jesus becomes the example in suffering. And he's the example of endurance. Enduring the shame of the cross. I mean, think about what Jesus went through on the cross for our salvation. Think about what Jesus went through in his suffering for us. He was spit on. He was struck. He was beat with the fists. The high priest and the religious leader said that he deserves death. They slapped him. Prophesy to us, ye Christ. Tell us who hit you now. And following that, he was treated with contempt, dressed up like a king so he could be mocked and have the crown taken off his head and the reed stripped from his hand so they could beat him on the head with it. Beaten mercilessly. Hail, king of the Jews. And Pilate says, I find no guilt in him. That's how you treat the innocent? I find no guilt in him. Even though they found no guilt, they still cried for his blood. Crucify him, crucify him. And then Hebrews turns around and says, consider that. The next time you're going through suffering, difficulty, persecution, whatever trials and afflictions that you face in your life Whatever losses that you've suffered in this life, take a look at Jesus. Keep your eyes fixed on him. Consider him. Look at what he endured. Consider Jesus. The word consider it's uh analogizamai, means to seriously consider. It's an aorist imperative, which uh means to speak of the action as a whole, like just take it all in. Take it all in. All throughout Jesus' ministry, he was a subject of object of scorn and ridicule. And Jesus said and scripture says, take a look at that. Take that in. The next time that you're suffering, the next time that you're feeling depressed about your life, your circumstances, consider what Jesus has gone through for you. Consider what Jesus has done. And why does he do it? So that where I am, there ye may be also. That those who were given to him would be brought all the way to glory, and that becomes a comfort in our affliction. Are you thankful for that? Are you thankful for Christ? Are you thankful for his example? Do you understand that as difficult as things may get here on earth, that you have a destination that is utterly secure? That there's joy set before you? That Lord, I know things might be difficult now, but there's joy on the other end of this. You know, the weeping comes, you know, but there's joy in the morning, right? Like, like, Lord, there's something more than this. Lord, it's not going to be like this You know, what's the one song say, trouble don't last always. It's not always going to be like this, Lord. And for the hope that's set before me, I can endure what I'm going through now. I can endure this because I know that there's something else beyond this. And because of the one that I've placed my faith in, I know where he is, and where he is is where I will be also. He doesn't just begin your faith. He brings it all the way to its completion. You will reach your final goal because Jesus has reached his final goal. Do you get that? Because he's there, I will be there. There's no uncertainty about that. Jesus has entered into his reward, and I will enter with him. That's a security. That's a promise. Philippians 1. 6. I am confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. He started it and he will finish it. I will be brought all the way to glory. Consider your Savior. Number three, consider your sufferings. Consider your sufferings. Look at verse 4. It says, You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood and you're striving against sin. And the question that's asked here is, have you really considered the suffering that you endure and the confrontation that you've gone through? Uh hasn't been to the point of shedding your blood yet? You may be resisting opposition, but how many of us are coming home bloody because of a hard day at work? You know, you might cut yourself while you're working, but you know how many of us are coming bruised and bloodied because somebody's been beating you at work? That's not what we're going through. In our struggles against sin, against temptation, we haven't shed our blood. And the Hebrew Christians that are being addressed here haven't yet been called to seal their testimony with their blood. They hadn't yet joined the cloud of witnesses yet. They're still here. They're still here. And God knows that the trials that we go through are difficult. He's not minimizing our trials, but he's putting our trials into perspective. Put it into perspective. Consider your sufferings. Have you come home with a couple teeth knocked out because of your stand for Christ yet? There's a story of a man by the name of Richard Wormbrand. He suffered torture in communist Romania. Listen to the story that he tells about a fellow pastor. He says a pastor by the name of Florescu was tortured with red-hot iron pokers and with knives. He was beaten very badly. Then starving rats were driven into a cell through a large pipe. He could not sleep but had to defend himself all the time. If he rested a moment, the rats would attack. He was forced to stand for two weeks, day and night. The communists wished to compel him to betray his brothers, but he resisted steadfastly. In the end, they brought his fourteen-year-old son and began to whip the boy in front of his father. saying that they would continue to beat him until the pastor said what they wished them to say. The poor man was half mad. He bore it as long as he could When he could stand it no more, he cried to his son, Alexander, I must say what they want. I can't bear your beating. And then the son answered and said, Father, don't give me the injustice of having a traitor for a parent. Withstand, endure. If they kill me, I will die with the words Jesus and my fatherland. The communists enraged, fell upon the child, beat him to death, with blood spattered over the walls of the cell, he died praising God. You haven't yet been called to that kind of suffering. Consider your suffering God knows what we can endure. God knew what that pastor could endure. God knew what that son could endure. And we haven't yet been called to make that kind of sacrifice. You can thank God that God knows when enough is enough. God knows how to temper your trials. Custom fit just for you. I know what you can handle. I'm not going to give you his trials and I'm not going to give you her trials. I'll give you your own because I know you can endure that. So what we go through, we can endure, and our faith will not fail because Christ does not fail. Number four, consider your sonship. Consider your sonship. Look at verse 5. It says, and you have forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons. You've forgotten. And here we're introduced to the concept of affliction as a means of God's fatherly discipline for his children. And it's important that we understand what it's saying here in context. God is not saying that the Hebrew Christians need to suffer more because they're worse than any other Christians. That's not what's going on here. Somehow they they they need more affliction in their life because you know they they they haven't been obedient enough. That's that's not what's going on. The Hebrew believers were suffering because they were trying to do what was right. That's why they're suffering. They're actually in danger of suffering as a direct result of enduring, of claiming the name of Jesus Christ. That's why they're suffering. So they're identified as those who are being persecuted in chapter 10 because they have suffered for Christ. So we shouldn't conclude that evil Christians suffer and obedient Christians escape affliction. That's not what we should should should conclude. That's word of faith theology. That's not the Bible. There's no way for us to determine all the specific reasons that God allows suffering for some and not for others, and I have no way of discerning all the purposes of God for your life and even what you've gone through in this last year. You know, I would be foolish to try to say that I know all the purposes of God for your life. We have no idea how every event intersects with every other event. But there are some things that we can say about suffering in general that are helpful. Some things about suffering in general that are helpful. Number one, what does suffering do for you? It weans you from the world. It wings you from the world. It causes you to long for heaven. It's a reminder that this world is not your home. When life starts getting tough, he starts saying, you know what? I don't think this is the kingdom yet. This world is not my home. Philippians 3. 20 says, our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait for a Savior. And the more difficult things get, the more eager you become for the Savior to return, right? It also makes us trust in the promises of God. The promises of God become more precious to us. When Jesus says, I have overcome the world, if you think that uh I think you know things in the world are doing pretty good, then that promise doesn't really become that precious to you. But when life is difficult and you you remember that Jesus says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled. Don't let it be fearful. When you hear that promise now, when you're under Affliction, persecution. Oh, that word is so good, isn't it? That He's given me His peace in a world of turmoil, in a world of fearful circumstances. God, I still have peace. It's a wonderful promise then. It also causes us to draw close to God. Psalm 119, verse 67 says, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. Like affliction has a way of driving you right back to Jesus Christ. Like, like, Lord, I don't want to go anywhere. I want to be right here. Don't let me stray from you. I need thee. Oh, I need thee. Every hour I need thee. Oh, bless me now, my Savior, I come to thee. I need help, Lord. When you think everything's fine, it's like you stray over there, you stray over there. You start getting slapped around. It's like, oh Lord, now I'm on my knees. I need help. It also qualifies us to sympathize with others. 2 Corinthians 1, verses 3 to 4 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in our affliction. Why? So that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction. I'm afflicted, so that I can turn around and help you when you're afflicted. It makes me sympathize with you, like I know what you're going through. You know, you don't just stand on your you know high hill and you know just trust in the Lord, you know, sovereignty of God. Don't you go to Baltimore Bible church? You know, what are you doing whining about your afflictions? It's like no, I I can sympathize with you I know what you're going through. And now I can help you out in your affliction. God has qualified me to be a better comforter. Number five, it demonstrates to us the blessedness and sufficiency of God. We realize that God is everything that I need. 2 Corinthians 12, 9, he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in health, wealth, and prosperity, right? No, power is perfected in weakness. And most gladly, therefore, I will boast about my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me. Brings us into fellowship with the sufferings of Christ, Philippians 3. 10, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. That Lord, I'm walking in the same steps that you walked. I'm walking in suffering. It draws me closer to Christ, the fellowship of Christ. We share something with Christ when we suffer for Him. We're sharing in His suffering. And it trains us to endure until the end. And this is the same thing that we read right here in Hebrews chapter 12. Fixing our eyes on Jesus. The author and perfector of our faith, who endured the cross, despising the shame, has sat down on the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who has endured. It trains us to endure to the end when we go through suffering. And also it develops spiritual grace in our life. Psalm 119, verse 71 says, It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. I learn something when I suffer. I learned something. Suffering helps us to grow. And God is so committed to your sanctification and growth that He will orchestrate things in your life to bend you towards Jesus Christ. I will put things in your life so that you can look more like my son. That's what he does. 1 Peter 5. 10 says, after you've suffered for a little while, The God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself perfect, confirm, strengthen, and establish you There's something good that I'm doing for you in your suffering. I'm drawing you to Christ. I'm conforming you. I'm perfecting you. I'm strengthening you. You may not see it right now. But there's something good that's happening in your life. God is at work in your life through suffering. I'm I'm you're learning the statutes of God. I love the hymn how firm a foundation went through fiery trials. Thy pathway shall lie. My grace all-sufficient shall be thy supply. The flame shall not hurt thee, I only design Thy draws to consume, and thy gold to refine. I'm refining you through suffering. It's the refiner's fire. God is so committed to completing his work that he began in us that he will even allow suffering in our lives to refine the gold that we can come out on the other side as pure gold. And we've got a lot of work to do. We've got work to do. The word that's used here for discipline back in Verse 5, my son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord. It's uh from a word uh Pidea, which is related to the word for child, Pideon. It means to rear or to raise or to train up a child. And God says, I'm using these afflictions in your life to raise you up. I'm testing your faith. So the trials aren't just random. You know, God doesn't just put things in your life for no reason. Like there's a reason behind it. And he's actually designating you as a son. Don't forget that this shows that you're a child of his. Actually, fatherly discipline is a sign that you belong to him. And here he cites Proverbs 3, 11 to 12 in verse 5. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord. nor faint when you are reproved by him. For those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and he scourges every son whom he receives. And through Solomon, God warns us about two errors that we're in danger of every time we face affliction. What are the two errors? What are the two dangers? Number one, there's the danger of just ignoring it, treating it too lightly. You go through suffering, it's like, so what? You know, quesera , sera, whatever will be will be. You know, I'm not not learning anything. I'm not considering anything. You know, and get nothing out of your trial. You just kind of brush it off as if nothing's happened. God says don't don't make light of it. Don't make light of it But on the other side, you're not to take it too harshly either. Don't regard it lightly, but don't faint either. And some people take trials so hard that they're ready to totally give up. Oh Lord I can't believe you've done this to me. I can't believe you've allowed this in my life and you just ball up in a corner and a heap and crumble under the weight of your affliction. God says don't do either. Don't take it too lightly and don't crumble underneath it. Don't faint when you're reproved by him. Understand that God is bringing this into my life for a good reason. And fatherly discipline is a sign that I actually belong to him, that he cares enough about me that he's giving attention to me. Look at verse 7 and 8. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with sons, for what son is there whom his father does not discipline? But if you are without discipline, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. You know one of the ways that We know whose child belongs to who. It's it's which which one are you giving the most attention to when they do wrong? I mean when when our kids were young, we used to have, you know, sometimes people came over to the house and played played with them or whatever. And if they got into trouble, I was immediately going to my children. Because they're my children. I'm not going to address the other person's children. I may address them. I'm not going to discipline them. But I discipline my kids because why? Because they belong to me When God gives attention to you in suffering, in affliction, you know what he's actually saying? You're mine. You belong to me. And I'm so concerned about you and your holiness that I will bring this into your life to drive you closer to myself because I'm concerned about you. You know, sometimes we You know, see people who are unsaved, and it's like it seems like they can get away with everything. You know, Psalm 73, Asaph had that problem. It's like the wicked, like what what in the world? They seem like they have a a great life. They don't suffer affliction. They die in health. I mean what and here I am trying to do what's right, and I'm the one that's getting The affliction in my life. I'm the one who's being persecuted. Have I just cleansed my hands for nothing? Like, Lord, why are you doing this? It's because he's concerned about you. Because there's a relationship that he has with you. And he will bring affliction into your life to drive you to himself. Fatherly discipline actually shows that I'm a child of God. And also it's a Shows that it's it's uh it's creating holiness within us. It's prompting, promoting holiness in our lives. Look at verses 9 and 10. Furthermore, we had earthly fathers to discipline us and we respected them. Shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of Spirit and live? For they disciplined us for a short time or seem best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, so that we may share in his holiness. If you had a father that attempted to discipline you rightly, you respected him for it. And I'm not addressing cases of abuse and you know, harsh treatment to to children. But if you had a father that that really just wanted you to do the right thing, after you got older, you look back at that and you say, you know what? I'm I'm thankful for that. I'm I'm thankful that he said no here or he he he disciplined me over here. I'm actually thankful. There's something that I I learned from that. Thanks mom for the spankings, right? The Bible says that he who withholds his rod hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines him diligently. Why? Because you you want to protect him I I I don't want to see you getting into trouble. I don't want to see you live a undisciplined and rule unruly life. I I want to see you grow up to to To honor the Lord, to respect authority. I want to see you do what the Lord wants you to do. I want the most for you. And that's why you disappoint. How much more should we give respect to our Heavenly Father, who doesn't just do what seems best, but he does what is in fact best? God always does what's best. And he loves you so much that he intends to give you the very best. And you know what the very best is? His son. I am so committed to you that I want you to look like my son. And he will do what is ever necessary in your life so that you will be conformed into the image of Jesus Christ. A lot of people read the first part of Romans chapter 8, and they don't read the second part. Romans chapter 8, and we know that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God and to those who are called according to his purpose. You read that part, you know, everybody just stops, full stop. No, but what is the good? We know that God works all things together for the good, but what is the good? Verse 29, for those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conform to the image of his son. What is God doing in everything that he does in your life, every trial, every affliction? What is God's intent? I want you to look like Jesus I'm conforming you into the image of my son. I'm crafting you, shaping you, knocking off those rough edges until you look like Christ. That's what God is doing in your life. So consider that. Consider that God is treating me as one of his own when he allows me to go through these afflictions. He's allowing this in my life, and if I know nothing else, I know he wants me to look like Jesus. If I don't know anything else about why this trial is in my life, I can say at least one thing. He's conforming me into the image of his son. And my final point is this, consider your season. Consider your surroundings. We've got the cloud of witnesses. Consider your Savior fixing your eyes on him. Consider your suffering, you haven't yet shed blood. Consider your sonship that all of this says that I'm a child of God, and he's giving attention to me because he wants me to look like his son. And then consider your season. Look at verse eleven. Verse eleven. All discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful but sorrowful. Yet to those who have been trained by it afterwards, it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. There's an afterwards. What God has placed into your life, it's only for a season. You know, during during the time that you're going through it, it seems like it's forever. But God says, no, it's for season. There's a limit to this. And there's an afterword. There's an afterword. There's a fruitful season if you endure it If you put up with it, there's something that's that's going to happen afterwards. So don't take it lightly, don't take it too harshly. There's a backside to the discipline. No pun intended. There's a backside to the discipline. There's a backside to it. There's a fruitful season if you endure. And we can't see what's on on the road ahead of us. We're so limited in our perspective. But God is saying that there's there's a road ahead. I know you're going through the fog right now, but there's there's something at the end of this road that I'm trying to take you to. And sometimes the darkness doesn't live for a long time, and when we're in the middle of the affliction, we can all we see is affliction. But what does James say? Count it all joy. Kind of all joy. There's something on the other side of this, and there's joy at the end. While you're in the middle of it, you're in the trial. It's just the pain. But you need to allow that to have its work. There's a time for everything, and there's a season even for suffering. A time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, a time to dance. There's a time for everything. There's a time for it. It's seasonal. And if we go through the season, there's the time of reaping as well. The heavy plowing and planting and rainy seasons will eventually bring a peaceful yield. Fruit, according to Hebrews, it's the righteousness. What what what is God doing after he finishes his work in you? He's producing righteousness in your life After the work is done, there's righteousness that God is gaining from that. And our God, again, is so committed to your holiness that he will orchestrate events in your life to produce the peaceful fruit of righteousness and to make you look like his son. Listen again what Psalm says. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. Psalm 119, 71, it is good for me that I was afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. Psalm 119, verse 75, I know, O Lord, that your judgments are righteous, and that in faithfulness you've afflicted me. God is faithful. In Psalm 94, verse 12, Blessed is the man whom you chasten, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law. God is teaching us. And we can thank God that even our afflictions have a holy purpose. There's a purpose for it. And there's an afterwords. And that if we're willing to be trained, there's a peaceful fruit of righteousness at the other end. That word for training, it's the word gumnazo, where we get our English word gymnasium from. To exercise, to discipline the body for an athletic event. And here he's saying you're you're you're you're you're working out the muscles, you're doing some endurance training. But I've got there's righteousness on the other end of that. You know, those are the muscles of the Christian. That's the bodybuilding of the believer. That at the other end of this, there's righteousness. And if you endure, you'll receive that peaceful fruit of righteousness on the other end. And this is what Hebrews is teaching us, that our trials are part of God's endurance training program for all of us. What do trials do? They wean us from the world, cause us to long for heaven, makes the promises of God precious to us. Draws us close to God, qualifies us to sympathize with others, demonstrates to us the blessedness and sufficiency of God Brings us into fellowship with the sufferings of Christ, develops spiritual graces in our lives, makes us look more like Jesus, and trains us to endure until the end. There are benefits of walking this road. And God uses all of these means for my good and for his glory. And we need to thank God. Thank God even for the difficulties that we endure. In all things, give thanks. In all things, give thanks. We can thank God even for the difficulties that we endure in this life. Because the Lord, through the pressure, is doing something beautiful. And we can give him glory for that. It's one of the glorious truths in Scripture that we can give God thanks for. And like I said, we can thank God that we'll, if you're a believer, that you will be brought through that process without being lost. God is the one who sustains you. I love what the Lord's words to Peter were. When he was going through his, about to go through his temptation and trial, the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. That God will hold you up, even when you don't want to hold yourself up. That God will sustain you with His grace. Even when you can't hold it together, God is holding you together. You can't even keep your own faith God has to say, Jesus here to Peter is saying, I've prayed that your faith won't fail. Because if it was up to you, you'd lose your faith every day. You'd be ready to throw in the towel at the first sign of trial and difficulty. I'm done. I'm out like pliable. Let me get out on the other side and forget the celestial city. I'm done with this. You can't even keep your faith, but it's God who keeps you and keeps your faith. What does that old song say? If it had not been For the Lord on my side. Tell me, where would I be? Where would I be? Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you, God, that you are the Lord who sustains us. And Father, if it had not been you who was on our side, Father, we know where we'd be. We'd be lost. We don't know in what condition we would be, but we know that we'd be lost. Because we can't hold our faith together. You have to do that for us. So Father, I pray that we would not forget that there are spiritual benefits even to the trials and difficulties that we go through. Father, I pray that you would sustain us. Father, that you would hold us up. And Father, I know that so many of us, even here, have been through so many trials, so many difficulties. Now Father, those that have lost loved ones, those that are going through ongoing trials and hardships in their lives. Those who have affliction, even physical afflictions, long-term illnesses, those who are dealing with persecution at one level or another. Father, those that have conflict within their family, significant trials. Father, all these things, any one of these things, could be enough to topple us over. No, but Father, because Christ even right now is at your right hand interceding for us That just as he prayed for Peter that his faith would not fail, that Christ is right now before your throne interceding and praying for us that our faith would not fail. And because of his precious promises to us, Lord, we'll be brought all the way to glory. That where he is, there we would be also. So, Father, I pray that you would strengthen us, Lord, even for the difficulties and challenges of life. Remind us of Christ. Keep our eyes fixed on Him, the author and perfecter of our faith. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.