The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. For the last uh couple of weeks here at uh at BBC, we've been taking a look at Jesus' prediction of the cross. And the uh the disciples' reaction uh to that prediction of the cross, as I've uh mentioned to you before, Matthew 16 is really a turning point in the Gospel of Matthew because The disciples have just come to the settled conviction that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, and that was no small confession that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And with that simple confession in Matthew 16 and verse 16, Peter was declaring that all of his hopes, all of his dreams All the promises of God, all the expectations of God's promise being fulfilled, were all wrapped up in this one person, all wrapped up in the person of Jesus Christ. And as uh far back as Genesis chapter 3, there was this promised seed that was to come, that was predicted to come, Genesis 3. 15, and all of the hopes and dreams of Israel were centered on that seed who was to come. The one who would come to crush the head of the serpent. And what Peter was saying was that that Jesus, you are that promised seed You are that one that was promised to come. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, it was promised that there would come a king whose throne would be established forever. And Peter was saying that you are that king. You are that king that's going to establish your throne forever. In Psalm 2, it predicted that there would come a ruler who would be designated by God to be the ruler of the earth, of the ends of the earth. And when Peter said, You are the Christ, he is saying that you are that ruler. You are that one who is going to possess the ends of the earth. You are that special one designated by God. The nations are your inheritance. The very ends of the earth are your possession. He was identifying Jesus as the child of promise, and all the hopes and dreams of Israel were tied up in this son, in this child, and this seed. And Jesus affirms the confession of Peter in verse 17 of Matthew chapter 16, and Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonas, Simon, son of John, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. But right in the middle of this celebration, right in the middle of this euphoria and this moment of just just celebrating the truth of who God is, this revelation of who Jesus Christ is. Jesus drops a bombshell in verse 21 of Matthew 16. And he says from that time, it says verse 21 that Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem And suffer many things from the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed. And his disciples couldn't wrap their minds around this idea of Jesus suffering. Jesus being killed. Of all the promises that were centered on him, and they would all die? How does the conquering king suffer? That doesn't make sense. How does God send the fulfillment of all of our hopes and all of our dreams only to kill it? That can't be the plan. So Peter is shocked. He's appalled by the message. And he pulls Jesus aside to rebuke him, as you remember, in verse 22. Peter took him aside, began to rebuke him, saying, God forbid it, Lord, this shall never happen to you. But Jesus said, this is what must happen. It has to happen this way. The crucifixion was the predetermined plan of the sovereign. When Jesus said that he must go, he was saying that it's necessary, it's a divine appointment, and the must comes from God, not from men. Acts chapter 2 verse 23 it says that Jesus was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. The crucifixion was the determined will. of the Son, Jesus speaks of his life in John ten and verse 18. He says, No one is taken away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative And the crucifixion of Christ was predicted in the scriptures. In Matthew chapter 26, verse 56, it says, But all this has taken place to fulfill the scriptures of the prophets. But not only was the crucifixion predicted in the scription in the scriptures, we also have the crucifixion of Christ that was previewed in the scriptures, also previewed in the scriptures. And for that, why don't we turn our attention back to Genesis chapter 22? You can take a look at this as like an extended illustration of what we're about to read in Matthew next week. But Genesis chapter 22, we're going to take take a look at the cross from a different angle. And instead of uh looking at the cross from the perspective of those who could look back to what had occurred or even seeing the fulfillment of Jesus Christ, that was standing before them. We're going to take a look at the cross from the perspective of those who would look ahead to what would occur in the future. And the event that we're going to read about. Took place over 2,000 years before Christ was even born, but the parallels are absolutely striking, just amazing parallels. So we're taking a little break from Matthew. But Genesis chapter 22 starting it at verse 1. Take a look at it with me. Genesis chapter 2 starting at verse 1. Says now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham. And said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac. And go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey. Took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son, and he split the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day, Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac, his son, and he took in his hand the fire of the knife and the knife. So the two of them walked on together Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself for the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together Then they came to the place of which God had told him, and Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood and bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad and do nothing to him, for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord, it will be provided. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, this morning, and Father, we thank you for your word. Father, we thank you for the richness of it. Father, we thank you for the fullness of it. Father, we thank you for all that it tells us about who we are, about who you are, and about the way that you've made for us to be reconciled to you. My Father, I pray that you would use this passage and that you would use me this morning to be a blessing to your people, Lord. A man who's a weak instrument, Lord, before you, my Lord, but we pray that uh that you, Lord, would would speak through your word. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. This passage that we have before us is a narrative about sacrifice. It's been called the grand crisis, the crowning event in history. Well, this is the supreme test. You know, I really can't imagine a test that would be greater than what we read here. But this is not just a narrative about sacrifice, it's a narrative about the ultimate sacrifice. This chapter is regarded as the theological summit of the whole story of Abraham, if not the entire book of Genesis. And this historical account points us to the greater reality that was to come, which is the death of Christ. And uh we'll take a look at it in in five parts. Uh the sacrifice required, the sacrifice prepared, the sacrifice submitted, the sacrifice offered, and the sacrifice substituted. But let's take a look at the the first point here in uh in verse one, the sacrifice That was required. Look at Genesis 22, starting at verse 1. It says, Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And by this point in the story, Abraham is used to hearing the voice of God. He was first called by God at the age of 75, back in Genesis chapter 12. Back in Genesis chapter 12 and verse 4, we find the call of God to Abram, as he was called back there in Genesis 12. It says, so Abram went forth, his Lord hath spoken to him, and Lot went with him. Now Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Horan. Abraham is used to hearing the voice of God, and God gave him a promise back in Genesis chapter twelve. And God repeated that promise to him several times. In Genesis 13, we find that Abraham separated from his nephew Lot. The God said that if you can count the dust If you can number it, so shall your descendants be. I'm going to bless you with seed, Abraham. Genesis 15, uh Abraham's getting nervous because he doesn't have a child yet. He says, Oh Lord God, what what will you give me? Since I'm childless, the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And God says, This man will not be your heir, but one who will come forth from your own body. He will be your heir And he took him outside and said, now look toward the heavens. Count the stars if you're able to count them. And he said, So shall your descendants be. Ten years later, Abraham is 85 years old. Sarah's 75. They still don't have a child. Genesis 16, verse 2. It says, Now behold the Lord has prevented me. This is Sarah talking here. Now behold the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Please go into my maid, but perhaps I will obtain children through her. This immoral act here, and Abram listened to the voice of Sarai. Abraham had a son by Hagar, this maid of Sarah, but this was not to be the son that God promised. He wasn't the son of promise. Later on in Genesis 17, God speaks to Abraham again. And at this point in the narrative, you have Abraham is 99 years old. Sarah's 89. God says in verse 19 of Genesis 17, Sarah, your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. And I will listen to this, and I will establish my covenant with him. For an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. And then finally in Genesis 21, it actually happens Abraham's a hundred years old. How many a hundred-year-old fathers do we have that are going through Lamas class or whatever else to prepare for a child? I mean, here he is, a hundred years old. His wife is ninety. Genesis 21, verse 1 says, Then the Lord took note of Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did for Sarah as he had promised. So Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. And can you just imagine the joy that these parents would have had? A hundred years old, and he's finally saying that this is my son. This is the one that was promised. I mean, this is the joy of my heart. All of God's promises are in this child. That the covenant is going to be established with him. The everlasting covenant. For all of the descendants are in him. No comparison for the joy that would have been theirs. The kind of joy that Abraham and Sarah had is evident in the in the name of their son, the meaning of the name of their son Isaac, which means laughter. In verse 6 of Genesis 21, Sarah said, God has made laughter for me, and everyone who hears me will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? A 90-year-old woman and she needs to be in the nursing mother's room, right? 90 years old. Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. I've borne him a son in his old age. Can you believe this? Everybody who hears about this is gonna laugh with me. This was the son they adored. They doted over this child. This one example of this was Abraham throws him a party when he was weaned. I mean, who out there throws a weaning party? You know, maybe a birthday, but it's like, hey, my boy's eating some solid food today. Let's throw a party. Everybody come on and join me. He's off of the milk. I mean, they just, like I said, celebrated this gift from God. Party time. This is the son that they love. He was the child of promise. The entire history of redemption was wrapped up in this child. But then you hear these words in Genesis. 12 and verse 2. I'll make you a great nation. I will bless you. I'll make your name great. You shall be a blessing. All of those blessings, like I said, rested on this child. But then in Genesis 22, look at verse 2. It says he said, pick now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac. And go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. That is the last thing that Abraham expected to hear from God. Absolute last thing. He's waited for 25 years for this promise to come. And now the promise has been fulfilled. He has the child. Like I said, he's been waiting from 75 years old to 100. To have the child, he finally has the child after all this time. There's no one who's more precious to him. How could God ask for his murder? How could God do that? And this is something that's troubled interpreters over the centuries. I mean, what is God doing here? What is God doing? Some have argued that Abraham misunderstood what God said That Abraham just got it wrong. They said that the God never expected Abraham to literally sacrifice Isaac, but just to dedicate him completely to God. It was all just a big misunderstanding. Abraham, you just got it wrong. One commentator says this: God meant Abraham to make the sacrifice in spirit, not in an outward act. He meant to write deeply on the Jewish mind that that fundamental lesson regarding sacrifice, that it is in the spirit And will that all true sacrifice is made. The sacrifice God seeks is devotion of the living soul, not the consumption of a dead body. But if that was the case, God was pretty unclear in his communication. Pretty unclear. He asked for Isaac as a burnt offering, not a living offering. In addition to that, why would Abraham be viewed as passing the test when he actually took his son up to be sacrificed? You know, God would have said, you failed miserably. You didn't understand what I said at all. And finally, why would a ram be offered in place of his son? The ram wasn't let go, the ram was offered up. It wasn't a misunderstanding. Then there's others who contend that that human sacrifice was just common. And said, oh, this is just that evil, vindictive God of the Old Testament, that angry, wrathful God. Yeah, this just kind of fits the bill for this kind of God. So they argue that Israel accepted human sacrifice and over time they finally came to reject it. And it's true that in the ancient Near East there were other religions that practice child sacrifice. You have Babylonian seals, Akkadian poems that describe human sacrifice. But there's no evidence anywhere that human sacrifice was ever condoned or believed to be acceptable anywhere in Scripture. Everywhere Scripture condemns the offering up of children. The valley of Hinnem, if you remember, was uh considered a cursed place in the scriptures because child sacrifices were made there. And the valley was cursed. Abraham wanted to have thought this was normal. And then there's like I said, it's not it's not misunderstood. He didn't must misunderstand God. It's not acceptable. It's not something that they just did. There's really something else going on here. It's not normal. There's a novelist who said if the story of Abraham and Isaac is true, Abraham was insane, not religious. And we could totally understand what he means by that if we didn't understand that there was something else going on in this narrative and through the eyes of faith see something that's beyond the words that we read here. But we can at least admit that this is disturbing, isn't it? As you read a narrative like this, this is disturbing. And it's almost as if every word is calculated by God. Calculated by God to increase the like the pressure and even like torture Abraham here. Henry Morris says this. He says, God does not speak as he's done before in former days. Instead, he seems to speak in judgment and even cruelty. It seems as though every word was calculated to hurt Abraham as deeply as possible. That's what it seems like. Take now your son Your only son, the one whom you love. Isaac. We're to remember that God is the author of life. That it's God's right to take life if he so chooses? Throughout the Old Testament, there were times when God asked Israel to destroy entire cities because of their wickedness. Certain cities that the Lord placed under the ban, asked Israel to kill everything in it, burn everything in it, including men, women, children. And God wasn't wrong to ask for that. God's not wrong to pass judgment. Ezekiel 18, verse 4 says, the soul who sins will surely what? Die. Soul that sins shall surely die. God's not wrong to ask people to carry out judgment. It's not wrong for God. If God asked for every one of our lives, he wouldn't be wrong to do it, would he? Abraham and faith he obeys God, prepares for the sacrifice. Sacrifice was required and Abraham prepares for this sacrifice. Verse 3. Like I said, there's more going on here. Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, took Two of his young men with him, Isaac his son, he split wood for the burnt offering, arose, went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham raised his eyes, and he saw the place from a distance. And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there and we will worship and return to you. And it's been observed that with all the details that are given in this account, we don't have one word about what Abraham is thinking at this point. As he's preparing the sacrifice. Like, what's going on in Abraham's mind? It's obvious what's going on in Abraham's mind. What in the world am I doing? This makes no sense. What else could he be thinking? God, you can't mean that. If there's any other way, let this cup pass from me. If there's any other way. But even though we're not told what thoughts he had, the details of the story are written in such a way to slow us down to have those thoughts ourselves. We're forced to ponder what would it have been like to walk in Abraham's shoes? And this is uh just meant to give us if it was just meant to give us the facts of of what occurred, it would just say that he rose and he went to the place that God told him about. I mean you could just give the facts. But it's like the narrative slows us down to to walk through every agonizing detail. He rises early. He saddles his donkey. He splits the wood. We're forced to slow down. Think about that. Abraham was a wealthy man, right? Many servants. Many servants. He rescued Lot in Genesis chapter 14 and says he took 318 of his trained men with him. That's just the army that he had to go out and fight with Abraham had hundreds of servants, if not thousands of servants. He doesn't have to cut his own wood. He doesn't have to saddle his own donkey. But here Abraham gets up and does it himself. He's somewhere between 110, maybe 120 years old at this point. Rising early to saddle his own donkey, cutting his own wood at this point. He can't sleep. What else is he gonna do? I'll just do it myself. Must have been exhausted from wrestling with God all night. Useless to try to sleep. He gets up and busies himself with activity, but there's no question that he's tormented by God 's requirement. I like what R. C. Sprohl said. He said, some evangelicals read this as if Abraham just got up first thing in the morning, clicking his heels, saying, Good morning, God, here I am. What do you want me to do today? Reporting for duty, sir. Let me get right to it. He says, that's the way it happens, men, in fairy tales. That's not reality. That's not what Abraham's doing. Abraham is He's being tormented by this. This is a great burden to a soul. And we need to read the Bible as a real book in the context of real life. These are real people. So he prepares for this journey, a three-day journey. I'm sure in a state of utter shock, just absolute dazed Disconnected from what's going on around him. It would have been impossible for him to keep his son, his his eyes off of his son Isaac at this point. How many times would he have communicated to his son how much he loved him? How many times would the servants and Isaac wonder, you know, Abraham, are you okay? But he can't tell anybody what's really going on. He carries his burden alone at this point. But when he finally talks to his servant, in verse 5, his servants in verse 5, he says, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Nobody else knows what's about to take place, but somewhere deep in Abraham's heart, he has the confidence that even after the knife does its work , And Isaac's life escapes from him that somehow this boy is going to get up and return with me Somehow this boy is going to get up and return with me because the hope of Israel is found in this child. All the promises of God are found in this child. The eternal blessings of God are found in him. There's no way that he's not coming back. No way that he's not coming back. James Boyce quotes from Donald Gray Barnhouse on the logic of Abraham. Listen to this. He says the method of his thought was as follows. Number one, God is not a liar. God is not a liar. He cannot be mistaken. He told me beyond question that I should have a son, and there he walks before me. God said that this son would be the one through whom he would fulfill his promises. Therefore, my son must live, or God would be found to be false. My son must live. There's no contradiction in God. There's only one answer that my mind can fathom. God is going to perform a miracle. A resurrection is compatible with God. God line is not compatible with God. You understand that? Like this boy has to come back. There's absolutely no way that God is going to turn back on his word. Which is why Hebrews 11, verse 19 says, He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead. He understood that God can't lie. Titus chapter 1 verse 2 says we have a God who cannot lie. Hebrews 6. 18 says it's impossible for God to lie. Numbers 23, 19. God is not a man that he should what? Lie. God's not going to lie to me. He gave me the Son. This is His promise. He told me that all the covenants are bound in the Son. He gave me that word. There is no way that the Son is going to perish. So he says to his servants, we plural will return to you. He doesn't say, we will go over and I will return. We will go over and we will return. We are going to return. He believed in the resurrection based on the word of God alone, and he had to come to that conclusion just based on the promise, on the promise that was given to him. God never said that uh said that that uh Isaac would rise, but Abraham was forced to that conclusion that he's got to rise. Because I know that God can't lie to me. He had no idea how it was going to take place. But the supreme act of faith on his part was I'm going to go through with it anyway, just trusting that God is going to hold to his word. He had less information than the disciples had. Jesus actually told his disciples, I'm going to suffer, I'm going to die, I'm going to rise. Like he's telling his disciples, and his disciples can't. Figure that out. His disciples are are struggling with it. His disciples, you know, Peter's saying, No, no, no, Lord, this can't happen. Abraham has much less information. He wasn't told about the resurrection. He hasn't seen a resurrection. But based on the promise of God alone, he says it's got to happen. It's just got to happen because God has promised me that all of the promises are in this child. He was hoping for the resurrection. But that doesn't remove the pain of actually going through with the act. And the sacrifice was submitted. Look at verse 6. It says Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering Laid it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the knife, the fire, and the knife. So the two of them walked on together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father, He said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself. The lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together. By this point, Isaac had seen plenty of sacrifices. It's in plenty of offerings by this point. And most commentators place Isaac anywhere between uh ten and twenty years old because he's old enough to carry the the wood for his father for the sacrifice. He's young enough to still be called a lad, but That word lad was used for Ishmael when he was 13 years old. So he's probably in his teens at this point. He's probably a teenage son Probably looking at a teenage Isaac here. He's very familiar with the process of burnt offerings. So this is nothing new to him. He knows what it's like to offer up a burnt sacrifice. So he's helping his father carry the wood. He said, hey, father, we have everything else, but we've haven't we forgotten something? Like where's where's the lamb? Where's the lamb for the burnt sacrifice? Sacrifice was offered to the Lord as early as Genesis 4 from the time of Cain and Abel. It was understood that a lamb was an acceptable sacrifice. The book of Job, which points us back to the patriarchal time, which is where this probably would have occurred. You have uh Job in Job 1 in verse 5, it says, When the days of feasting had completed their cycle, that Job would stand and consecrate them, referring to his children, rising up early in the morning, offering burnt offerings according to the number of them all For Job said, Perhaps my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus Job did continually. So Isaac understood what this is all about. We offer up burnt offerings, we offer them up for sin. I know all the things that we need, but we're missing something here, Dad. We're missing something. Not knowing that the lamb was walking up with his father the whole time. He would have never imagined that his father was planning to offer him up. Probably carried the wood for the sacrifice. on his own shoulders. An ancient Jewish commentary likened Isaac. And this is this is from a Jewish commentator. An ancient Jewish commentator likened Isaac with the wood on his back to a condemned criminal carrying his own cross. So he says, Father, aren't we missing something? Where's the Lamb? And Abraham utters one of the most solemn and theologically loaded statements of Scripture. God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering. God's going to provide for himself. And Abraham meant what he said. He may not have understood all that he said, but he meant what he said. It was a loaded statement. And basically he tells Isaac, trust God, my son. Trust, trust God. And there has to be a sense of confusion that remained for Isaac, but Isaac demonstrated trust by the fact that he walked together with his father. He says the two of them walked on together. And he submitted himself to the will of his father. And that's even understood more clearly when you consider what comes next as the sacrifice is prepared to be offered. Look at verse 9. It says, Then they came to the place of which God had told him, and Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood, and bound his son Isaac, and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Like I said, Isaac's probably in his teens by now Abraham somewhere in in the at least 110 to 120 at this point. Now now answer me a question here. What what teenager can't outrun a 110-year-old man in here? If if you thought this was your life, your life is at stake here. Like what teenager doesn't know how to how to run and get away from a rope as an old man is trying to to bind him up? Isaac submitted himself to this. Isaac submitted himself to this whole process. He allowed his father to tie him up. Like I said, Abraham was prepared to offer him up. He was Isaac was as good as dead. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 17 says, By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. He speaks about speaks about the act as if it already happened. He was as good as dead. He already offered him up. He was as good as dead. James chapter 2, verse 21 says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac? His son on the altar, he was offered up. Like I said, there's no doubt that Abraham was going to carry through with this act. And again, we're not told what the conversation was, but everything's in slow motion. He builds the altar. Like like where where do you have that in scripture when somebody makes a sacrifice that they they go through every detail? They build the altar, heaps up a bunch of stone stones in a in a pile. Levels it off on the top. Next, they lay the wood on the altar. And next Isaac is bound and laid on top of the altar, on top of the wood, just like an animal. Like I said, this was a willing sacrifice that was made on the part of Isaac. He's carried in the arms of his father as he'd probably been carried so many times before as a child. But this time it wasn't to receive Isaac or to comfort Isaac, it was to offer up Isaac. And at this point, all the love and celebration over Isaac might have seemed to be hatred at this point towards Isaac. And as Abraham reaches out his hand to grab the knife, Isaac must have been bewildered. Like, how in the world can this happen? Why is my father turning against me? Why have you forsaken me? Ken Hughes observes that the ancient Middle Easterner, to the ancient Middle Easterner, Burn Offering suggested a process by first cutting the throat. Start by cutting the offering's throat, then dismemberment, then a sacrifice on fire, in which the body parts were completely consumed on the altar. And this is what Abraham is prepared to go through with for a son. Prepare to cut his own son's throat. And at the very last moment before the knife finds its mark, a voice from heaven says, Stop! Verse 10, Abraham stretched out his hand, took the knife to slay his son, but the angel of the Lord called to him from Abra from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! Like, stop! And he said, Here I am. Do not stretch out your hand against the lad. Do nothing to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. I mean what a relief. What a relief. He doesn't have to go through with this. But like I said, in his in his mind it was as good as done. As he picks up the knife to slay his own son, to cut his own son's throat, the voice comes from heaven. Abraham, Abraham! Don't do anything. Don't stretch out your hand. And here we learn that the sacrifice was also substituted. Look at verse 13. It says, then Abraham raised his eyes, looked, and behold, Behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns, and Abraham went, took the ram, offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, in the mount of the Lord it will be provided. And Isaac saw this ram offered up in his place. And sacrifice took on a whole new meaning for Isaac, didn't it? Took on a whole new meaning because he didn't just watch this. He actually lived this. He lived the experience that this animal is about to undergo. Those ropes that tie this animal's legs together, those were my ropes. Those were my ropes. That altar that this ram was placed on top of, that was my altar. That knife that came down to slay the ram's throat, that was my knife. And the fire that consumed that the animal, that was the fire that was supposed to consume me. That was me. And I have a substitute. Somebody's in my place. Death was still required, but God accepted the death of another in Isaac's place. I hope you understand the meaning of substitution. That when you look at the cross and you see those nails, those were my nails. When you see that crown of thorns, that was my crown. When you see the whip that was laid across Jesus' back, that was my whip. And that cross that Jesus bled out his life to death, that should have been my cross. He stood in my place. He suffered the wrath of God in my place. And there 's a wrath that Christ suffered that none of us can ever put in on a movie. That he bore the wrath of God, the torture, the wrath of God, for all of our sins that we would have had to endure in eternity for. And Jesus on the cross bore that wrath for us. That should have been us. But there was a substitute in our place. Substitution should have that meaning every time you look at that. And as Isaac is looking at this ram offered up, he says, that should have been me. But there's something else that I think we need to understand here in the sacrifice. Something that's that's subtle. In verse 8, Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for the burnt offering. And what he meant by that, he intended a human sacrifice, right? Because God asked for a human. He didn't ask for a ram. Asked for a human. It wasn't a total fulfillment of what Abraham said when he said, you know, God will provide for himself a lamb. He was actually thinking about a son. He was thinking about a human sacrifice. In addition to that, why couldn't Abraham make the sacrifice closer to Beersheba where he is living? Why did God tell him that, I need you to go over to the Mount of Moriah? I need you to go a three-day journey To make the sacrifice. You can't just do it here. It's got to be this three-day journey on Mount Moriah. Why did you have to go to Mount Moriah to do this? It's because Abraham's ultimate sacrifice was a foreshadowing of the ultimate sacrifice that would take place over there. Second Chronicles chapter 3 verse 1 it says then Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah. Where the Lord had appeared to his father David, just outside the, on the outskirts of that city, Jerusalem, in a place called Galgatha, which means the place of a skull, another sacrifice was going to be offered up. Because even the ram that was a substitute was not the ultimate substitute. Hebrews 10, verse 4 said, it's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Hebrews said, if these animal sacrifices were able to cleanse people from sin, why would they not have ceased to be offered? Because the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. God demanded a greater sacrifice. And the question throughout Old Testament history is, well, who is the lamb then? Who is the lamb? Who is the lamb that would substitute? Who is the lamb who would take away sins? Who's going to set us free from the judgment of God? The soul that sins should die. I should die. Who is the lamb that's going to take my penalty? And in John chapter 1, verse 29, where John introduces Jesus, he says, the next day Jesus, he saw Jesus coming to them, and he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. John 1. 36, he looked at Jesus as he walked and he said, Behold the Lamb of God. This is the Lamb. It would be a sacrifice that was required by God. Jesus' death was an act of obedience to the Father. It was necessary. This was required by God. Philippians chapter 2, verse 8, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. He became obedient. It was required for this to happen. Required. The sacrifice was prepared by God. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 5 says, Therefore, when he comes into the world, he says, Sacrifice and offering ye have not desired, but a body you've prepared for me. No other sacrifice would have been sufficient. You had to prepare a body for me for the payment of sin. A body had to be prepared. The sacrifice submitted to God Isaiah 53, verse 7, he was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shares, so he did not open his mouth. John chapter 10 verse 18 says, No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. Smitted himself, and carried the wood of his own execution. Sacrifice was offered not only to God, but but listen to this, the sacrifice was offered up by God. Not only to God, it was offered up by God. Sometimes I think we forget that it was not only Christ who gave up his life for us, but it was God the Father who gave up his son for us. Just as Abraham brought his son Isaac up the mountain, there were two that walked up that mountain. God the Father was there to offer up his son as a sacrifice. This is the son of God. When God came to Abraham and he says, take now your son. There was a son of another father that would be taken, right? 1 John 4, verse 10 says, And this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us, and he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Not only was it his son, it was his only son. The only begotten Son, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life, everlasting life. Not only was it his son, his only son, it was the son that he loved, right? Matthew chapter 3, verse 17, behold a voice out of the heaven said, This is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. And on the cross it appeared that all the love was now hatred towards his son, as Jesus on the cross cries out, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabactani, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Because God the Father bound a son, placed him on the altar, raised up the knife, but there was nobody to say stop. He went through with the sacrifice. Went through with the sacrifice. There was no substitute for the substitute. When Jesus Christ substituted himself for us, there was nobody to substitute for him. Jesus Christ actually had to go through that sacrifice. And there was nobody to say, stop! Don't lay your hand on them. There's somebody else. There was nobody else. Jesus had to go through with this. Isaiah 53, verse 10. But the Lord was pleased to crush him. Putting him to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. And on the mount of the Lord it was provided. Jesus satisfied the wrath of God on Calvary, and not only did he satisfy the wrath of God for Isaac, but for everyone who would believe Everyone who would believe. And if you're here and you haven't accepted Jesus as your substitute, you don't have another substitute. You don't have another option. And if the wrath of God has not fallen on Jesus Christ in your place, the wrath of God will fall rightly and justly on you. And there's not going to be anybody to say, stop. You need to accept the substitute. Jesus Christ is the substitute. And God can demand your life any day that He wishes. Any day that he wishes. He created you. He owns you. Because of your sins, you deserve death. Not only physical death, but eternal death. And the ultimate sacrifice that every other sacrifice pointed to was the sacrifice of Jesus Christ that was offered near that Mount of Moriah, and many say in the exact same spot. And the only way that that death can be counted as your substitute is if you turn your back on your sins and trust in Him. Give your life to Him. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 22 says, He made him who knew no sin to be sent on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Have you found your substitute? Are you trusting in your substitute? This is the only way that it could happen. The only means of salvation that would be provided was through Jesus Christ. The crucifixion was the predetermined plan of the sovereign when Jesus said that I must go. It has to happen this way. It's predetermined by God. The crucifixion was the determined will of the Son. Jesus laid his life down on his own initiative. And the crucifixion of Christ was predicted in the scriptures in Psalm 22, Isaiah 53, Zechariah 14. It had to happen this way. But not only was the crucifixion predicted in the scriptures, we also have a preview of the crucifixion. We have the picture of the crucifixion and the sacrifice of Isaac. Not only of the crucifixion, but also of the resurrection. In John chapter 8 and verse 56 it says, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and was glad. What what is it talking about? That Abraham saw my day and he rejoiced to see my day? What is he rejoicing in? When did Abraham rejoice? He rejoiced when he saw that there was a substitute. My son does not have to die. There's a substitute over here that will die in the place of my son. What was Abraham seeing in that picture? Jesus Christ is coming to provide the sacrifice that's necessary. That's what he was saying. He rejoiced to see my day. The substitute is here. There's joy and gladness. The substitute is here. My question for you today, just as we close, do you rejoice in the plan of God? Are you rejoicing in the plan of God that a substitute has been provided for you? It's the plan of God. Rejoice in the plan of God That I don't have to earn my salvation, that I don't have to be punished for my salvation, that salvation has been provided for me in the person of Jesus Christ. Rejoice in the plan of God. Number two, do you marvel at the wisdom of God? Do you marvel at the wisdom of God? Like I said, these uh when the the the disciples heard about this plan, they were confused, they were distressed. They argued. Peter actually pulled Jesus aside to say it can't happen this way. It had to happen this way. This is the wisdom of God. This is the power of God. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 20 says, Where's the wise man? Where's the scribe? Where's the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, but God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed Jews ask for signs, Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness, but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. What we find in the cross is the wisdom and the power of God. That even with the disciples, they couldn't imagine happening. Like that is the only way. This is the plan. This is the wisdom. This is the power of God The crucifixion, the substitute is going to happen. And the last question I want to ask you just in closing is uh Not only do you rejoice in the plan of God and do you marvel at the wisdom of God, but do you surrender yourself to the will of God? Do you surrender yourself to the will of God? What we have in the person of Abraham is just a supreme example of surrendering oneself to the will of God. The things that you just don't understand. God, this doesn't make any sense to me. Why would you ask me to do that? You know, when when Jesus speaks to disciples, deny yourself, pick up your cross, follow me. Lord, why would I want to do that? I don't want to deny myself. I don't want to pick up my cross. I don't want to give up my life. I don't want to give up my desires, my wishes. When when God spoke to Abraham, do you think he rose, like I said, clicking his heels? Oh yeah, this is great. No, it was it was just God, I just trust you. I I have to. James chapter chapter one it asked the the question how how do we how do we see somebody's faith? How do you see somebody's faith? I mean we could talk about it all day long, right? But how do we actually how do we actually perceive somebody's faith? How do we see it? James chapter 2 answers that question. Where he says, But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? Was not our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. Not by faith alone, not by just claiming that you have faith. The proof of your faith is in your surrender to the will of God. That's the proof of your faith. And here we have Abraham prove that he believed God, prove that he trusted God. How? Because he surrendered his will to God. Lord, I I just surrender myself to you. Whatever you ask me to do, that's what I have to do. I trust you. He surrendered himself to the will of God. And my question for you is have you surrendered yourself to the will of God? of God. You might claim that you have faith. I believe. I believe in God. But when God asks you to do something that's difficult, that's a challenge, that's a sacrifice, what's your answer then? And if your answer is no, God, I I I I I won't, I refuse. Where where's your faith? Do you really trust? Do you really believe? God has asked us to pick up our cross, deny ourselves, and to follow our after him. That's how your faith is going to be justified. That's how you can have a credible profession of faith that I'm actually willing to follow my God. I'm not just going to talk about it. I'm actually going to follow my God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we come before you, Lord, we uh thank you so much for the example of Abraham. Father, we thank you for the beautiful picture that we have of Jesus Christ who would be the substitute, the one who would stand in the place not only for Isaac, but for all who would believe. Now Father, I thank you that we have a substitute that we can look back to. And Father, I pray that we would follow the faith of our father Abraham. Demonstrate our faith and trust in Jesus Christ by following his commands. Now, Father, I pray that we would have as a pattern of our life where we say yes to the will of God. Where we surrender ourselves to Him. Even the things that are difficult, that are challenging, where you require from us to sacrifice ourselves, God. Father, I I pray that that we would be determined to say yes to you. Father, it's what we've what we've done at the moment of salvation that we turn to you, and Father, I just pray that the rest of our life would look like a continual turning to you. A continual turning away from our sin, a continual laying down our lives for the one who laid down his life for us. In Jesus' name, we praise you You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.