The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's take our Bibles now and open up to the book of Romans. Romans chapter 2. Romans chapter 2 We're finally making our way past chapter one. I know you didn't think it was going to happen, but uh we're making progress, okay? We're making progress through this book. Just to remind you of where we've been, we've been studying a section in Romans where Paul has been reminding us that the God reveals his power to save sinners. is also the God who reveals his wrath to judge sinners. He saves sinners through the gospel But he also reveals his wrath to judge sinners from the heavens. Back in Romans chapter 1 and verse 18, when Paul says that the wrath of God is revealed, it's uncovered, it's made visible. from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. And one of the specific ways That we've seen that God expresses his wrath against men is that he will give them over to their sinful desires And when you look at this passage, the activity of God, what you see is God giving them over. Three times it says the same thing. Verse 24, God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, which describes immoral sexual behavior. Verse 26, for this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions for their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, which discusses immoral homosexual behavior. And then in verse 28, it says, And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper, which discusses all manner of depraved behavior. And in verses 29 to 32, it describes the reprobate mind, the mind that's been given over, abandoned to its sinful habit of life. Verse 29 says being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, and evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, their gossips, slanderers. Haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful. And although they know the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. And all you have to do is take a look at your news feed to know that this is where we are. We're living in Romans chapter 1. And we celebrate it. The culture celebrates it. We're a culture given over to sexual sins, homosexual sins, all manner of depraved thinking. We don't know what a man or a woman is anymore. And we celebrate it as progress. We're progressing But when you live in a culture that approves and legalizes and celebrates these kinds of sins, we're not a culture that's progressing. We're not moving forward, we're going back. But when you're defined by these kinds of sins, you're in a culture that's in decline. The brakes are off, we're in reverse, and those who are supposed to be driving are asleep at the wheel. And these were the kinds of sins that characterized the ancient Gentile world. This is nothing new. This is nothing new. There's an ancient Jewish document outside of Scripture that describes the world that they lived in. Sounds very similar to what we read in Romans. Listen to this list. This is outside of Scripture. This is what people were saying. All people who were ignorant of God were foolish by nature. And they were unable from the good things that are seen to know the one who exists. It was not enough for them to err about the knowledge of God. All is a raging riot of blood and murder Theft and deceit, corruption, faithlessness, confusion over what is good, defiling of souls, interchange of sex roles, disorder in marriages, adultery, debauchery. For they prophesy lies, or live unrighteously, or readily commit perjury, for because they trust in lifeless idols they swear wicked oaths and expect to suffer no harm, but just penalties will overtake them. the just penalty for those who sinned. That's just how people described the world that they were living in. And all that to say is that Jewish people would have given a hearty Amen to Paul's list. They would have looked at what Paul had to say about this debauchery, this reprobate culture, and they would have just stood up in and applause. Paul, you're right. This is exactly what we've been trying to say all this time, Paul. We we are with you. Isn't it horrible what's become of the world that we live in? And even beyond the Jewish people, there are those who would generally affirm a biblical morality. They would say, Yeah, I I stand up with you. There's people that that would side with the Christians when we call out the sins. They say, Yes, you're right. You are absolutely right Isn't this a wicked world that we live in today? Look at how backwards things are. We have that today. You know, I may not be a Christian, I may not go to church, but but when I grew up, when I grew up, we respected our elders. Back back in my day there wasn't none of that back talking. When you walk past the church, you know, you put that bottle behind your back and you keep stepping. You put that cigarette out and you know wave your your breath and put a min in when you talk to the pastor. Back in my day, I mean that's that's how it used to be We need to get back to that golden rule. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Because as the good book says, God don't like ugly, right? And these would be the people that would appear to stand with us for morality. Hey, I I I may not go to church, I may not read that Bible, but but you ps you talking now. Preach, brother, and preach it. They would sign our petitions to protect the sanctity of life. They would define marriage as between one man and one woman They want to protect the children, they want to preserve society, and they shake their heads as what becomes of us. What has become of us? Shaking my head. But as Paul turns the corner from chapter 1 to chapter 2, he addresses that group. I'm not just going to talk to those out there. I want to talk to you in here. I want to talk to you. Those that say that they would agree with us in what we believe about Christian morality, I want to talk to you. The group that sits in judgment of the culture around them. And there's a shift in the grammar from chapter 1 to chapter 2 to let us know that we're talking about a different group here. In chapter 1, Paul uses the third Person plural um pronouns. He's talking from the perspective of those who are on the inside looking outside. He talked about the sinners and it was always them and those and their Verse 24, chapter 1. Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity. But their their bodies would be dishonored among them. They're on the outside. Verse 26, for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions, for their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. Yeah, that's them. Verse 28, and just as they did not see it, see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind. But in chapter 2, Paul moves beyond them and their and those to start talking about you. Chapter 2, verse 1. Therefore, you have no excuse. Every one of you who passes judgment. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. And who is the you? Paul specifically identifies them down in verse 17, where he says, but if you bear the name Jew and rely upon the law and boast in God. Verse 24, chapter 2, he says, for the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written. And the you is the Jewish audience, but by extension, it would be anyone who agreed with them. Anybody who agrees that, yeah, all those sinners on the outside Paul, I'm glad that somebody said it. Somebody had to say it, Paul. Glad that it came out. So now he talks to all those that would agree with a biblical morality. And he says, now I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you. He turns to those who would have considered themselves morally upright. So let's take a look at our text. Romans chapter 2. We'll read from verse 1 down to verse 5. Says, therefore, you have no excuse. Every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another you condemn yourself For you who judge practice the same things. And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things. But do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you. Father, we pray that you would open our eyes to behold wonderful things in your word. Father, I thank you for this word which is clear, which is convicting. This is a necessary word. We need this word. Your word is sufficient. Your word is what we need for life and godliness, and it's your word that brings us to the foot of the cross. Or we can find hope, forgiveness, or we can find Christ. And so Father, I pray that there would be one even among us, Lord, that today would find Christ through this word And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Just for a moment, why don't you flip back with me to 2 Samuel chapter 12? 2 Samuel chapter 12. It's a familiar story, but one that I think is helpful just to Kind of set the theme before us. 2 Samuel chapter 12, I'll start at verse 1. You know the story. Verse 1, 2 Samuel chapter 12, it says, Then the Lord sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and said, There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had a great many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing except one little ew lamb. Which he bought and nourished. And it grew up together with him and his children. It would eat of his bread and drink of his cup and lie in his bosom. It was like a daughter to him. So here you have this little lamb that's a pet They name the pet. You know, he's inside the house and he's eating from their hand and drinking from the cup. It's like another child. It's like a daughter to him. Now a traveler came to the rich man and he was unwilling to take from his own flock or his own herd to prepare for the wayfarer who had come to him. Rather, he took the poor man's ewam and prepared it for the man who had come to him Then David's anger burned greatly against the man, and he said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, surely the man who has done this deserves to die! He must make restitution for the lamb, fourfold, because he did this thing and had no compassion. Nathan then said to David, You are the man. You are the man. Thus says the Lord God of Israel, it is I who anointed you king over Israel, and it is I who delivered you from the hand of Saul. I also gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your care. And I gave you the house of Israel and Judah. And if that had been too little, I would have added to you many more things like these. Why have you despised the word of the Lord? By doing evil in the sight, you have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, you have taken his wife to be your wife, have killed him with the sword of the sons of Ammon. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me. And I've taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. What David could see so clearly in somebody else, he was utterly blind to in his own life. And that's the way that sin works, isn't it? You can see the sin out there. Look at them. Look at those. Look over there. See the sin so clearly on the outside, but when it comes to your own life, it's like you have the blinders on You're bumping into the walls in your own life when you can see so clearly. You've got like x-ray vision when it comes to everybody else. But you can't see further than the nose on your face when it comes to your own wretchedness We see sins all the way out there, and everybody says, Amen. Amen. Yeah, that's right. He deserves to die. Throw the book at him. But when it comes to your own sins, everything gets quiet. It's like Buddy Bacom says, you know, if you can't say amen, you ought to say ouch. And that's what's going on in Romans chapter 2. There's a lot of people that were saying amen when it came to the sins out there, but then when it came to the sins in their own life, there wasn't a peep. And what does Paul say? You don't have anything to say. You have no excuse. Back to Romans chapter 2. You have no excuse, every one of you, who passes judgment. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. Uh the word for excuse that's used here when he says you have no excuse is from the same Greek word that we get our word apologetics from. Uh the word for defense, apologetics is a a word that means a defense, and we use that for a defense of the faith And basically, Paul is saying you don't have any defense for yourself. All of you who are saying amen in agreement to the list above, when I was talking about the Gentile unbeliever, you have no excuse. When it comes to your own sin. When you pass judgment and you do the same. And that's how the word therefore is connected to the previous context. It's all about what came before. You agreed with what came before. How about agreeing with what I'm saying now And Paul's not saying that the sins that he mentioned before don't deserve judgment. I mean he started off the whole section in verse 18. The wrath of God is being revealed. So yes, those sins deserve judgment But now what he does is he presses the truth to its logical conclusion. If you really are concerned about ungodliness and unrighteousness, what about when it shows up in your life? Are you concerned about it when it shows up there? You can't watch judgment from a safe distance. It reminds me of a story about the American Civil War According to one article by history. com on july twenty-first, eighteen sixty-one, Washingtonians trek to the countryside near Manassas, Virginia, to watch Union and Confederate forces clash in the first major battle of the American Civil War. It was known as the First Battle of Bull Run. It was known in the South as the Battle of First Manassas. And the military engagement also earned the nickname the Picnic Battle. Why did it get the name the picnic battle? Because spectators showed up with sandwiches and opera glasses to watch the war And these onlookers, who included a number of U. S. congressmen, expected a victory for the Union and a swift end to the war that begun three months before. And instead, the battle that day resulted in a bloody defeat for the Union and sent the picnickers scrambling away to safety. Here they are, they think they're a safe distance as they're watching this war take place, and the battle comes to them, and the spectator's amusing summer outing turned into a chaos. We can't look at judgment from a safe distance. Oh yeah, get those guys over there, you know, looking through your glasses. Oh yeah, over there, get him, get him, make sure you get that guy. And then all of a sudden the battle comes closer and closer to you and you realize I'm part of this. I thought I was here to get lunch and watch a show. But here I am, now I'm part of it, and judgment is coming for me. And now I'm in the line of fire. And that's how it was with these spectators. You know, they're they're looking at the Gentiles. Look at them. Yep, get them over there, Paul. You get them. Get that guy over there. Then all of a sudden, you know, the the the the guns turn and face towards you and you realize, hey, I'm in this too. Now he's coming after me. And that's exactly what Paul is doing. He's coming after those that thought they were a safe distance away. And we can examine this passage in four four sections. Number one, you are condemning yourself You are condemning yourself in verses 1 and 2. Verse 1, it says, Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. Number two, you're fooling yourself. You're fooling yourself. In verse 3, it says, But do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? You're fooling yourself if you think you're going to escape God's judgment. Number three, you're thinking way too highly of yourself. And verse 4. If you take a look at it, it says, Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? In other words, uh don't you understand that you're living under the kindness and tolerance and patience of God? You're just as guilty as The rest, you're thinking way too highly of yourself as if I don't need God's kindness and mercy and patience in my life. And then number four, you're storing up wrath for yourself. If you look at verse 5, it says, But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. So what do these people look like? How do you describe these people who are casting their judgment upon others? You're condemning yourself You're fooling yourself. You're thinking too highly of yourself, and you're storing up wrath for yourself. That's what we'll take a look at. Let's take a look at the first point. You're condemning yourself. Back again in verse 1. Speaks about everyone who passes judgment. Therefore you have no excuse. Everyone who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. Back in verse 32, Paul condemned those who, although they knew the ordinance of God That those who practice such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but give hearty approval to those who practice them. That was verse 32. That's talking about these Gentile unbelievers. They give hearty approval to evil and they practice it But what we have in verse 1 are those who give a hearty disapproval of evil. I don't agree with that. I think that's evil. But yet they practice the same evil that they're speaking against. These are those who cry out against the evil. They're decidedly against the evil. But then they're practicing the same evil in their own lives. You know, all the cries for for justice and you know condemnation and they don't realize that they're actually crying against themselves as well. You know, I I thought about this often, you know, when we hear these cries for justice. You know, all the placards, you know, no justice, no peace. You know. You shouldn't do evil and get away with it. Nobody should do evil and get away with it. And you want to come alongside of them and say, you're absolutely right. Absolutely right. If you do evil, you shouldn't get away with it. And how about your evil? And I I don't see a sign for you. Where's your sign? Do you have a sign up here Calling out for condemnation on yourself, you know, no justice, no peace. How about the justice that that you need? You need justice. Well, they don't want to call out their justice, they just want a justice for everybody else. Mercy for me, justice for you. You know, that's what they want. What about your wickedness? What about what you've done? It says you're practicing the same things that you're judging. You pass judgment for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself, for ye who judge practice the same things. And that's not to say that the Jewish audience practiced the same expressions of evil. They were not known for the homosexuality or outright rejection of God, but the same categories of evil were practiced by them. If you look down at Chapter 2 and verse 21. He says, You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one shall not steal. Do you steal? You say that one should not commit adultery. Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who boast in the law through your breaking the law, do you dishonor God? Jesus points out in the Sermon on the Mount that the seed of every wicked deed lies within your own heart. The things that we're calling out against others, we actually hold it ourselves. And all it takes is just a little bit of water and enough sunlight, and that wicked plant will grow. The things that we call out in others, we have that in ourselves. Do you realize that? You realize that murder starts from an angry heart? Anybody been angry? Adultery starts with a lustful heart. Anybody ever have a lustful heart? Breaking your vows before God starts with a deceitful heart. Has anybody ever been deceitful? Later on, Jesus says in Matthew 15 and verse 19, for out of the heart Come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. These are the things which defile the man. It's the things that come from within So here when they're pointing the finger at everybody else, there's three more fingers pointing back at them, right? Look at that person, look at that person, but they're condemning themselves And God judges those who condemn others. And God judges what they practice. For you who practice And verse 2 says, and we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things. We know that the judgment of God rightly falls. And here Paul speaks universally about what we all know. This is something everybody knows that the judgment of God will rightly fall on those who practice evil. When the scripture says that the judgment rightly falls, it uses the word for truth. No, the Greek word alethia. Literally, it's according to truth. Judgment falls according to truth, because God knows the truth about everybody. So when the judgment falls, he's doing exactly what's right because he knows all truth. The judge of all the earth does what's right. And if you experience the judgment of God, nobody's going to be protesting that judgment. Because what God does is absolutely right. You know, we've mentioned it before when Abraham thought Sodom and Gomorrah was being treated unfairly. And he says, shall not the judge of all the earth do what's right? And then he realizes the guy was patient and merciful to Sodom and Gomorrah. And then he says, I've got nothing else to say. Walked away in silence. Job thought he was being treated unfairly. Then God finally shows up. And he says, behold, I'm insignificant. What can I reply to you? I lay my hand on my mouth. I mean there's nothing else to say. What God does is right. Over in Leviticus chapter 10. Aaron's sons were put to death because they offered strange fire before the Lord. Remember that? And God did not even allow Aaron to mourn his own sons. You're not going to dispute this. You're not going to protest this, Aaron. I know these are your sons, but they did what was wrong. They have dishonored me. And not even Aaron was able to give a word in reply. Verse 3 of Leviticus, it says, then Moses said to Aaron, it is what the Lord spoke. Saying, by those who come near me I will be treated as holy, and before all the people I will be honored. So Aaron therefore kept silent. When judgment falls, it will fall rightly, and it's always according to truth. We even read one earlier today in 1 Samuel chapter 3. You know, as uh here you have Eli, he's you know eagerly anticipating a word from the Lord. Samuel, don't hide it from me. You know, the Lord hasn't spoken in a long time. Bring me the word of the Lord. You know, may the Lord do more so to you if you don't tell me every single thing that the Lord has spoken to you. Give me the word. Give me the word. And what is the word? Your sons are going to die. That was the word. And how does Eli respond? He says it's it's it's the word of the Lord. Behold, it's the word of the Lord. What can I say? Let him do what seems good to him is what he says. What God does is right. What God does is is always right And you'll not be able to object to the Lord's judgment. And here in Romans chapter 2, it says that we know that when God judges, he judges in truth. He always does what is right. And the specific condemnation here is of those who thought that they were morally upright. But they are saying here, like, God, when you judge, I mean what you do is right. What you do is always right, because you judge in truth. Everybody knows is what Paul says. Everybody knows that when God judges, he judges with truth And we all know that our sins deserve eternal punishment. That's what Paul is saying. You may not acknowledge it, you may not want to admit it, but deep in your heart you know that my sins deserve the judgment of God. You know that. I don't have to convince you of that. You know that. The soul that sins shall surely die. But knowing that, we still point the finger at everybody else Even though we know the soul that sinned shall die, we deserve the judgment, we're out here pointing at everybody else. And what scripture says is that when you do that, you're condemning yourself And number two, you're fooling yourself. Look at verse 3. It says, but do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? He says that you're you're supposing something. You're reasoning. You know, the word for suppose is the Greek word legizomai. It's a word for reasoning, considering. You know, when it was used of numbers, it was calculating. And what Paul is saying is that we play these mind games with ourselves. You know, we think that somehow I'm I'm going to escape. Everybody else is going to get it but me And Paul is saying that we compare ourselves to everybody else out there in society. We compare ourselves to the criminals of society. And we say, well, I'm not like that. 2 Corinthians 10 verse 12, Paul says, we are not bold to class or compare ourselves with some of those who commend themselves. But when they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves with themselves, they are without understanding. If if all you're doing is comparing yourself to the next guy, you don't understand where judgment comes from You're not going to be judged by the guy next door. That's not the standard. You're not going to be judged by you know such and such politician as if that's the standard. That's not the standard The standard is God's righteousness. That is the standard. That's what you're going to be judged by. All have sinned and fallen short of what? The glory of God. Not the next door neighbor. Not the criminal who's locked up. You're not going to be judged by him. You're going to be judged by the standard of God Himself. You've fallen short of the glory of God. So you need to make sure that you're judging yourself rightly. Who am I going to be judged against? What's the standard of righteousness? God is the standard of righteousness. You know what people want to do is they they make these calculations in their mind. You know, I've I've done more good than I've done bad and you know God will somehow weigh my good against my bad deeds and you know I'll be okay in the end. When Scripture says that everyone who keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point is guilty of it all, and that even what you would consider your righteousness, the Bible says it's like filthy rags in the sight of God. Or as Jewish people were prone to do, they trusted in their lineage. Alfred Ederscham, a Jewish commentator, he writes, No principle was more fully established than the popular conviction than that all Israel had part in the world to come. Everybody who's an Israelite is going to be in the world to come. And this specifically because of their connection to Abraham. One ancient rabbi said, In the age to come, Abraham sits by the gates of Gehenna, he'll sit by the gates of hell, and he'll allow no circumcised Israelite to enter therein. You know anybody who's an Israelite and you know if you came through the right channel, you know, have the right lineage, you've been circumcised, oh no, y hell's not for you. And I'll stand at the gates and make sure that nobody gets ushered down there. Everybody go the other way. One Jewish writing said, For even if we sin, we are yours. As if the sins didn't matter. Hey, we've been born the right way. You know, we've been circumcised. We've had the ritual. But you can't rely on your heritage. That's what uh John the Baptist told the Pharisees who came down for baptism. Remember that? Matthew chapter 3, verse 9. It says, Do you suppose that you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father? For I say to you that from these stones, God is able to raise up children to Abraham. If God can bring a son into the world through a virgin, he can raise up sons from rocks if he wants to. You think it's something special that your father was Abraham? And it's also clear that not every son of Abraham received the promise. Flip over to Romans chapter 9 real quick. Romans chapter 9. Take a ver look at verse 7. Paul says this, he says, nor are they all children because they are Abraham's descendants Just because you're a descendant of Abraham doesn't mean that you're God's child. But through Isaac your descendants will be named. That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but the children of the promise are regarded as descendants. What's the point? Father Abraham had more than one son. There was Isaac and there was Ishmael. But the promise only came through Isaac. So just being a descendant of Abraham didn't mean a thing. You still had to receive the promise. Being a physical descendant did not guarantee that you would inherit the promise. So don't fool yourself into thinking that somehow you will escape the judgment of God because you were born into the right family That you stayed away from the the greater expressions of wickedness, that you agree with God when God says sin is wrong, you say, Yep, I agree with that. Amen to that Agreeing with God does not mean that you're following God. It was John Bunyan who said in his pilgrim's progress, then I saw that there was a way to hell, even from the gates of heaven. And how many people will perish knowing the truth? Because you have the knowledge doesn't mean that you're walking on the way. Don't fool yourself. Just because you can identify sin as sin doesn't mean that you're walking in righteousness. And there's many who attend church. They put money in the offering as it goes around. They participate in church functions. They say amen to the sermons. They've even preached a few sermons. They might judge sin as wrong. And they still have no relationship to the God that they speak about. Are you condemning yourself? Are you fooling yourself? And number three, are you thinking too highly of yourself? Look at verse 4. Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? Am I thinking lightly of God? If I'm thinking lightly of God, then I'm thinking highly of who? Myself. I think I deserve more than I do. And the Greek language actually makes this point even more graphic to translate this as think lightly is actually too light. The Greek term is kata for ne'o, and it comes from two words for neo, which means to think, and kata, which means down. Literally, it means to think down upon. Or it could be better translated as despise, disdain, to think with contempt. Just to show you how this word is used, just to do a little flipping with me. Look over to Matthew chapter 6, verse 24. Matthew 6. 24. A couple passages with the same word, kata for neo, is used. Matthew 6. 24 Where Jesus says, no one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and what? Despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, look at verse 22. It's in the context of the Lord's Supper Communion. Verse 22. He says, what? And this is, you know, after people are getting themselves full and even drunk off of the Lord's Supper. He says, What? Do you not have houses in which to eat and drink? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I will praise you not. I will not praise you. Look over in 1 Timothy. 1 Timothy 6 Look at verse 2. This is talking about believers who are under the yoke, those who are serving others. In verse 2 it says, those who have believers as their masters must not be disrespectful to them, because they are brethren. But must serve them all the more because they those who partake of the benefit are believers and beloved. Teach and preach these principles. And then one more one more last place to look at is second Second Peter, Second Peter chapter two. Just to show you some of the ways that this word is is used, 2 Peter chapter 2. Take a look at verse Ten. This is speaking about the unrighteous who are under punishment for the day of judgment And verse 10 says, and especially those who indulge the flesh in its corrupt desires and despise authority. That's the same word that's used here of Those who are looking at the goodness of God, they're despising it, they're disrespecting it, they're looking down on it, they're looking at it with contempt. One translation says it this way, Wilt thou abuse the riches of his benevolence? This is more than thinking lightly. This is abusing God's goodness, despising it, looking down upon it. Which is again why I say that those who are looking down upon God are thinking too highly of themselves. And what is it that they despise when they think highly of themselves? They're despising the riches of his kindness. Even the unbeliever experiences the kindness of God. Kindness is just a word that means that God's good to us. He's benevolent. He's good. And throughout scripture we see the kindness of the Lord, even in the face of human wickedness. Luke 6. 35, love your enemies, do good, and lend, expect nothing in return. And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High. Why? For he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. God is kind to those that show him no gratitude. Those that despise him, those that will return nothing to him. The Lord gives good to men knowing that the vast majority of them will not even thank him. Let's the sun rise on the evil, the good, the rain fall on the just, the unjust. Acts 14, 17, he did good and give gave you rains from heaven. How many days have you received good from the hands of God? All the gifts from a benevolent God. And unless you turn and bow your knee to Jesus Christ, he receives nothing for all that he's done for you. And you've despised his riches. And then on top of that, you've set yourself up as a judge. What else have you despised? You've despised the tolerance of God back in Romans chapter 2 again. He says, Do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance? What does that mean? It means that God puts up with your foolishness. That's what it means. And he's held himself back from judging you. It's a word that means to hold back, to stop hostility. It was used in a military context for a truce. It's like a ceasefire. What it means is that God doesn't pull the trigger even though he could And it's not because you don't deserve it. And it's sinners in the hands of an angry God, Jonathan Edwards says this. He says, so that thus it is that natural men are held in the hand of God. Over the pit of hell. They have deserved the fiery pit and are already sentenced to it. And God is dreadfully provoked. His anger is as great towards them as those that are actually suffering in the executions of the fierceness of his wrath in hell And they've done nothing in the least to appease or abate that anger. Neither is God in the least bound to any promise to hold them up for one moment The devil is waiting for them, hell is gaping for them, the flames gather and flash about them, and would gladly lay hold upon them and swallow them up. The fire pent up in their own hearts is struggling to break out, and they have no interest in any mediator. There are no means within reach that they can by any security be to them In short, they have no refuge, nothing to take hold of. All that preserves them every moment is the mere arbitrary will and uncovenanted, unobliged forbearance of an incest God. The God is the one who holds back the punishment that we deserve. You deserve punishment, and I'm tolerating it. I'm tolerating the sins that you're committing in my presence. God has tolerated the wickedness of evil men. It comes from a word that means to endure, to put up with. In Matthew 17, 17, Jesus said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I put up with you? How long do I have to endure this? And that's the idea that God is enduring it. He's putting up with it. You're sinning, you know better, you know it deserves the judgment of God. And somehow you think that you're going to get away with it. And God holds himself back from giving you what you rightly deserve. And then finally, under this point, you've despised the patience of God. The patience of God. Do you think lightly of his the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience? And what does that mean? It means that God has granted you time. It's a common word, macro uh thumia, it's uh from two words, thumas, which means a strong feeling of anger, indignation, and macro, which means long, that that And it can be long in space or long in time. And what we're talking about is God is waiting waiting a long time before He'll finally allow the judgment to fall. God's given you a length of time, and what is he giving you a length of time for? The end of the verse lets us know. Not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance. What what is God waiting this long time for? He's given you space to repent. He's given you space to turn to him. He's given you space to recognize your sins for what they really are. Stop pointing to everybody else and start looking at yourself. That's what God is doing. He's giving you space so you can recognize your sins before Him. And what are you doing with it? For the majority of people, they're doing absolutely nothing. They're still pointing the fingers. They're still looking at everybody else. They're not looking at themselves. And God is here giving them opportunity to repent. Time to repent. Time to turn. Not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance. All these gracious gifts that I've given to you should have only led to one purpose for you to turn back to me. For do you recognize that I'm the one who gives you all things? Paul uses this word repentance as a synonym for salvation. When he declared the gospel, he declared that men should turn, repent, and turn to God. 2 Corinthians 7, 9 and 10, it says, I now rejoice that you were made sorrowful. Not that you were made sorrowful, but that you were made sorrowful to the point of repentance. For you were made sorrowful according to the will of God, so that you might not suffer loss and anything through us, for the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation. To turn to God is to turn to salvation, to turn to Him. 2 Timothy says the same thing that we need to be teaching patiently when wronged, correcting those who are in opposition. If perhaps God may grant them repentance leading to the knowledge of the truth. God is giving men opportunity to repent, to recognize their sins against Him. And for those that don't , What are they doing? They're storing up wrath for themselves. And we'll get back to this next week, but look at verse 5. It says, But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, You are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. There are a lot of people who don't recognize the trouble that they're in. I grew up in church. Played the drums in church, read my Bible, prayed. But if anybody were to ask me during that time, you know, if if you were to die tonight, do you know where you'd go? My answer was always the same. I'm not sure. Because I did everything on the outside, but God still didn't have my heart. And that's the question for you today. Have you truly repented of your sins? Have you truly trusted in Christ? Over in Luke chapter 18, if you want to flip over there real quick. Luke chapter 18, and we'll close with this. Luke chapter 18 and verse 9 says that Jesus Told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. That's exactly the kind of attitude that we find in Romans chapter 2. They're looking at themselves as the ones who are righteous. They're trusting in themselves and they're looking at others with contempt. They're looking down on everybody else. Look at that person over there and that person over there. Verse 10 says, two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself, and pay attention to the words, to himself. Like these prayers aren't even reaching above the ceiling. He's praying to himself. God, I thank you that I'm not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, that one. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. Verse 14, I tell you, this man went to his house justified. What does that mean? Declared righteous. The one who is declared righteous is the one who admits that he's a sinner. And that he has no claim on the justice of God, the forgiveness of God. I have no claim upon you, God. I don't deserve to be here. I don't even dare lift my eyes to heaven It says, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Are we the people that humble ourselves? That recognize that when we look at this list in Romans chapter 1, that this is not for us to just point out all the sins and the culture that we live in? To just cry down justice on everybody else, no justice, no peace. Can't believe that the world has come to this. Are we the people that just cry out for everybody else to have justice and don't understand that we're the ones? That we stand under the just condemnation of God, and that if it were not for the grace of God, there go I. If it wasn't for the grace of God, if it wasn't for his mercy. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had together. Father, we thank you that you've given us your mercy. That you've withheld what we rightfully deserve, that we deserve your judgment. But Father, that It's because of your tolerance and your patience and your kindness that the wrath of God did not fall upon us And Father, I pray that we would have mercy even on those that are opposing themselves. That we'd be able to speak, Lord, in words of mercy. Recognizing that if it was not for your grace, Lord, that we would be in the same position, that we could be involved in the same kinds of sins. And that internally, Lord, even if not expressed, Lord, that the the seed of all of those sins lies within our own hearts. And Father, I pray that we would cry out even like the Apostle Paul did, O wretched man that I am, not O wretched man that they are, O wretched man that I am, and who will rescue me from this body of death? But Father, thanks be to God. Thanks be to you. That we have the victory in Jesus Christ. And that there's no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ Jesus. So Father, I pray that if there are any here today who have not yet repented, have not yet seen themselves in the list in Romans 1 and 2, Father, that today would be the day that they would cry out for mercy. And that they would recognize that they don't even deserve to lift up their eyes towards heaven, and that you are a merciful God who will justify the wicked. Not the righteous, because there are none who are righteous, but you're a God who justifies the wicked, and it's all because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.