The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're back in the book of Romans, chapter 4. And even though we're crossing over into new territory from chapter 3 into chapter 4, it's important for us to understand that chapter 4 is part of an ongoing discussion. And uh if you jump into chapter four and you just start there because of the the chapter break, it's like uh jumping into the middle of a series or starting a movie halfway through. And everything that comes afterwards is built on what came before. So in order to know where we're going, we have to know where we've been. So where have we been? In chapters 1 to 3, we were presented with our great need. We're all sinners who stand condemned in the sight of a holy God. We're all guilty of breaking God's law, and every mouth of protest before God on the final day will be closed And the world will become accountable to God. That was chapters 1 through 3. But there's a way of escape that's been provided Apart from the law, apart from any contribution of our efforts, of our good works, we can receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ We can be declared righteous as a gift by his grace, and Jesus is the one who satisfies the holy requirements of God's law and provides us with perfect righteousness as a gift. Jesus takes upon himself the penalty for our sins and sheds his blood for our sins and grants in its place perfect righteousness. That was all in chapter 3 verses 21 to 26 and really the heart of the gospel message. And following that presentation of the gospel in verses 27 to 31, there's these words of practical application. Because if we really understood our desperate need, and we really understood that salvation is a gracious gift from God, we would not boast on ourselves We would not discriminate among ourselves, and we would not be indifferent to the law of God, and that's where we were last time. That was all review from last time. But Paul is not finished yet with this great doctrine of justification. And what he does is he drills down in chapter 4, and this is one of the characteristics of the book of Romans, and in many ways it's what makes the book of Romans such a masterpiece among the other epistles. And this is really instructive for me as a teacher and for all of us who have the opportunity to present truth because Paul does more than just present the truth. He states the truth, he explains the truth, he illustrates the truth, he applies the truth, he defends the truth And for those of you who read the books like the you know the Puritan authors, it's one of the marks of their their writings. Sometimes you'll pick up a book and uh you think that everything that needed to be said was said in the first chapter, and then they just keep going and going and going. I remember the first Puritan book I read was a book called The True Christian's Love to the Unseen Christ. And it's a whole book based off of half of a verse of 1 Peter, chapter 1, and verse 8. And though you have not seen him, you love him. But that same truth is approached from multiple angles explained and defended and applied, and before you know it, you have an entire book on half of a verse. And that's the kind of expansion we have regarding our salvation and particularly the justification by faith, that doctrine of justification by faith. And there's an occasion for our salvation. What makes it necessary? It's our sin. There's the presentation of salvation, which is the gospel. There are the implications of salvation, the the attitude which we talked about, boasting, not boasting, not discriminating, not being indifferent And then there's the defense of our justification or our salvation. And this is where Paul starts to answer some of the objections, and this is where we get into chapter four. So just want to let you know where we're heading. And Paul is going to answer some specific objections that the Jews have about the gospel and particularly the idea of justification by faith alone. The teaching that righteousness is a gift from God that comes through faith. So let's take a look at chapter 4. I'll start at verse 1. It says, what then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the Scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due. But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. Just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today as we do every week, every Lord today, asking Father that you would open up your word to us that you would help us to understand the things that are written in it. Father, we pray that you would help us to walk away without confusion around being justified. What does that mean? And how are we justified? And even the attacks against justification, the questions that we have about justification. Father, I pray that we would walk away with those questions answered and those concerns addressed. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. From cover to cover, the Bible is a book about the glory of God. We see that all throughout Scripture, don't we? The glory of God all throughout the Scripture. There is absolutely nothing that does not exist for the glory of God Revelation chapter 4 and verse 11, it says, Worthy art thou, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou didst create all things, and because of thy will, They existed and were created. You can tell I'm reading from the King James there, right? God, you're the one who created all things, and because of that, you deserve glory. You deserve glory for all things. Because of your will they existed and were created. The heavens exist for the glory of God. Psalm 19 verse 1. The heavens are telling of the glory of God, and their expanse is declaring the work of his hands. The earth exists for the glory of God. Isaiah 6 in verse 3 says, and one called out to another speaking about the angelic beings before the throne of God. Crying out to one another, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his what? Glory. And even the angels, those angels who praise God exist for the glory of God. In Colossians chapter 1 and verse 16 it says, For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible. Speaking about the angels. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by him and for him. We were all created. For the glory of God, visible, invisible, all created by him and for him. Those who were redeemed out of the nation of Israel, created for the glory of God. God says in Isaiah 43 and verse 1, do not fear, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. In Isaiah 43, verse 7, it says, Everyone who is called by my name and whom I have created for my glory, I've created it all for my glory. And the church, as we would imagine, exists for the glory of God. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 5 says he predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself according to the kind intention of his will. It's all for him, through him, to him. And every unbeliever will one day be forced to glorify God. Philippians 2. 11, every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You don't exist for you. You're not here for you. And your life is not about personal happiness. It's about God's glory We exist for the glory of God. And I know that when we speak about that, it hits some people's ears like nails on a chalkboard or metal scraping against glass. Because people want to find significance and purpose in themselves, especially in our Western culture where it's all about personal freedoms and personal rights and personal expressions and personal choices. It's like one of the untouchable untouchables in our society, the unbreakable rule, you know, to each his own. And as long as you don't prevent me from my personal freedoms and personal rights and personal expressions and choices, we're okay. But then the Christian comes along and says, it's not okay. Because it's not about you, it's about him. So when we're looking to answer the question, why are we here? Why do we exist? Why do we do what we do? The answer is simple. We're here for the glory of God. Everything is for the glory of God. Whether you eat or drink or whatever you do. Do it all for the glory of God. It's all about him. It's all about his glory. So when it comes to your salvation God has designed your salvation in such a way that he will receive all the glory from it. God receives the glory from it. And when you think about the great deliverances in the past throughout Scripture that are recorded on the pages of Scripture for us, who was it that received the glory for the deliverance? It was God. Think about it. The Exodus from Egypt. It was a clear example of the Lord's deliverance. One of the reasons for the plagues, and I'll just take you through some of these. Flip over to Exodus chapter 7. Exodus chapter 7. You all have to follow me quick. I know I speak fast, but that's just the way it goes. Exodus chapter 7. Take a look at verse 5. Actually, I'll start at verse 4. When Pharaoh does not listen to you, then I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring out my hosts, my people, the sons of Israel, from the land of Egypt by great judgments. Why? So that the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. When I stretch out my hand on Egypt and bring out the sons of Israel from their midst. God was going to bring them out, but who was going to receive the glory? God was. And he was going to make it evident by his deliverance that I'm the one who does it. God was going to receive the credit. And God even led them into impossible situations. Flip over to Exodus chapter 14. Exodus chapter 14, look at verse 13. God would place the children of Israel into impossible situations so that they would know that it was God who delivered them. Exodus 14, look at verse 13. It says, but Moses said to the people, Do not fear. Stand by and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will accomplish for you today. For the Egyptians whom you have seen today, you will never see them again forever. The Lord will fight for you while you keep silent. God's going to receive the glory. Flip over to Joshua chapter 6. Joshua chapter 6. When Joshua approached the city of Jericho, he had a great battle planned March around the city for six days and then on the seventh day march around it seven times. Why was that? Why did the Lord give them this kind of instruction? Joshua chapter 6 Verse 2, It says the Lord said to Joshua, See, I have given Jericho into your hand, with its king and the valiant warriors. You shall march around the city, all the men of war circling the city once, you shall do so for six days. Why why is the the Lord doing this? So that it would be evident that I'm the one who gave them into your hands. This is not going to be a battle that that you're going to get the credit for. I'm going to get the credit for this battle. Flip over to Judges. Book of Judges, chapter seven. Remember the the battle? You know, we sing the song, you know, you know, uh it was the Joshua fought the battle of Jericho, you know, but it wasn't really Joshua who you know, did the the the the winning and we sing songs about Gideon, but look at what the Lord did in in this place. Judges chapter chapter seven. Gideon, the battle against the Midianites. The Lord cut down an army of 32,000 men down to 300. 300. Why did the Lord do that? Judges chapter 7, verse 2. The Lord said to Gideon, the people who are with you are too many. For me to give Midian into their hands, for Israel would become boastful, saying, My own power has delivered me Why did the Lord whittle them down to 300 men so that you'll know that I'm the one who did it? And you're gonna win by you know blowing trumpets and you know smashing lanterns. I'm not gonna let you get any of the credit for this 2 Kings, 2 Kings chapter 19. You have Sennacherib and the army of Assyria coming against Israel. And Hezekiah prays for deliverance from their hands. And listen to this prayer, 2 Kings chapter 19. Look at verse 19. It says, now, O Lord our God, I pray, deliver us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone, O Lord our God. Down in verse 35. It says, Then it happened that night that the angel of the Lord went out and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when the men rose early in the morning, behold, all of them were dead. Why do we talk about this? Why do I bring you to these different passages? It's to remind us that over and over again throughout Scripture, it was obvious that deliverance came through who? Through God. It was through the Lord. Why? So that he would be the only boast. So that he would receive all the glory for himself. The Psalm 20 in verse 7 says, Some boast in chariots and some in horses, but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. It's not going to be by might nor by power, but by my spirit, says the Lord. Jeremiah 9, 23 says, For thus the Lord, says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast of his might, let not a rich man boast of his riches. But let him who boast boast of this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindnesses, justice, and righteousness on earth, for I delight in these things, declares the Lord. So then when it comes to our greatest deliverance, which is our spiritual and eternal deliverance, our spiritual salvation, do you think that God is going to give you the credit for it? Do you think you're going to secure that salvation through the arm of the flesh? Do you think that there's going to be some room for human boasting in our spiritual salvation? It wouldn't at all be consistent with what we find throughout the scriptures. God is not going to leave room for us to parade around our achievements. Absolutely not. And the argument that Paul makes in Romans chapter 4 before these Jews who would have objected to this teaching of salvation or justification by faith and not by works He gives this argument within chapter 4 of Romans that the way that God has designed salvation is so that he gets all the glory from it. So that we would not boast in it. And this is exactly what we find, and uh we'll only get to the uh the first of the the main three points, but I'll just give you a broad outline for Romans chapter 4, and then I'll drill down into the section that we'll cover today. But just to give you a broad outline, and I picked this up from a commentary, it was helpful to me, so I'm going to pass it along to you, all right? So the first broad point in chapter 4, verses 1 through 8, is that salvation is by faith, not by works. The next major section that we'll work through is verses 9 to 17, that salvation is by grace, not by law. And then in verses 18 to 25, salvation is by the power of God and not through human effort. And today we'll only get to the first of those main three points. Salvation is by faith, not by works, and we won't even have the time to cover all the way through verse 8, but uh you've been warned, all right? Take a look at verse 1. Romans chapter 4. Look at verse 1. What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? What has he found? This is my first point, kind of subpoint under that. Abraham found that he could not boast. Abraham found that he could not boast. In this section, Paul is answering the Jewish objector, and that's made clear by the identification of Abraham as our forefather according to the flesh. And Paul uses that phrase according to the flesh to speak of physical lineage. We find that over in Romans chapter 9 and verse 3. where Paul says, for I wish that I could uh that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. who are Israelites. So he's speaking about a physical lineage. And Abraham is the physical progenitor or the father of the nation of Israel. He's the person from whom the entire nation of Israel descends. Israel finds their beginnings in Abraham. And for this Jewish objector, the person who says, well, you know, I hear you talking about this justification by faith alone, but I'm my father is Abraham. What about Abraham? Did he find salvation in the same way that you're talking about, or is this something different? Matthew chapter 3 and verse 9 says, we have Abraham for our father. Remember the Pharisees would say that The Jewish people, as they answered Christ in John chapter 8, 39, said, Abraham is our father. That's the one that we follow. And it's almost like if I can get to Abraham, I'm safe. You know, like you're playing a game of tag, but it's like, hey, I got Abraham, so that's all I need. I'm safe from any criticism because I have Abraham. They sought security in the father of their nation. And for the Jewish person who was skeptical about Paul's teaching that salvation was through faith and not by works, the question would be, well, how did that work out for Father Abraham? Uh if I'm going to believe you, I need to know that Father Abraham, the father of our nation, saw it in the same way. And that's what Paul goes on to demonstrate. We find that Abraham was chosen by God, even considered to be a friend of God, which is an amazing statement, you know, being a friend of God. 2 Chronicles 20, verse 7 says, did you not O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and give it to the descendants of Abraham, your friend, forever. Abraham is considered a friend of God. Isaiah 41, verse 8 says, But you Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, descendant of Abraham, my friend. Abraham's considered a friend of God. So if this understanding of salvation doesn't include Abraham, the Jewish people wouldn't be interested. And this is why Paul starts here with Abraham. And he asked the question, what has Abraham, our forefather, found? What has he discovered as it relates to salvation? And specifically this righteousness of God And here's where we understand this that Abraham was understood to be by some people to actually be saved by his works. One ancient writing says this, Abraham was the father of the race and perfectly righteous. Another says this, we find that Abraham, our father, had performed the whole law before it was given. For it is written, because Abraham obeyed my voice, kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, my laws. Another says this. Abraham was the great father of a multitude of nations, and no one has been found like him in glory. He kept the law of the Most High and was taken into covenant with him. He established the covenant in his flesh. And when he was tested he was found faithful. Therefore the Lord assured him by an oath that the nations would be blessed through his posterity. And actually, putting two stories together, they they mixed Genesis fifteen and twenty-two together. That he would multiply him like the dust of the earth and exalt his posterity like the stars. Another ancient Jewish writing says this, for Abraham was perfect. In all of his actions with the Lord, and was pleasing through righteousness all the days of his life. Now I'm not sure if you've ever read the book of Genesis But uh there's some things that I wouldn't want to follow Father Abraham. Like lying about his wife, among other things. Abraham was not perfect In all of his actions before the Lord and pleasing? If that were the case, Abraham, as Paul goes on to say, would have something to boast about. Look at verse 2. For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. And here what Paul does is he gives a theological argument. If Abraham could really be declared righteous because of what he accomplished, he has something to boast about even before God. You know, one of the questions that we often ask in evangelism is uh is this if you were to stand before God and he were to ask you, why should I let you into my kingdom, how would you respond? You ever heard that one before? If you were to stand before God, you stand before his throne and he says, Why should I let you into my kingdom? How would you respond? If your answer has anything to do with your goodness, with your righteousness, with your accomplishments, do you know what you're actually doing? You are boasting before God. Standing there and boasting before God. And so many religions of the world would have you believe that you can boast your way into heaven. Islam doesn't teach the concept of original sin or the need for a savior. The Muslim believes that each individual is responsible for their own actions. They think that believing in one God and following the teachings of Islam and the five pillars, performing good deeds, seeking repentance, seeking mercy, that you'll be able to enter into paradise and God will somehow Weigh the scales and tip you in favor of entering in. If you could do that, you'd be able to boast your way into heaven. Roman Catholic teaching is that our justification is preserved and increased through the sacraments and good works. Again, if that was the case, we could boast our way into heaven. And if Abraham could point to his good works, could point to his righteous life as a reason for God to consider him righteous and to allow him entrance into heaven, Judaism would have something to brag about. They'd have something to boast in. But Paul quickly adds this phrase, but not before God. He's not going to boast before God And Paul here assumes that the Jewish people are able to put two and two together, like no, like nobody would boast before God. And Paul is saying you're exactly right. And if you believe that, you can't believe that we get into heaven based on our good works. To say that would be wrong, obviously, and that's to boast before God. Psalm 5 and verse 5 says, the boastful shall not stand before your eyes. You hate all who do iniquity. And boasting is iniquity. Psalm 34, verse 2, says, My soul will make its boast in the Lord. That's who we boast in. And God has designed our salvation so that he would be our only boast. And that's why I took the time to go through those deliverances in the Old Testament just to show you that it was God who was always receiving the glory. That's how he designed it. And that's the theological argument. But the next argument he makes is a biblical argument. Look at verse 3. For what does the scripture say? I love that And this is where we always want to land. Any dispute, any disagreement, somebody has a problem with what we say. Well, what does the scripture say? Let's look back to the Bible, okay? I love what John Stott said on this point, and there's so much that you can draw out of this. He says, and what does the scripture say? It sounds like just such a simple statement, but consider what that's saying. Number one, the singular form scripture indicates when he says what does the scripture, not scriptures, when he says what does the scripture say, it indicates that Paul recognizes a unified body of inspired writing. Just like we use the term Bible to speak about all that's written in it. It uses the term scripture to speak about all that's contained in it. So he's recognizing a unified body of inspired writings. Secondly, his personification of the scriptures being able to speak. What does it say? Indicates that he draws no distinction between Scripture and God. When Scripture speaks, God speaks. Thirdly, the present tense, what does it say in the present? Also demonstrates that Paul believes that the text is living. It's a living and authoritative word of God. It is speaking today. That's why I love what Justin Peter says. You know, if you want to hear God speak, read your Bible. If you want to hear him speak out loud, read it out loud. Right? Read your Bible out loud. You want to hear the audible voice? Audible voice? Let me read it out loud. That is the voice of God in Scripture. What does it say? It is still speaking the living word of God. And fourthly, to turn to the scripture for authoritative guidance implies that every controversy finds its final court of appeal in the Bible. We need to go back to the scriptures. So Paul says, what does the scripture say? Let's take a look at the scripture. And then he quotes from the scripture. Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Let's take a look at uh Genesis chapter 15. It's an important section of scripture, Genesis 15. Because Abraham is being considered, and again, this is the father of the nation Israel. This is a text that speaks about Abraham being reckoned or counted as righteous by God. And it's actually the first time that we find in Scripture where Abraham is considered to be righteous. This also is a significant text because it's the first place in Scripture where the word believe is found. I find that fascinating. The first time you ever hear the word believe, it's found in connection with Abraham. And this is also not the first time that Abraham heard the voice Of God. Now just real quick. Flip back to, I know I said 15, but let's take a look at Genesis chapter 12 real quick. Genesis chapter 12, starting at verse 1. This is where you have the first mentioning of a covenant between the Lord and Abraham. Take a look at verse 1. The Lord said, Go forth from your country. The Lord said to Abraham, Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you. And I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, and so you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. And that's a promise that God repeated multiple times. We find the same promise in chapter 13 after Abram left his nephew Lot. And then we find it again in chapter 15. And now this is where you have Abraham getting fearful. He's anxious because the promise that the Lord has made hasn't been fulfilled yet. And he's wondering how is all this going to take place? You know, the Lord has promised me descendants. I don't even have one. Look at chapter 15 starting at verse 1. It says, after these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not fear Abram. I am a shield to you. Your reward shall be very great. Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me since I am childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Since you have given no offspring to me, one born in my house is my heir. Then behold, the word of the Lord came to him saying, This man will not be your heir, but one who will come forth from your own body, he shall be your heir. And he took him outside and said, Now look toward the heavens, and count the stars if you're able to count them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. This is the first time in Scripture that anything is said about righteousness and Abraham. And it has nothing to do with what Abraham is doing at this point. Do you recognize that? All he's doing at this point is being fearful. That's nothing to do with what he's doing, no actions on Abraham's part. This has to do with Abraham believing in something And I remember speaking to one Jewish man who said that, you know, all that Abraham was believing for was a child. Like it was just that simple. He's just believing for a son. But you have to understand the fuller context, okay? You've got to understand the context. The descendant of Abraham was connected to all the promises that God had given to him. Including the one back in Genesis chapter 12. If you want to flip back there just really quick, Genesis chapter 12 and verse 7. Listen what it says here. This is connected to this promise. It says, the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants, I will give this land. So he built an altar there to the Lord who had appeared to him. Now what I find fascinating about this, and you may find the footnote in your Bible, that says when uh that word descendants is used to your descendants plural It's actually the word descendant, singular. And Galatians, the book of Galatians, picks up on this and says, now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say unto seeds, plural, or descendants, plural, even though we find it there in our Bible, as referring to many, but rather to one and to your seed. And who is that seed? Christ Christ was that seed. So this promise that was given to Abraham was really a promise about one who would come in the future who would actually be who? Christ. And how else would all the families of the earth be blessed? The families of the earth are blessed in who? It's in Christ. And all the promises that are connected to Christ. And this reference to the seed and seed form is really about the Messiah who was to come. So when Abraham is believing in this promise that's connected with blessing and land and descendants and all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed and I'm going to be made a father of many nations when he's believing in these things. Like that promise of the child was not just a promise about that child. It's about the entire inheritance that the Lord promised to him. There's so much that's connected to this child. So here Abraham is believing in the Lord for this promise that's eventually going to be fulfilled in Christ. And now he's here and he's fearful, and the Lord says, stop fearing. Start believing. And Abraham believed in the word of the Lord, and that word that he believed was counted to him as righteousness. He believed God and God credited it to him as righteousness. It's more than just a child. It's more than just this one son. It's about all the promises, and these promises are actually connected to Jesus Christ. Back in the New Testament, back in Romans chapter 4, and verse 3, where it picks up on this language It says, for what does scripture say, Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. That word for credited, it's also translated imputed. Translated counted, considered, it's the word Greek word legizome. It means to consider, to be true, to reckon as true, but it also means to calculate and to place in one's account. It's an accounting term. Reference to numbers. And we know that it's in reference to that here because in the very next verse, it starts talking about wages. And what is due? We're talking in like uh economic terms, monetary terms. So he says it's it's credited, it's placed in your account as righteousness. What does that mean? It means that God places into our account, or into Abraham's account here, credits him with righteousness that comes from outside of him. Placed into his account. And what was true for Abraham is also true for us. He believed God. God placed into his account as a gift righteousness. And that's in the same way that we receive righteousness today. Now we have more information today than Abraham had, but that promise that was given to Abraham is connected to the same promise that's given to us about Christ. It's all connected. So when we look at scripture just as a whole, and I know I've said this before, but salvation has always been by grace, through faith, because of Christ. It's always been that way. Genesis chapter 3 with the very first mention of the seed that would crush the head of the serpent. Who was that seed that would crush the head of the serpent? It was always Christ. Here, when when Abraham has this promise of a child who would come and all that's connected with the inheritance, that seed was eventually going to be Christ. So salvation was always by grace through faith because of Christ. It was always faith in him, faith in the promises of God. And that's what Abraham found. And because he received righteousness by faith, he also understood that there was no ground for boasting. He couldn't credit himself with anything. What is it what what did he find? He found that I can't boast. This is something that was given to me. It was credited to me. Like I I received this promise. I I didn't go out and search for the promise. I didn't do anything to gain the promise. The promise was given to me, and all I had to do is what? Believe it. Believe it. What's true for Abraham is also true for us. And Abraham found that he could not boast. What else did Abraham discover? Abraham found that he could not demand. He could not demand. Look at verse 4. Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due. But to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. Not only would Abraham not be able to boast Abraham also wouldn't be able to demand. And now we move from a theological argument and to the biblical argument and then to a logical argument. And basically what Paul is saying with this argument is if there is anything that we could do to contribute to our salvation, we could make a demand on God. Because God would owe us. And he's saying that's illogical. The only wages that you deserve is death. That's what you deserve. If you want to go and get what God owes you, be my guest. But it's not going to be what you want. To get what's owed to you, we are owed death. And most people who cry out for justice have no idea what they're really asking for. And for the sake of his argument, Paul imagines what would it be like If someone really were able to work out his own salvation, to attain his own salvation in a right standing with God, what would that look like? What would it look like if I could be justified based on my own merits? Number one, it would remove grace from salvation His wage is not credited as a favor. That word favor is the Greek word karas. It's the word for grace, unmerited favor from God. If I could attain righteousness through my own efforts, There would no longer be a need for grace. It would eliminate grace. And isn't that how we're saved? We're saved by grace. By grace, you have been saved through faith in that, not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. It's a contradiction to speak about working for grace or earning grace. Romans 11 and verse 6 says, but if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace You know, grace and works are like oil and water. They don't mix. You don't get grace by working for it, or else it's no longer a gift. What if I could be justified or declared righteous based on my own merits? Number two, it would place God in my debt. God would owe me His wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due. What does that mean? God owes me. He's in my debt. And I'm the collector. And the religions of the world don't put it that bluntly, but that's what they do. They place God in their debt. And Paul here describes righteousness in again monetary terms. The one who is working righteousness is described as earning some kind of wages from God. God owes him. You know how many of you work a week, you know, on your job and and don't think that they owe you something at the end of the week? It's not a gift. You don't and you don't give it to me when you feel like giving it to me, right? No, you owe me. And there's a certain date that I expected to be in there. And if you don't, there's some other recourses that I might have to take. You owe me that And now people think that God is somehow their debtor? That they're they're that God is in their debt A right standing before God, these wages, is what he speaks about. If we could really earn salvation, a right standing before God based on our works. than God would owe us. And we're not bold enough to put it like that, but we do the same thing when we say, um, you know, when I die, I think my good deeds will outweigh my bad deeds. You know what you're saying? That God owes you. That if I if I do more good than bad, God owes me entrance into heaven. I should be allowed into heaven. Why wouldn't he let me into heaven? I've done more good than bad. Acting as if God owes you. But like that song says, you know, Lord, I'm running trying to make a hundred because ninety-nine and a half won't do. As if you're at ninety-nine and a half, right? Because Lord, if I reach that, I can enter in just like God owes you. Or those who believe that Mary or some saint or pope can dispense merits and reduce temporal punishments of sins. It's like God owes you. But of all that all that places God in our debt. And what does Scripture say? Job 41, 11, who has given to me that I should repay him? I don't owe anybody anything, God says. Romans 11, 33. Or who has first given to him that it might be paid back to him again? Or 1 Corinthians 4, 7. What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Everything that you have is a gift, and you don't give God anything that He now owes you. We're the recipients. God is the bestower of everything that is good. God doesn't owe us anything. And if you could work out your salvation, He would. He would owe you if you could work for your own salvation. If I could be justified or declared righteous based on my own merits, it would make the death of Christ meaningless. Why did Jesus have to die if we could be justified apart from him? When Jesus cried out in the garden of Gethsemane and sweated great drops like blood, and he went a little bit beyond his disciples and fell on his face and prayed, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass for me. The Father didn't respond and say, yes, there's another way. They can work for it. But there is no other way. No other way but the cross. Galatians 2 21 says, I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. If there was something I could do, Christ died for no reason. And lastly, if I could be justified or declared righteous based on my own merits before God, I would rob God of his glory. Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, what the end of that says. It says, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works. Why? So that no one may boast. Nobody's going to boast. And if you think you can somehow get to heaven based on your works, you're robbing God of his glory. And there will be no boasting in anyone besides Jesus in eternity. We'll have nothing to brag about besides Jesus. You're not going to go to heaven and expect people to make a big deal about you. It's all going to go to Christ. All glory goes to Christ. Nothing to brag about besides Jesus Christ. Again, in Psalm 34, I'll bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul will make its boast in the Lord. The humble will hear it and rejoice. Oh, magnify the Lord together with me, and let us exalt his name together. It's all about him. What did Abraham find? He found that he could not boast, and he found that he could not demand. Why? Because salvation belongs to the Lord. Not to the one who works. Does not work. And that moves the requirement for salvation before God even beyond the law. Sometimes people just read this as if it's just the works of the law. But he says, no, it's no works at all. It's not just works of the law. It's no works. It's not based on any work. There's no righteousness. There's no human effort that you can do. Your salvation doesn't come through baptism. That's an act of righteousness, according to Matthew 3. 15, fulfilling righteousness. It's not through church attendance, it's not through communion or a mass, it's not through giving or fasting or prayers or good works. Or even because of faith itself. It's not just believing, it's believing in Him. It's trusting in Him. He's the one who saves. And why does God save? And who does God save? He saves the ungodly. Who does God justify? God justifies the ungodly. Those who believe in him who justifies the ungodly. And it's not that God waits for people to become godly and then justifies them. It's that God justifies the ungodly. And again, I've said it before, if God waits for me to become righteous before he declares me righteous, he'll never declare me righteous. God has to declare me righteous when I'm unrighteous. That's how it works. He declares those who are ungodly as righteous. And if you keep that context in mind, what does that also say about Abraham? If God declares the ungodly as righteous, what does that say about Abraham? He was ungodly. He was ungodly. Abraham was not godly when God called him to righteousness. And before God called Abraham, he was an idol worshiping pagan. And if that doesn't scream out election, I don't know what does. He wasn't looking for God. I love what MacArthur writes. He writes this, when Abraham was first called by God, he lived in Ur of Chaldea, a thoroughly pagan and idolatrous city. Archaeologists have estimated that it consisted of perhaps 300,000 inhabitants during Abraham's time. The Chaldeans were polytheistic, multiple gods, having a multitude of gods. the foremost of which was the moon god, because his father Terah was an idolater, Abraham obviously was reared in paganism. When God called Abraham, he gave no reason for selecting that pagan from the millions of others in the world. Nowhere in Scripture is the reason given God chose Abraham because that was his divine will, which needs no justification or explanation. And when God called you, there was nothing in you that provided the explanation for him calling you. It was his divine will, which needs no justification or explanation. Now, does that mean that God doesn't transform us after our salvation? No. We are transformed, and we'll get to that later. But this week, can we just rejoice that God justifies the ungodly? Can we just rejoice that God justifies you? We sang it earlier, but it says, to God be the glory, right? Great things he has done. So loved he the world that he gave us his son, who yielded his life in atonement for sin, and opens the life gate that all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice Praise the Lord, praise the old Lord, let the people rejoice. Oh, come to the Father through Jesus the Son and give who the glory? Give him the glory. Great things he has done. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had together in your word Father, I pray that your word would continue to speak to us. Your word still speaks. The scripture still says. Father, we thank you that your word is living and active, more powerful than any two-edged sword. And uh Father, I pray that your word would speak to us today. Father, I pray that you would remove the high and haughty thoughts from our minds. May we understand that we come before you as beggars, that we deserve nothing, that we're owed nothing, that we can boast in nothing besides the cross of Jesus Christ and him crucified That's our boast. May that be our boast today. May we boast in Jesus Christ. May we boast in our Savior, because He's the one who deserves all the glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.