The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Why don't we uh Open our Bibles to the Book of Matthew. The book of Matthew. We're gonna continue our uh study through the book of Matthew this morning. I'm eager to return uh back to the Gospel of Matthew. We took a break for uh number of weeks during our summer uh study through the book of of Titus, which I I pray was uh helpful for for all of us to consider uh together as we took a look at the church. But uh Matthew has so much more to say to us about our wonderful, merciful Savior. And I'm eager to jump back in to Matthew. And we're in Matthew chapter 9. If you want to open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 9. Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends the truth that Jesus is the messianic king, the hope of Israel, as well as the rest of mankind. And so far in the book of Matthew, we've seen the miraculous birth of the king in chapter 1. uh the unstoppable recognition of the king in chapter two in uh chapter three there was the divine announcement of the king uh both by uh the voice in the wilderness of joctist and also by the voice from heaven of God himself recognizing Jesus as the coming king. There was the power and purity of the king that was proven in a one-on-one combat with Satan in the the wilderness. We found that in chapter 4 and chapters 5 through 7. There's the proclamation of the King. And now in chapters 8 through 9, we're in a section of Scripture where Jesus's credentials are being put on display. The proof that Jesus has the power and the right to rule is clearly seen through the authoritative works of the king. Early on in chapter 8, uh the Gentile centurion uh was the first to to verbalize it that Jesus has authority. Uh that Jesus has authority that That there's nothing that can stop the authority of Jesus, that he's not prevented by boundaries, he's under no constraints, that whatever Jesus says is going to come to pass. Because Jesus has authority to make anything that he says come to pass. Jesus has authority over his disciples, authority over disaster. Remember on the sea that Jesus commanded the sea and the winds to be still, to be calm. The disciples said, what kind of man is this that even the winds in the sea do what? They obey him because Jesus has authority. Jesus commanded the winds in the sea to stop. And now when they reach the other side of the sea, even the demons know who Jesus Christ is. They understand that He has the power to cast them into the pit, that He has the power to uh torment them even before their time. And uh in Matthew uh chapter 9 and verses uh 1 through 8, we also learn that Jesus has authority even over uh sin, even authority over Disobedience, the disobedience of man that uh God in flesh has the authority to forgive sins. Jesus' authority is clear, it's unmistakable, and uh We need to be reminded of that, don't we? Need to be reminded of the authority of Jesus Christ. But uh there's other lessons about the character of Jesus Christ that we also need to be reminded of. Because often when we have doubts about Jesus, it's not His ability that we so much doubt, it's his what? His willingness. You know, we know that Jesus can, but will he? Will Jesus be there for me? It's not his ability that we doubt. We often doubt his his uh his his will. What if the sins that I've committed against God are so terrible, will his mercy still be abundant towards me? What if I have committed sins for a long time? Will that be enough to turn Jesus Christ away from me? What if my sins were republic? What if my sins were blatant, just outright rebellion against God? Would that be enough for Jesus Christ to disassociate himself from me? And what if my sins were so deep that it became my lifestyle? What if I'm actually identified by my sins? That's how people identify me. Is that going to be enough for Jesus Christ to turn his head? And there's people right here who've had similar thoughts to that. And we need to be reminded that Jesus is a friend of sinners. Jesus is a friend for sinners, and that's what we're going to take a look at today. He has authority even over those who are despised. He has compassion. even over those who are despised. And that's what's really in the next section here in Matthew, what Matthew addresses. Because if there was ever a group of people That would have caused the righteous one to turn his head away, surely it would have been the people that we're about to meet today. There's uh three main encounters within uh Matthew chapter nine, verses nine to thirteen. Jesus' interaction with Matthew in verse 9, his interaction with the tax gatherers and the sinners in verse 10, and then finally his interaction with the Pharisees in verses 11 to 13. Why don't you follow me as I read? Matthew chapter 9, starting at verse 9. Says as Jesus went on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting in the tax collector's booth, and he said to him, Follow me. And he got up and followed him. Then it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and his disciples When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners? Well, when Jesus heard this, he said, It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners But sinners. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for your word. Uh Father, we pray that you'd speak to us, that you'd allow your word to penetrate our hearts. Father, that you'd uh help us to First of all, just glorify the character of Jesus Christ, and then that we'd imitate the character of Jesus Christ. He is our model. He's our faithful shepherd. He's the one that we follow. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. First of all, we have in uh in verse 9, as Jesus went on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting in the tax collector's booth The tax collector's booth in Capernaum would have been a despised site. Alfred Ederscheim, who was a Jewish historian, writes these words, whether passing through the town or country. by quiet side roads or along the great highway, there was one sight and scene which must have constantly forced itself upon the attention of the traveller, and if he were of Jewish descent, would ever awaken afresh his indignation and hatred. The tax gatherer, the symbol of Israel's subjection to foreign domination. The tax booth would have been a painful reminder of subjugation. Just imagine what it would be like to have a foreign flag waving high over the White House. Every time you saw that flag flying over the White House, it would be a reminder to you that your nation was no longer your nation. Somebody else had set up shops, somebody else was in control, and this is what the tax booth represented to Israel. That they're no longer in control. over their own nation. Israel lost a brief period of freedom back in uh 63 BC to Rome, and by the time Jesus began to minister, they would have been under the grip of Rome for about a hundred years. But in their spirit, they longed to be free. They longed to be independent. And if there was anything that reminded them that they weren't free, it was the tax gatherer. The tax gatherer reminded them that they they weren't free. When the government can reach into your pocket, you know who's really in charge, right? According to the Jewish Talmud, there were uh basically two kinds of tax gatherers from the Roman Empire. There's different levels in each category, but there's two basic categories. The first kind of tax gatherer was called the Gabai. The Gabai. He was a general tax gatherer, usually a Roman official, like a knight who would uh collect regular taxes. Uh he collected uh things like ground tax on the amount of land that you owned, uh income tax on how much money you made over a year. uh poll tax, which was just a a general tax for everybody uh who was over a certain age, just everybody would have like a flat tax for everybody. That was the the first kind of tax gatherer, the goodbye. There was a second kind of tax gatherer who was called the Mokese. And uh this would have been a businessman, uh often a Jewish businessman, who actually purchased a tax franchise from the Romans. He he he purchased the privilege of taxing his own people from the Roman government. And uh he taxed on things like uh goods that were coming in and out. No, so basically uh uh anything that that you could make money off of. Goods that were sold, goods that were bought, bridge taxes, road taxes, harbor taxes if you pulled up into a harbor. Money tax off of a town, like when you came into town, if you were at a fair, basically if there was anything they suspected that you could make money off of it, they wanted to make money off of it. Anything that you could profit off of, they wanted to profit off of And they took a cut off the top before they sent it to Rome. That's how they made their their money. And they were extremely irritating because they had the authority to stop you in the middle of a workday. You know, so say you have like a donkey, a pack animal, you're carrying your goods through town, they could make you stop, unpack everything that you had in your bags. Assign a tax to everything that you had, and then it was up to you to pack your animal again and go on your way. Extremely irritating to have somebody who has that kind of authority to stop you anytime that they wanted. And on top of that They could charge you whatever they wanted. It was anywhere between two and a half percent to twelve and a half percent that they could charge people for whatever they saw within your bags. If they considered it a luxury item, they could tax you more. And and who's to say what's a luxury item, right? No, th they they can deem anything, oh that's a luxury item right there. You know what I mean? And they they tax people, they hyped up the taxes. If that's not irritating, I don't know what is I remember uh just recently I went to a football game. First of all, they didn't let us know, it was a high school game, they didn't even let us know that there was a charge for it. And then we show up and the guy at the who's sitting at the at the the little uh chair there, he's he's charging people one price and then another person another price. The people from his team he didn't charge at all. I'm like, what in the world is this? My wife just uh ended up sitting outside the gate. It's like I'm not even messing around with this guy. You know, we'll just sit outside the gate and watch the game. Paying whatever they, you know, charging whatever they want to charge. Extremely irritating. And it's one thing to have to pay a general tax that you kind of can prepare yourself for, you know, the tax on how much land you own or how much you make in a year or just the kind of general tax that everybody has. It's another thing when a tax gatherer makes you unpack your bags and you have no idea what he's going to charge you. It's another thing. It was one thing to pay money to a Roman government official It's a totally different thing to have to pay a traitor of your own people. The Mokes were despised traitors. And Matthew wasn't a good guy. Matthew was a mocace. Matthew was a moches. He would have been known as the worst guy in Capernaum. According to the rabbis, there was no hope for a man like Matthew. He was excluded from all religious fellowship. He couldn't serve as a witness in a trial. His money was considered to be tainted, believed to defile anybody who accepted it. Tax collectors were classed with harlots, gamblers, thieves, the dishonest. They were called licensed robbers and beasts in human shape. That's how they were they were known. They operated like the mob and you couldn't refuse them because they had the power of Rome behind them. How are you gonna stop them? There was no word of hope for tax collector. Just to give you an idea of what they thought about tax collectors during this time there's a popular story about a religious man who walked through the garden by the water brook. You know, he's kind of like just kind of enjoying the the beautiful garden while there's a tax collector stretch stretching out his tongue toward the river in thirst but he's unable to reach the stream. You know, that's the kind of picture that they'd have in their mind of the tax collector. You know, the guy that's just, you know, laid out on the side of the stream. He can't even get to the water. You know, he can't even enjoy the refreshment that we have. And even Jesus recognized that tax collectors were cut off from common fellowship. In Matthew chapter 18, if you remember where Jesus speaks of church discipline, he says that the unrepentant members of a church are to be treated like what? Gentiles and tax collectors. There were people that didn't enjoy the common blessings of the community. You're not going to enjoy the common blessings that the rest of us enjoy. But here, Jesus offers a word of hope to the tax collector, and it's the words, follow me. Follow me. Just two words. Just two words. But in those two words, Matthew heard all that he needed to bring relief to a troubled soul weighed down by guilt. In those two words. We really have the fundamental difference between Christianity and every other religious system. Idersham writes these words. He says, every other system down to modern human humanitarianism, if it rises so high and its idea of God is to reach out of sin, meaning that, you know, even for for a religion to kind of rise high to even acknowledge that sin exists, for those religions that acknowledge that there is a sin, that there can be sin They can only generally point to God as the means of forgiveness for sin. But what is just an abstraction for them, for us, for us as Christians, has become a concrete reality in Jesus Christ. He speaks of forgiveness on earth because he is the embodiment of forgiveness. All other sin all other systems know of no welcome, no welcome to the sinner unless by some means, inwardly or outwardly, he the sinner has ceased to be a sinner. The only other option that the the religions of the world give you is that the only time that you can be received, accepted, is if somehow you change. There's something that you have to do to change yourself, inwardly or outwardly. There's something that you have to do in order to present yourself before God, in order for you to be accepted by Him. That's every other religion of the world. It's even true for Roman Catholicism. Catholic doctrine teaches that in order for God to declare somebody as righteous, they actually have to be righteous. They actually have to be righteous. Anything after after baptism, they say that you actually have to be righteous in order for God to declare you as righteous. And this is what drove Martin Luther crazy, right? And it drove him to study the scripture so intensely because he understood that he couldn't actually become righteous. I can't make it, I can't reach that high, I can't swim that far He even got to the point where he hated the righteousness of God because all that represented to him was condemnation. I know I can't match the righteousness of God. What am I going to do? Erwin Lutzer observed that during the struggles that Martin Luther had, he became aware that his problem was even more serious than he thought. It's not just that man commits sins. It's not that we just commit acts. But inwardly, inwardly we're defiled. To use a modern illustration of Luther's dilemma, it's like trying to mop up the floor while the faucet is still running. You know, you're trying to clean up your act on the outside while inside you is just the water is just continuing to pour out. How am I gonna mop this up? Every time I try to confess my sins and make up for what I've done, there's more, there's more, there's more How are you going to ever gonna reach the point where you become righteous? There's no way that a person like this can be fully right before God But when Jesus said to Matthew, follow me, just two words, Matthew understood that Jesus was accepting him just as he was. There was nothing that Matthew had to do to be accepted by Jesus Christ. No steps to climb, no pilgrimages to make No rituals to observe, no laws that had to be obeyed first. Full forgiveness, full acceptance was being offered to Matthew on the spot. Follow me. That's it. That's it. This was essentially salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. He was being accepted by grace without the works of the law. Matthew would never have been approached by any of the Jewish religious leaders like this. The common view of Judaism was that God did not call the sinners, but God called the righteous. God calls the righteous. And it made sense to them that uh that since God was righteous, he would call righteous people to himself. And righteousness in their understanding came from obedience to the law. If Matthew wanted to be accepted by God, the Jewish religious leaders would have directed him to the law. Go obey the law, and after first being justified by the law, now you can come to God. Go and follow the law first. Go and be obedient first. And Jesus wipes it all away with two words. Follow me And Matthew instantly understood what Paul taught in Romans chapter 10 and verse 4. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. And again in Galatians chapter 3 verse 11, now that no one is justified by the law before God is evident. The righteous man shall live by what? Faith. Simple trust. Even Abraham, the father of the Jewish nation, was proof of God's grace. In Romans chapter 4, verse 3. What does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. And Abraham's relationship with God existed before even the law existed. Just like Abraham heard the call of God in the middle of his idolatry, that's where Abraham was picked out of. Remember that? Picked out of Ur of the Chaldees. He's an idolater with the rest of the other people. And just like Abraham was picked out of his idolatry, here you have Matthew picked out of his sin to call and called by Jesus to come and follow me. And Matthew responds immediately. by getting up and following after Jesus. You have in uh verse 9 again. He said to him, follow me, and he got up and followed him And this wouldn't have been the first time that Matthew heard Jesus' voice. This tax booth was located in Capernaum, which was the home base for Jesus' ministry. Chapter 9, verse 1 calls Capernaum Jesus' own city. So there's no question that Matthew was familiar with the disciples, with Jesus. Uh Capernaum only stretches for about three miles, it's not that big. You know, so everybody knows everybody in Capernaum, it's only three miles long So uh Matthew would have been the the guy who estimated the taxes for uh Peter, Andrew, James, and John every time they bring their fishing boat in. It would have been Matthew that they would have had to see, you know, at the side of the shore. And uh so here you have uh Matthew who's who's heard the voice of of Jesus before. So Matthew knew Jesus, and here we find out that Jesus knew Matthew. And uh let me add this thought here, that it was Jesus who was seeking after Matthew. Jesus sought Matthew, it's not the other way around. And it's the same way in our salvation today. If we seek him, it's not, it's only because he was first seeking us. God was seeking you. That's why you come to Christ. In Luke chapter 19, you have the story of Zacchaeus, the tax collector, and Jesus said in Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. It's God who seeks after us. God seeks us. In Romans chapter 3, verse 11, it says, none seek for God. You know, the only people who seek for God are the ones that he sought after first. So uh Zacchaeus thought he was seeking after Jesus by climbing up into the tree. It was Jesus who was seeking after. Or Zacchaeus, you know, no Jesus was seeking after after Zacchaeus who climbed up into the tree. And here we have uh Jesus seeking after after Matthew. And this is just the display of his grace, his mercy, his compassion. And uh Matthew considered Jesus to be more valuable than all the money he made in the tax business, so he drops everything. Drops it all? Luke chapter 5, verse 28 says he left everything behind. Got up and began to follow after him. And uh when you drop a tax business like this, there is no turning back. You you don't just, you know, ah, I changed my mind, I'll come back and uh pick up on the tax business again. Tax collectors would actually, like I said, they'd buy these franchises from Rome and the collection would go to the highest bidder. So there's people that are bidding after these tax franchises. Once you let it go, somebody else is riding in the line behind you. He's not coming back to this. This is it. Once he walks away from this business, he's not coming back. And uh the kind of money that that Matthew was able to make is uh pretty hefty Uh we find out that uh that Matthew uh he had this this large gathering at his home, uh large feast at his home. And uh that's not as impressive as the fact that he had this large gathering inside his own house. Not just that he had a feast, but that he could hold it in his own house. Many of the the homes during this day were were small homes, maybe twenty-five Uh square feet, maybe thirty square feet. Matthew had uh the kind of house that could host a large gathering of of people uh together. He had a large home, lots of money. But Matthew counts the cost and he determines I'm gonna follow after Jesus Christ. Like Paul in Philippians 3. 8, he counted all things to be loss in the view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus as Lord. And like the man who found the treasure hidden in the field, from the joy over it, he goes and sells all that he has so that he can come and buy this field. You know, Matthew might have lost a job, but he found life. That's worth it. He found life. So uh let's look at uh verse ten just to give you an idea of uh uh how wealthy this man Matthew was. It says it happened as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house. Behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and his disciples. And like I said, uh for Matthew, to hold this large gathering in his home meant that he was a person of some prominence within the city. He chairs this meal. This is a time of celebration, you know, for him and this uh newfound relationship with Jesus, and he invites All of his friends to come in uh share in the joy. Uh the the meal was a a symbol of uh friendship, fellowship, peace We see that the picture of a meal is used throughout scriptures, hospitality was and still is an important part of the Near Eastern life. So to accept an invitation was considered a sign of peace and acceptance To decline an invitation was considered rejection, an insult. And that's why you have uh, you know, when when uh in the parable where where God is Inviting people to come to his house, he takes it as a great insult when people don't show up because it was a symbol of rejection that I'm rejecting you. Here you have uh Matthew, he's uh Inviting people to his house, and the only people that are going to show up to Matthew's house are the tax collectors and the sinners. Matthew was rejected by a lot of people. There weren't weren't a lot of people that are going to come to Matthew's house. So his friends are the people that are just like him. No, he's friends with the outcasts, tax collectors, the sinners. Those are the only people that are going to show up. Matthew was defiled by his occupation. He worked for the Gentile Roman government, considered unclean. According to Jewish law, he was barred from the synagogue service. Orthodox Jews were required to cut off people who uh uh in their interpretation who prostituted themselves with Moloch foreign gods. They considered the Roman government as service to an idol, so they cut Matthew off. Matthew was defiled by his company. The people that I said that uh as I said that he he knew the people that were his companions were people that were just like him. They're sinners. Tax collectors. Uh Jewish people referred to them as the Amha Arts or the people of the land. Orthodox Jews were forbidden to go on a journey with them, do business with them, give them anything, take anything. Have them over as guests or become guests in their home. So the religious leaders wouldn't wouldn't even step into Matthew's house. Pharisees demonstrated their righteousness by staying as far away from sinful people as they could The word Pharisee actually means a separated one. He separates himself from everybody else. But here in verse 10, look at what Jesus is doing. Then it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table, Jesus is laying down in the middle of this house mingling with the crowd of sinners. This is what Jesus is doing. Matthew Matthew was uh defiled by his occupation and his company according to the religious leaders, but here Matthew is honored by the Lord as he's just laying down in the middle of his house. Reclining in the middle of the the house at the table. Uh the the Greeks and and Romans they picked up on a Syrian custom where uh they kind of recline, they'd lean down on their left elbow and eat what their what they're right, you know, lean on a mat on a couch. And it this is what Jesus is doing. He's leaning back at the meal, you know, the meal's in the middle. Everybody's kind of leaning around, laying around the the meal, kind of you know, picking at the meal as they're they're talking, conversing. And this is what Jesus is doing. He's laying down, reclining in the middle. of all these sinners. Like I said, meals were uh they were a this kind of close and relaxed experience and here Jesus is Exercising the symbol of peace and friendship with these people who are sinners. And the question is, if these are truly righteous, where's the separation from the sinners? Where's the scorn of the sinners? Where's the rejection? The Pharisees thought that the way to prove their righteousness was by separating from sinners, but here you have the Holy One of God demonstrates his righteousness by reclining with the sinners. That's how he demonstrates his righteousness. I'm going to be with them. Jesus received disobedient sinners into his company. And if you flip over to Matthew 11, you find there that this is actually the kind of reputation that Jesus had. To be with the sinners. Matthew chapter 11, starting at verse 16. Jesus here, he's uh responding to To the ministry of uh John the Baptist and his ministry, you know, talking about the crowd's response to their ministries. Look at uh verse 16. He says, But to what shall I compare this generation? It's like children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to the other children and say, We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is vindicated By her deeds. And basically Jesus was saying it doesn't matter what the package is, you're not going to accept the truth no matter where it comes from. You know, John came uh and and John the Baptist seemed too out of this world. You know, the guy he lives out in the wilderness. He doesn't like you know enjoy the the regular fellowship with people, you know, he must have a demon. This guy's crazy. He's too out of this world. And then they look at Jesus and he says, Well, he's too of this world. He actually accepts invitations to go to people's houses. You know, he's with tax collectors and And sinners, you know, we can't listen to him. Can't listen to John. He must have a demon. Can't listen to Jesus. He's too much of this world. Jesus says, it doesn't matter what I do. It doesn't matter where you get the message from. You're going to reject it either way Jesus was a friend of tax collectors and sinners, and they still rejected Jesus. So here's the the question for all of us. How do you pursue righteousness? Are you pursuing righteousness like a Pharisee? By trying to separate yourself from everybody else that's not like you? Or do you pursue righteousness like Jesus who actually went out to seek the lost? To see the lost saved, to see the loss brought to Christ. Jesus was considered a friend of tax collectors and sinners. That was just his reputation. That's how people knew him. He's a friend of sinners. Righteousness like the Pharisees shun the lost. But we're not here to retreat from the lost, to ridicule the lost We're here to reach the loss, right? With the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I'm not saying by that that Christians don't exercise wisdom. You know, it's important that we join don't join disobedient people in their foolishness. You know, it's important that we keep some kind of separation as far as our actions are concerned. In Proverbs 13, verse 20 it says, He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. You know, so uh you know, there's some truth to the to the saying, you know, birds of a f of a feather, you know, fly together. You know, there's some truth to that. That's why we're careful with the friends that our kids have. You know, because we want to make sure that they're around godly influences, people that are going to help pull them up, not drag them down. But Jesus was never attracted to the sins of the unbeliever. He understood that he was on a rescue mission. He was there to save him. Actually, if you you flip over to Jude, only one chapter in Jude, Jude verses uh 22 and 24, kind of lets us know the kind of uh attitude that we should have Around those that are disobedient and rebellious. Look at uh Jude 22. It says, and have mercy on some. Who are doubting. Save others, snatching them out of the fire, and on some have mercy with fear, hating even the garment polluted by the flesh. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to make you stand in the presence of his glory, blameless with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory, majesty, dominion, authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. And here you have the ministry that we should have towards an unbelieving world. To have mercy on those who are doubting, to save others, snatching them out of the fire. Even hating the garment polluted by the flesh, it's like you hate the sin that they're involved in, but I love you, and I'm willing to get myself dirty so I can rescue you. And we do that in an attitude of humble dependence on God because it's it's God who has to keep us from stumbling and being affected by even the sins that we're trying to rescue others out of. You can't rescue people from a distance. You can't offer help from a distance. You gotta get next to people if you want to offer help. We got a great example of that uh last week as uh you know Mark Callender was just such a a great example of uh rushing out to the scene of the accident to offer medical assistance. You can't do that from across the street. You can't just yell out advice. Hey you might want to try this. You know, if he's going to offer help he has to get in the middle of the the wreckage. And that's that's who we are. That's who we should be, right? To an unbelieving world. If we're gonna help, we have to get out in the middle of the wreckage. We hate the pollution. That sin is caused, but we understand that our purpose is to offer help and hope. And here Jesus reaches out to those who are despised, and he receives even disobedient sinners. Fellowships with them, eats with them. And here the Pharisees uh they don't even have the courage to ask Jesus a direct question about this one. Back in uh Matthew chapter nine, they don't approach Jesus about that, they approach his disciples. Verse 11, it says, when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners? Do you know when a question is not a question? When it's a statement. You know, they're they're not asking a question. Why is your teacher eating with them? We really want to know. No, they're they're what they're saying is he shouldn't be eating with them. You know, like like when I tell my kids, I ask my kids, you know, why isn't this room picked up? I'm not asking a question. I'm saying this room should be picked up, right? So here they are, you know, why is he eating with the tax collectors and the centers? They don't want an answer They just want to make a make an accusation. He shouldn't be doing this. This is wrong. He's defiling himself. He's defiling you by inviting you to be with him. And instead of allowing the disciples to fight this battle, Jesus steps right in and uses some simple reasoning with these deceived sinners. In verses 11 to 13, he reasons with deceived sinners. He uses simple reasoning which is really instructive for us in verse 12. But when Jesus heard this he says, it is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. Jesus isn't trying to sugarcoat the situation here. He's not saying that, you know, you know, these people, they really aren't all that bad. That's not what Jesus is saying. He's acknowledging he's honest about the condition of the sinners around him. These people are sick. They're sick. And if you're going to be of any help To unbelieving friends, you need to be honest about what their true condition is. You don't just say, oh, well, they've just got a different way of saying things. You know, uh, they're just on their own journey. You know, we we don't really talk about spiritual things. We just I just want to be their friends. You know, no, as a as a believer, you you recognize the situation for what it is that these people are sick. Without Jesus Christ, they are terminally ill. You have to properly identify the problem if you're going to be of any help. And Paul even took it a step further. It's not just that they're sick. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, he says they're dead. Dead in their trespasses and sins. Jesus isn't isn't painting some kind of false picture of the people that he was hanging out with. He's not trying to say that they're they're different than what they were, they're better than what they are. He understands the severity of what's around them, but if sick people Are sick, where would you expect the physician to be? Around the sick people. If people are dead, where do you expect the the giver of life to be? Around the people who are dead. What kind of cop runs away from a crime scene? What what kind of fireman runs away from the burning building? What kind of uh soldier runs away from the battle? What kind of doctor avoids the office because you know what? There's sick people in there You know, that's not a doctor. And why would you attack a doctor for doing his job? Here Jesus is trying to apply the medicine to sick people, and the Pharisees here are throwing out their accusations. What are you doing in there? And actually in their condemnation, they're condemning themselves is what they're doing. They're actually condemning themselves. They're like the false shepherds of Ezekiel 34. Ezekiel spoke of of the false shepherds in Ezekiel 34. In verse 4, listen to this. He says, Those who are sickly you have not strengthened, the diseased you have not healed, the broken you have not bound up, the scattered you have not brought back, nor have you sought for the lost But with force and with severity you have dominated them. Talking to the false shepherds, you see sick people, and you don't bind them up. You don't treat their wounds. You don't search for the lost. You don't care. So here, Jesus, with bringing out just the simple fact, if I'm a physician, I'm supposed to be where the sick people are, he's condemning the Pharisees. Where are you? What are you thinking? Where are you when people are sick? Where are you when people are wounded? Where are you when people are diseased? Where are you to be found? Nowhere. Absent. And then on top of this condemnation, you know, for not doing their job as spiritual leaders, he adds another condemnation. He says, you don't even know what your job is. Look at uh Look at verse 12. He says it's not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick in verse 13. But go and learn what this means. That would have been a slap in the face. Go and learn. That was a popular phrase of the rabbis. You know, they used it to talk about somebody who they believe was ignorant of the scriptures. You know, go and learn. You know, you don't know what the scriptures teach, so why don't you go and learn? In John chapter 7, when Nicodemus suggested that uh Jesus was the Christ, the Pharisees answered him in John 7. 52, why don't you search and see? That no prophet arises from Galilee. Go and learn. You know, you don't know what you're talking about. It's a popular phrase, but Jesus here tells the Pharisees, you need to go and learn. You don't know what you're talking about. They're the ones who are ignorant of the scriptures. And then he points them back to Hosea. And he'll actually do that again in Matthew chapter 12. In verse 7, after the Pharisees accused the disciples of uh picking the heads of the grain to eat, he says, you know, go and learn. If you had only known what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice. And he points them back to the book of Hosea. So let's flip back there to the book of Hosea real quick because we want to go and learn, right? We want to go and learn what Jesus has to say and what he means by this. Hosea, you'll find it uh right after uh the book of Daniel. It's uh the first in the uh uh the book of the minor prophets. They're called Minor prophets, not because they're less important, but because they're they're just shorter, shorter books. They're called minor prophets. Hosea was written somewhere between uh 750 and 710. uh BC, just before the the northern kingdom of Israel fell to Assyria, and it's about God's covenant love to a people who have deserted him. God's covenant love to the people who have deserted him. And uh Hosea himself, his marriage was was an illustration of Israel's unfaithfulness to God because his wife Gomer continued to run out on Hosea. You know, continue to return to harlotry. And uh Hosea constantly goes back to bring his wife back to himself to expressing the love of God. And in uh Hosea chapter six, look at uh at verse four is where we are. Hosea chapter six, look at verse four. Here you have God responding, what shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? For your loyalty is like a morning cloud, like the dew which goes away early. Ephraim would have been the largest a tribe in the north and kind of represented the northern tribes of Israel. Judah represented the south. So he says, what am I what am I going to do with you, Israel? What am I going to do with you, J uh Judah? Your loyalty, that's a word uh said, it's uh a word that means loving kindness. Your your love towards me, your loyal love or covenant love, faithfulness towards me, it's just like the morning cloud, you know. It looks like it's going to provide some rain, but then it just disappears. It's like the morning dew. It just kinda kinda comes up and then quickly evaporates. It's like I can't count on you. I can't count on your love. Verse 5, Therefore I have hewn them in pieces by the prophets, I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and the judgments on you are like the light that goes forth. So here he talks about the prophets that he sent to them, prophets that brought words of judgment, but they still didn't listen to God. Prophets who slew them by the words of their mouth, but they still didn't turn. Says my my judgments they go forth like light, they expose the darkness, but they still didn't turn to God. And then in verse 6, look what he says. It says, For I delight in loyalty rather than sacrifice. And then the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. And he uses the same word there. The loyalty there is the word Hesed. It's covenant faithfulness, your love, your loving kindness. Instead of expressing love towards God, they performed rituals. They thought that God would just be satisfied with what we do. You know, the rituals that we perform. Instead of knowing God, they got bus busy with religious activity. We'll just get busy about activity. They had no true concern for God. They had no true love for God. And one of the ways that love was expressed towards God was by loving others. Look over at chapter 4. Chapter 4. Look at verse 1. Listen to the word of the Lord, O sons of Israel. For the Lord has a case a case against the inhabitants of the land because there is no faithfulness, uses the same word, there's no loving kindness. Or knowledge of God in the land, there is swearing, deception, murder, stealing, adultery. They employ violence so that bloodshed follows bloodshed. Therefore the land mourns, and everyone who lives in it languishes, along with the beasts of the field, the birds of the sky, and also the fish of the sea disappear. He says, there's no love towards me and there's no love towards others. How is the love toward God expressed? By the way that you show care and compassion towards others. He says, you have no love towards me You get busy with your rituals, get busy with service, but you don't care about people. You have no compassion for people. In chapter 12 and verse 6 he says, therefore return to your God. Observe kindness, justice, wait for your God continually. Their idea of love to God involved, like I said, rituals, but it didn't involve people. It's the same truth that's pointed out in the New Testament over in 1 John chapter 4, verse 20. It says, if if someone says I love God and does what? Hates his brother, he is a liar. For the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. You can't love God and despise people. You can't love God and despise people. And we need to know what that means. And at the end of Matthew over here back in Matthew chapter 9 again, Jesus tries to explain what this means to them. He says you need to go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice. I desire loyalty, loyal love, loving kindness, not just the rituals that you guys are involved in. And then he says this, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners. Jesus understands what his mission is. He understands what the mission field is, right? I have come. And that's just a that's a statement of his free existence. You know, usually when you talk about, you know, uh coming into the to the world, you don't say, uh, you know, I have come. You know, you say I was born, you know, on a certain day, at a certain time, you don't say, I have come, I have arrived, right? When Jesus says I have come, he's saying that I have existed before my Conception. I have come. I've arrived because I I pre-existed the date that I came to this world. I have come. Right here, it's a statement of his deity, his pre-existence. And it's important that we understand what Jesus means here when he says, I've come to call not the righteous, but sinners. It's important that we understand what he means by who's righteous. Because here he's not calling the Pharisees righteous, is he? He's not saying, hey guys, you know, the reason I'm over here with the sinners is because you guys have already got it together. You know, I don't really have to worry about you guys. You're safe. You know, I'm just over here dealing with these folks because they really need my help. That's not what Jesus is saying. That's not what he's saying at all Later on in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus would call the Pharisees the same group of people in verse 15, sons of hell, verse 17, blind fools, verse 25, full of greed and self-indulgence. Verse 27, full of dead men's bones. Verse 32, you brood of vipers who will not escape the sentence of hell. He wasn't saying that the Pharisees were righteous. You know, you guys are doing okay. What he was saying is that you guys don't recognize that you have problems I'm over here with the sinners because at least they know that they they need help. You guys don't even recognize that you have. And as you over in uh Luke chapter 18 Jesus tells the parable of those who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And guess who he chose as the illustration? The Pharisees. The Pharisees. And guess who he chose as an illustration for a one who came to him humbly by faith? A tax gatherer. Luke chapter 18. Look at uh verse 9 if you're there. He says, and he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself God, I thank you that I am not like other people swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. This is his righteousness. This is my righteousness. The things that I do, I pay my tithes. I fast twice a week. You know, isn't God happy with me? But the tax collector standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. And I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. And here's the principle. For those that are willing to acknowledge their sin before God, they can walk away justified. Those like like Matthew that are willing to recognize who he was before God, he could walk away totally accepted, forgiven. Follow me. That's all he needed to hear Follow after Christ. Didn't have to do any rules, jump through any hoops. Just follow me. Trust in me. Fully justified. Understanding that he was unworthy. Those who acknowledge their sin before God can walk away justified. And those who deny their sin before God walk away condemned. You don't acknowledge where you are today. You will walk away condemned The Pharisees, it says that uh that they were in judgment of hell. Why? Because they they didn't want to recognize who they were. They didn't recognize who they were before God. And my question for you is where where are you this morning? Have you recognized yourself as a sinner before an Almighty God? Recognizing that there's nothing that you could do to mop up the floor of the faucet is still running? That even inwardly you're full of sin, full of depravity, and that I need help from the outside. If I'm ever gonna have righteousness to present before God, it can't be mine, that it has to be a righteousness outside of myself That 's the righteousness of God. That's what he has to offer us, right? That's what Jesus offers us. Are you ready to acknowledge your sins before God? Do you know that there's no sin that you've committed that is so terrible that his mercy would not still be abundant for you? That's the kind of God we serve. Matthew would have been considered the chief of sinners. When people thought about sin, they would have automatically identified Matthew, the tax collector, the traitor, the thief, the unjust person. That's the person that we identify as the sinner. And by Jesus coming to save Matthew, to call Matthew to himself, it's an example to all the rest of us. That there's no sin that we've committed that is so horrendous that Jesus doesn't still call us to himself, that he won't accept us. There's no sin that you've committed that is so horrible, so terrible, that his mercy will not be abundant for you. Matthew is much like uh you know Paul considered himself, you know, because he you know held the cloaks of those that stoned Stephen. He says, I'm the chief of sinners Matthew here he's presenting himself as the chief of sinners. I'm the chief. And if God can save the chief, he can save you. If you've committed sin for a lifetime, it's not enough for Christ to turn away from you. Even if your sins were public, blatant, if it was your lifestyle, that's how you're identified. You're identified by your sin. That's how people know you. It's your lifestyle. That's who I am. Even if that's you, the the Bible lets us know that Jesus has compassion and he will not disassociate himself from you if you're willing to come to him by faith Recognizing yourself for who you are, turning to him in repentance. Are you ready to follow? Are you ready to follow after Christ? There's an interesting story. James Montgomery Boyce. Told the story of a the famous Dutch painter Rembrandt. Some of you recognize that name. In one of his most famous paintings of the crucifixion, he portrayed all the characters that you'd expect to find. You know, he had Jesus, he had the thieves, had the soldiers, he had the crowds, the onlookers, you know, everybody that you'd expect to find in that kind of scene. But down in the corner of the of the painting, Rembrandt painted his own face in the crowd. Painted his own face in the crowd because he wanted to recognize himself as a sinner. Recognizing himself as a sinner, recognizing himself as guilty. And he was just as much in need of God's grace as everybody else. Is that how you see yourself? When you think about the sinner, do you have a little self-portrait of yourself down in the corner saying that's that's me? That's who I am. And the only hope that I have is the one who came to be the Savior for sinners. Do you recognize yourself for who you are? And if you do, where's your compassion for the lost? Do you have compassion for others that are trapped in their sins? Calvin said if we uh John Calvin said this, he says, if we feel disgust at being associated by baptism in the Lord's Supper with vile men. and regard our connection with them as a sort of stain upon us, we ought immediately to search our own flattery, without flattery, our own evils. You need to take a hard look at yourself. If you have a Christian brother that you're unwilling to associate yourself with, you need to take a hard look at yourself. Who do I think I am? Am I willing to paint my own portrait on the side of the crowd that put Jesus to death? The song Rock of Ages says these words well, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Nothing simply to thy cross I cling naked come to thee for dress helpless look to thee for grace Vile I to the fountain fly Wash me Savior or I die Rock of age is cleft for me let me hide myself in thee The only place that we can find refuge and help and comfort is going to be in the arms of Jesus Christ, isn't it? That's the only place we're going to find help. We need to have compassion on the lost. Amen. Because we were one of them. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh this opportunity to look at your word. Uh Father, we thank you for the example of Matthew. And how he's an example to us of a sinner who came to you by faith, a sinner who heard the call of Jesus Christ to follow me. That there was nothing that he had to do, no rules that he had to obey, no rituals that he had to perform. It was only through faith and faith alone in Jesus Christ alone that he was saved, that he was rescued. And Father, he's an example to all of us, Lord, that if Christ calls, Lord, that we should be willing to drop all to follow him. And Father, I pray that there's any here who are holding on to their old life. Holding on to their sins in rejection of Jesus Christ. Those that haven't come to this banquet, those that haven't. Responded to the invitation to come and feast, my father, that they would recognize that that in their rejection of the invitation that they're rejecting Christ, that they're rejecting God, that it's an insult. And Father, I just pray that uh that there would be those here even today that would recognize their sinfulness and respond to the call of the Savior. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.