The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we take our Bibles and uh open up to Matthew chapter 26, Matthew chapter 26? This morning we arrive at verses 57 to 68, and it's uh amazing to me how much of Matthew is already in the rear view mirror. I know uh we've been in this book for a while, but uh we're definitely rushing down the other side of this mountain that's called Matthew's Gospel, and I pray that each of us has gained a greater appreciation and love for Christ in the process. There was a uh a conference that I attended a number of years ago and I remember uh John MacArthur saying that the deeper your understanding of the truth of God, the higher your worship goes. That worship is directly correlated to your understanding, and the richer your theology, the more elevated your worship becomes. And uh I just know for for me that uh in the process of uh working through the Gospel of Matthew that uh that Christ is just so much more majestic and glorious uh to me than I understood him to be before And it's good that we take our time working through these sections on the life of Christ, because if we don't go deep, we won't go very high. As we just sang a song about Jesus, the one who is uh worthy, who's the treasure of heaven, who's seated on the throne, who's high and lifted up. Uh but the worship of him becomes so much more rich and deep when our understanding of him is so much more rich and deep. And if we don't go deep, we won't go very high in our worship either. So let's Begin our reading in Matthew chapter 26, and I'll start at verse 57. Matthew 26, starting at verse 57. Since those who had seized Jesus Led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. But Peter was following him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest and entered in and sat down with the officers to see the outcome Now the chief priest and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death. They did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward. But later on too came forward and said, This man stated, I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. The high priest stood up and said to him, Do you not answer? What is it that these men are testifying against you? But Jesus kept silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. And the high priest tore his robes and said, He has blasphemed. What further need do we have of witnesses? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy. What do you think? They answered, He deserves death. Then they spat in his face and beat him with their fists, and others slapped him, and said, Prophesy to us, ye Christ, who is the one who hit you? Aren't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you and uh Father, we're grateful for your word. Father, we're grateful for the power and the authority of your scriptures. Father, for the truthfulness of it, for the way that it's conveyed to us, for the transmission of the text, that we can hold in our hands the very word of God. Father, I pray that you would help us not just to be those who hear your word, but that we would be transformed by it. Father, I pray that we would have a greater appreciation and understanding of who Jesus Christ is. That we'd have a greater love for him, a greater obedience to him, a greater honor to him as our Lord, as our savior, as our master, as our King. Father, I pray that you would help us Help us today. Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you have any experience sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ, you can almost predict the point in the conversation when the train has left the station. If you know what I'm talking about, for a period of time it might seem like the person that you're talking to is following you, they're on track. with what you're saying, but then as soon as it seems like you're getting close to applying the message of the gospel directly to them, you can already see that the train has left the station And it usually sounds something like this. You know, I understand what you're saying, but what about and you can almost fill in the blank before you even hear what they they have to say. You know, what about the people who have never heard the gospel before What about all the other religions of the world? How could a good God allow evil and suffering? How could a good God send people to hell? How do we know that the Bible is true? Aren't there errors in the Bible? And how do you explain all those miracles in the Bible? I don't really get with all that. How do you explain all those miracles? I even had somebody tell me that they couldn't believe in the Bible until they figured out where Cain got his wife from. I'm like, is is that what's really standing between you and eternity? Mrs. Cain. Like you need to figure out who Mrs. Cain is before you give your life to Jesus Christ. Is that going to be the hang up here? And even if you answer some of their questions to their satisfaction, there's always another question right behind it. And you wonder, when will I ever reach the bottom? And it can be frustrating. You know, sometimes you can walk away thinking, if I only had a better answer. If I had a more convincing argument, you know, I could have won this person over to the Lord. And what can seem even more frustrating is that you can look at the very same answers that you gave them The very same evidence from Scripture, the very same sound biblical arguments that convinced you when you say it all makes so much sense to me I don't know how. I don't know why. They don't understand this. Why don't they see this? Like it's so plain. And you can start to believe that, you know, I'm the problem. You know, maybe you're the problem. But what we're going to see in the passage before us today is that it's not your witness for Christ that's the problem. The problem is that Jesus doesn't receive a fair hearing Because the natural heart is bent away from Jesus Christ. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 14, it says, But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. And he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. The doctrine of total depravity teaches us that every part of our being has been corrupted by the fall. Our desires, our speech, our actions, our direction, our relationships, our thinking have all been corrupted. Nothing's left untouched. And our hearts are so natural so naturally bent away from the truth that left to ourselves, we would reject the truth even if it was staring us in the face. Men like to think of themselves as as neutral, as open-minded. It's uh what uh presuppositional apologists call the myth of neutrality You know, it's it's a myth that you're neutral. They they believe that they uh uh of stand before God with this kind of open mind, you know, I'm just sitting neutral, I'm just trying to determine what the facts are, I just want to weigh the evidence, you know, I want to see what makes sense But John chapter 3 verse 19 says, this is the judgment that the light has come into the world, and men love what? Darkness. Men have a natural bent to darkness. Men love darkness rather than delight and their for their deeds were evil. So when Adam sent in the garden, you don't find Adam running around saying, hey God, God, where are you? God, I'm lost. God, help me, help me, God. You don't find Adam doing that. What do you find? You find God coming to the garden saying, Adam, where are you? Because man on his own does not seek after God. God has to be the one who seeks after man. Neutrality is a myth. We're not born into this world sitting at zero, equally inclined to move towards righteousness or wickedness. Psalm 58, verse 3 says, the wicked are estranged from the womb. Psalm 51 verse 5 says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. And until our hearts are changed, the bent of our heart is doubt seeking justification. rather than faith seeking understanding. That's why the evidence and reasoning and demonstrations of God's miraculous powers and scripture bring such encouragement To the believer. They strengthen our hearts. Like we look at that it's like wow, this is amazing. I can't believe this. Look at the look at the consistency of the scriptures. Look at how this just gets on top of that. I mean it's also amazing. It's the mind of God. It just blows us away But then you can show that same scripture to an unbeliever and they're just like uh I don't I don't get it. What's what's the big deal? I don't I don't see what's so important about this book. It's like what in the world? Like are you kidding me That's why Jesus can cast out spirits, and the Pharisees can say, This man cast out demons only by the Alzebul, the ruler of demons. And they're like, what? You're gonna look at the miracles of Christ and you're gonna say that. I mean, look at all the evidence for who Jesus is. He's displaying his deity right in front of your face. And then you look at it and say, Oh, that's only the ruler of demons Or while Jesus could say in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, if they do not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded, even if someone rises from the dead. It's like you could do all the miracles you want. An unbeliever, because they're bent towards unbelief, you could show them all the proofs and evidences and everything else, and it's like that it's like I can find another explanation for that. You know, maybe it's a UFO. I mean who knows what happened there? Like why is the tomb empty? I don't know. We'll figure out science will come up with the answer someday. Don't worry about that. Don't you worry about that. We we have we have solutions here But we don't want to get into all this spiritual mumbo jumbo and talking about God doing this kind of work, right? There's no amount of evidence, reasoning, or miracles that will be able to change a heart in heart And it wouldn't even matter if the Son of God was standing right in front of your face. And that's exactly what we see in the passage before us. We have a group of men who are literally standing before the truth. Right? Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. They're standing before the truth. They're standing before Jesus Christ But they're so totally blinded that they've reached a verdict before the trial even begins. Jesus doesn't receive a fair hearing. He didn't receive a fair hearing then. He doesn't receive a fair hearing today. And what we have before us is the grossest miscarriage of justice in all history. The innocent one is condemned by the guilty. The judge is being sentenced by the criminals. The truth is being suppressed by a lie And Jesus didn't receive a fair hearing. He didn't receive a fair hearing, which only reveals how fallen we are apart from God. So let's remind ourselves of the context again. The events that we read about in our passage are taking place on Thursday night. Thursday night is transitioning into Friday, early Friday morning Thursday evening, Jesus concluded the Passover celebration with his disciples as Judas scurried off into the night, slithered off. The snake. As night fell, the disciples descended up the Mount of Olives, where Judas had three uh or Jesus rather had three seasons of triumphant prayer in the spirit, while his uh disciples were defeated by Dozes, three dozes in the garden, as they caved into the weakness of their flesh. The disciples had a rude awakening when a mob of up to eight hundred to a thousand people led by Judas himself, broke the silence of the peace of that night, and Jesus was delivered over into the hands of sinners by the kiss of a traitor. And verse 57 picks up where we left off as Jesus is led away. Look at verse 57 with me again. It says, Those who had seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. So here at long last, Jesus was finally in their clutches, in the hands of the religious leadership, and they wasted no time assembling an emergency council to bring swift justice to the one who had done nothing but acts of kindness and spoke nothing but words of righteousness. But he rejected their authority and that was the problem. That's the problem. He rejects our authority. So they're finally going to set things right And it didn't matter how much wrong they had to do in order to try to set things right in their minds. When you read the uh the words, they led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest. where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. You may not realize it at first, but there were all kinds of violations that were taking place on this night. This meeting took place late at night, which was illegal according to the Mishnah, which is an authoritative collection of Jewish oral tradition. This is some of the rules that they followed. So this meeting took place late at night. It was illegal to conduct a meeting like this at night. They particularly believed that cases that potentially involved capital punishment where somebody could be put to death should be conducted during the day when everybody's clear thinking. They can only meet from the morning until the evening sacrifice and this arrest takes place well into the night. According to the Mishnah, it was also prohibited that court would meet on a Sabbath or on a feast day. And this day was the beginning of the Passover, one of the largest pilgrim festivals of the Jewish calendar. So they violated that. This meeting also took place in a house rather than in the temple, which is where the council would have normally met, south of the temple court. According to the Mishnah Capital cases, or cases that might lead to execution, had to begin with reasons for acquittal. In other words, testimony was to be brought forward to argue for the innocence of the person who was being accused. That's the first thing that was supposed to happen. Somebody was supposed to argue in favor of Jesus. That never happened. There's supposed to be an agreement of witnesses ahead of any conviction. Deuteronomy chapter 17 and verse 6 says on the evidence of two witnesses or three witnesses He who is to die shall be put to death. He shall not be put to death on the evidence of one witness. The hand of the witnesses shall be the first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. So ye shall purge the evil from your midst But in this case, Jesus was brought before the council first, and only after they brought Jesus to the court did they try to find out if they had any witnesses. Everything's out of order. But like I said, Jesus doesn't receive a fair hearing. And the injustice began even before Judas arrived, or Jesus arrived at the house of Caiaphas. Why don't you turn with me in your Bibles over to John chapter 18? John chapter 18. Because uh John includes some details that Matthew leaves out of his account John chapter 18 and we'll start at verse 12. John chapter 18 starting at verse 12 So the Roman cohort and the commander and the officers of the Jews arrested Jesus and bound him and led him to Annas first. For he was father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. Now you've got to think about what's what's happening here, okay? If you're supposed to appear in court, Do the officers take you to see the father-in-law of the judge first before you go and see the judge? Like what sense does that make? You know, Annas is the father-in-law of Caiaphas But they take him to Annas first before they go to Caiaphas. Like what 's going on here? What does the father-in-law of the high priest have to do with anything? You know, why would the Roman soldiers bring Jesus to Annas Well, it's because Annas was the man pulling the strings behind the scenes. Not only uh was Annas the father-in-law of Caiaphas, but he also served as high priest before Caiaphas served as high priest. He was a retired high priest who still retained the title of high priest and still wielded a lot of power in Israel. So he was one of the the good old boys. You know, you got to check with the the man behind the scenes who's who's pulling the strings He was high priest for six to seven years. And after he stepped down, the position of high priest was held by his son-in-law Caipus, as well as five of his own sons. So so he kept it in the family. It was like, you know, the religion was the family business. For Annas. So even though he didn't have the official position of high priest, he still held on to a lot of the influence for many years. And if you remember when uh Jesus came into the temple and he was turning over the tables, the money changers, the dovesellers, and everybody else Guess guess who set that up? That was Annis. That was Anis 's bazaar. Religion was the family business. Jesus was threatening the bottom line. So before Jesus sees Caiaphas He's brought to father-in-law. You've got to see the father-in-law first. You know, we're going to bring it to the man with the power. Drop down to verse 19, chapter 18 of uh John. It says, the high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples, the high priest here being Anish. The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his teaching. Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world. I always taught in synagogues and in the temple where all the Jews come together, and I spoke nothing in secret. Why do you question me? Question those who have heard what I spoke to them. They know what I said. When he had said this, one of the officers standing nearby struck Jesus, saying, Is that the way you answer the high priest? Really? Really? Jesus here he's saying, you know, I'm not the one who called this meeting here You know, you're you're gonna call me before you even have anything against me? But but you're calling me the you to tell you like what I'm here for, right? Like what sense did that make? If you have something against me, why don't you just just give it? You know, just just just spill it. Who arrests somebody first and then tries to figure out what they did wrong later? But this is what's going on. Arrest him first, and then we'll figure out what the charges are once he gets here. So Jesus called him out on it. Like if you got something, tell me. If not, why am I here? And then when he had said this, one of the officers standing struck Jesus saying, is that the way you answer the high priest? Struck him. The word struck means to give a blow. Rapidma, a blow with the open hand, especially on the face. And Jesus answers in verse 23, if I've spoken wrongly, testified the wrong. But if rightly, why do you strike me? Have have you ever been caught like doing something wrong and you have no explanation for what you just did, but you try to play it off anyway? I mean that's that's what's going on. This officer has no excuse for his behavior. He doesn't have anything. So so I mean there's nothing to say And Annes is left speechless because he doesn't know like what the charges are. He's trying to get it out of Jesus. So they can't come up with the crime, so they just get him out of here So Anna sent him down to Caiaphas the high priest. Like out of frustration. Like I don't I don't know what to do with this guy. Like just get him out of here. Bring him to Caiaphas. My son-in-law will take care of him. You know, that that'll teach him. Got get rid of that guy. It's like they didn't have anything Nothing. They don't know why Jesus is there. All they know is that Jesus is guilty. That's all they know It's kind of like uh when people they say, oh, you know, the Bible is full of errors. Then you ask them, can you can you can you show me like here 's the Bible, can you show me what those errors are that you're talking about? It's like, well Oh it's uh you know somewhere uh I think it's uh first Hezekiah somewhere it's said uh I don't know just it's just full errors. It's like tell me I mean that's like what's going on It's like, you know, if if if I've done something wrong, tell me about it. They don't have anything. Oh, we just we just know that he's wrong. Just get him over to Caiaphas Because they don't have anything. Not even attempt to give Jesus an answer for his question because they don't have one. They can't testify to anything that Jesus did that was wrong. Nothing that he's done, nothing that he said. So Anna sent him bound to Caiaphas the high priest, and that's where Matthew 26, if you want to flip back there, picks up. Verse 20 57, Matthew 26, verse 57. Where it says those who had seized Jesus led them away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. And like I said, this meeting took place at night, beginning of the Passover, in a house, without any arguments, in Jesus' defense without any witnesses gathered beforehand. And in the middle of the night, members of the Jewish council are being gathered together for a hasty midnight meeting. Emergency meeting guys. You know, wake up. I know you might be sleeping, but we got an emergency meeting. We got to get you out of here because we need a quorum. We we need enough people here so that we can actually convict Jesus. No preparation, no warning. It only took three judges to form a council, but it took at least 23 judges, according to the Mishnah, to try a case for capital punishment. So judges would have been taken out of their beds for this one And they would have likely wanted to try to gather the full 71 member Sanhedrin. And it's clear that the verdict, by the time they're here, is has already been reached before the trial began. Over in uh John chapter 11, I know I'm flipping you around, but uh John chapter 11, just want to point this out real quick. In verse 47, we mentioned this before But in verse 47, it lets us know that the decision was already reached before Jesus arrived. Verse 47, therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a counsel and were saying, What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation, which shows you what they're really concerned about. But one of them Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all. Nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people and that the whole nation not perish. Caiaphas already had in his mind what he wanted to do with Jesus. It's already clear where Caiaphas stands. Over in Matthew 26 and verse 3, it says the chief priests and elders of the people were gathered in the court of the high priest named Caiaphas and they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill him. It was already the plan before Jesus showed up. So why even go through with the trial This is all an act at this point. There's absolutely no interest in justice, no interest in what's right They're not here to give Jesus a fair hearing. They're making convictions as they go along. They already have the punishment now. They just need to come up with the crime. And while all this is going on, there's one disciple who's disguising himself, sitting in the courtyard waiting for something to happen, and we meet him in verse 58, says, but Peter was following him at a distance As far as the courtyard of the high priest and entered in and sat down with the officers to see the outcome. It's a small detail in this immediate section, but it's an important detail that sets up what we'll cover next time, Lord Wellan. But apparently Peter still isn't ready to accept That the suffering of Christ is going to take place as it was predicted. Matthew 16, Jesus said, he must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed. But Peter is still waiting to see what's going to happen. Why is he waiting to see what's going to happen? He already should know what's going to happen because Jesus told him what's going to happen, right? But here he is waiting to see what's going to happen, still holding out some hope that this isn't really going to play out the way that Jesus said it would But rather than following Jesus by his side, Peter followed Jesus from a distance. And now he sits in the dark undercover with the temple officers By a fire. Peter's too curious to stay away, but he's not courageous enough to step forward as a witness. Like I said, they they should have had a witness in the beginning to say that this man is innocent He's too curious to stay away. He's not courageous enough to step forward. And it's a brave move in one sense that Peter would come this close. But it's a b bravery that's that's powered by the flesh. Empowered by the flesh. And how do we know that? Because Jesus already already made it clear that they would be operating in the power of the flesh if they didn't do what If they didn't pray. If they didn't pray, they weren't prepared for this. Matthew 26, 41, keep watching and praying that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. And without the power of the Spirit, all you're left with is the weakness of the flesh. And Jesus already predicted that Peter would fall. Jesus said to them that you will all fall away because of me this night. But Peter here makes a feeble attempt to try to stand in the power of his own ability. And his strength is strong enough to bring him within a far distance of Jesus. And he sits in the middle of Jesus' enemies. At the fire. And we'll learn more about this next time. But one commentator makes the observation, if we will not pray with Jesus, we will sit with his enemies. And that was definitely true in the case of Peter. Definitely true. He went to pray with Jesus as a friend, and now he sits among Jesus' enemies. But this detail helps us. understand what's uh what lit leads up to peter's denials. As MacArthur pointed out, he boasted too much, he prayed too little. He acted too fast and he followed too far. And sadly that's typical of disciples even today, right? Typical of us. We boast too much, pray too little, act too fast, follow too far. When following Christ becomes costly, we're we're behind him, but we're way behind him, right? You know, like like uh uh back in high school, you know, somebody's about to get into a fight they shouldn't be in. It's like, hey, I got your back. Like way back Way back. Are you willing to follow Christ even if it costs you? Are you willing to follow Christ if it costs you? We're actually, you're actually safer by Christ's side in the fire? Than at a distance from Christ next to the fire. You understand that? Peter warming himself by the fire, thinking that he's safe out there. He would have actually been safer next to Christ. No, jumping in the fire with Christ. He would have been safer there than thinking that I've got some distance from Christ. I'm going to sit here by the fire. We need to make sure that we're drawing close to our Savior. Second point here. After you have this arrest that takes place, the council makes a false arrest. You have the council taking and receiving false testimonies. Look at verse 59, the council receiving false testimonies It says now the chief priest and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death They did not find any, even though many false witnesses came forward, but later on two came forward and said, this man stated, I am able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. It's the council's job to hear testimonies, not to create them. But as we've already established, the council is no longer acting like a council. This is the lynch mob, is what it is. And all they're looking for are two sentences that are co that are coherent enough that they can string together long enough that they can present before the Roman government to get Jesus killed. Like like that's all that they want. We just want something that seems to make sense. Just for tonight. We've just got to make it make sense for tonight, and then we can be done with this and move on. Roman law allowed subjected nations to practice their own laws. Particularly their religious laws, but Roman law did not permit them to carry out the death penalty. In uh John 1831, it says the Jews said to Pilate, We are not permitted to put anyone to death And they can't afford for Jesus to continue his ministry and influence, even if he's in prison. They want blood. We need to be done with Jesus. So the circus begins for a false witness. No hesitations about this at all. Getting the false witness. They already paid money to have Jesus betrayed. You know, they're not going to have any problem coming up with false witnesses Mark 14, 56 says, for many were giving false testimony against him, but their testimony was not consistent. It's kind of hard to be consistent when you're not telling the truth. When you're lying, it's hard to keep up with the last lie that you told, right? Proverbs 14. 5 says a false witness utter lie, others lies. Proverbs 1425 says he who utters lies is treacherous This is treachery that's going on here. And then finally two witnesses come forward who believe they have something that they could potentially trap Jesus with. Look at verse 61. This man stated, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days. That's the best they can come up with. Three and a half years worth of files on Jesus, and the best that they can come up with to put him to death is he said, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and rebuild it in three days But Mark 14, 59 says that not even in this respect was their testimony consistent. Because that's not even what Jesus said. Flip over to John chapter 2. John chapter 2. Look at verse 19. Actually I'll start at verse 18. John chapter 2, starting at verse 18. This is after Jesus cleanses the temple for the first time. Look at verse 18. It says, The Jews then said to him, What sign do you show us? As your authority for doing these things. You know, you came in here, wreck shop in our temple, everything's all over the place. Like, like, who are you to come and do this? What what what kind of defense do you give for yourself? Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Now, here's the question. Did Jesus say that I will destroy the temple? No! He says, you destroy this temple. And in three days I'll raise it up. And Jesus wasn't even speaking about the literal temple. He was speaking about the temple of his body. Verse 21 says. And here, while they're trying to destroy Jesus, they're actually fulfilling the prophecy that he made to destroy this temple. This is this is just a total mockery of justice. They can't even agree on that simple phrase. You know, did he say that he's going to destroy it or that we're going to destroy it? Like something's going on here. Just put that in there. That makes sense. Just string that one together. Not even that makes sense. And apparently Caiaphas didn't believe that that was enough evidence to bring before the Romans So now he tries to get Jesus in on it. Like can can you help us out here, Jesus? Help me, Jesus. Help me Jesus, right? Just like can can you help me convict you? Look at verse 62. It says the high priest stood up and said to him, Don't you answer? What is it that these men are testifying against you? Like just give me something. You heard what they said. What do you think about that? Verse 63. But Jesus kept silent. I just love that. I just love that. Jesus ignores the false charges. I have nothing to say. And it must have been a piercing silence as Jesus just glares back at Caiaphas. See through every hiding place of Caiaphas 's wretched soul, just staring back. Like I I'm not I'm not giving you anything for that. You th you you really want me to engage with this kind of kangaroo court? Like like this is a joke. I'm not even going to dignify this by giving you an answer. Mockery of justice. These rulers are nothing more than actors on a stage pretending that they're on the search for truth. And the Lord hates every minute of it. Proverbs chapter 6, verse 17 says, The Lord hates haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, and his blood is the most innocent. A heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, a false witness who utters lies. And these guys did every one of those. I hate that. I hate it. Deuteronomy 16, 19, you shall not distort justice. Isaiah 5, verse 20. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who substitute darkness for light and light for darkness, who substitute bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and clever in their own sight. What are those who are heroes in drinking wine and valiant men in mixing strong drink? Who justify the wicked for a bribe and take away the rights of the ones who are in the right? Therefore, as a tongue of fire consumes stubble, and dry grass collapses into the flame, so their root will become like rot, and their blossom blow away in the dust, for they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. I have nothing to say to you guys. I'm not going to play along with your game, devising a wicked plan, perverting justice. There's also no need to answer as false accusers. Why dignify this, like I said? And we can learn a lot from Jesus here, can't we? Do you feel like you have to answer every critic? in every false charge that's placed against you? You know, sometimes we can feel like, you know, I have to give an answer for every every false accusation. You know, I've got to have like a comeback. Every attack on our character, you know, we've got to come back and like defend myself. I gotta defend myself. But Christ left us an example that even in the way that he suffered slander against his name. In 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 21 it says, For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. Do you trust the one who judges righteously? Or do you feel like I've got to be the one that defends myself every time, every case? You don't you don't have to answer every attack from every critic. You know, if if it's for the glory of God, if it's for the sake of the gospel, the furtherance of the gospel, you know, it makes sense to return, you know, like to to to get some kind of defense. But but outside of that, it's like I'm not gonna just sit here and try to defend myself I'm just going to trust the one who judges righteously. I'm going to trust this all to the Lord. And in fulfillment of scripture, Jesus stood silent before his accusers. Isaiah 53, verse 7. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth, like a lamb that is led to slaughter, like a sheep that is silent before its shearers, so he did not open his mouth. Jesus was Giving himself up in this moment for us, humbly sacrificing himself, his right to fight back, is a sacrificial lamb. John chapter 10 it says that he lays down his life. He refuses to fight, false charges of his enemies. And so far, everything that was said on this night was completely fabricated. Like I'm not even going to answer this But then in verse 63, the high priest finally touches on the real reason that Jesus is standing before them, and this is where Jesus breaks the silence. Look at verse 63 again It says, and the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Now we're talking. Now we're talking. Everything else was beating around the bush, grasping at straw, searching in vain for some kind of charge against Jesus Now we finally get to what's really eating away at the high priest in the Jewish Council. And the high priest has no idea who he's trying to put under oath. When he says, I adjure you by the living God. It's like, who do you think you're talking to? Who do you think you're talking to? Tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Christ is the Greek term for the Hebrew word Messiah, anointed one, the promised king, the king of kings, the Lord of Lords. So the high priest is asking, Are you the Davidic king that the scriptures prophesied about? The one who God speaks of in Psalm 2 verse 8, Ask of me and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, the very ends of the earth as your possession. And are you the son of God? It's clear from several passages that the Jewish people understood the phrase, Son of God, meant to claim deity for yourself. In John chapter 5, Jesus healed a man on a Sabbath, and when he was questioned about doing the work of healing on the Sabbath, he responded, By saying this in verse 17 of John chapter 5, he answered them, My father is working until now, and I myself am working. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him. Because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but was also calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. They understood what he meant when he said that. Later on in this charge the Jewish people bring up before Pilate, later on this night, when they come before Pilate, the reason they give to Pilate In chapter 19 and verse 7 of John, it says, The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die, because he made himself out to be the Son of God. He's claiming deity for himself Sakaiaphas exercises every bit of authority he can muster up to place Jesus under oath. I adjure you means to place under oath. He even dares to call on the living God who Caiaphas has already been violating multiple times on this very night. Why call God into this? The Caiaphas finally asked the important question that they should have been asking all along. Are you the Christ, the Son of God? Are you the Christ, the Son of God? That's the right question. It's actually the most important question to ask. Who is Jesus? Right? If you've been with us in Matthew, you should recognize that someone else asked his disciples that same question. It was Jesus. Back in Matthew chapter 16, while he was with his disciples in Caesarea Philippi, after a time of a private retreat, he asked his disciples, who do you say that I am? And Simon Peter answered, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God, which is exactly what Cosmos is asking Jesus. Are you the Christ, the Son of God? And now we have that same question by the chief priest. It's not even open-ended, just saying, Who are you? They're specific about it. Are you the Christ, the Son of God? And this is the question that Jesus finally wants to respond to. First, he affirms the titles the Caiaphas gives him. He responds by saying, you have said it. You've said it. You've said it yourself. And what he means by that is what you say is true about me. What you're saying now is true about me. Everything else so far has been totally false. I'll respond to this one because this is true. I am the Christ. I am the Son of God. What you say is true. He's not saying, well, I I never I never claim that for myself. You know, if you want to say that about me, you know, maybe I'll that's not what he's saying He's saying, yes, you said it. What you're saying is right. I am the Christ. I am the Son of God. And just so there's no confusion about what I mean by that Let me quote two verses of scripture to make myself clear. Look again at Matthew chapter 26. It says in verse. 64, Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power. Why don't you flip over to uh Psalm 110? Psalm 110. Psalm 110 is uh regarded by ancient rabbis to be a messianic psalm. According to the Talmud, in several places this Psalm is clearly interpreted with reference to the Messiah. And out of all the Psalms that the New Testament quotes and uses, Psalm 110 is by far the psalm that is the most quoted and alluded to. It's a psalm that speaks about the Messiah's exaltation to the right hand of God. It speaks about his reign from Zion. It speaks about his role as priest. It speaks about his role as judge. But listen to what David says in the Spirit, Psalm 110. Look at verse 1. It says, The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And in this passage, uh David is giving a description Of what the Lord says to his Lord. And if you notice that uh in most of your Bibles, that first use of the the word Lord is in all capitals. That's the ancient Jewish name for for God at the beginning of that verse. And then the second use of the word Lord Is the word for master. The Lord, God, Yahweh, says to my Lord, my master, my Adonai. And here it refers to the Messiah. And listen to what the Messiah will do. He will sit at God's right hand. That's the position of supreme power. Authority to be at the right hand of the king meant that there was nobody higher than you in the kingdom except that king. It was a place of supreme power and authority, and this Messiah will be seated at the right hand of God Himself. So that's why when David refers to the Messiah, who will come from his lineage, he refers to that Messiah as his Lord. Like this one is above me. This one is beyond me. This one is my Lord. This is the one that I worship. The Messiah is higher than David because the Messiah is in the position of supreme power and glory. And the Messiah is more than a son of David. He's the son of God. The second second verse that he refers to is over in Daniel chapter 7. Daniel chapter 7 and verse 13. If you can find it, you can follow along with me. Daniel chapter 7. This is the second verse that Jesus quotes from. In Daniel chapter 7, in verse 13, he says, it says, I kept looking in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man was coming. And he came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. The book of Daniel was written to a group of Jews who were in exile under Gentile domination. They're without a king, they're without a land, they're essentially without hope. And Daniel reminds them that there is a God in heaven who does whatever he pleases. And there's coming a time when he's going to send his ancient one, the ancient of days, took up a seat. There's going to come one who is the son of man, the ancient of days, referring to God, is going to send this one, the son of man. And this is what verse 13 speaks about. One like the son of man was coming. And came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion, glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, men of every language might serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. What kind of king is this who all the nations serve, who exercises everlasting dominion over the peoples, over the nations, over the men It's the Son of Man who's the Lord of glory. This is who he's talking about. This is think about what's going on here. Jesus Has just identified before these the chief priests, the high priest, and these other religious rulers. He's just identified himself as the Messiah, the Son of God. He's verbally acknowledged that what Caiaphas said about him was true, like what you said is right. I'm the Christ, I am the Son of God. That's what he says to acknowledge before him He then follows it up by giving them biblical support. He quotes two separate texts to show that the Bible anticipated that a Messiah would come. That Israel should have been expecting a fulfillment of the Bible's prophecies. So I said it. Yes, what you said is true. The Bible predicted that this is what would happen. And just in case they were unaware of his miraculous powers that defended him, just this night Just this night, when they went to the Garden of Gethsemane to arrest Jesus, Jesus declared his power before them 800 to a thousand men came to arrest Jesus. All Jesus said is, I'm he. Boom! Everybody falls flat All she said was, I am he, I am. Boom, everybody falls flat. Tell me that's not power. Just the word. That's all he had to say was the word. Malchus. The slave of the high priest had his ear reattached after it was whacked off by Peter on this very night. You've got evidence, guys! Like like these guys behind me that came to arrest me, tell tell me what position you were in just a couple minutes ago, guys. Like they're all flat Hey Malchus, I mean he's the slave of the high priest. Hey Malchus, can you can you explain to the high priest what just happened to you tonight? Like the miraculous power of Christ is on display So when he says, I'm the Christ, I'm the Son of the living God, you should expect that somebody might say, you know what? We we might want to check this out before we move ahead with this, guys Hey guys, you know, I I was there. I've been in a lot of battles, you know, I'm a battle-hardened soldier, but but I got laid out Without him picking up a weapon. Like, that's pretty significant. Like, I think we might want to slow down just a little bit Or Malchus, you know, hey Caiaphas, you know, like this here, like this one right here, this year. Like, like it got chopped off tonight, and all she did was pick it up and put it back Like you you might want to slow down before you want to convict this guy. Or maybe Peter, you know, who's waiting in the wings. I mean, maybe he'll identify himself. You know, men of Judea! You who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you. Give heed to my words. This is the Christ, the Son of God. God has made him both Lord and Christ. You might, I mean, to somebody, somewhere, speak up and say something, right? You'd expect like somebody to have some sanity in his place. Because you know, aren't they just neutral and looking for the truth? I mean, that's that's where they are, right? You know, all all they need is just give me just a little bit more evidence. You know, I'm just I'm just trying to figure things out. I mean all I really want to have is my questions answered. You know, I I just want to know where Cain got his wife from. If I could just have that answered, you know, I'd just I'd just be okay if you can just like do that for me. You know, I'm just I'm just searching for the truth guys. Can you can you help me out? You know, just a little bit of Bible study was is all I need. You know, just just got like maybe three or four questions, you know, to have answered here tonight Who could present a better testimony than Jesus Christ in the flesh? Here you have Jesus. He is the answer to all their questions. He had just demonstrated his miracle working power that very night. Shouldn't we read something like, you know, blessed are you, Caiaphas, son of Anis, God has revealed this truth to you that I am the Christ, the Son of the living God. We should read something like that. But that's not what happens Caiaphas lands on the right question, are you the Christ, the Son of the Living God, but he doesn't like the answer. He doesn't like the answer. That same blessed truth that would have filled those original disciples with joy and excitement filled the high priest and the council with nothing but rage and hatred. And the council condemns the true Christ. Look at verse 65 back in Matthew. Verse 65. Says then the high priest tore his robes and said, He has blasphemed. What further need do we have the witnesses? Behold, you have now heard the blasphemy. What do you think? They answered, he deserves death. There's no weighing of the evidence. It's just an immediate rejection Immediate rejection. Tearing the robe was a sign of mourning. I found it interesting that the high priest was not allowed to display this sign of mourning in scripture. It was actually forbidden for the high priest to tear his robe. Leviticus 21 verse 10 says, The priest, who is the highest among his brothers, the high priest, on whose head the anointing oil has been poured, and who has been consecrated to wear the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor tear his clothes. But here you have the high priest, you know, who's calling on God and riffing his clothes and mourning. I'm just in such grief that I've got to disobey the commands of God because of what this man just said, that he's the Christ. I just can't believe it. Hulking out. Hulking out. Caicist also reached his decision for the death of Christ on the same night of the hearing, which was also illegal to do. It was required by law to allow a 24-hour period in between this decision. No allowance for time to pass by. Oh, he's guilty of blasphemy. Caiaphas never secured any witnesses who would argue in favor of Christ and he didn't want any? What further need do we have of witnesses? I don't even want to hear. Don't confuse me with the evidence. Don't confuse me with the facts, man. He is guilty. He is just guilty. And then Conscious lures the other members of the committee into the same thing. And he's really not interested in hearing their opinion either I mean look listen to how he talks to him. Behold, you've now heard the blasphemy. What do you think? Like what else do you expect him to think? You just told him what to think You know, I've I I heard in seminary like if you really want to know what people think about the ministry, you don't tell them, hey, I think things are going great around here. What do you think? It's like you're already it's like what am I supposed to say now? Like everything is wonderful, everything is perfect around here. How about you? What do you say? It's like I guess it's good. You know, so here Caiaphas. He's guilty of blasphemy. You've heard the blasphemy. All right, tell me, what do you think? Oh yeah, he's guilty of blasphemy. Guilty of blasphemy, boss. Yeah, boss I think he needs to die. He needs to die. Like you don't really want an answer. And then without so much as an investigation of Jesus' claims, they begin with the insults and the injuries. And it's painful to see the way that our precious Lord Jesus is treated with such contempt. He's treated beneath the dignity of a human being. To spit in somebody's face was the ultimate insult. To place one outside the camp of Israel for seven days, if it was a punishment that was deserved for children in Numbers chapter 12, verse 14. Deuteronomy 25, it was the punishment that a man deserved who refused to care for his brother's widow and raise children for his brother. He was spit in his face. Job mentions it twice to demonstrate the utter disgrace and humiliation that he received in Job 17, verse 6. Says, but he has made me a byword of the people, and I am one at whom men spit. Job 30 verse 10 says, They abhor me and they stand aloof from me and they do not refrain from spitting at my face. I had a family member. Who was spit in the face by a group of racists, and he said he couldn't think of a worse insult. He said, I would have actually preferred to be jumped and beat down than to have somebody spit in my face Like it was that bad. Just beat me up, but don't spit in my face. Our Lord gave his face to spitting. It's prophesied in Isaiah 50 verse 6. Isaiah 50 verse 6, listen to what it says. I gave my back to those who strike me. and my cheeks to those who pluck out the beard, I did not cover my face from humiliation and spitting. So while these the council members are spitting at the Lord Jesus' face, instead of turning away, ducking, putting his head down, he just stood there and he took it. I do not hide my face. from spitting. Whatever they hurled at him is exactly what he stood there and took. Without any clear conviction, they begin to strike his sacred head with their fist and slap his wounded head with the palms of their hands. Mark 14 verse 65 adds that they blindfolded him while they did this and made a sport out of his misery. It became a humorous game to them to take turns wailing on his head and then asking the question: Prophesy to us, you Christ! Who's the one who hit you? And Jesus silently endured the ill treatment from the same men that he created. Even before Christ makes it to Pilate's court, he's already being marred beyond the point of recognition. Verse 67 says, Then they began, they spat in his face and beat him with their fists, and others slapped him and said, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is the one who hit you? He's already being marred beyond the point of recognition. Isaiah 52, verse 14 says, His appearance was marred more than any man in his form, more than the sons of men. Jewish commentator Edersheim makes these remarks. He says, all now rose in combined rebellion against the perfect man. The abject servility which delighted in insults on one whom it could never have vanquished, one whom they could never have vanquished, and had not dared to attack. That innate vulgarity which loves to trample on fallen greatness and to deck out in its own manner a triumph where there is no victory. The brutality that's worse than animals and profanity and devilry and the blows of tyrannical usurpation of power Yet these insults, taunts, and blows which fell upon that lonely sufferer, not defenseless but undefending, not vanquished but uncontending, not helpless but majestic in voluntary self submission for the highest purpose of love, These insults, taunts, and blows have not only exhibited the curse of humanity, but also removed it by letting it descend upon him. He let it happen. To remove the curse. He became the curse. He became the one who was ridiculed, the one who was taunted, the one who was mocked, the one who was beat, the one who was struck. The precious Lord Jesus to have his face spit upon by wicked and godless men. And he didn't even hide his face from the spitting. Etershan goes on to say, he was drinking slowly with the consciousness of willing self-surrender, the cup which his father had given him. And he did that for us. There's a song that says, O sacred head now wounded, with grief and shame way down, now scorefully surrounded with thorns, thy only crown. In an older version of the song, in the second line, it says this, O sacred head, what glory, what bliss till now was thine. Yet thou despised and gory, I joy to call you mine. This is the Jesus that we adore, right? This is the one that we come to. What thou my Lord hast suffered was all for sinner's gain. Mine, mine was the transgression. But thine the deadly pain. Lo, here I fall, my Savior, 'tis I deserve thy place. Look on me with thy favor and save me by thy grace. What language shall I borrow to thank thee, dearest friend? For this thy dying sorrow, thy pity without end? O make me thine forever, and should I fainting be Lord, let me never, never outlive my love for thee. He's precious, isn't he? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you And we thank you for our Savior, Jesus Christ. We thank you for what he suffered in our place. We thank you for the shame and the mockery that he endured at the hands of wicked and godless men. And if it wasn't for you changing our hearts, that could have been us. But Father, you've opened our eyes to the truth of salvation. You've allowed the word that was preached to one day pierce our hearts and to draw us to yourself. You 've given us the light of the glory of Christ. And Father, we thank you for that. Father, we thank you that You've opened our eyes, that you've given us sight to see the precious Lord Jesus, that you've called us out of death into life. Because if it wasn't for your call, we would still be in darkness. And Father, we thank you that the message that we preach even today, that it can still save souls. That it can still pierce the darkness. That it could still call some who are still in death to life That through the word of God that's preached, Lord, and that's why we're faithful to preach the word of God, that our trust is in you, that your spirit would move, and that your word would work. It 's not in our clever arguments. Jesus Christ was the best argument. But we trust in you, Father, to do your work in this world. Father, we thank you for sending us a Savior. to give his life as a ransom for many. And that all who have trusted in Jesus Christ have been ransomed by his blood. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.