The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew. We're in Matthew chapter 9 this morning. Matthew chapter 9 The Book of Matthew proclaims and defends the truth that Jesus is the promised Messiah. He is the anointed King of Israel He's the rightful heir of the world, and that's what this book of Matthew is all about, the Gospel of Matthew. And uh last week we learned in uh Matthew chapter nine, verses fourteen to eighteen, that the kind of kingdom that Jesus came to bring is so strong and so fresh and so full that it can't be mixed with any previous systems. The kingdom that Jesus introduced is so spectacular. That our containers can't hold it in, that our fabric can't hold it back, we can't control it, we can't contain it. And uh the disciples, uh John the Baptist had to learn this lesson uh because they had developed certain expectations for Jesus based on what they were already familiar with, the disciples of of John the Baptist, and that's what we're going to learn about today. Actually, uh that's what we learned about last week, the disciples of of John. They were familiar with the Pharisees. Familiar with the Pharisees. And you have to keep in mind and keep in your memory that the Pharisees were known as the professional keepers of the law. Professional keepers of the law. The scribes were the professional interpreters of the law, and the Pharisees were the professional practitioners of the law. This is what they devoted their entire lives to. And even though people could only see what showed up on the outside, what they saw on the outside looked pretty impressive when they looked at the the lives of the Pharisees. Many of the Pharisees Fasted religiously every Monday and Thursday from the outside looking in, that looks pretty impressive. I mean how many of you fast every Monday and Thursday? You know, for a lot of us that would be uh be an impressive kind of feat to to try to overcome. We have in many religions today similar kinds of structures and seasons of required fastings and prescribed prayers multiple times a day. uh symbolic respect for God and external displays of modesty and and holiness. We find that in you know the Muslim religions and uh uh some of the Hindu religions and Uh even Roman Catholicism we find a lot of that kind of structure and seasons of required prayers and fasting and things like that. But as impressive as those things might be to the to the masses around us, the ministry of the kingdom can't fit inside containers like that. You know, the the kind of structures and rituals uh that people normally uh look for uh the the coming of the of the kingdom in uh the kingdom of heaven far surpassed that And that's what Jesus actually said in Matthew chapter 5, verse 20, if you want to flip back there. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5, verse 20 that if that's all that you have, you haven't even reached square one of the kingdom. the the the external rituals and observances and practices, if that's all you have going for you, you haven't even reached step one of the kingdom. In Matthew chapter five In verse 20, listen to what Jesus says. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. If if all that's going on on the outside is all that you have going on, you don't really have much going on, do you? Right? There's not much of it, it's just about what's showing up on the outside. But the disciples of John were familiar with that, familiar with the uh the the practices of the Pharisees. They're also familiar with the uh the ministry of John the Baptist. They were familiar with his ministry, uh but the fabric of Jesus' ministry was so strong that it would even rip that apart. John's ministry was sincere. We we know that. John was the voice of the voice in the wilderness preparing the way for the Messiah who was to come. And it was appropriate that his ministry was in the setting of the of the wilderness. John denied himself the normal expected comforts of this life. His disciples fasted often. It was an outward expression of the kind of remorse and repentance that the nation uh should have been pursuing. And uh what they were doing externally and physically was meant to be an expression of what was going on internally. The fasting, the morning was to be an expression of what was going on on the inside. Later on, Jesus would talk about the ministry of John the Baptist and Matthew 11 in verse 11. And he says this, truly I say to you, Among those born of women, there has not arisen any one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. Think about that Nobody's arisen, no prophet has arisen greater than John the Baptist, but he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. The ministry of the kingdom can't be contained even by the ministry of John the Baptist, as great as his ministry was. The ministry of the kingdom far surpasses that, so that even the least person in the kingdom was greater than John the Baptist. John's ministry was a ministry of preparation for the kingdom. Preparation, preparing men for the kingdom of God. And Jesus had a ministry of introducing the kingdom of God. John's ministry was preparation. Jesus' ministry was the introduction of the kingdom of God. He was actually introducing the kingdom of God to men, and the joy of the kingdom explodes through the old wineskins of uh the Phariseesm and even John the Baptist's ministry. And uh Jesus acknowledged that there would be uh a time when uh men would reject the kingdom. When men would reject the kingdom that he was introducing, and uh that there would come again a time of of fasting, a time of mourning, as uh we again long for the the Messiah to to come, long for the king to return. So he did talk about a a time when when men would long for that to happen. But what Jesus was doing here was just giving Israel a preview of the kingdom to come. And this is this is what he was showing that the kingdom of heaven looks like. The kingdom of heaven come down to earth. that this is what it looks like. It looks like the elimination of disease. It looks like the elimination of disaster. It looks like the elimination of demons, even demons being subject. It looks like the elimination of disobedience on the earth. It looks like what we'll learn about today, even death itself being eliminated. Jesus is the giver of life, and there's nothing that we can compare to the kind of ministry that Jesus was introducing. You can't hold it back, you can't hold it in, you can't control it, you can't contain it. We're not entering into familiar territory when we start talking about the kingdom of God. It's not anything that we've ever experienced in this life. It's something that totally blows out any kind of structures, any kind of controls, unlike anything that we've experienced. And this is uh what we learn more about in uh Matthew chapter 9 verses 14 to 27. Why don't you follow along with me as I read? Matthew chapter nine verses fourteen to twenty-seven. Then the disciples of John came to him asking, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. But no one puts a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch pulls away from the garment, and a worse tear results. Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins, otherwise the wineskins burst and the wine pours out and the wineskins are ruined, but they put new wine into fresh wineskins and both are preserved. While he was saying these things to them, a synagogue official came and bowed down before him and said, My daughter has just died. But come and lay your hand on her and she will live. Jesus got up and began to follow him, and so did his disciples. And a woman who had been suffering with the hemorrhage for twelve years came up behind him and touched the fringe of his cloak. For she was saying to herself, If I only touch his garment, I will get well. But Jesus turning and seeing her said, Daughter, take courage. Your faith has made you well. At once the woman was made well. When Jesus came into the official's house and saw the flute players and the crowd in noisy disorder, he said, Leave, for the girl has not died but is asleep. And they began laughing at him. But when the crowd had been sent out, he entered and took her by the hand, and the girl got up. This news spread throughout all that land. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for this opportunity once again to have another view of Jesus Christ. To see Jesus Christ and His majesty and His glory, the introduction of the kingdom and all that we long for As we expect Jesus Christ to come back soon and we look for that glorious day. Father, I pray that as we uh examine these words together, uh that you would uh help us to be transformed by what we read and understand. And that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name you pray. Amen. There was a Canadian scientist known by the name of G. B. Hardy, who was once quoted as saying When I looked at religion, I said I have two questions. One, has anybody ever conquered death? And two, if they have, did they make a way for me to conquer death? I checked the tomb of Buddha, and it was occupied. And I checked the tomb of Confucius, and it was occupied. And I checked the tomb of Muhammad, and it was occupied. And I came to the tomb of Jesus, and it was empty. And I said, there is one who has conquered death. And I asked the second question, did he make a way for me to do it? And I opened the Bible and discovered that he said, Because I live, you shall live also. We find in the text before us that Jesus is the one who has conquered death. Jesus is the conqueror of death. And he's also the giver of life. And uh this story has been what's been called a sandwich story because really we have like two stories that are kind of Sandwiched together into one. It starts with this request in verse 18 from the synagogue official, the synagogue's official daughter. uh uh he has this uh request that his daughter be be raised back to life and it ends with the raising of the daughter so those are the kind of like the two bookends, you know the request for raising his daughter and then the actual raising of the daughter at the end. But then in between those two bookends you have you know, what's in the middle, uh, this story of uh of the sick being raised to new life. And there's there's really some significant parallels between the two stories. The story of the of Jairus's daughter uh who was raised and the story of this this unknown woman uh who's uh raised to to new life. Because in both of these stories you have the story of two daughters. The first is the story of Dyrus' daughter, the synagogue official's daughter. And the second is of uh the daughter who's called the daughter by Jesus Christ. He says, Daughter, take courage, your faith has made you well Actually interesting, this is the only time when Jesus directly calls somebody daughter. The only time in scripture where you have that reference made, and you have these two daughters sandwiched together in this one story. The synagogue's official daughter, according to Mark chapter 5, 42, and Luke 8, 42, was 12 years old, and a woman with the issue of blood has been suffering for guess how long? Look at verse 20. She had been suffering from a hemorrhage for twelve years. Twelve years. Twelve years old was the daughter, and twelve years this lady has been suffering with this hemorrhage Also, you have both situations are absolutely desperate. The synagogue official is at the end of all human resources, and so is this woman with the issue of blood, and both are raised with nothing more than just a touch from Jesus. And as we'll see, it was uh faith that was the agency or the means of God's grace, but it was represented by nothing more than just the physical touch. And uh in both cases, Jesus has the power within himself to raise them up and it's no wonder that the disciples were called to a celebration instead of mourning. You know, this wasn't a time for mourning. This wasn't a time for fasting. This is a time to celebrate, to rejoice in the coming of the kingdom of God. And Jesus is recognized as the giver of life. and the giver of new life. And those are really kind of the two major sections that we want to cover. That Jesus is the giver of life and Jesus is the giver of new life. And I pray that you'll recognize Jesus as both today. But let's take a look at verse 18. While he was saying these things to them, a synagogue official came and bowed down before him and said, My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live. And right here you have Jesus recognized by others as the giver of life. And and Matthew is really condensing a lot of material here and presenting the story in really like a simple form. Matthew gets the whole story in only nine verses. If you were to look at the same story in Mark, it would be 23 verses in Mark this whole story. But from Mark and Luke, we learn more information about this synagogue official. We learn that his name was Jairus, that he was encouraged in his faith, that he didn't even find out that his daughter died until he he almost reached home. But Matthew just kind of skips past all those details and just gets right to the to the main request that we're dealing with. We're dealing with somebody who's died. And needs to be raised back to life. We're dealing with a request to raise the dead. And we have no technology for raising the dead. None. Not nothing exists to raise the dead. We have no sort of means to raise the dead. Once a person has transported from life to death, there's nothing that you can do. to reverse that process. I remember when my my father died that my sister she was in the the hospital room. My mother told me about it that uh she was in the in the hospital room just screaming at the doctors like, you know, bring them back, bring them back. There's nothing you can do to bring a person back. Our resources are tapped out at that point. You know, we can do some things to try to extend life, make life more comfortable. Once somebody passes on It's out of our reach. There's nothing left for us to do. We have no means of bringing life where none exists. But this synagogue official has seen something in Christ. Or heard something in Christ, known enough about the ministry of Christ, that he has confidence that Jesus is able to raise his daughter from death. It's a remarkable, remarkable faith of the synagogue official. And you have to remember that at this point in Jesus' ministry, he has not raised anybody from the dead yet. Nobody knows that Jesus can raise the dead as far as experience. He hasn't seen Jesus raise anybody from the dead. He's seen a lot of miracles. He's heard about a lot of miracles, a lot of people being given health. He hasn't heard about anybody being given life yet. But here he comes to Jesus with this kind of confidence in Christ, that Jesus is able to do the impossible, that Jesus is able to raise the dead back to life. Like I said, he's healed plenty of people. He'll hill later on he'll raise Lazarus back from the grave in John chapter 11. That was near the end of Jesus' ministry. In Luke chapter 7, he raised the widow's son near the middle of his ministry. This is towards the beginning. Nobody's seen this yet Nobody has seen Jesus raise the dead. So here Jairus is called, he's being called on to believe in something that he's never even seen before. You know, you talk about an introduction of the kingdom. I mean, this is it. This is it. A life that's never been seen raised from the dead. And here Jairus is believing that Jesus is able to do this. Like I said, this is an incredible faith. And this faith that Jairus had actually came at an incredible cost. He had incredible faith, and it came at an incredible cost. Jarus, as we learn is his name in uh in Mark and Luke, he was a man of great significance in Capernaum. The synagogue was the center of local life. uh the center of civil life, the center of religious life in uh Capernaum there. If you want to flip over to John chapter nine, uh we learn over there that uh every aspect of life really came through the synagogue uh for the Jewish people uh during this time and The the hold of the synagogue was was extremely strong. Extremely strong. Look at uh John chapter 9, just to give you an idea of uh of how strong the hold of the synagogue was. And in John chapter 9, it tells the story about a blind beggar. He was uh born blind from birth, and Jesus healed him, and the religious leaders are trying to figure out, you know, how in the world did this happen, right? Uh they're trying to figure it out, they're doubting that he was even born blind, and they finally call his parents in to try to Substantiate what's going on. Look at uh John chapter 9, starting at verse 18. It says, the Jews then did not believe it of him, didn't believe that he was born blind. That he had been blind and had received sight. Until they called the parents of the very one who had received the sight and questioned them, saying, Is this your son? Who you say? You even get like the undercut there. You say he was born blind. Is this your son who you say? Like they didn't really believe it. Who you say was born blind, how then how does he now see? His parents answered them and said, we know that this is our son. And that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know, or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him, he's of age, he'll speak up for himself His parents said this, listen to this, because they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed him, Jesus, to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. For this reason his parents said, He's of age, ask him. You know what they're doing? They're throwing their son under the bus. I'm not going to get put out of the synagogue, but hey, he can speak for himself. You know, what what happened there, son junior? Do you want to tell him what happened I mean, what kind of parents are these, right? I'm scared to get put out of the synagogue, but you know, Junior, he's been out there for a long time anyway, so it really doesn't matter to him. It's pretty pretty ridiculous when you think about it, but this was the kind of hold that the synagogue had on the people. So afraid to get de-synagogued that they'd be willing to throw their own son under the bus. If it meant that they could be preserved. People were terrified of being put out of the synagogue. Your religious life, your social life Even your opportunity for employment was put into jeopardy, you could lose your job if you got cast out of the synagogue because people wouldn't want to hire you anymore. People would be kind of put into a position where they'd even want to fire you now so they could stay in good graces with the synagogue. We don't want the synagogue to be upset with this, so we'll get rid of you And here the the beggar had nothing to lose. He's already out religiously, socially, economically, and his parents apparently had a lot to lose. So they uh threw their son under the bus so they could keep up the the synagogue rituals. And Jairus, he's not just a member of the synagogue. Jairus is the chief official of the synagogue. The chief official. In uh Mark chapter 5 and Luke chapter 8, it calls him the Archy Synagogueos. Archisynagogas. It was the arch chief ruler of the synagogue. He's the head guy in charge. According to uh history tells us that the synagogue official was responsible for maintaining order during the meetings, removing disturbances. He was authorized to distribute honors such as reading the Torah, reading from the prophets. responsible for preaching, he had a lot of duties, a lot of responsibilities. A lot of people looked up to this guy. And he's about to lose it all for identifying with Jesus Christ. He's about to lose it all for identifying Jesus as the giver of life. And whatever hesitation he might have had, he cast out all aside because now he's desperate. Now he's desperate. Is that the end of all human resources? There's reason to believe that he he might have exhausted every other source of help because now his daughter is at the point of death and people have already gathered together at the home. So apparently this might have been gone on for a while and people are already gathering together because they know it's the time is upon them. This daughter's about to lose her life. Desperate. Might have hesitated before because of the religious leaders and fear of being put out of the synagogue, but now he realizes that his daughter is as good as dead. I have I have nothing less left to to lose. I'm I'm gonna put it all out on the line to save my daughter. You know, in the the case of the blind man the parents were willing to to throw him away to keep in the synagogue, stay in the synagogue. You know, here Jairus is ready to throw out the synagogue so I can keep my daughter. Which is the way it should be, right? At the end of all human resources, and he runs to Christ, prostrates himself before Jesus Christ. The word is bowed down. Actually the word for bow down is prosceneo. It's the word that we see translated other places in the scripture is worship. This guy is prostrated before Christ, desperate, bowing down before him in a position of worship. As a synagogue official, this is a big no-no, right? Like you're out. You're out. And he's at least recognizing Jesus as a king, if not more than that. You didn't bow down before just normal people. So here you have this guy bowing down before Jesus Christ, at least recognizing Jesus as King, if not recognizing Jesus as even more than that, recognizing Jesus as the Lord of heaven. He sees in Jesus more than just a religious teacher. He sees in Jesus more than just a prophet. This is somebody to bow down before. Jesus gets up after this request. My daughter's just died. Come lay your hand on her. She'll live. And Jesus responds, getting up and following. Him and so did his disciples in verse 19. Jesus got up, began to follow him, and so did his disciples. Now that may not seem like a big point to you right there in verse 19 that Jesus got up and began to follow. But it tells me this that Jesus recognized himself as what? He's the giver of life. He comes to him asking, requesting, can you raise my daughter back to life? Jesus gets up and follows him saying that what? I am the giver of life. I can do this. I can do this. If you came to me to tell me that a family member died, I'd probably pray for you. I'd visit with you. I'd try to comfort you. I want to say, hey, just show me the body. You know, hey, I'll take care of this. That's not that's not me, right? Jesus says, hey, show me the body. Bring me to her Because Jesus can do this. He's recognizing himself as the giver of life. And this is what we're understand by Jesus' actions. Without saying a word, Jesus recognizes who he is. Scripture recognizes God the Father as the giver of life. In Deuteronomy, um in Deuteronomy 32, 39, it says, See now that I am He, there is no God besides me. It is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded, it is I who heal. And there is no one who can deliver from my hand. God is the author and the ender of life. Beginning and end. All life is in God's hands. That's what it's saying. Life is mine. Life belongs to me. And here Jesus Christ is saying, hey, it's it's it's mine too It's mine. God's the author of life, the origin of life. One of the reasons He's known, God is known specifically as the Father, is because He's the origin of all things, the origin of life In Acts chapter 17 verse 28, it says, For in him we live and move and exist, even as some of your own poets have said, for we are all his children. He himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. When it recognizes Jesus God the Father as Father, it's saying that He's Father in the sense that we're all His children. So when we think about God as Father, we're thinking about God as the origin, the protector. He's the one that organizes it all. It's all in his hands. But look at what uh, flip over to John chapter 5, verse 21, and look at what Jesus says. Recognize God as the author of life, but look at what Jesus says over in John chapter 5. John chapter 5 and verse 21. This is an astounding statement that he makes. John 5, verse 21. He says, For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. I can give life to whoever I want to. That's the kind of boldness that Jesus has. And that's not a small statement. It's not a small statement. If Jesus is not God, this is blasphemy. To say that I give life to whoever I want. Only God can say that. For Jesus to make this kind of statement says that he's what? God. Jesus is God. No small statement. Remember, blasphemy is to bring yourself up to God's level or to bring God down to your level. And Jesus says, I'm on an equal level with God. If that's not true, it's blasphemy. You can't have this kind of middle ground, well, Jesus was a nice teacher, nice guy. No, he's a blasphemer if he's not Almighty God. That's what he is. And by his actions, he's declaring who he is. And while he's on his way, he's interrupted by a lady back in Matthew chapter 9. So here Jesus follows with uh with Jairus, the synagogue official. And while he's on his way, he's interrupted by a lady. Look here at verse 20. It says, and a woman who had been suffering from a hemorrhage For twelve years came up behind him , and touched the fringe of his cloak. For she was saying to herself, If I only touch his garment, I will get well. Here we have this this lady. Don't even know what her name is. Eusebius calls her Veronica, a church historian, a heathen from Panaeus, the Acts of Pilate. In an apocryphal book calls her Bernice, but we have no idea what this lady's name is. I mean if people just come up with names and kind of fit them in, but we have no idea what her name is. We only know what scripture tells us. Have no idea who she is Don't know her name. Truth is we don't we don't really know anything about this lady other than what we what we're reading. But even though this lady wasn't recognized by people outside, we don't even know her name, she was recognized by Jesus recognized by Jesus, which is a sweet reminder to all of us, right? You know, that that is you know out of the way and maybe insignificant as we might feel in ourselves, if Jesus knows you If Jesus recognized you, that's all that you need, right? You know, I don't need to be known by the world, have my name on a headline somewhere. Jesus knows me. That's all I care about. You know, I'm known by Christ. And here, Jesus is recognized not only as the giver of life, but the giver of a of a new life. And as I said, this lady, she would have uh been one of the most insignificant people in Capernaum You know, Jairus would have been known as probably like the most significant person in Capernaum. You know, he's the head chief official of the synagogue. And here you have this no-name lady. Nobody really knows about her Even Matthew would have been known for something, right? He's the tax collector. You know, what is this lady known for? Nothing. You don't know anything about her. Until Jesus stops her. Her intention was just to slip in, slip out without even being noticed at all. Wasn't known and didn't even really want to be known. You know, just slip in, slip out. She had a good reason to try to remain anonymous. First of all, she was sick. She suffered with this bleeding condition for a period of 12 years. We don't know what it was. Some have suggested a menstrual disorder, uterine hemorrhage, or some kind of bleeding tumor, but we really have no idea what she suffered with. And that's okay because nobody else did either. Even the doctors of her day didn't understand what was going on. You know, she went to many doctors to try to get taken care of, and nobody could take care of her. Mark chapter 5, verse 26 lets us know about that. Some people say that that Luke didn't know about uh didn't tell us about that because he's a doctor himself, doesn't want to like show his own uh profession that. But uh anyway, nobody can figure this out. Nobody could figure out what was going on with this lady. And you can understand why a person who doesn't even know what's wrong with them, doesn't know what kind of disease they have. Doesn't know what kind of disorder they have, would have a problem with being openly identified, right? Like they don't even know she doesn't even know what she has. It's an embarrassment to be associated with some kind of disease that nobody knows how to figure out But not only was she sick, she was also poor. She's poor. Mark in Mark chapter 5, verse 26, says that she spent all that she had and was not helped at all, but rather had grown worse. Spent every dime she had trying to get better and nothing helped her. Spent all of her living looking for a cure. It was all wasted effort. Not only was she sick, now she's destitute. Doesn't have anything. And both of those were stigmas of like a curse from God. Like people would look on her as like you've just been cursed. You've got a sickness nobody can figure out. Now you don't have any money. I mean, you've got to be cursed by God. Not only that, she was unclean. She was known as just ritually ceremonially unclean because of the symbolic significance of blood in the Levitical system. There's laws that regulate it ritual purity. This woman would have been considered unclean. And it wasn't a statement about her heart, but it but it would have been seen as as nothing else than that in the eyes of the people. It's like, you know, if you're richly unclean, that must mean because you are unclean, you know, just totally unclean. That's how the people would have looked at her Regulation of a woman's life like this was considered so important that uh the Mishnah, uh uh an old testament commentary, you know, on the laws and things like that, devotes an entire section to the to the subject of bleeding. And what are you supposed to do with people who can't stop bleeding? So she was sick, poor, unclean, and she was also isolated. Be cut off from ceremonial observances was to be cut off from the community that she dwelt in. Cut off from everybody. She couldn't join worship. She couldn't c come into contact with other people. There was actually restrictions because uh even a touch from a woman like this was considered to be unclean yourself, to to contract uncleanness from her. So you can see why she would come in to this crowd and want to remain unnoticed. I don't want anybody to know I'm here. You know, I just want to kind of slip in, you know, at least touch Jesus and slip out. I don't want anybody even to know that I showed up. She's sick, poor, unclean, isolated, but she had the confidence that only a touch of Christ's garment would bring new life. She recognized Jesus as the giver of new life The word garment that's used in this passage, it could be talking about the cloak or the tassels that kind of hung from Jewish men. They'd attach these to their outer garments. As a reminder to follow the commands of God. On Numbers 15, Deuteronomy 22 talks about that. But the point is that even the very friends, the edges of the garment was considered enough contact for her. That's all she needed. All she needed. And she had no fear of polluting Jesus by her touch. She she but she believed that a touch from Jesus would cleanse her. So she goes and she's in her mind, just just I all I need to do is just to get to him. Just a touch would be enough for me. And Jesus in verse 22 recognizes this recipient of new life. Look at verse 22. But Jesus turning and seeing her said, Daughter, take courage. Your faith has made you well. And at once the woman was made well. Listen to how Jesus recognizes her in the in the passage here. And Matthew, like I said, he skips all the details about the crowds pressing in and Jesus saying, who touched me and all that. You learn about that in the other gospels. Matthew skips all those details. He just wants us to focus in on how Jesus responded to this lady. Look at how he responded to her. Daughter. Daughter. This is a precious term here. Refers to her as a daughter. This is the only place, like I said, that Jesus refers directly to anybody as daughter. And like I said, who really cares what her name is if you're known as a daughter of God? I'm a daughter of Jesus Christ. Are you kidding me? You know, who cares if you know my name? She's known to God. Isaiah 49 speaks of Israel in a way that God can speak to all of his children. Isaiah 49, 15 and 16. Listen to what the Lord says about his people. Can a woman forget her nursing child? And have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these might forget, but I will not forget you. Behold, I have inscribed you on the palms of my hands. That's the kind of love that God expresses towards his children. I'm not going to forget you. Your name's on the palm of my hand. I've got like this daily reminder of who you are. And I'm not sure who I'm speaking to today, but um, if you're a believer and somehow you feel insignificant, not worthy enough, or whatever else might be going on in your mind, uh what you need to remind yourself of is that you're if you're a believer, you're known by God. And that's that's all that really matters. It's a sweet reminder. And here, what Jesus does is he stops this rush to Jairus ' home, the the most significant man in Capernaum. He stops the rush going to to his home so that he can minister to this insignificant lady that nobody knows. That shows the the way that he's his thoughts are toward her. Stops this this truck to the chief leader's house. Why? Because because she's the daughter. She's my daughter. I want to recognize my daughter. It was uh said that you know you have uh you know you might have a president you know sitting in an oval office and he's making deals and he's talking to dignitaries of other countries, but you know, if his son steps in and says, hey dad, I need you, everything stops. Why? Because it's because that's my child. I'm gonna give attention to my child. You don't need to set up some account of appointment To come and see me. I mean you're you're my son. You're my daughter. I love you. Of course I'm gonna spend some time with you. And here uh Jesus stops the the train going to Jairus ' house so he can minister to his own daughter. How was she a daughter of God? How did that happen? The same way it happens for all of us, right? It's by faith. By faith. Listen what he says. Take courage. Your faith has made you well Your faith has made you well. And it's kind of interesting the Greek word that he uses here for well. It's not the normal word for healing. It's the word sodzo. It's our word for salvation. Your faith has saved you. Your faith has saved you. Same thing that we read over in Romans chapter 4, verse 5, but to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as what? Righteousness. Righteousness. She reached out for a physical healing, but but I want to let you know that she got more than just the physical healing. She got more than just the physical healing And what we really have here is a parallel to what we have earlier in the uh the story of the paralytic. If you want to flip back to Matthew chapter uh nine, Matthew chapter nine, if you remember. In the beginning of the chapter here, it says, and they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed, seeing their faith. Jesus said to the paralytic, What? Take courage, son, your sins are forgiven. That's not why he came. He came for the physical healing, right? But what did he receive before he left? He received a spiritual healing. Take courage, son. You're one of mine. You belong to me. Why? Because of the faith that he had. Your sins are forgiven. You belong to me. You're one of mine. This is the parallel to what we find with this daughter. Take courage, daughter. Why? Your faith has saved you. Your faith has saved you. This he you're rightly related to me. Why? Because of your faith. Because of your faith. And even more important than walking away and being healed was walking away with the knowledge that she was a daughter of God. She's a daughter of God. And the proof of her spiritual healing was the physical healing that she received as well. She received the physical healing to go along with the spiritual healing that she had. At once the woman was made well, verse 22. And like I said, being even more important than walking away healed was walking away forgiven. Walking away with salvation. Both her physical healing and her spiritual healing came from the same source. It came from Christ. Christ was the source. Jesus was the object of her faith. And the means or the agency or the instrument of her physical and spiritual healing was the same. It was through through faith. It was through faith, just like it is for us. The means that we reach out to God is through through faith. And notice Jesus doesn't say, take courage, daughter, my cloak has made you well. That's not what he says. That's not the agency. You know, she reached out and she touched the cloak, but what she was trusting in was was Christ through faith. It wasn't a cloak. The cloak was just the means to reach out to him, but it was through faith that she connected to Jesus. It's not my cloak made you well. Like some kind of magic material that I have on me. We don't need a a piece of uh you know Peter's beard or Paul's handkerchief or a thread from Jesus' cloak to try to reach out to Jesus. We don't need a physical remains of some saint to get connected to God. I remember uh uh Luther uh what he said about the the relics, they they had like a bunch of these physical remains of saints and things that they owned and all that, and they looked at this as some kind of means of grace to connect with God. Listen what uh Luther says. He says what lies there are about our relics talks about in in Germany they actually had a place where they stored all these relics up He says, one claims to have a feather from the wing of the angel Gabriel, and the Bishop of Mainz has a flame from the from Moses ' burning bush. And how does it happen that eighteen apostles are buried in Germany when Christ only had twelve? So it's like there's just like these relics upon relics and people wanting to touch this and touch that, thinking that somehow I'm going to reach reach to God and connect to God by these things. That's even why the uh the bronze serpent, uh remember the the the the serpent that was raised up in the wilderness and uh uh the people looked to the serpent to be healed? You know, it's just like a physical symbol that was raised up in the wilderness. They actually had to destroy the thing Actually had to destroy it, 2 Kings 18 verse 4. Why? Because they burned incense to it. You know, they kept the relic, they kept the the staff with the snakes on it, and say, oh, and they called it Nahustan. And they're burning incense to it like it's a God. And God says, just get rid of the thing if that's what you're going to do with it. If that's what you're going to do with the symbol, just get rid of it. We're not looking to some kind of physical relic to bring us salvation. We're looking to Christ, right? We're trusting in him through faith And secondly, we're also not to look to our physical healing as as the proof of God's salvation. You shouldn't expect that that every time that you pray that it's automatically that you'll be healed. And I know that there's some of you that have uh suffered with uh various illnesses and uh disorders for a period of time. You have to remember that this was the the special period of time when Jesus is introducing the kingdom. He's introducing the kingdom healings everywhere. Raisings of the dead, you know, disciples have nothing to worry about. You don't need to fast, you don't need to mourn. The king is here, right? There was a different period of time that Jesus was existing in. And the disciples and this lady here. So we're not in that time today. So there are times of mourning and grief, of dangerous situations, of life-changing decisions when you have to plead before God. You know, times when you're prolonged, have prolonged illnesses that you have to stay before the Lord. So we recognize that. But what we have here is just an example that what was most important for this lady was that she was a daughter of God. And what was most important for the paralytic is that he's a son of God. And what should be most important for us is that we're children of God, right? Even if God doesn't remove the physical illness or disease or difficulty that you have, to know that you are a child of God should be enough. To know that you're a child of God, that's what God wants you to focus in on and uh to trust in Him for the the alleviation of uh whatever pain and difficulty that you're going through. Trust in in God. And that's why we we long for the kingdom of Christ to come, right? That's why we still pray, Lord, let your kingdom come, because we know that we're not there yet. But we're heading there. We've had the preview of it, and we're looking forward to to when the Lord brings it brings it in into full view. So you have this this entire scene and uh like I said it's a lot to look forward to but after the scene we move back to the larger narrative so we you know go out from gyrus 's daughter you know focus in on this lady and then we come back to to Jarus' daughter again like I said it's It's kind of like the sandwich here. But in the following verse, we see that Jesus not only stops to recognize those who recognize him, but he also dismisses those who fail to recognize him. Look at verse 23, starting at verse 23. Jesus dismisses those who reject him as the giver of life in 23 to 25. It says, when Jesus came into the official's house, and saw the flute players and the crowd in noisy disorder, he said, Leave, for the girl has not died, but is asleep and they began laughing at him. But when the crowd had been sent out he entered and took her by the hand, and the girl got up, and this news spread throughout all that land. Jesus comes and he sees the place in noisy disorder in a first century Palestine. Burial was normally carried out very soon after the death. And in this case it was clear that the process was already underway. There's a noisy crowd, people gathering together at Jarvis's house, probably a lot of people, because he's, like I said, he's one of the most significant men in the city. So a lot of people are going to be together, you know, to try to comfort them and and bring them some kind of consolation. D. A. Carson notes that the noisy crowd was made up of friends mourning not in the hushed whispers characteristic of our Western funerals, but in loud outbursts of grief and wailing augmented by cries of hired mourners. You know, so it's not like today you go to a funeral and everybody's kinda you know keeping things, you know, hush, hush. It was like, let it all out. Everybody who's here and if I can't cry enough, I'll get somebody else in here to cry for me. You know, this is just gonna be a loud, you know, boisterous kind of event. Funerals were public demonstrations of grief. The more noise and the more grief that was expressed, it was considered the more honored the person was, the more loved the person was. So it's like the louder you could make it, the better it is. It was a public demonstration of grief. That's why in history, Herod, the same Herod who uh tried to execute the babies to try to get to Christ. That Herod, uh, he actually uh ordered that at his death that there was a number of Jewish leaders that would be executed at the same time. So he says, whenever I die, I want you to execute these leaders. Why? Because he wanted there to be crying. Nobody wanted to cry for Herod. So he says, well, slaughter a bunch of leaders, and then the people will cry, because it's like this is an honor. You know, to be mourned. You know, when you pass away, there should be loud noise and mourning and grief over the passing. So Herod wanted that to happen. After he died, nobody really cared about what Herod wanted, so uh that didn't happen. But uh but that's this is just kind of like the custom. The louder it was, the more grief. You know, that's that's what shows the honor and respect to the person. considered an honor and they hire professional flute players. Uh just see if this actually uh describes a death where for thirty days the lamentations never ceased in the city. Many of the mourners hired flute players to accompany their funeral dirges, so they they sang these sobbing songs while the flutes are playing and everybody's wailing together. Not only did they hire flute players, they actually hired professional mourners. They hired people who would come in to wail for them. You know, people who could scream out to let let people know how much we love this person. Let's just hire somebody in who's just got the loudest voice that they can just wail out. To let people know about my my grief. One rabbi said even the poorest in Israel should hire not less than two flutes and one wailing woman. You know, at least get one wailing woman in there. You know, if if you love the people who passed on, you at least gotta get two flutes and a whale and woman. You know, gotta get them in there. Don't don't don't hire any of that from me, okay? But the custom was to bring in these professional mourners, and we find it throughout scripture that this is what would happen. Lensky says the hired wailing women with their hair streaming, beating their breasts, filling the air with loud moans, bursts of sobs. The prominence of the family would call for a a large number of these hired mourners. But uh Jesus is here. And you know what? It's not a time for mourning Jesus shows up. He says, this is not a funeral here. We're not going to do any of this morning and wailing and weeping. Everybody get out. You know, get all the wailing women out of here, flute players, you know, take your flutes with you. We've got a different plan for today. You know, this is this is not not for a for a funeral. And Jesus dismisses the crowd. He says, uh, she's only she's only sleeping. Because for Jesus to wake somebody from death is just as easy as waking somebody up from a from a nap I'd actually say it's easier because I have teenagers and I know how hard it is to to wake them up on Sunday mornings and say, hey, it's it's time to go for school For Jesus to wake somebody up from death is just as easy as us for the, hey, it's time to time to get up now, right? This is Jesus we're talking about here. It's not time to mourn. It's not time to wail. It's not time to play the flutes. I've showed up. I've showed up. This is a resurrection day. This is a celebration day. This is a day for life. When he talks about Lazarus in John chapter 11, he says Lazarus sleeps. He talked to his disciples. Lazarus sleeps He he he knew that he was physically dead, but he can affirm that Lazarus is both physically dead, but it's just sleep to me. It's just sleep. And actually the the common way that uh believers would talk about death in scripture is often in the terminology of sleep. You might find this interesting that our uh word for cemetery, the word that we use for cemetery, actually comes from a Greek word that means a dormitory A sleeping place. Because as believers, we recognize that those who have died in Christ, their bodies are just resting, but their soul's alive. It's just sleep, right? There's uh one poem that said, uh, No longer must the mourners weep, nor call departed Christians dead, for death is hollowed into sleep, and every grave becomes a bed. Hope and joy and peace begin, for Christ has won, and man shall win. Because we're found in Jesus Christ, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, and we're awaiting that day when he comes back in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and he calls us up. you know, calls the body up to reach the soul that's already in the in his presence and calls us up to to be with him. But here you have these these crowds. That have heard the king approach. The king says, I'm going to wake her up. And instead of Jesus being believed and trusted in by these crowds, they start to laugh. Often when you find a laughter in scripture, it's uh it's not like the, you know, hey, we're just having a celebration. It's actually a laugh to scorn, a laugh to ridicule somebody So they they go from the weeping and the wailing to like hysterical laughter. You can tell they're just hired to do this thing, right? You know, they go straight from the morning now to the to the laughter and ridiculing Jesus Christ because he says, I'm coming here to wake her up. So they they they they they They need to be thrown out. You know, he's asked them to leave, and now they have to be thrown out. The word that's used for uh to be sent out is the term ekbalo, which literally means to thrust out. To toss out. Like they they didn't want to leave on their own. Now they have to be sent out because they didn't recognize Jesus as the the giver of life. So he wouldn't let these these scoffers witness this miracle. It kind of reminds me of what Matthew talks about, Jesus later talks about in Matthew 13 It says, For whoever has, to him more shall be given, and to him who has an abundance, more shall be given, and he will be given in abundance, but whoever does not have, even what he has, shall be taken away from him. So here they didn't respond to the lesser light of Jesus by the miracles that he performs with the healing. So now they're not going to get to see the greater light of seeing him raise somebody from the dead. Everybody get out. You're not going to see this. This is not for you anymore. You know, this is for the people that have trusted in me and have believed the other miracles that I've done and recognize who I am. Since they reject the smaller life, they won't see the greater one. reject the lesser miracles, they're not going to see the greater miracle. He went to cast the pearls before the swine here. So Jesus only takes his three disciples with him? And uh takes the uh the father with him, and he goes in to touch this girl and raise her back to life. Look at verse 25. It says, But when the crowd had been sent out, he entered and took her by the hand, and the girl got up. Really, really a simple way to describe this miracle, isn't it? The simplicity of the story really shouldn't detract from the fact that the raising of the dead is probably the most spectacular miracle that Jesus ever performed. To raise somebody back to life. This is Jesus' greatest miracle up to this point. You know, he's healed, you know, he's uh he stopped seas and everything else, but to raise somebody from the dead, this is impossible. Absolutely impossible. There's no other explanation for this. You know, maybe somebody can come up for a reason why the the wind stopped and the the waves got quiet. Maybe somebody could come up with some natural explanation for that. What kind of explanation do you come up with for somebody being raised from the dead? There is none. Is none. And you have Jesus, you know, uh It's not polluted by touching the body. He actually sanctifies and raises the body. In the Old Testament, we have uh people like Elijah and Elisha that were used to help raise the dead, but here Jesus matches and exceeds even their miracles because he has life in himself. Our Lord goes to the to the room and calls the Spirit back to the earthly body. And really this kind of destroys the notion that, you know, after you die, you just kind of go out of existence. Because how can you call the Spirit back if the Spirit's not still there, right? Spirit's still in existence. He just calls the Spirit back to the body, reunites it with the body, and here we go. Life is back. Because she didn't just vanish out of existence. She was still there. So here you have Jesus giving life, and then in verse 26, he's recognized by others as the giver of life as well. It says this news spread throughout all that land. New spread. Understandably the new spread, right? New spread like like wildfire. And the the question that I I have for you is um have you recognized Jesus as the giver of life? And is this the kind of news that you spread to others? Do you understand how significant this is? That we have the giver of life. That we know the giver of life. You know why that's so important? Because everybody's gonna die. Everybody's gonna die. Everybody needs the giver of life. This this earlier this week I went to uh I've been to to some sad funerals, you know, uh in the past, but but for me this is probably like the like the most difficult funeral to to witness to be a part of. I went to a uh a funeral for um there's a uh a a son on a a team that that I'm uh a chaplain of a football team and uh lost his his father and uh went to the funeral. Actually I went to his to his home uh before he he passed away. He's uh um they're a Muslim family You know, so I actually got to to go to his home. Uh he was um dying of kidney cancer, he's on on on at home on on hospice and um Um I got to to sit with him, you know, talk to the family, his wife, his son, and uh share the gospel. And um even after sharing the gospel he says, you know, well I'm our I'm all right, you know. Uh the brothers come over and they pray with me, so I'm I'm all right, Pastor. And I said, Well, I'm I'm here to let you know that you're you're not. And um, you know, that the gospel, you know, let's talk about the things we agree on. We both agree that there's a God. We both believe that God is holy. We both believe that we've sinned. But what I have that you don't have is I have an answer for the problem of sin. And you don't. And uh had an opportunity to to share the the gospel uh with him while he was there and uh he passed, you know, uh last week and went to the funeral this week and um there was just no hope. No hope at the funeral. You know, so they have all the brothers who are lining up and praying, and you know, we're gonna pray now that uh that the Lord will give our brother access into paradise. You know, they're praying that he might have access because there's there's no guarantee, there's no certainty. So they have they're praying for him and then they have all these rituals. you know, that they perform with the body. Um, you know, we we we bathe them in warm water. Uh we uh uh we're gonna bury 'em in facing this direction. You know, when we put 'em in the the grave, we're gonna step on this side, then we're gonna step on that side, then we're gonna pray. And it's like What are all these rituals for? They do absolutely nothing. It doesn't matter which way you're buried when you die if you don't have the giver of life. It doesn't matter how your body is bathed if you don't have the giver of life. It doesn't matter which way you turn your head when you pray, and how you stand, and how you bow and prostrate yourself if you don't have the giver of life. Sad. You don't have the giver of life. You have no hope. You have no certainty. You have no future. Not in blessings. And my prayer is that before he closed his eyes for the last time, that he considered the gospel that I shared with him in the track that I left with him. But outside of that, there is no hope. Jesus is the only way to the Father. No man comes to the Father except what? Through me. There is no other name given under heaven by which we must be saved. Acts chapter 4, verse 12, right? Except the name of Jesus Christ. John 5, verse 21, it says, For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life. To whom he wishes. To whom he wishes. What are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? In both of these cases, the the the the the two people became desperate Right? Desperate. The Father's out of all human resources became desperate. The only person who can answer is Jesus Christ This lady who had been suffering with this bleeding for 12 years became desperate. I've used all my resources. Jesus is the only one that can help me. Have you come to Christ? Have you turned to Him? Have you trusted the giver of life? If not, maybe you're not desperate enough Maybe you haven't seen the limitations of your own resources. Maybe you think that's something that you can do to get yourself out of the mess that we've created on this planet. I don't know what you're thinking. But you need to become desperate. Listen to what uh the song says. We sing it often here. Come ye sinners, poor and needy. Weak and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. Come you thirsty, come and welcome. God's free bounty glorify. True belief and true repentance, every grace that brings you nigh. Come you weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall. Listen to this. If you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. You're not going to get better on your own. I will arise and go to Jesus. He will embrace me in his arms. In the arms of my dear Savior. Oh, there are 10,000 charms. 10,000 blessings, blessings upon blessings upon blessings in the arms of Jesus Christ. That's what you need to arise and go to. That's the only hope that you have. He is the giver of life. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this opportunity to uh I take a look at your word and to think about these things together. Father, I pray that we would recognize our Lord and Savior as the giver of life. He is the only one that we can come to. He is the only place that we can go to for refuge, for any kind of help. He's the one who stands full of pity, love, and power. He's the one who will embrace us in his arms if we turn to Jesus Christ by faith. Trusting in him, not in ourselves, not in our works, not in our rituals, not in what we can do, not in our resources. The only source of life comes from you. So Father, I pray that we would recognize Jesus today. That we trust in our Savior. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawton Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files