The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew or back in Matthew this morning? Matthew chapter 9 is where you'll find the spot in your Bible, Matthew chapter 9. As you're turning there, uh I just want to kind of preface some of uh what we're about to to read and uh discover today through the the Word of God that um it's been said that the the Bible contains very little humor. But it does have a lot to say about the importance of genuine joy in the life of the believer. The Bible has a lot to say about genuine joy in the life of the believer. We're actually commanded in Scripture to rejoice. You you know that, right? Command. It's a command of Scripture to rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice in uh Philippians chapter four and verse four. Which might seem on the surface to be an impossible command if the only way that you think about joy is the visible expression of it. You know, a smile on the face, you know, a dance or whatever else. If you're only thinking about joy in that kind of category. It would be difficult to see, you know, how does this command actually apply? Does the Lord actually mean for us to rejoice always? Is that actually what the Lord wants us to do? Because we know that there are seasons in life that are extremely painful and difficult, and experiences that just crush the heart and the soul. Just this week, uh our brother Dave Owenby found out that uh his cousin and her husband were both murdered. And what makes the tragedy infinitely worse is that uh they were murdered at the hands of a family member Dave and and his family, they they need our prayers for that, right? They need our prayers. And it would be totally inappropriate and unloving to tell Dave or any one of his family members, hey, just cheer up I mean what what kind of insensitivity is that? Just just cheer up. You'd be a miserable counselor if that's the way that you tried to comfort a family that just lost a loved one. You'd be a miserable counselor. It's not wrong to mourn, right? It's not wrong to grieve. The Bible actually recognizes that there's a time to weep and to mourn. In Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 4 it says there's a time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance The Bible recognizes that the range of human emotions. The emotions that we experience are actually gifts from God. They're a healthy way to allow what's going on on the inside to find some kind of expression on the outside. We recognize that we live in a world that's been disfigured by the fall, that's been ruined by the fall, by the introduction of sin into the world. And everywhere we look, we find death and disease and destruction and deformity. Disobedience, defiance to the Creator. We find that everywhere that we look. And as Jeremiah contemplated the judgment to fall upon Judah, he says this in uh Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 1. He says, Oh, that my head were waters. And my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. If I only had enough tears to cry, you know, I'd cry every one of them. And there's there's times in our our life where we're where we're like that, right? There's times in our life when I remember when my father died. I mean I I didn't have enough tears to cry out after my father died. I didn't have like the voice to wail loud enough when my father died. It's like you know, there's certain times in your life where you just you just discover you're just like overwhelmed, overcome by grief. And mourning is right during a time like that. But if we mourn without being anchored to the joy of the Lord, that's when we go astray. And that's what I want to talk to you about today, because if we if we don't Anchor our hope in the joy of the Lord, we can spiral down into despair and a vicious unbelief. And the command to rejoice always is like the kind of like the light at the end of the tunnel And uh it's our protection against hopelessness. And when the scripture commands us to rejoice always, it doesn't mean that you're never to shed tears. But what it does mean is that underneath your pain, there's a bedrock of confidence in a God who's in control and his character does not change. That's the kind of confidence that we should have in our God and that uh command, you know, rejoice in the Lord. The the command is to rejoice in who It's in him, right? It's not not rejoice in your pain, rejoice in your death, rejoice in your grief. You know, no, rejoice in the Lord The Lord is your constant source of joy. Doesn't matter what else is going on. The Lord is your constant source of joy, eternal joy. And that's why Paul can say in 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 10 that he was sorrowful. Yet always what? Rejoicing. I'm sorrowful, but I'm always rejoicing. On the outside, you know, I might have grief or certain things that I need to endure, but on the inside, I'm always rejoicing. I am rejoicing. I like to describe the the joy of Christians kind of like a dormant volcano, that even though it might not be erupting on the outside, that underneath the surface, there's still kind of like this hot lava of joy that still bubbles. And that's the joy of the Christian. It's something that's that's constant, it's something that remains, it's something that's internal, even though it might not always have an expression on the outside. But on the flip side, on the flip side, there's also times when celebration and laughter are totally appropriate. Totally appropriate There's times when it's not appropriate, there's times when it's totally appropriate, where it would actually be inappropriate if you didn't express joy, if you didn't express laughter, if you didn't express celebration, there's times when it would actually be wrong for you to do that You know, there's times when it's wrong to express joy. I remember uh I remember actually uh you know kind of a sad story, but I remember when I was young and my father lost his father. And uh I remember there was something that funny that happened at the funeral and I started to chuckle and I just remember the look that my father gave me. And it was just like, uh I would never forget that. As long as I live, it's just like, what in the world have you done? You know, like you idiot. You know, I'm just I just felt like you know crawling in a corner somewhere. Didn't say anything. He just looked at me. Times when, you know, an expression of joy would be totally inappropriate. But there's times on the other side where it would be totally inappropriate if you didn't express joy, if you didn't celebrate. A couple times like that in uh in the scriptures in uh Genesis twenty-one, for example, you have uh God who gave Abraham and Sarah an occasion for joy with the birth of Isaac. So here you have this couple, you know, Abraham's pushing a hundred, Sarah's pushing ninety. And now the Lord blesses him with the child, and Sarah says, God has made laughter for me, and everyone who hears will laugh with me. It was appropriate to express this joy. of over the birth of this child. I mean anybody who saw this 90-year-old woman nursing should have been like hysterical. Like what in the world? Like like can you can you imagine this? 90 years old and you got a child? Times when it's appropriate for joy. In Psalm 126, when the children of Israel reflected on their return to Jerusalem after being held captive by foreign nations, there was this joy that just broke out on the surface. Psalm 126, verse 1. Listen what it says. It says, When the Lord brought back the captive ones of Zion, we were like those who dream. Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with joyful shouting. Then they said among the nations, The Lord has done great things for them. When you've been released from captivity and you're finally brought home, what kind of celebration should there be because of that? And then in Luke chapter 15, where Jesus tells a series of three parables to explain why he receives sinners and eats with them, he describes a joy that's experienced even in heaven. There's a joy that's experienced even in heaven over one sinner who does what? Repents. One sinner who repents. There's a celebration. There's a partying going on in heaven over that one sinner that turns around to the Lord. In Luke 15, 32, when he talks about the uh the return of the son, the prodigal son as we know him, Luke 15, 32 it says, but we had to celebrate. Not that we you know we probably should celebrate. It's like we have to like you don't have an excuse. You don't have any other options. We had to celebrate Had to celebrate and rejoice. For this brother of yours was dead and has begun to live. He was lost and has been found. It would be wrong not to celebrate in certain occasions, right? And this is the kind occasion that we find in Matthew chapter nine. Last week we learned in verses nine to thirteen that there was a man who would have been written off as hopeless by the rabbis. A traitor, a traitor of the worst kind, a person who was defiled by both his occupation and the company that he kept. He was the worst person in Capernaum. He would have been known as the worst citizen of Capernaum. And this person who was characterized by a lifestyle of sin dropped everything. Gave his life to Jesus at two words. Follow me. Two words. That's all it took from Jesus. Follow me. And this person became a follower, a committed disciple. of Jesus Christ. And Jesus joins Matthew for a celebration at his house in verse 11 of Matthew chapter 9. It says, uh, when the Pharisees saw this, this celebration, and Jesus joining with the tax collectors and sinners, when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners? Like I said, Matthew would have been known as the chief of sinners, but Jesus recognizes that the conversion of one sinner is worthy of celebration. That we had to celebrate. We have to have a party. Because this person has been brought to life. And the Pharisees are like totally oblivious to it. Like they totally don't care. They don't get it. A sinner comes to life and they're they're grumbling over in the corner about the party. What kind of nonsense is that? Don't even understand the seriousness of what just took place, the serious joy that just took place. And one commentator said this, that this would forever silence every argument. against carrying the gospel to the most wretched and depraved sinners of humanity. The gospel should go out to everybody. Because if even one person repents, this is the cause for celebration. And we need to go out and look like we need to be party makers, right? Like find somebody who can repent so we can just throw a party over a sinner who repents. We need to be party makers. It's only right that we celebrate and rejoice at new life. So you have the Pharisees, they're uh they're upset because they they don't like the crowd that shows up for the celebration. They don't like the sinners and tax collectors that showed up. But then you have something else that comes up, and uh this is what we're going to deal with today in verses 14 to 17, because you have the disciples of John the Baptist who also seem to object to the celebration. But they're just objecting to the celebration, just period. Like, why are we celebrating? Why is there a party at all? Not just the fact that it's uh you know with sinners, they're just objecting to the party, period. Let's take a look at it in Matthew chapter 9, verses 14 to 17. It says, Then the disciples of John came to him asking, Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? And Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. But no one puts a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. For the patch pulls away from the garment and the worst tear results. Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise the wineskins burst and the wine pours out and the wineskins are ruined. But they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved. Bow your heads with me in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you this morning, and as we uh uh come to this text, uh Father, we pray that you give us wisdom and insight, that you'd open our eyes, that we may behold wonderful things from your book, from your law, from your gospel, from the scriptures that you've authored. My father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Here in verse 14, if you look at it again, it says, The disciples, then the disciples of John came to him asking, Why do we and the Pharisees fast? But your disciples do not fast. If you remember the uh the ministry of John the Baptist, his uh ministry was predicted back in Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 3. It used to be a voice of one crying out into the in the wilderness, you know, make a clear path for our God. In uh Isaiah chapter 40, verse 3 it says a voice is calling. Clear the way for the Lord in the wilderness. Make smooth in the desert a highway for our God. And uh John the Baptist was really the last in the line of the old Testament prophets. Just like the other Old Testament prophets, his ministry was one that looked forward to the coming of the Messiah, and he was like the final one as the entrance of Messiah was upon him. And he called the people to repentance. And the kind of ministry that John the Baptist had fit well with this idea of fasting. And uh just studied fasting when we look back at uh Matthew chapter six, uh verses sixteen to eighteen when Jesus spoke about uh fasting. But just to remind you, uh if you were to do a word study on fasting, just kind of look up you know all the times that fasting shows up. in the Bible. The overwhelming conclusion of that would be that fasting was associated with periods of mourning. Periods of mourning. Periods of urgency, like a situation where you had to make an urgent kind of decision, repentance from sin, and life-changing decisions. Those were the times that fasting was used in the Bible. a mourning, urgency, repentance, and life-changing decisions. And what a person did externally and physically was supposed to be an expression of what they were experiencing on the inside. This this outward sign of like refusing food was supposed to actually be a demonstration of what's going on internally inside that person. When a person found themselves in a situation where they were kind of robbed of comfort in their soul. They'd actually distance themselves from food, the kind of outward comfort of food, because it would reflect what's going on on the inside. Does that make sense? So you have uh fasting that was seen as this outward expression of an internal trauma. And uh fasting, as I mentioned, was during times of mourning or grief. When Israel heard that King Saul and his son Jonathan had been slain, they fasted, you know, after hearing the news. You have uh during urgent or dangerous situations when uh Queen Esther uh found out that the uh the people of uh of God, the Jews were going to be annihilated, she called everybody to a fast, you know, call every Jew that you know and tell them to fast. And uh life-changing decisions like you have uh Paul and Barnabas. They're sent out on the mission field. You know, it's kind of like a life-changing decision. They fasted and prayed before they they sent out Paul and Barnabas. Uh also in Acts chapter 14 you have prayer and fasting that was associated with uh choosing of elders. Even as the as a church before we chose uh Matt Feldy, we actually spent some time, uh several of us spent some time in prayer and fasting before we made that decision. And then the most common time for fasting was in relationship to repentance from sins. When a person was just overcome with the grief. and conviction of sin, weighed down by their sin, they would actually express that by fasting. So you have like in in Nineveh, when uh Jonah came to Nineveh and he tells them, you know, in forty days you're wiped out. You know, this judgment of God is upon them. They're convicted over their sin. And what do they do? They fast. They call the whole city to fast as an expression of repentance towards God. They even had the animals fast with them. You know, they didn't even feed the animals. You know, the animals are going to join us in on this fast. And that's the kind of ministry that John the Baptist had in Israel. He was calling on the people to repent. You're not ready for the Messiah. You guys need to bow on your face. You need to get ready for the Messiah to come. It was the period of mourning as a nation. The nation needed to mourn because they weren't prepared for the Messiah. In Matthew chapter 3, verse 10, he says, The axe is already laid at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. You guys are in danger of being cut down and tossed into the fire. You need to repent. It's a time to mourn. It's a time to get chariot on your face before God. This is the kind of ministry that John the Baptist had. And fasting would have been an appropriate accompaniment to that kind of ministry. This morning over sin. And both John the Baptist apparently and his disciples fasted often. They fasted for the people And it seems like the they kind of followed the same kind of schedule that might have even been uh followed by the the Pharisees. The Pharisees, most of the Pharisees fasted on every Monday and Thursday. Every Monday and Thursday they fasted two days during the week. And it seems like John's disciples kind of followed a similar schedule. According to the uh what's called the Mishnah was uh an ancient Jewish commentary. It says that it was on Thursday that God told Moses to ascend the mountain Mount Sinai and receive the the the the set of tablets, the second set of tablets after the sin of the golden calf Forty days later on a Monday, Moses finally descended the mountain with the new tablets, signifying that God had forgiven the nation, and as a result, Mondays and Thursdays were considered special days. to find divine favor. You know, Monday's the day that, or uh, you know, uh Thursday was the day that Moses went up, Monday's the day that Moses came down, so those are kind of special days to receive God's favor. The Bible doesn't say that anywhere. It's not written down. That's just kind of what they came up with. These are just the days of divine favor. So the Pharisees picked two days during the week to fast, and they picked Monday and Thursday because it was associated with the giving of the law. Pharisees did that. John's disciples probably did that. And here comes Jesus. Here comes Jesus, the one who identified himself as the Messiah, and he's ignoring all their customs. He's not joining in with the fasting. You know, Mondays, Thursdays, he's eating. His disciples are eating. And here you have John's disciples, and they're wondering, what's going on here? You know, here's the one that we're said that we're supposed to follow, and he's not following the customs. Well, I mean, why doesn't he get it? And it might be The case. We don't know this, but it just might be the case that when Matthew threw the party to celebrate his conversion, it might just be that it happened on a Monday or a Thursday. So here you have John's disciples who are fasting. Here you have the Pharisees who are fasting. And then here you have Jesus. He's reclining in the middle of the house. Hey, pass me another one of those pieces of meat over there and eating the food and drinking the wine. And people are like, what? You know, here we're fasting, you know, mourning for the people of Israel, and you have Jesus eating, he's partying, he's celebrating with the sinners? Like seriously? And this is supposed to be the one that we're defiled. So you kind of see what the dilemma would be. You know, so here they have Jesus feasting while they're fasting. You know, don't you know what day it is? You know, even the Pharisees fast. You know, why don't you fast? Why don't your disciples fast? Why don't they recognize the sign of repentance and contrition? But there's a couple of things that you need to keep in mind, and these will be helpful for all of us. You need to write these down because all of us have a tendency towards legalism, don't we? you know, making up rules that aren't found in the Bible, but we kind of follow them anyway and like, you know, kind of impose it on other people. First of all, it's important not to make extra biblical expectations on other people. Extra-biblical expectations on other people. The standard of righteousness comes from outside, extra-biblical, outside the Bible. Fasting twice a week is commanded where in Scripture? Nowhere. Nobody where where did God command two days to fast? God commanded that nowhere. There was only one time of the year that the uh Israelites were supposed to fast. And that was on the Day of Atonement. If you if you were to turn back to Leviticus sixteen, you don't have to turn there, I'll I'll go ahead and read it for you. But in Leviticus sixteen uh twenty-nine to thirty-one, uh the day of of Yom Kippur, it was the the day of atonement. Yom Day Kippur is kind of covering uh day of atonement. It was the most significant day on the Jewish calendar when the high priest once a year would enter into the very presence of God into the Holy of Holies to ask for forgiveness of sins for the people. It was an appropriate day to fast. Why? Because they don't know if God's going to forgive them or not. It's like like this kind of like trembling, like, God, please. We all recognize our sin. Please forgive us. Would you forgive us? Is the sacrifice going to be accepted? We don't know yet. We haven't seen the priest come back out yet. Is our sacrifice going to be accepted? So it was a day of mourning, trembling. It was a serious day. So fasting was appropriate, and all of Israel fasted on the day of Yom Kippur. According to Isaiah 58, 3, Ezra 8 and 21. It talks about the afflicting or humbling of ourselves being related to fasting. In Leviticus sixteen, twenty-nine to thirty-one it says, This shall be a permanent statute for you in the seventh month. On the tenth day of the month, you shall humble your souls. And not do any work, whether the native or the alien. Then it goes on in verse 31 to say, It is to be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, that you may humble your souls. Only one day was commanded for you to humble your souls, to afflict your soul before God. And it was one day of fasting. Acts chapter 27, verse 9 calls the day of the atonement just the fast. That's what it was known as, the fast. That's the day that everybody in Israel fasts. But nowhere else are we commanded to fast any other day. The Israelites weren't commanded to fast any other day. Fasting two days a week is extra-biblical. Comes from outside of the Bible. It's not found, it might be found in the Mishnah or Midrash or whatever else. It's not found in the Bible. That's one point that you want to remember. Don't make things that are extra-biblical to be expectations of other people. Number two It's important not to make external appearances, external appearances of righteousness, the standard of righteousness. External appearances, what you can see on the outside as becoming now your standard for righteousness. Got a question as I was looking at this. Why did the disciples of John even bring the Pharisees up? You ever wonder that? Why are they even comparing themselves with the Pharisees? Because the Pharisees, all they have is what's on the outside. Only what you can see. Somehow they fell into the trap. The disciples of John fell into the trap of viewing righteousness on the outside. And that's dangerous. It's dangerous. And I'm not saying that holiness doesn't show up on the outside, that there's not things that are associated with holiness. But if all you do is just look at what's on the outside, what you can see and observe, you've got a big problem when it comes to holiness. Holiness isn't just about what shows up on the outside. What is what does David say in Psalm 19? Let the meditations of my heart and the words of my mouth be acceptable in your sight. God's worried about much more than what shows up on the outside. God's also looking about Is your heart acceptable? Is what's going on on the inside acceptable? It's more about more than what's going on on the outside. So that's that's something that we need to keep in mind. We don't need to be fooled by people's hypocrisy. And here you have the disciples of John, and they're they're they're taken in by it. Hey, they're fasting. I mean, look how righteous they are. You know, we're fasting. Why aren't you doing it? They should have remembered the words of even their own disciple or their teacher, John the Baptist, in Matthew chapter 3, verse 7, when he spoke about the Pharisees and the Sadducees, he said to them, You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath of the come? John saw through their hypocrisy. I'm not fooled by your fasting on two days a week. You're a brood of vipers, you bunch of snakes. Who told you to come out here to flee from the wrath of the come? Get your hearts right. Get your hearts right. Today there's uh There's people that follow prescribed fast. Interestingly, there's some people who fast every Monday and Thursday. Muslims today, there's some Muslims, groups of Muslims today, that fast every Monday and Thursday. Every Monday and Thursday. Kind of interesting. Kind of matches what we find in the Bible. Monday and Thursday. There's Catholics today who follow like a liturgical kind of calendar and there's certain Times during the year where they they abstain from certain foods, right? You know, where where they they say, I'm not going to eat, you know, uh meat, you know, for a certain period of time, or they have a day where they fast altogether. You know, you have all these different kinds of religious kind of cycles and people fasting for various reasons. And it's tempting to look at their kind of devotion and say, oh, isn't that impressive? Look at look at what they're giving up. Look at what they're denying themselves. Isn't that righteous? Oh, I wish I could be righteous like that. You know, I wish I could kind of reach that kind of level where I'd have that kind of devotion. Christ is not impressed. Christ is not impressed by what shows up on the outside. And in Matthew chapter 6, when he did refer to fasting in Matthew chapter 6. He says, uh, when you fast, verse 17, anoint your head, wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your father who's in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. And he talks about those who neglect their appearance so that they'll be noticed by men when they're fasting. He says they have the reward in full. They've already got what they're looking for. I'm not impressed by that. The father's not impressed by that. He's not looking at what comes out on the outside. He's worried about what's going on on the inside. Is your heart right Is this what you do if nobody sees you? If nobody knows that you're fasting on a Monday or a Thursday. Why didn't anybody even know that they're fasting every Monday and Thursday? Came out on the outside. Number three, it's important to make your to make sure that your uh a personal expectation, your personal expectation is not the measuring rod for everybody else. That your personal practice, you know, what you expect maybe from yourself or what your family or whatever, that you don't make your personal convictions the measuring rod for everybody else. Matthew Henry once wrote this. He says it's common for vain professors, you know, people who just kind of talk, all all lip and no no reality, to make themselves a standard in religion by which they try to measure every other person. As if all who differed from them were so far in the wrong, as if all who did less than they did too little, and those who did more than they did too much. And who's always in the middle? You are. You're always like, hey, I've got this thing like kind of fine-tuned. I'm dialed in. Like this is exactly where I'm supposed to be. You know, if you do less, uh, you're not you're not serious enough. If you do more, uh, you're you're like fanatical, right? That's how we think. That's how the people in Christ day thought when they uh in Matthew chapter eleven we referred to this last time, but when they looked at John the Baptist, you know, he's out there crazy man in the wilderness, he's fasting and eating locusts and honey. What? Are you a nut? He's gotta have a demon. That guy's like way too far. They looked at Jesus like, what? Eating with sinners, tax collectors? Oh, you're way too lenient Way too lenient. You know, you you just you just like you know are just liberal, right? And where are they? I'm like right in the center John the Baptist, uh, he's too far, too far out of this world. Jesus, he's too much a part of this world. Me, I'm like exactly where you need to be, right? They saw themselves as the standard for everybody else. Their personal convictions were the measuring rod for everybody else. Number four, this fourth thing to keep in mind, is that the true standard of righteousness is who? Jesus Christ. Jesus is the true measure of righteousness. If you look in the scriptures and you see Christ do it, you're pretty safe to say it's okay for me to do it, right? If if if Christ is the example, you know, follow me as I follow Christ, imitate be imitators of me as I imitate Christ, 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1. If you see Jesus do it, that's a pretty safe, safe way to kind of gauge where I should be. Jesus is the standard of Righteousness. And here you have the disciples of of John that they're failing to see this. They're failing to apply these principles to themselves They're failing to apply these principles to themselves. They're making extra-biblical expectations. They're uh looking at external appearances, they're making their personal convictions the standard for everybody else. and they're failing to see Jesus as the true standard of righteousness. So that's the the first part. You have these disciples in point number mum number one. at least uh uh disciples of John the Baptist, uh the kingdom joy is questioned. You know, they're looking at Jesus, expressing joy, eating with sinners and tax gatherers, and they they're questioning the the joy of all that. You know, should you even be parting today? It's a fast day. You know, why don't you fast with the rest of us? So you have that that's going on in another new point number one. Point number two, you have the explanation of the joy and the kingdom being defended. Look at verse 15 back in Matthew chapter 9. And Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? Remember again, mourning and fasting, they go together. So he says the attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn, in this case fast, as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. And then they will fast. First of all, what Jesus does in this verse is he gives This gracious reminder to John's disciples about who he truly is. Well, let me let me remind you about who I am. I'm the bridegroom. Does that ring any bells? Anybody ever heard that term before? Actually, when you look in scripture, it's kind of interesting to note. This is the only time in scripture that Jesus refers to himself as the bridegroom. Only time. There's times when he he might make a reference, maybe in a parable or something else. This is the only time that Jesus actually refers to himself as the bridegroom. There's a reason for that. There's a reason for that. You know why? Because there was somebody else who also referred to him as the bridegroom. Who was that? It was John the Baptist. Turn over to John chapter 3. John chapter 3 John chapter 3, this uh follows after the discussion with uh Nicodemus about uh being born again, and in uh John chapter 3, starting at verse uh 22. Yeah, I have an explanation of John the Baptist's ministry in verse 22. It says, after these things, Jesus and his disciples came into the land of Judea, and there he was spending time with them in baptizing. John the Baptist also was baptizing in Anon near Selim because there was much water there. And people were coming and were being baptized, for John had not yet been thrown into prison. And by the time John's disciples come to Jesus, John's already in prison by it by this point. Verse 25. Therefore there arose a discussion on the part of John's disciples about uh with the Jew about purification, though the washings or the cleansings, you know, basically the baptism. And they came to John and said to him, Rabbi, he who was with you beyond the Jordan to whom you have testified, behold, he is baptizing, and all are coming to him. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing unless it has been given him from heaven. You yourselves are my witnesses that I said I am not the Christ, but I have been sent ahead of him. He who has the bride is the what? The bridegroom. But the friend of the bridegroom, referring to himself, I'm the friend of the bridegroom, who stands and hears him, rejoices greatly. Because of the bridegroom's voice, so this joy of mine has been made full. And then verse 30, he must increase, but I must decrease. So here you have John the Baptist referring to Jesus as the bridegroom with his disciples with his disciples. John's disciples are hearing him say this. He's the bridegroom. I'm just the friend. I rejoice to hear the bridegroom's voice. He's got to increase. I have to decrease. So here you have Jesus reminding like like like disciples just kind of gather around. Let me remind you about something. I am the bridegroom I'm the bridegroom. Don't you remember what your your master said? I'm the one that you're supposed to be following. I'm the one that's supposed to increase. I'm the one who is the bridegroom. He was giving them a gracious reminder about something that John the Baptist had already told them. So automatically those words would have come back to the disciples' minds. And not only that, not only should the words of John the Baptist come back to their minds, the words of Scripture should have come back to their minds. Because throughout Scripture you find that That God describes himself in a relationship to Israel in a way that only he describes himself in that relationship to Israel. God describes himself as the husband of Israel, the groom of Israel In Hosea chapter 2, verses 19 to 20, it says, I will betroth you to me forever. Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness and injustice. in loving kindness and in compassion. I will betroth you to me in faithfulness, and then you will know that I am the Lord. God describes himself as the groom of Israel. And uh one commentator says that uh the the the idea of the bridegroom is actually the highest Christological claim imaginable because in the Old Testament God is only described in that kind of image. God is only described in that kind of metaphor as it relates to Israel. So that's why when Israel is unfaithful, it's not just idolatry, it's adultery. You've been unfaithful to your husband. Bridegroom is God, so who is Jesus calling himself? Jesus is calling himself God. Don't I mean remember what John the Baptist said about me? And remember who I really am. Remember what my true identity is. I am God. I am the bridegroom. If the disciples of John really knew, understood who Jesus was, they wouldn't be asking Jesus to join in their fast. They would be asking Jesus, can I join in on your feast? Can I come and celebrate with you? Can I party with you? Because they should have understood who Jesus was. Jesus not only explains who he was, he also explains what that means. What it means, since I'm, you know that I'm the bridegroom, since I've communicated that, what that should mean is that like time with me is a celebration. This is a wedding. Fasting is natural, like I said, an expression of grief. Feasting was appropriate for celebration, for weddings. And here he uses that kind of terminology: that as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they mourn? The the friends of the attendants of the bridegroom were actually uh people in ancient times who were kind of like the party starters. Like, hey, let's it's it's time to celebrate, let's live you know, hey, play that song and let's kind of get get the the dance going or whatever. They're supposed to kind of like celebrate, you know, get everybody else to kind of celebrate with them over the the bride and the groom Hey, this is this is what's going on. This is my friend. This is a party. Let's get it going. Let's hey crank it up. That's what the attendants of the bridegroom were supposed to do. And here he says, these are the attendants of the bridegroom. They're supposed to be celebrating with me. That's what their function is They're supposed to be enjoying what they're seeing right now. That's what they're supposed to be doing. And just think about what the disciples had been witnessing during their time with Jesus. Think about it. Disease is being eliminated. with just a word or a touch. The winds and the sea are obeying the words of Jesus Christ. Demons recognize the authority of Jesus Christ. You know, they they they know he can torment them before their time. The the sins are being forgiven, and the most despised man in Capernaum has just been made to follow Jesus Christ. What is there to mourn about? What should I be sad about? This isn't a time for fasting, it's a time for feasting. Let's enjoy this. The kingdom of God is breaking through. upon the earth. That's what was going on in the life and ministry of Jesus Christ. Later on in Matthew chapter twelve and verse twenty eight he says, If I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then you know that the kingdom of God is upon you. The kingdom of God is showing up. The kingdom of God is breaking in on the world. And what Jesus was doing was he was giving Israel like a preview of a future kingdom. Giving them a preview of this is what it tastes like for Jesus Christ to come and reign and be in charge. This is what it looks like. And this is exactly what the Old Testament prophets predicted of the coming kingdom. This is what they said the kingdom was going to be. And Jesus is starting to kind of give them a taste. Disease is banished. Death is banished. Demons are flaying. I mean, this is like a taste of what the kingdom's going to be. And it's not just that they shouldn't mourn. He says they can't. They can't mourn. He says in verse 15 again, the attendants of the bridegroom cannot. It's not able. They don't have the ability to mourn As long as I'm with them. Can they? Can you really expect these people to mourn while I'm with them? Can you really expect them to be sad and down when I'm with them? The kind of uh ministry that Jesus had was phenomenal. And there would be an appropriate time to mourn, but it wouldn't be while Jesus was with them. And he mentions this in verse 15. He says, But the days will come. The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. There's going to come a time when I'm not here. And Jesus, even as early as this, Jesus is already predicting that this kingdom that he's introducing is going to be rejected by Israel. That Jesus himself is going to be rejected by Israel, and there's going to come a time when the bridegroom, Jesus Christ, is going to be taken away. He's already preparing them for it. There's going to come a time when fasting and mourning will be appropriate I'm going to be rejected. The bridegroom is going to be taken away, but it's not now. This is a time for celebration. This is a time for feasting. Jesus understood that his time was was limited, but there would come an appropriate time when disciples would again start to fast. You have in uh Acts chapter thirteen, Acts chapter fourteen, after the uh the resurrection and ascension of Jesus Christ were disciples fasted again. So until Jesus Christ comes back, there's going to be times of uh hardship. There's going to be times of uh uh when when things are difficult, there's gonna be times of of grief and mourning. There's going to be times when when we have urgent and dangerous, you know, kind of decisions, you know, to make. There's going to be life-changing, altering decisions uh that we'll have to to face. There's going to be repentance from sin that will have to be expressed. And those are all the appropriate times for fasting, for mourning. But Jesus says that's that's not the time now. The time's gonna come for that, but it's not now. And he moves from this defense of the joy now to the explanation of it in verses 16 and 17, and this is where he wraps it up. Verses 16 and 17, he says, But no one puts a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. For the patch pulls away from the garment, and a worse terror results. Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise the wineskins burst and the wine pours out and the wineskins are ruined. But they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved And uh the first, and this this like I said, this here he talks about the he gives an explanation of the joy of the kingdom in sixteen and seventeen. And uh these two illustrations that Jesus gave They would have been obvious to the original audience, but most of us don't patch cloaks or fill wineskin, so you know there's some kind of explanation that that we need, at least a little bit. Uh first of all he gives the picture of an unshrunken cloth. An unshrunken cloth. This was a uh uh really in this context and and for most of us, you know, by the time we see uh we see wool, you know, it's kind of already laid out and you know cut or whatever else. If we lived at another place, another time, we would have been more familiar with actually the beginning stages of the process. Some of you have heard the term fuller. like fuller soap, you know, things like that. Um a fuller was a person who would take, you know, the the the the skin of the the animal um or or the cloth, you know, from from the uh the animal like the wool that was been sheared off. He would take that cloth and he'd uh he'd uh clean it kind of pick pick out you know the the contaminants in it. Uh he would press it together. There would be a process of actually trying to make the wool fuller and thicker is what he would do, which is where the fuller got his name. One commentator writes about the process. He says, what is meant is not simply a new cloth, for that is often used for patching, but cloth that has not been completely dressed A part of the process of preparing woolen cloth for use consists in shrinking it and a patch of unfold cloth not duly shrunk. would contract the first time it should become wet. And as the older, weaker cloth all around gives way, the result would be that there would be a worse tear. So a cloth that wasn't properly prepared before you tried to patch up an old garment. It would actually, you know, as it as it was uh wash, as it got wet, it would shrink, and it would actually tear apart, you know, the garment that it was trying to patch up. It would actually create a larger hole in it. And maybe it maybe an illustration for us today might be uh you know uh depends on the kind of t-shirt you buy, but sometimes you get a t-shirt, you throw it in the wash, you throw it in the dryer, and then you pull down, it's like, oh I guess this is my son's now. You know what I mean? I've had uh I had t-shirts like that. It's just like, okay, I guess guess I shouldn't have put it in the dryer for that long. It's like now it belongs to somebody else because it shrinks, you know, the the first time that you kind of you know try to watch it. Same thing kind of thing would happen with this kind of wool that they used to patch up garments. You know, the first time it washed, it was got wet, shrink up, and whatever they were trying to patch up would just be destroyed because the the material that was being put on there was newer, stronger. and would rip apart the old garment. The other illustration that he uh gives was uh of the the wineskin. Uh second illustration is of the the wineskin Which is also something that we're not really familiar with. So uh so bear with me and and and listen to this description if you dare, okay The skin was usually the skin of a goat or a like a young goat, a kid, which is tough and light. The head and the feet of the animal were removed. And the skin was stripped off whole, so they totally ripped the skin, like like almost like a glove, peeling a glove off of the animal. They'd ripped the whole skin off the animal Then it would be tanned or treated in a peculiar way to remove whatever's disagreeable. They tie up the holes like they tie up the legs, you know, kind of sew up the legs, maybe leave like the neck, you know, the hole for the neck open, and then they would fill it with with wine. You know, fresh wine they fill fill this uh this uh the skin with uh the hairy sides on the outside you know and the skin on the inside would kind of contain this wine And uh what happened was when the the wine was still fermenting, you know, still kind of bubbling and and uh aging, uh this this wine would actually expand the skin. The skin would expand with uh the wine. Kinda like when you have like a two liter bottle, like a plastic Coke bottle or something like that, it's real tight on the outside because like the bubbles are kind of expanding and pushing on the outside. This would be the same kind of thing that would happen on the inside of the skin, but the skin would expand as the the bubbles are kind of still, you know, forming. But the skins aren't like bottles, you know. They're not like the glass bottles that we have or plastic bottles. You know, after it gets to a certain point, the the skins will become dry, they become brittle. And now you try to fill that with uh fresh wine, it's just gonna crack the explode, and wine's just gonna fall out everywhere. That's that's what he's referring to here And the point is that the joy of the kingdom is so strong and so fresh and so full that you won't be able to mix it with anything else The joy of the kingdom is so strong that it would tear any fabric that you try to patch it up to The joy of the kingdom is so strong that it would explode any kind of container that you try to hold it in with. So this is what Jesus is using to describe this joy of the kingdom, this kingdom that he's introducing here. So spectacular that our containers can't hold it, our fabric can't hold it back. Can't hold it in, can't hold it back. This is the joy of the kingdom. And when you think about the kingdom that Jesus is introducing. . It's going to blow away anything that we even know about. . We can't compare it with anything else. We don't have anything to compare the kingdom of Christ to. Listen to this. Politically And thank God for this, you know, in the kind of political climate that we live in today, right? Politically, the kingdom will not merge with any kingdom that existed before it. When Christ sets up his kingdom, he's not going to, you know, hey, can we take a vote here? You know, how many people want me to be king? You, you, you. God doesn't care He doesn't care. You think God gives a rip about our Constitution, really? Hey, I gotta make sure I'm abiding by your Constitution. You know, what did you have to say? What did the forefathers say about this God does not care when Jesus Christ comes back every kingdom is going to be obliterated. This is my kingdom. This is me coming in. The kingdom will come. It will not merge with any kingdom. before it. In Daniel chapter 2, when uh he describes his kingdom, it's the stone that's hewn from a mountain that will crush every kingdom before it. All the kingdoms of this world will be Obliterated when Jesus Christ comes to introduce his kingdom. Daniel chapter 2, 44. It says, In the days of those kings the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which will never be destroyed. And that kingdom will not be left for another people. It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms, but it will endure forever. God is coming back to introduce a kingdom that's going to be unlike any. You can't patch it up with anything. You can't combine it with anything. Socially, the kingdom will be characterized by justice. peace among every people and nation. We're out here trying to fight for justice and peace and everything else. When Christ introduces his kingdom, that's what it's going to be characterized by. In Isaiah chapter 2 verse 4, it says, And he will judge the nations and will render decisions for many peoples. They will hammer their swords into ploughshirts. No more need for swords. No more need for swords when Jesus shows up. There's spears in the pruning hooks. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, and never again will they learn war. Jesus is going to come back. Everybody's going to be at peace. There's going to be justice for everybody. There's not going to be any fighting. You know, we're not going to have to worry about any riots downtown. Nothing like that, right? When Jesus Christ shows up, and have we had this before? The answer is no. We've never seen anything like this. We haven't seen world peace. When Jesus Christ shows up, there's going to be world peace Physically, the entire earth is going to be fruitful. There's not going to be these deserts where people can't grow any grain or crops or anything else. It says the entire earth will become fruitful. Isaiah 27, verse 6 In the days to come, Jacob will take root, Israel will blossom and sprout, and they will fill the whole world with fruit. Even the animals are going to be at peace with one another. Isaiah eleven, verse six, the wolf will lie down with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the young goat. There's not going to be even a division in the animal kingdom. Spiritually, spiritually, the kingdom of God will be populated by redeemed souls who have the law of God written on their hearts. And I love this. Just turn back to uh Jeremiah 31. Jeremiah 31, where you have uh this description of the new covenant in uh Jeremiah 31. I'll start at verse uh 33 in Jeremiah. Just want you to see this. Jeremiah 31, starting at verse 33. It says, But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them and on their heart, I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, there's not going to be a need for evangelism, you know That can be a need for evangelism. No missionaries. One man won't have to say to another, know the Lord, do you know the Lord? Why? For they will all know me. From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Spiritually, every man is going to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. Every man is going to follow Jesus Christ. We have no systems that can contain that. We have no systems that can hold that in. We have no systems that could hold that back. Do you long for a kingdom like this? This is the kind of kingdom that Jesus is introducing. And we should long for the return of Jesus Christ, where he brings this new heaven, the new earth, the the messianic kingdom. There's not going to be a need for fasting there. There's not going to be any need for mourning. Every tear is going to be wiped from our eyes. No mourning, no grief, no urgent situations, no danger, no wrestling with life-changing decisions, no need to repent from sin. All the reasons for fasting are just going to be wiped out, disappear. But in between then, in between the the first Advent and the second Advent, you know, when Christ came, when Christ comes again, in between, we still we still have to deal with life, right? We still have to deal with this kind of longing and expectation for Jesus Christ to come back. But what Jesus is saying is that there's nothing that you have that can contain what I'm introducing here I can't you can't pair this up with anything that you have going on here. What I'm bringing is something that's brand new. Brand new. You've never seen this before. This is the kind of kingdom that Jesus is giving them a taste of, and his ministry on earth was a preview of coming attractions. And uh what his first appearing did was just increase our joy and expectation for his second appearing, right? It's like we got the first taste, it's like, hey, I want the full meal, right? Can can you bring the kingdom down? That's what we're praying for in Matthew 6, right? Let thy kingdom come. Bring the kingdom down. We want Jesus to come and reign and rule. And that's what it means today in part when we're fasting. We're recognizing that the kingdom hasn't come yet. And I'm still recognizing that there's mourning and grief and sadness and other things that I have to deal with. But even when we do fast today as Christians, we don't fast as if Jesus has never come. You know, sometimes people, you know, when they uh they you know you get into churches and you know they just kind of talk about the cross, which is right to focus on the cross, but sometimes people talk about the cross as if there wasn't a resurrection that followed. You know, we we don't need some kind of crucifix where Jesus is still on the cross. He's off the cross. We're resurrection Christians. We believe that Jesus rose again. He has defeated death He has gained the victory. So as Christians, typically, we should be known as joyful people. Why? Because our Savior has already appeared and we know that he's coming back. The Savior's already gained the victory for us. We're not still here kind of figuring, trying to figure it out. Like, how is this going to happen? Jesus Christ has already showed us. He's come once. He's going to show us again when he comes back. We're resurrection Christians. So this means that even in our mourning, even in our grief, even in our difficulty, it's like we we mourn, but it's not without hope. We mourn, but it's not without this remembrance that Jesus Christ has already given us a taste of what the kingdom is going to be like, and I'm looking for the full meal. I can't wait till he comes back. This expectation that Jesus Christ is coming back. In Titus chapter 2, verses 11 to 13, it says, for the grace of God has appeared. It's already appeared. Jesus Christ has already showed up. Bringing salvation to all men. In verse 13, looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. He's already appeared and He's appearing again. He's already come and we're waiting for the glory to be revealed to us in the future. Now Hebrews chapter 9, verse 28, it says, So Christ also, having once been offered, once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time for salvation without reference to sin to all those who eagerly await him. This should be your anticipation as a believer today. So when we look back to the grace of God and we look forward to the glory of God, in the middle it should it should fill our hearts with this hope, right? That even even during those those times of sadness and grief, that there's still like this hot lava that's like underneath the surface, just kind of waiting for expression, because we know that it's coming, right? We know that it's coming. There's this joy that we should have as believers that sustains us even through difficulty. And this is the kind of kingdom that Jesus was introducing. That should be a motivation to you today. That should be an encouragement to you today. That should be something that gets you through difficult times to think about the appearance of the glory of our great God and Savior. Jesus Christ. We have something to look forward to. This is not the end of the story. This is not the end of the story. It's when people think that this is the end that they start to kind of sink in depression, spiral down. This is not the end of the story. It might be a bad chapter, but we've got we've got a couple more chapters that are left in this book, right? We've got some more to look forward to. Look forward to the glory that's to be revealed. This is what Jesus encourages us to do. I remember when um Uh MacArthur told a story about uh going to to Russia. He did the conference in Russia after the uh the iron uh curtain came down and uh Christians from the West were allowed back into the country. I remember he he talked about this week-long conference that he had and he's got all these pastors that are gathered together and he's just going to teach him systematic theology. You know, I'm just going to start from the beginning and let's work all the way through and you know, God and Christ and Holy Spirit and church and all this kind of stuff. He's talking to 'em. And after like, I forgot it was like the third or fourth day, uh, one of the the people who was attending the conference said, uh, when are you going to get to the good stuff? He's like, well, what have I been doing for like the last three, four days? You know what I mean? I'm like giving all to him, you know, all day conference, talking about God and everything else. And then he realized that what they were talking about is like, when are you going to get to like the return of Christ? It's it's not just about what happened back then. It was like there's something that they're looking forward to, right? And he says that what he realizes is that there are these people that had been oppressed and, you know, kind of beaten down by life. And he says what they really needed to be focused on was like the hope that's to come. So he spent the rest of his time talking about eschatology, the return of Jesus Christ. To lift their hearts and lift their spirits that that this is not the end of the story. It's not over. It's not over. There's more to come. That's the same thing that we need to remind ourselves about. It brings us comfort. It brings us hope. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 18, when uh Paul reminded the Christians that, you know, even those that have departed before, they haven't missed out on the day of the Lord, there's more to come, right? He says in verse 18 of chapter 4, therefore comfort one another with these words. How are we supposed to encourage one another How are we supposed to encourage one another? That this isn't it? There's more to come. Jesus is coming back. It's gonna get a whole lot better. You just gotta look to him. Expect him. He's coming. Anticipate him. This is how we're supposed to comfort one another. Jesus is the one who brings joy to the world. Jesus brings joy to the world. Let's uh flip back to Psalm 98. Psalm 98. There's a popular uh Christmas carol that we sang during Christmas time, but but this this carol was never never uh intended just to be sung during Christmas. Psalm 98 was actually where the basis or the inspiration for this uh this song came about uh when Isaac Watts uh penned the the the song Joy to the World uh was actually uh part of a collection of uh of psalms uh where he kind of uh uh wrote some uh some uh the sounds, wrote out some sounds in kind of a English language and tried to kind of match them to to kind of meter and rhyme and things like that. Um but when when Watts paraphrased the Psalms he penned like a 138 uh Psalms, uh, kind of looked at it through the lens of fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Psalm 98 was one of those songs that he picked up and uh it became what we know is is joy to the world. Listen what he says in Psalm 98 O sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done wonderful things. His right hand and his holy arm have gained the victory for him The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. He has remembered his loving kindness and his faithfulness to the house of Israel All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Shout joyfully to the Lord all the earth. Break forth and sing for joy and sing praises. Sing praises to the Lord with all with the lyre, with the lyre, the sound of the melody, with trumpets and the sound of the horn. Shout joyfully before the King of the Lord, the King the Lord. Let the sea roar and all that it contains, the world and those who dwell in it. Let the rivers clap their hands, let the mountains sing together with joy before the Lord, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with equity. Psalm 98 has much more to say about the second coming of Christ than it even does about the first coming of Christ. And when he had the inspiration to write the song, it can it kind of gives you a better idea when you sing those those words, joy to the world. What was he actually talking about? He's talking about this. He's talking about when when the Lord comes to judge the earth and rule and reign over it, and all the world is overturned When the kingdoms of the world no longer exist and they all become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, when he rejuvenates the world and the world becomes fruitful and peaceful and the Lord reigns over it all, and we shout with joy to God. Because we're just so excited about his reign and he's made known his salvation to the whole world. This is what Isaac Watts had in mind when he penned the song Joy to the World. Makes you listen to this in a in a little different light, doesn't it? Joy to the world, the Lord has come. Let earth receive for king. Let every heart prepare a room and heaven and nature sing. Joy to the world, the Savior reigns. Let men their songs employ, while fields and floods, rocks, hills, and plains repeat the sounding joy. No more let sins and sorrows grow, nor thorns infest the ground. What he's saying is that the curse is reverse, right? He comes to make his blessings flow, far as the curse is found. He rules the world with truth and grace and makes the nations prove the glories of his righteousness and wonders of his love. Isn't that fantastic? To think about the coming of Jesus Christ. He's coming and he's going to bring joy to the world. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we've had to Gather together and to hear hear this text speak once again. Father, we thank you for the first coming of Christ and how, as he gathered together with his disciples, that there was no need for mourning, there was no need for fasting. Because the Lord was with them, the Lord was present, banishing disease and sickness and death. And even forgiving disobedience, and even the most wretched of men, the most despised of men, became disciples at just two words. Follow me. Father, we thank you for the first appearing of Jesus Christ. And Father, we recognize that we're resurrection Christians. That we live in the joy and the victory that Christ has secured for us, and we look forward with anticipation to his next return. And Father, we say with the Apostle John, even so quickly, Come, Lord Jesus, come, Lord Jesus. Father, we thank you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files