The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans. Romans chapter 5. We're back in Romans chapter 5. As we uh continue working through the section of uh scripture uh that's actually considered to be the central passage or the classic text on original sin. Theologians call this the textus classicus, because that's what theologians do. They speak in Latin. But even though this is considered to be the classic text for original sin, that's not the main point of the passage. The main point of the passage is that Jesus brings righteousness and life to all who are connected to him. He brings the light of righteousness, the justification of life, and that's the point. It's through the work of Jesus that justification of life is brought to all men in verse 18, and many will be made righteous in verse 19. But in order for us to understand just how marvelous and infinite and matchless that work of grace is, Paul has to help us to understand just how hopeless and helpless we really were. Without a passage like this, I'm not sure that we would understand just how hopeless our condition really is And let's be honest, even with the passage like this, we have a hard time understanding just how hopeless our condition really is. Many of us in the face of a passage like this are like the disciples after Jesus told the crowds to eat his flesh and drink his blood. Which was actually a metaphor for belief, you know, eating his flesh and drinking his blood. You know, if you compare uh the scripture with the scripture, it's actually a metaphor for believing in me, taking me all in. But the disciples didn't get it. So how do they respond? In John chapter 6 and verse 60, it says, therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a difficult statement. Who can listen to it? And that's the kind of response that I imagine many of us have when I share what Paul has to say about the condition that we were in. And what was the condition we were in? The beginning of verse 18, Romans chapter 5, verse 18. It says, So then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men. In other words, we enter the world condemned because of what someone else did. And that's the plain meaning of the text. The result of Adam's sin was condemnation to all. And then verse 19 doesn't make it any better. Verse 19, the beginning of verse 19 says, For as through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. And let that one sink in for a minute. It doesn't say through our disobedience that the many were made sinners. It says through one man's disobedience the many were made sinners. We've been designated as sinners not because of what we've done, but because of what somebody else has done. So we're not just sinners because we sin. We're also we also sin because we're sinners. And truly, this is a difficult statement. I mean, who can listen to it? You're going to listen to it. We're all going to listen to it. Not just because it's the word of God, although that would be enough to know that it's the word of God, but because understanding the death and condemnation that Adam And his sin brought to us helps us to understand the life and the righteousness that Jesus brings to us. Let's take a look at our passage together. I'll actually start at verse 12. Romans chapter 5, starting at verse 12. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. For until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam Who was a type of him who was to come. But the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one, the many died. Much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to many. The gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For on the one hand, the judgment arose from one transgression, resulting in condemnation. But on the other hand, the free gift arose from many transgressions, resulting in justification. For if by the transgression of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ. So then, as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men, even so through one act of righteousness there resulted justification of life to all men. For as through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. Even so, through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for your word. Your word is rich. Your word is powerful. Father, your word speaks to a depth that no words can speak. Father, we thank you for the words of eternal life that we find in your word. Find instruction to live life in your word. Father, we find all that we need for life and godliness. And Father, I pray that you would speak to us yet again. That Christ would be exalted. Father, I pray that your people would be edified and instructed. And I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people in Jesus' name. I praise you and give you thanks. Amen. One systematic theologian says, although nothing is better known than original sin, nothing is more difficult to understand. And in one sense, we could say that nothing is better known than original sin because we see the effects of it all around us. Don't we? I mean, just this week we laid our sweet little Sophia Faith Feltkamp to rest, and why was that? It's because of the impact of Adam's sin on our race. Today we added another prayer request for cancer. And why is that? It's because of the impact of Adam's sin on our race. Disease and death are a result of the fall. So nothing is better known than original sin. And beyond the reality of what happens to us, what about the reality of what happens around us? Sin is universal, isn't it? I mean, I don't even have to watch the news to know what's on it. As Romans chapter 1 says, we live In a world that's filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil full of envy, murder, strife, deceit Malice, they are gossip, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful. I just saved you a lot of time. That's what you'll find in the news later on today. That's it. Nothing is better known than sin. It's universal. And it's not just out there, it's also in here It's personal. In Matthew chapter 15, the Pharisees were hung up on external traditions like how people wash their hands and External physical ceremonies that they thought somehow brought them closer to God. I'm closer to God than you are because of what I'm doing. But how does Jesus respond? He says your problem is much deeper than how you wash your hands. Your problem is not what's on the outside. Your problem is where? It's on the inside. It's on the inside. Matthew 15, 17, he says, Do you not understand? That everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is eliminated? But the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart And those defile the man. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. These are the things which defile the man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. What you eat doesn't touch your heart. It's what's already in there that's coming out. That's what you need to be worried about. Don't be so much worried about what comes in, be worried about what's coming out. And we don't have to travel far to find an example of original sin because we carry it around with us in our own hearts. We're walking examples of original sin. I remember sitting on a flight next to a woman who claimed that she was a pastor, and when she found out I was a Christian She says, this is exactly what she said, you're not one of those Christians who believes in original sin, are you? And I can't remember all that I said, but I do remember thinking, isn't this conversation an example of original sin? Rejecting male hecheth is a result of the fall, and as you can imagine, it was an interesting flight. Again, nothing is better known than original sin. But then, as it said, nothing is more difficult to understand. And we won't be able to remove all the difficulty today, but we'll do our best to help you get a better understanding of just how ruined we are by the fall. Because the greater understanding you have of your sin, the more appreciation you will have of your Savior. And Romans chapter 3 is the Textus Classicus. On just how ruined we are by the fall. The Westminster Confession puts it this way: our first parents, being seduced by the subtlety and temptation of Satan, sinned in eating the forbidden fruit. By this sin they fell from their original righteousness and communion with God, and so became dead in sin, and wholly defiled in all the faculties and parts of soul and body. And listen to this. They being the root of all mankind, the guilt of this sin was imputed. It was counted against us. And the same death in sin, the same death that they experienced came to us. And the same corrupted nature conveyed to all their posterity. That means to all of their children, descending from them by ordinary generations. In other words, we were born with it. Condemnation and corruption was conveyed to us. That language of conveying is used in real estate all the time. You know, people will tour a house, you know, you see a brand new refrigerator in the home, and you might ask, you know, does that appliance convey with the home? In other words, if I get the house, will I also get that appliance? And usually if something conveys, that's a good thing. You know, when you get the house, you take ownership of what's in it But it's not always a good thing when something conveys. I remember when we we bought our current house, there was an old moldy refrigerator in the basement laid on its back. And that refrigerator conveyed with the house. When I bought the house, I also bought that refrigerator that came with it. And spent two months worth of cleaning and all the repairs and everything else that we had to do on the home before we could feel comfortable sleeping a night in the home. Because everything conveyed. All the dust and corruption and everything else that they had in the home, that that came with it. You buy the house, you get everything that's in there. It all conveys. And what happened when we became human from our conception? Condemnation and corruption conveyed to us. Ownership was passed down to us. That's what's meant by original sin. Just to give you a summary of original sin. Original sin is called original because number one, it came from the original root of the human race. It all came from the first man who was the origin of all humanity. Number two, it's called original sin because it is present. in life, in the life of every individual from the time of conception. From the time of conception, you have that. As David says in Psalm 51 and verse 5, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Number three, it's also called original sin because it is the inward root of all actual sins. It's because of that sin that every other sin comes into the life of man. Every other sin finds its origin in that sin. And number four, it's called original sin because it refers to the first And the original sin of Adam, not to every other sin of Adam. It refers to the first sin of Adam. But it's also important to note that sin was not part of our original design. It wasn't part of the original design. There's that saying, to err is human. You ever heard that one? But that's only after the fall that to err is human. Sin was not part of our original design. It's an invasion into our design. Like a virus in the code that corrupts all the files. And sin is a corruption, and all we can do now is reproduce corrupted copies. And the passage in front of us is like the contract that tells us everything that conveys with the house of humanity. In verse 18, there's condemnation for all. And in verse 19, there's corruption for many. Let's take a look at number one, chapter 5, and verse 18. So then, as through one transgression, there resulted condemnation to all men. One man's action affected all of us. And this is one of the things that makes original sin so difficult for us to understand. Especially for us in the West, where we have this strong sense of individualism. You know, because the question is, how could one man's action affect all the rest of us? You know, everything for us, especially in the West, is about personal choice, personal freedoms, personal expressions. And we've been conditioned to believe that the only person who should be responsible for what happens to me is me. Why should I be responsible for what somebody else did? You know, they never got my vote. What happened to my vote on that? And we can be tempted to think that if I don't have the opportunity to represent myself, it's an injustice. Somebody's doing me wrong if I don't have the opportunity to represent myself. But there's all kinds of examples of representation by other people that we find in Scripture where it's perfectly just. For example, Pharaoh represented the entire nation of Egypt when he refused to let the children of Israel go. And each time Pharaoh refused, God did not just smite Pharaoh, he smote the whole nation for a sin. It even got to the point that the servants started begging Pharaoh, just let the people go. Exodus 10, verse 7. Pharaoh's servant said to him, How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not realize that Egypt is being destroyed? They don't say, don't you realize that you're being destroyed, Pharaoh? It's like Pharaoh, no, your decisions are affecting the rest of us. All of Egypt is being destroyed because of what you're doing, because of your stubborn refusal to let them go. We're all being impacted. Egypt was being destroyed because of Pharaoh's sin. We mentioned the example of David and Goliath from 1 Samuel 17, the armies of Israel. Philistines were in a standoff, and Goliath asked for, now just give me one. Just give me one. Let's go head to head, and whoever wins the battle, you know, that one will be victorious and everybody else will be their servants. So just give me one as a representative. Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. If he's able to fight with me and kill me, then we will become your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall become our servants and serve us. It's representation, and there was nothing that was unjust about that. Principle of representation. And we do the same thing. I mean we we have you know, examples that we know of. I mean, every four years we elect the president. Every four years we have the Olympics. You know, our nation chooses teams and sometimes even one individual who will represent the entire country. in an athletic competition against the other nations of the world. One represents the whole nation. If they win their event. And the gut the judges put on a gold medal and they stand on the top of the podium. Guess what? They don't ask that athlete, by the way, what is your favorite song? They don't ask him, is there like a symbol that represents you and your family? No, they don't ask him that. The song that's going to play is the national anthem. And the flag that's going to fly is the national flag. You know, they don't ask him for his playlist. You know, give me your request, and we'll play that. No, because today you're not representing you. Today you're representing the nation. You're representing all of us. And when Adam acted in the garden, he was not competing for himself. He was competing for all of us. And by the way, if you were going to choose somebody to represent you and compete for you, you would have chosen Adam. You would have chosen. If if you needed somebody to hit a shot from half court and it was between you and Steph Curry, I I think you picked Steph Curry. Pick the chef, right? Pick Chef Curry. If we needed somebody to knock it out the park and it was between you and Babe Ruth, you know, I'm pretty sure you'd go with the babe. Pick the great Bambino. Or if we needed somebody to swim the 200-meter butterfly at the Olympics, and it's between you and Michael Phelps, let's go with the Baltimore bullet, okay? Like I'm not going to be the one to do that. And in the same way, if it's between you and the original man, in perfect condition, in a perfect environment, who walks with God in the afternoon, I mean, who would you go with him or you? No, pick the guy who's walking with God in the park. Let's get that guy in. Let him stand for me and let's see how he competes. There's nothing unjust about choosing a representative. You know what we have a hard time with? It's that God chose it. That's what we have a problem with. Let's just be honest. You know, if I was choosing the representative, I'd be okay with that. What we really have a hard time with is that God chose the representative. But it's not a violation of Scripture. Some point to Deuteronomy 2416 that says, Fathers shall not be put to death for their sons, nor shall sons be put to death for their fathers. Everyone shall be put to death for his own sin. But that's in the context of civil law. It's not talking about a representative. It's talking about civil law. It was just saying you can't put somebody else to death for a crime that you've committed. It's not talking about somebody who represents you. We're talking about a different category. And then there's a passage in Ezekiel. Why don't you flip to Ezekiel? Ezekiel chapter 18. Ezekiel chapter 18. And this is a text that comes up often in this discussion over in Ezekiel 18. If you take a look at uh, I'll just start at verse 1. Ezekiel 18, starting at verse 1 It says, Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel? Saying, the fathers eat the sour grapes, but the children's teeth are set on edge. As I live, declares the Lord God, you are surely not going to use this proverb in Israel anymore. Behold, all souls are mine, the soul of the Father, as well as the soul of the Son is mine, and the soul who sins will die. And people look at that and they say, see, you know, there's no such thing as representation. You know, everybody just, you know, stands in the place for their own transgressions, their sins. But it's also been pointed out that this is in the context of a covenant relationship where the people themselves were sinning against the Lord. Think about this. If you read through Ezekiel, you'll see that the people who are claiming that, oh, we're just suffering because of the sins of our fathers. Flip back to Ezekiel chapter 8. Let's see how that holds up. Ezekiel chapter 8. Listen to what's said about these people who are saying, oh, we're just sinning because of what our fathers are doing. Look at verse 16. It says, Then he brought me into the inner court of the Lord's house, and behold, at the entrance to the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of the Lord and their faces toward the east. And they were prostrating themselves eastward toward the sun. He said to me, do you see this? Do you see the Son of Man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations which they have committed here? That they have filled the land with violence and provoked me repeatedly For behold, they are putting the twig to their nose. Therefore, I indeed will deal in wrath My eye will have no pity, nor will I spare, and though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet I will not listen to them These are the same people who are saying, oh, we're just sinning because of what our fathers are doing. Just because of what our fathers have done. No, God says, no, you're suffering because of what you've done. Don't give me that about your granddad and your father. Look at what you're doing. Am I going to look away from this? You're provoking me to anger repeatedly. These are the people that he says, don't talk to me about what your fathers have done. You're the ones who are sinning against me, and the soul who sins will surely die Judah was in no position to say that they were suffering for the sins of the Father. And none of that, again, touches on the idea of representation, which is a perfectly just arrangement. And I know we don't like the results, and I know you may not agree, and I know some of you may not want somebody else to take the game-winning shot. You know, you want to take Steph's place. I mean you can free to go ahead and try that But it's not unjust for God to make an arrangement like this. And it was only the first sin in the garden that was the representative sin. It's only the first one. We don't hear anything else about Adam's other sins, and I'm sure there were many. I mean the guy lived 930 years. I'm sure he racked it up, okay? But we only hear about the first one. That's the only one that conveys. The only one that conveys is the first one. But it's only the first sin that represents us. And that's why back in Romans chapter 5 Back in Romans chapter 5, if you want to flip back there, in verse 18 it says, so then as through one transgression, it's only one. And that word transgression, it's the Greek word paroptoma , was a word that was used for a false step, crossing the line, deviation from living according to the revealed will of God. Adam stumbled in one point and became guilty of all. Actually, there was a early American primer, you know, when uh they wanted to teach kids the alphabet. You know, we say A is for what? Apple. A is for apple. That's not what the early Americans did. They say, you know what A is for? A stands for in Adam's fall, we send all. They taught kids that All of us have sinned in Adam. In Adam's fall, we sinned all. Adam stumbled, and all of us became guilty. And we may minimize Adam's actions as if it wasn't a big deal. I mean, he took a Bite of a fruit? I mean No, that's that's like chopping in the wrong aisle of the grocery store, isn't it? I mean eating the snack before dinner. I mean what's what's the big deal? This is declaring war against God. That's what you're doing. My friend Jared Gilter identified at least ten sins in this one sin. This is the short list. But what were Adam and Eve doing in this moment when they partook of the fruit? Listen to this. They questioned God's word. They defied God's authority. They doubted his goodness. They second-guessed his motives. They scorned his generosity. They dared his justice. They mocked his patience, they minimized his power, they were jealous of his deity, and they even desired to become gods themselves. Because what was the temptation? For God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God. This is setting yourself up in competition against God. That's what this is doing. No, no, you're not going to be the God who rules over me. I will take that right to myself. Thank you very much. That's what they're doing in this moment. And do you think lightly of your sins? Do you realize that when you sin, it's like you're trying to ease God off of his throne so you can take a seat? That's what we're doing in our sin. This was a shot aimed at the throne of God. Adam was trying to establish his own kingdom apart from God. And when Adam declared war against God, The kingdom connected to him was also at war against God, which means all the rest of us. And that's how we're born into this world. That was the result of the sin. There resulted condemnation all. Term condemnation, katakrino, it's a word that means to give a sentence against Was a word used frequently in ancient Greek for the sentence of death being passed on someone. Just a few chapters later, if you flip a page over to Romans chapter 8, take a look at verse 1. Because this is exactly how the word condemnation was used. Verse 1, it says, Therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And what did condemnation look like? Verse 2. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from what? The law of sin and death. What do you get when you're condemned? Sin and death. The law of sin and death. We're all condemned to die. That's what happens in condemnation. And that means spiritual death, physical death, and if God does not intervene, eternal death. And before we finish verse 18, drop down to verse 19. Look at the beginning of verse 19, back in chapter 5. It says, For as through the one man's disobedience to many were made sinners. Not only did Adam's sin condemn us, it also corrupted us. Many were made sinners. The word many, when Paul says many were made sinners, he doesn't mean that there are some who aren't sinners, like there's some who escaped the designation of sinners Back in verse 12, he already said that all sinned, all sinned in Adam. We're all sinners. So when he's saying many, he's talking about everybody. But what he does is it's like he slows us down to look at the parts instead of the whole. It's like, look how many. It's like when you slow down to take a look at a car accident. It's like you know, checking it out. It's like, no, let's slow down and look, just consider how many there are. I mean myriads of myriads, thousands of thousands there, over here. We're all condemned. We're all we're all corrupted. And it's all of a result of one man's disobedience. The word for disobedience, another word for sin, paroche, or paro-koe. It's a It's from a root that means to hear, to listen, to follow what you hear, but parakoea, it's a word that means to pay no heed to what you hear. To step aside from what you hear, to refuse to listen to what you hear. So not only did Adam cross the line, you know, the transgression, but he also disobeyed an order, refused to listen to what God had to say. And from that one act of disobedience to many were made sinners. And that's a third word that's used for sin. Hermathalas from harmartia. A word that means to fail, to miss the mark, to fall short of the bullseye, and in our case we fall short of the glory of God. We cross the line, we don't listen, we fall short. And I'm not sure you understand just how devastating this is. We mentioned it earlier. This verse doesn't teach us that we're sinners because we sin. It says that we are sinners because someone else sinned. We're made sinners. We're not just sinners because we sin. We sin because we're we're sinners. And just like fish swim and birds fly and insects crawl, we sin because we're sinners. It's part of our identity. We've been made sinners. One author says it's the difference between saying my bad and saying I'm bad. It's not just that I make mistakes, it's who I am And what does it mean to be made a sinner? The word for being made kathistemi, it's a a normal, the normal meaning of this word is to appoint. To designate. For example, in the Greek translation of the Old Testament, Joseph was put in charge of Potiphar's house. He was appointed. He was designated. In Exodus 18, it was used for the for the men that Moses was going to select to help him to judge Israel. They were appointed. They were selected. In Acts chapter 6, it was the same word that was used for the apostles, selecting men to help them, to assist them in ministry. They were appointed. And that's the same word that's used here in Romans 5. 19. Through the one man's disobedience, the many were appointed, designated. That's now your position. Prior to doing anything, you've been designated. You've been chosen. You've been appointed as a sinner. It's a legal declaration about those who are in Adam. Legal guilt inherited by corruption. And as Schreiner points out in his commentary, it's not just that we have this appointment as a representative role. It's also a constitutive role. It describes who we are. And nothing is better known, like I said, than original sin. We see the results of it everywhere, even though we still have a hard time accepting it. But it's there. And just briefly, and this is maybe more of a little A brief history lesson here, but I think it'll be helpful. How do people seek to get around this? Because it seems pretty straightforward, but people people seek to get around this. And the first is by denial. There are those who would say, we do not inherit condemnation or corruption from Adam. There was a British monk and theologian of Irish descent named Pelagius, who settled in Rome around 400 A. D. He was distressed by the low morality in Rome. He concluded that the low state of morality was somehow connected to people not taking responsibility for their sins. And the belief that we're ruined by the fall was considered to be an excuse. So according to Pelagius and his followers, Adam's sin, listen to this, injured only himself and nobody else. They taught that there is no necessary connection between Adam's sin and our sin. He also taught that Adam would have died of natural means even without the fall. He taught that man is born neutral and in some way, in the same way that Adam was born innocent, he says, capable of doing right or wrong. He says, you're born just as innocent and just as capable of doing right or wrong as Adam was. Pelagius was even quoted as saying that a person can, listen to this, a person can, if he or she wills, keep God's commandments without sinning. All you need to do is be willing, and you don't have to sin. Even though scripture clearly teaches that if we say that we have no sin, we're what? We're liars. We're deceiving ourselves. You walk around and say, I can live without sin. I'm without sin. The Bible says you are a liar. You're trying to deceive me. I'm not deceived. I mean, you might be fooling yourself. You're not fooling anybody else. I I remember one time I had a conversation with this brother who believed in you know total perfection on this side of heaven. And he says, and I said, I said, well, I don't know anybody who's perfect. He says, well, you're looking at one. Believe me, he wasn't. Sin is everywhere. So how do the Pelagians explain the universality of sin? They say, well, the reason that we sin is just because we have bad examples. And if you can get rid of the poor examples, we have a shot at perfection. Try that with your kids. If you leave a child alone, does he become better or does he become worse? Proverbs 29:15, a child who gets his own way or left to himself brings shame to his mother. Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child. It's from the heart that all these things spring, right? And the church rightly rejected Pelagianism and called it a heresy. Rejected in 418 at the Council of Carthage, 431 by the Council of Ephesus. So that view is done and put away with, even though it creeps back up, and you know people still believe that, but that view is shot down. But there's another view, often referred to as semi-Pelagianism. And this view says that we inherit the corruption of Adam, but not the condemnation. This is the view that's most often associated with a man by the name of Jacob Arminius. He was a professor in the city of Leyden in modern-day Netherlands, and he lived between 1560 and 1609. And Arminius would have rightly rejected Pelagianism as heresy. He agreed that Adam's descendants were impacted by the fall and receive a fallen corrupted human nature, but he would have also argued that we fell in such a way that we were only weakened by sin and we did not become dead in sin. Arminius, and many of you know that the term Arminianism, this is where it comes from. Arminius's writings teach that we inherited evil, but it was not the sort of evil that justifies God's condemnation of us. He taught that Adam's act of apostasy was, listen to this, purely individual. And there was no unity between Adam and his posterity to justify the imputation of original sin, that we can't be counted as having sin in Adam. So again, how does semi-pelagianism now explain the fact that universally we're all sinners? This is their explanation. Because our will is in such a weakened state, it easily falls to sin. So we sin because we are weak, but it's only when we fall to that sin that we actually become guilty of sin. S. Lewis Johnson writes about this view that the guilt of the first sin, meaning Adam's sin, becomes dependent on the participation in the corrupt nature. So we have to participate. in order for that to be conveyed to us. We don't inherit it, we have to participate with it, but we're so weak that we all just fall to it anyway. But is that what Romans is teaching us here? Romans 5. 18 says, so then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation. Through one transgression, not through Adam's transgression and your transgression, the results condemnation, because you've got to cooperate. No, it says through the one transgression, without you Without you, through the one transgression, it results in condemnation. So we're not sinners because of a bad example. We're not sinners because we're weak. We're sinners because of Adam, and because it conveys to us, which brings us to the third view, and we could call this the biblical or the reform view, which teaches us, and there's many variations. I won't have the time to get into all of it But there's this third view, a biblical and reformed view, that says we inherit both corruption and condemnation. Both corruption and condemnation. And this is the view that's most often associated with uh the church father Augustine was a a bishop in northern Africa in a place called Hippo, which was ancient an ancient port in the capital city of modern day Algeria. He lived between 354 and 430 A. D. And even before Augustine, a preacher named John Chrysostom taught the same thing. He taught that we're sinners, liable to punishment, and condemned to death. Irenaeus of Lions in 180 A. D. wrote, As by the obedience of the one man, the many were made sinners and forfeited life, so was it necessary that by the obedience of one man many should be justified and receive salvation? And I just bring that up to say that it wasn't an invention of Augustine. Rather, it's an expression of what he saw in the scriptures, and many people saw before him. But again, like I said, nothing is more difficult to understand than original sin. Because how do you say that someone is condemned for something that happened before you existed? So the way that Augustine reconciled this in his mind was by saying, well, then we really had to be there. Which is why the view that he took was called realism. And according to this view of realism, according to this view, all humanity was wrapped up in Adam, that were all contained in Adam. He's the father of the human race. All of us are in him, and somehow when he sinned, that we all participated in it, because we're all connected to his humanity. That's what he said. And actually it it seems like a strange strange view, but flip over to Hebrews chapter 7, because I just want to show you this. Hebrews chapter 7. I told you I'm taking a little bit of a detour here, but Hebrews chapter 7. In the book of Hebrews, the author is making the argument that Jesus And his priesthood is superior to the Levitical priesthood. And really all throughout the book of Hebrews, it's just to show that Jesus is superior to everything. Compare Jesus with anything else and he comes out on top. I mean that's that's throughout the book of Hebrews. But in Hebrews chapter 7, Jesus is compared to the priesthood of Melchizedek. And it's argued that the priesthood of Melchizedek was better than the priesthood of Levi. And what kind of support was there that the priesthood of Melchizedek was better than the priesthood of Levi, take a look at verse four It says, now observe how great this man was, referring to Melchizedek, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the choicest spoils. So Abraham, if you remember, paid tithes to Melchizedek, which was a sign that Melchizedek was greater than Abraham. And in addition to that, Melchizedek blessed Abraham. Look at what it says in verse 7. But without any dispute, the lesser, meaning Abraham, is blessed by the greater, being Melchizedek. So here we find that Abraham pays tithes to Melchizedek. Abraham is blessed by Melchizedek. So Abraham received this blessing. And you say, well that's that's great, but what does this have to do with Levi? Levi wasn't even born yet You know, Abraham was the father of Jacob, Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, Jacob the father of Levi, who wasn't even born yet. So what does this have to do with Melchizedek being greater than Levi? Look at verse 9. And so to speak through Abraham, even Levi, who received tithes, pay tithes How did he do that? Verse 10. For he was still in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him. What's the argument? The argument is that you can't separate Levi from Abraham Because Levi came from Abraham, and his humanity came from Abraham, so in a sense you can say that Levi was really there. And that's how Augustine tried to resolve the difficulty. Like somehow we had to be there if we're going to be charged with the sin. But even though that's the point that the author of Hebrews is making, that's not the point that Paul is making. Full back to Romans chapter 5 again. What's the point that Paul is making? Paul is not saying that we were there to commit the same sin. Actually, in verse 14, it says that you were not there to commit the same sin. Look at verse 14. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam. So he's saying, You didn't commit the same sin that he did. So the best way to view our connection to Adam is not by realism, but by representation that Adam represented us. And the best evidence for that that we have of representation is what the text itself says. Look at verse 14. It says, nevertheless, death reigned From Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. Listen to this. You never sinned the way that Adam did. God didn't give you a command not to eat of the fruit. You've not sinned in the likeness of Adam. But in the same way that you never sinned in the likeness of Adam, you never obeyed perfectly in the likeness of Jesus. You never loved the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. You were never tempted in all points. And yet without sin, that was Jesus. That's what he did. So Adam is a type of Christ. Just as you were not there to commit Adam's sin, you were not there to commit Jesus' righteousness That's the point that's being made. That's the point that's being made. When when the text says that Adam was a type, it it comes from the Greek word tupas, where we actually get our English word type from. It speaks about a picture, an impression, or a representation. Adam was representing the work of somebody else who was to come, and Jesus would become the true and the better Adam. And instead of opening up the door for sin and death, Jesus opens up the door for righteousness and life. With that, let's look back at verse 18 again, pick up where we left off. It says, so then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men. Even so through one act of righteousness there resulted justification to all men. And the one act of righteousness that resulted in justification of life was the death of Jesus Christ. Back in verse 9, in chapter 5, it says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. What was the one act that justified us, that saved us? It was the death of Jesus Christ. There's nothing that you could do to satisfy the holy wrath of God. There's nothing that you could do to pay for your sin. And what Jesus Christ did is what no man could do. As one theologian said, his divine righteousness, the righteousness of God, cannot simply overlook our defiance to his infinite majesty. God can't overlook our sin. God will by no means clear the guilty. He hates sin with the divine hatred. He reacts against sin with all of his being. And what happened on the cross was Jesus became the object of the hatred of God. That he poured out his wrath upon Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ bore the punishment for us so that we could be set free. He became sin for us. And don't miss this. It's through his righteousness that we are declared to be righteous. Our contribution of righteousness has nothing to do with how we're declared. Jesus Is the only one who could live a righteous life. That has nothing to do with us. We didn't contribute to that. It's outside of us. We're declared righteous. We're not those who are making ourselves righteous. We've been declared righteous because of what happens outside of us. According to Roman Catholic theology, justification is not based solely upon the righteousness of Christ. It also includes the sanctification and renewal of the inner man. In their theology, you have to be, you have to become holy in order to be declared holy. And if you die without being perfectly holy, you can't be assured of eternal life. Unless you undergo a purification in purgatory to achieve holiness. The Roman Catholic system withholds the declaration that you're righteous until you actually are righteous. But that's not what Scripture teaches. That you're declared righteous not because of what you do, but because of what he did. That's how we're declared righteous. And it's no accident that the center of You know, the focus in a Roman Catholic Church is the altar, where the center in evangelical church is the pulpit. Because the the center in the Roman Catholic Church is what's still ongoing. The center in an evangelical church is what has already been done. We just proclaim what's already been done. We're not up here doing anything to make you righteous, we're just proclaiming the one who has made you righteous. He's the one who declares you as righteous. It's been given to you. We proclaim. We're not up here performing. We're proclaiming. And praise God that his righteousness is enough. Praise God that his righteousness is enough. Just as I am without one plea, but that thy blood was shed for me, and that thou biddest me to come to thee, O Lamb of God. I come, I come. Just as I am in waiting not to rid my soul of one dark blot, to thee whose blood can cleanse each spot, O Lamb of God, I come, I come. Just as I am, though tossed about with many a conflict, many a doubt, fightings and fears within, without, O Lamb of God, I come, I come. Just as I am, thou wilt receive. Welcome, pardon, cleanse, relieve. Because thy promise, I believe. O Lamb of God, I come, I come. Have you come to him? There is no other way. He will welcome you. He will pardon you. He will cleanse you. He will forgive you. If you will come to Christ, come to Jesus Christ and find life. And his death was an act of righteousness because his life was a life of righteousness. If there was even one blemish in Jesus, he could not be the lamb slain for our sins. Just as the sacrificial lambs had to be free from all blemish, Jesus had to be free from blemish. And Jesus was offered to God through the eternal Spirit without blemish to God. Because of his sacrifice, there resulted in justification of life for all men. It's not an offer of life to all men. It's the result of life to all men. But what does it mean when it says to all men? Does this mean that everybody's justified? Does this mean everybody's headed to eternal life? Is Paul teaching universalism? Does everyone escape God's wrath? We know the answer is no That's not true because there are those who refuse to repent. Romans chapter 2, verse 5 says, Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you're storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath. There's coming a day of wrath. There will be those who experience the eternal wrath of God. So, what does Paul mean when he says the result of the justification of life to all men? Who are the all in the all? Who are the all? 1 Corinthians 15, 22 lets us know. It says, For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive. And the important word there is in. In. In Adam all die. In Christ all will be made alive. Who are the ones who are made alive? The ones who are in Christ. All those who are in Christ are made alive. If you're united to Jesus Christ by faith, you live. That's who are the ones who are considered the all. And there's a righteousness that's given to many, and this is the last point here, verse 19. Verse, through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. The phrase again, many will be made, it's the same phrase we looked at before. To appoint, to designate, just like there was a legal declaration about those who are in Adam, there's a legal declaration about those who are in Christ And on that day we will stand before the throne of God, declared innocent, righteous, not because of anything that we did, but because of what Jesus did for us. And that's the parallel in the text. Jesus became our representative. Just a few words of application before we close. Do you recognize just how hopeless you are without Christ? That there's no hope of improving yourself over time? But you can't dig yourself out of this hole. There's no faint glimmer of hope in purgatory. Adam's sin was so bad. But you did just didn't need an example. You didn't need a better example. You didn't need a little help for your weakness. You were so bad off that you were dead in your trespasses and sins. And it's not just my bad, it's I'm bad. It's the core of who you are. And the only way out is that someone does what you can't do for yourself. You need to be rescued. You're hopeless. You need to abandon all hope in yourself right now and throw yourself on the mercy of Jesus Christ. There's a song we used to sing that says, Come to Jesus, come to Jesus just now. He will save you. He will save you just now. Only trust him. Only trust him. Just now. That's the only way. You need to abandon hope in yourself and trust in him. Do you really understand how hopeless your condition is? Do you appreciate the difficult sayings of Scripture? Do you appreciate the difficult sayings of Scripture? I read through a number of systematic theologies this week, and I love what one theologian said. I love this. He says, My professor of theology, very well read and articulate, systematic and logical, almost to extreme, said Does God really hold us accountable for Adam's sin? Yes. Biblically we cannot deny it. And then he read Romans 5, 16 and 18, and he said no more. He says, I I I I I don't know how to explain it. I just know it's true. It's true. Can't deny it. It's it's there Like if you hold the position that no one is able to represent anyone else, you need to be careful that you're not protesting too much. Because if you say that nobody can stand in my place and and do something on my behalf and what he does conveys over to me, if that's your position, you might be trying to prove too much. Because you're also saying that Jesus' righteousness can't convey to me. I've got to earn that righteousness myself. How can what somebody else does apply to my account? The way that it works is representation. Jesus lives it and you get it. So do you appreciate the difficult things of Scripture? There's a lot in there. And do you give glory to the one who represents you before the Father? Later on this month we'll celebrate the entrance of the Son of God into the world. But have you ever wondered why Jesus had to become human? Why didn't Jesus just become an angel? Why did he have to become flesh? Why did he have to become one of us? Because he had to represent us. He had to be made like us in order to represent us. He had to be made like his brethren in order to represent the brethren. Just like an Olympic athlete has to be a citizen of the country that he's competing for, Jesus had to become one of our citizens. Hebrews 2. 14 says, Therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same. And he says, Behold, I and the children whom God has given me, we're one of his people now. We belong to his citizenship. We're one of his. He becomes one of us so that he can be the head of a new race of people. He becomes the new Adam. The first Adam, man Adam, this is the last man Adam became a life-giving soul, right? The one brought death, the second became a life-giving soul. Through one man sin came, through another man, righteousness came Through one man death came, through another man, life came. Through one man, condemnation came, through another one, justification came. Through one man the penalty is due. Through the other, we receive the free gift and the abundance of grace. Through one man we're subject to sin and death. Through another we reign in life and righteousness. And it needed to be someone who could convey these blessings over to us over to us, so we had to be a part of our house. And now death is crushed to death, and life is ours to live because of the new Adam, who was not born of a man, but was born of the Spirit of God. Just in closing, we we sing this song all the time, but but but think about it in light of what we've been reading. Christ by highest heaven adored. Christ the everlasting Lord. Late in time behold him come, offspring of a virgin's womb, veiled in flesh the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity, pleased as man with men to dwell. Jesus R. Emmanuel One with us. God with us. Hail the heaven-born prince of peace. Hail the Son of Righteousness. Light and life to all he brings, risen with healing in his wings, mouth he lays his glory by, born that man no more may die, born to raise the sons of earth, born to give them second birth. Ark the Herald angels sing, glory to the newborn king. He came to represent us so he could bring us all the way to glory. Thank God. For our representative. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, your word is rich. It gives us all that we need. And Father, I thank you for what it reveals about our representative, Jesus Christ. Father, these are things that are difficult, hard to understand. But Father, we don't want to turn away from the blessings that we have through this teaching. It's through this that we understand that somebody could live a righteous life in our place before we were born outside of us and it still conveys to us it still applied to our account And the way that you've described that is through the typology of Adam, that Adam was a type of the one who was to come. So Father, we thank you for Jesus and all that he's done for us, and I pray that there's no one here who's turned away from Jesus Christ, who hasn't received the gift of righteousness. who hasn't received the one who stands in their place. Father, I pray that you would remove them from Adam and put them in Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.