The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Our special guest today is Austin Duncan. Austin Duncan is one of the pastors at Grace Community Church in Sun Valley, California. He's the leader of the Doctor of Ministries program at the Master Seminary. He teaches preaching classes and chairs the pastoral ministry department there. And Austin is also the director of the MacArthur Center for Expository Preaching. where Austin refers to Pastor John as J. Mack. So I guess A. Dunk is here with us today. So A Dunk in that world, you know that that works. J. Mack and A. Dunk. And uh the podcast has just reached its two millionth download, so we're happy for what the Lord has done uh through that podcast to expose people to the faithful ministry and expository preaching of John MacArthur because sadly there aren't many examples of guys who are finishing well. I overlapped with uh Austin while I was in seminary. We served in the college ministry together there at Crossroads, and I'm thankful to have them here today. So come on up, brethren. Minister. Thank you, Brother George. It's really good to be with you and your church family. It's my second time coming to BBC and uh it was a joy last time. I think we had a QA with some guys and uh just got to experience some of the rich fellowship. That was a couple years ago. Your kids are still growing and there's there's more of them than ever. So uh this is this is a healthy plan for church growth. It's all these wonderful families. I invite you to open your Bible to Psalm 123. I know you've been going on a journey through the Psalms of Ascent, and so I'm going to drag you right back down Mount Zion and to the journey again. Psalm 123, and I love that you're working through this section of scripture. It's so rich and there's so much there. You know, it's it's a section that's been employed. You know, by those ancient travelers, yes, but by God's people, it's been taken to become a sort of guide for discipleship. a great description of what it's like to make our way to heaven and the long path and the troubles and trials and toils along the way. And these psalms depicting those ancient worshippers traveling back up to Mount Zion are so employable to us for our singing and our praying and our our devotion as we think about how are we going to make it to the finish line faithfully? How are we going to get there without succumbing to temptation's power? How are we going to continue to keep that long obedience going in the same direction. And the answer is is we're going to be sustained by God's good grace, aren't we? We're going to keep trusting and keep following. And that's what Psalm 123 really brings into our focus today. Let me begin by reading this text and then asking for the Lord's help that he'd bless the reading and preaching of his word. Psalm 123, a song of ascent. To you I lift up my eyes, to you whose throne is in heaven. Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master As the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to Yahweh our God. Until he is gracious to us. Be gracious to us. Oh Yahweh, be gracious to us. For we have endured much contempt. We have endured much ridicule from the proud. Much contempt from the arrogant. This is the very word of the living God. And may his spirit Bless the preaching of his word. Give us tender hearts, God, to never be hearers only, but doers, responsive and quick to obey our Lord. In his name we pray. Amen. A world in chaos, political turmoil, a society where the moral foundation seems to have completely disappeared. Threats of violence and war all around. It sounds familiar, but I'm talking about uh nineteen forty one. It was a world in chaos then as it is now, and between September nineteen forty and May nineteen forty one the German Luftwaff brought uh thousands upon thousands of tons of bombs and artillery uh dropped onto the streets of London almost every night, once for fifty-seven nights in a row. Londoners were bombed by Hitler's airplanes. Bombs flattened whole districts of London. Nine months of continuous bombing went on, and by the end of it almost forty-five thousand British citizens were killed in the streets. It was this context that the British people had lost their religion. It was in a survey of the Royal Air Force when they asked the men how many of them were familiar with the meaning of Easter, only 23% knew the story behind it. After the Great First War, the entire continent of Europe was devastated, and the Christian church felt like she had no answer because she had slipped into liberalism and disbelief. And so it was here, now, at the beginning of the Second World War, that the church felt like she had no voice at all. The BBC, the British Broadcasting Corporation, not this BBC, had been bombed twice. And the head of religious broadcasting, J. W. Welch, had just read a book that was recently published by an Oxford Dawn, a professor of English literature and medieval studies. I mean this is a egghead smart guy, but he had suddenly and recently converted to Christianity and just started to write in defense of the Christian faith. In a society that had almost completely walked away. And so the Reverend Welch wrote a letter to this author and said, I'd like you to come speak. on the radio, a short address to the British people about the Christian faith. I read your book. I think your your combination of wisdom and intellect and wit could really minister to people who are suffering. And so C. S. Lewis accepted the invitation. And on Wednesday nights from 7. 45 to 8 p. m. , he would talk for 15 minutes, brief addresses to the British people. Eventually 1. 5 million people would tune in. Those addresses had a simple goal. They were just trying to make a case for the people to look to God in a time of trouble. To see themselves as sinners in need of God's grace and to seek grace where it might be found. Eventually those addresses were more addresses. And it wasn't likely because it was uh it sounds like prime time, right, 745, but The the minutes, the 15 minutes before were on the BBC news broadcast to Norway in Norwegian. And after that was a Welsh music festival. I don't know what that is, but it doesn't sound like it has any soul in it So that's where Steve Lewis was crammed in. And but he gained this huge audience. They invited him back. He ended up doing twenty-five different broadcasts. They were published into three best-selling books, which became one book that you're probably familiar with because it has an incredible outsized impact. The name of the book is Mere Christianity. It's been used by God to convert countless skeptics and to reinforce the faith of Christians as C. S. Lewis made a case for the reality of right and wrong. made a case for the existence of God, made a case for the gospel of Christ, that there's only one way to be forgiven. He was trying to show the people that there is a God and that when you're in a time of trouble, you need to look to this God to find grace while you still can. And that's exactly the message of Psalm 123. It is a song for troubled travelers, a song for God's people for pilgrims on their way to their worship, and it provides something for troubled travelers that they need. It clarifies their vision of faith. It uses all these metaphors for the eyes. And then it addresses them in their role as servants of God, talking about the master and the the mistress and the the maidservant and then it it begs for grace and then reminds us that we live in a world full of scoffers The relevance of Psalm 123, I mean this thing could have been written in 2024 because it's so timely to what we need to hear today. If we're going to continue by God's grace and for God's grace, then we need to revel in a prayer that tries to set our eyes on God's throne and and reorient our posture as servants of God and then give us that reminder that we all desperately need that we're not going to get anywhere apart from the grace of God in Christ. So let's look at this song in three parts, Psalm 123. Let's start number one in verse one, seeing God with eyes of faith. It calls us to see God with eyes of faith. Verse 1, to you. See what it says to you. I lift up my eyes. To you whose throne is in heaven. James Montgomery Boyce calls this an I psalm because it uses that word eyes four times I lift up my eyes in verse 1, eyes of servants in verse 2, eyes of a maid in verse 2, and our eyes look to Yahweh our God in verse 2. Four uses in this tiny little song of the word eyes, and we understand that that eyes or sight is a very common metaphor for faith in the Bible It speaks not of things you can see, but when the scripture talks about eyes, it's talking about what you cannot see. 2 Corinthians 5, 6 through 7, always be of good courage. Well, we're home in the body, we're away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight. It's that use of the imagery of the eye that the Bible most often employs to remind us that believing is seeing the unseen. Isn't that what Hebrews 11:1 tells us? That faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And so we hear the Apostle Paul pray in Ephesians 1. 18. May the eyes of their heart be opened. There's a kind of internal spiritual site that God calls us to, and we call that spiritual site faith. Hebrews 11 goes on to talk about the example of Father Abraham. He had many sons, like this church does And Father Abraham had this image in his mind of a city. But it wasn't an earthly city according to Hebrews 11. 10. It was a a heavenly city, a city to come. And and what motivated Abraham in his journey of faith is what motivates us. He sees something that is not physically visible, but something in his heavenly apprehension that is something that God has promised him, a place that will be his forevermore. And that's what Abraham motivated his faith in his obedience. And so we lift our eyes up, the text says. And it only says that if you're not looking up, right? You can't lift your eyes up if they're already that way. And so the psalmist understands our tendency is to look down, to look at our circumstances, to look at difficulties all around us, to know that that there's so many things that can distract us and come into our our field of vision and and we see everything but what God is doing. That's the blurring of our vision Some of you understand what it's like. You maybe have a pair of these. Antiojos, they call it where I'm from in New Mexico. And and they I have a terrible disease. It's called myopia, commonly called nearsightedness. And basically I just can't see that good when things are far away, things get blurry. And I've been offered contact lenses and laser surgery, and I'm not interested in anyone touching my eye. I don't think it's it's not God's will for my life I don't even want visine. So God gave me a natural instinct called blinking. So you come at my eye and I'm gonna block it, I'm gonna blink it, I I don't want it I read an article, CNN Health, of a lady 67 years old, going in for a routine cataract and surgery, and they found 27 contact lenses in the back of her eye. See? I that's what I'm talking about. That's where I wear glasses. She had accumulated all these lenses, these disposable lenses, and somehow they'd gotten stuck in her eye. No, it's giving you the willies, I'll stop, but All these accumulated distractions had blurred her field of vision and she didn't even know what was wrong. And I think our spiritual sight can be that way. I think there's times when we, because we're looking everywhere else but God, we fail to see that He is right where He's always been. And where is that, verse 1? To the one who is enthroned in heaven. God is where he always is. He's on his throne in heaven. And when we hear that word throne, we know that that's talking about the kind of chair, a particular kind of chair for a particular kind of individual, right? Who sits on a throne. Kings sit on a throne. And so when the Bible talks about God is on a throne, that means that he is sovereign, that the emphasis on where we're looking is to the place where God controls all things. And God's kingdom, God's kingship is not limited to heaven. It is a throne that is over all of heaven and earth. That's why it's an uh transcendent, throne up in heaven. And so he says, look up, lift my eyes up to the one who is enthroned on high. This concept of the throne of God is Thoroughly uh throughout the Psalms, Psalm 55, 19, God will hear and answer them, even the one who sits enthroned from of old. In other words, he is Always been on his throne. He will always be on his throne. Psalm 115 verse 3. God is in heaven. He does whatever he pleases, it's throne control up there. Psalm 80 verse 1, I give our shepherd our shepherd of Israel who leads Joseph like a flock, you who are enthroned above the cherubim. Shine forth. The goal of our earthly pilgrimage is to get our sight on God, not on man. Not on a thousand distractions, but ultimately to get across that River Jordan and to be with God And to know that he's on his throne, and as at his right hand is the Son of Man, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, our mediator, who faced and conquered death for us. And right now he's at God's right hand and he prays for us. And he understands what we've gone through because he went through it too. And he's our advocate at heaven's throne. And so this psalmist, before he even knew the mediatorial work of Jesus Christ, knew the merciful heart and saving nature of God and said, in his time of trouble and tr temptation and difficulty, lift my eyes up, give me eyes of faith. to see God on his throne, and he says it right to God, to you, direct address, to you, O God. And the Apostle Paul says, For we look not unto that which is seen, but to that which is unseen. Because the unseen is transient. The seen is transient, passing, the unseen is eternal. Charles Spurgeon, famous Baptist preacher, was Commenting on this verse, he loved the Psalms. He wrote a helpful book. You can find it free online, PDF versions called The Treasury of David, and it's got so much rich stuff in it. And he was answering the question, so how do we look? Usually the question we ask at church is, how do we look? Like is my tie crooked? Is there something on my face? But he's asking the question, how do we go about our looking? Like if we're supposed to look to God on his throne, what kind of looking, what kind of gazing, what kind of spiritual sight is that? And this is how he described it. True saints look to the Lord their God reverentially. They have a holy awe and inward fear of the great and glorious one. They watch obediently, doing his commandments, guided by his eye. Their constant gaze is fixed attentively on all that comes from the Most High. They give earnest heed and fear lest they should let anything slip through inadvertence or drowsiness. They look continuously, for there is never a time when they are off duty. At all times they delight to serve in all things. Upon the Lord, they fix their eyes. expectantly looking for supply and safety from his hands, waiting on the Lord, seeking both in activity and suffering to glorify his name because they look to him submissively, and when they are smitten with the rod, they turn their eyes imploringly to the hand which chastens them, hoping that mercy will soon abate the rigor of the Affliction. What's Spurgeon say? How we how do we look? We look obediently, we look reverentially. We look attentively, we look continuously, we look expectantly, we look submissively and singly and imploringly to our God. How do you look? How's your looking? Are your eyes fixed on God's sovereign plan? Are you confident by faith that He has all of it under control? Because he does. And that's why this psalmist says, first off, see God with eyes of faith. Fix your eyes on him. Second. He tells us to serve God in humble dependence. Look at verse 2. Serve God in humble dependence. Verse 2, behold. as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maidservant to the hand of her mistress So our eyes look to the Lord our God, Yahweh our God, his covenant name, until he is gracious to us. Well the Metaphor of sight continues. Three times in verse 2 the word eyes are featured. But now he brings in an illustrative comparison, right? Something that is familiar in this ancient world, the idea of a noble king or a powerful queen. And they have all these trained servants and attendants who wait on their every need, who are eager to do their bidding. Who are anticipating their every need. The picture of these servants is that they're looking at the hand of the master. There's a female servant and a male servant, and they're both looking right at the hand of their master. Well, the hand in the book of Psalms, especially in the Old Testament, is a way to describe protection, a way to describe provision. When you look to God's hand, you look to one who is caring for you and protecting you. If you pray, like in Psalm 140, protect me from the hand of my enemies, it's that hand that could do you harm. In the case of God, it's the hand that does us good. And so the picture is they're looking at this hand, the hand that provides for them, the hand that is in charge of them, and they're ready and attentive to serve their master. This is an illustration or an argument that goes from the lesser to the greater. In other words, the description is of humans serving other humans. Though some of the humans are kingly and some of the humans are servants in the picture, it moves off of that and says So, or likewise, our eyes look to the Lord our God. And here it links this concept of serving This concept of submission, of careful, attentive, watchful service to be a very good way to understand how we relate to God. Maybe I bring it to more modern times. Pastor George. Let's say he has a summer intern. Young theological student wants to learn from a wise, godly pastor, and he's going to be a summer intern or assistant, right? I don't know if it's real. I'm just making this up. But let's say that he is this young theological student and his job is to take care of Pastor Lawson. And he would know. Does he like cream in his coffee? Do you? Yeah, so he would know though And so he'd get it ready in the morning. And he'd carry his Bible for him when he was tired, right? Make copies. I know that that your pastor's a a sweet servant and he doesn't have a flock of interns. meeting his every need, but just pretend with me. And this person, this young man, would would remove every obstacle to hinder the pastor's effectiveness. He would bear his burdens, he would meet his needs, he would help him, anticipate any problems he might encounter. He'd be a good helper, a good servant. Serving God is not like that. Serving God is not like that. Because there are no obstacles in God's effectiveness. In other words, when we serve God, it's not because God needs our help. He's all sufficient, all glorious. He's God. He lacks nothing. He doesn't have a limp. He doesn't need you to help carry his stuff to his car. There's no problems with God. He lives in perfection. Manifold glory. And so there's nothing you can do to add to him or to assist him in any way. Yet we are called to serve God. The Lord Jesus Christ says, I raise up servants for the harvest. It's a common metaphor that we're slaves of Christ, that we're Bondservants of Christ. We do serve the Lord. Psalm 100. The Old Testament saints understood this, right? We rejoice with the Lord. We serve Him with gladness. But even here, shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth, serve the Lord with gladness, come before him with joyful singing. There's a reminder that we're not serving a man. Know that the Lord Himself is God. It is He who made us and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. This isn't helping the helpless. This is helping the God who made us. That sermon in Acts 17. 25 captures this exactly when it says, God is not served by human hands as if he needed anything. But he gives life and breath to everyone. And so how do we serve God? Well, we serve in humble dependence. We serve God not by meeting his needs. But in our service to God and to others, he meets our needs. 1 Peter 4 says we serve Christ in the strength that He provides. And so, what a blessed service it is. And to really understand it, the comparison isn't just from the human masters to the divine reality of humble dependence. It's a reminder that we all have in our hearts that we have served bad masters before. And when we serve God, that's another fundamental difference. Let's just take a moment and look at a spot that I think is just compelling. 2 Chronicles. And I know your pastor is an expositor, so you know 2 Chronicles, it's like breakfast for you guys. My Bible makes a creaking sound when I turn there. It's no highlights whatsoever. Just just being honest up here. But there's this incredible story in 2 Chronicles 12. If like me you can't find it, it's somewhere in the back. 2 Chronicles 12. You remember Solomon? Well, he had a son called Rehoboam. And Rehoboam was a wicked man and a bad king. And he's described in verse 1, it took place when the kingdom of Rehabam was established and strong, that he and all Israel with him forsook the law of the Lord. And it came about in King Rehoboam's fifth year, because they'd been unfaithful to the Lord, that Shishak, king of Egypt, came up against Jerusalem with 1,200 chariots, 60,000 horsemen. And the people who came with him from Egypt were without number. So, because of the disobedience of the Israelites and their kings. Because they forsook God's law, he's punishing them by sending this Egyptian army, and the army just crunches all the little cities and surrounds Jerusalem. What happens next in verse 5 is God raises up a prophet, Semaiah. The prophet came to Rehoboam. And the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them, Thus says Yahweh, you have forsaken me, so I have forsaken you to Shishak. So the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, The Lord is righteous. In other words, we accept, we surrender. What God's doing is right, it's righteous. Verse 7. And when Yahweh saw that they humbled themselves The word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves, so I will not destroy them , But I will grant them some measure of deliverance. And my wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by means of Shishak. Now look with me. Look carefully at verse 8, because here's the lesson. But they will become his slaves, so that they may learn the difference between my service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries. The discipline of God was to instruct them that they didn't have it so bad after all, did they? That they were better off when God was their master, when God was the one who not only they served, but he provided for all their needs. And when they took on an evil master, that comparison became evident. This is a lesson that every Christian understands. Because all of us, according to the scriptures, were slaves to sin. It had us in its chains. Sin owned us and overpowered us And we obeyed its every whim. When we look to a hand, we look to the hand of sin, and it was our boss. And we belong to sin and therefore we belong to death. But when we came to Christ because of the glorious good news of the gospel, by faith in his work on the cross and in his resurrection. By that empty hand of faith, we came to Christ and believed on him. We were transferred out of the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. We were redeemed, is the Bible word, from slavery to sin and brought into glorious submission to Jesus Christ. He is now our Lord and Savior and Master, and we have it good when God is our boss. And so we're called to serve him in humble dependence. And that's why he says, so our eyes look, Psalm 123, verse 2. So our eyes look to the Lord our God. And we're waiting for something from our master. We're staring at his hand Because he has something that we desperately want and need. He has grace. And grace is what sinners need. And so number three, verses three and four, not only do we see him with eyes of faith and serve him in humble dependence, but we seek His grace. End of verse 2. Until he shall be gracious to us. Verse 3, be gracious to us, O Yahweh. Be gracious to us. For we are filled with contempt. Our soul is greatly filled with the scoffing of those who are at ease and with the contempt of the proud. The agenda of this song is unmissable. I dare you to not see it Three times he says, be gracious to us, be gracious to us, be gracious to us. What's he asking of God? That he would be gracious to us. You can't miss the point of this one. There's one thing that this servant has in mind, one thing this pilgrim, this traveler, this disciple, this person trying to make it to God and persevere in their faith. One thing they know they desperately need as they elevate their sight by faith. to the throne of a sovereign God as they serve him, not with their chests puff out, I got some important roles at church. What? Instead, they're going, I serve him in humble dependence. He strengthens me to serve. I'll do anything for God. And then they know that underneath it all, the one thing we need more than anything else is grace. Because righteous people don't need grace. But guess what? There are no righteous people. There was only one. And he died for us and gave us his righteous life and imputed his righteousness to us on the cross so that we have the righteousness of God and the only reason we have it and the only reason we walk in it is because of grace And so grace and mercy, that's what's being pointed at here, is the relief of our misery. And grace, the need for grace presupposes that we are sinners. And the plea, the request, the begging for grace in this song three times over is to ask for something that we do not deserve. That's how grace works. One author describes it, I think, so well, in this way. Mercy, God, mercy. The prayer is not an attempt to get to God to do what he is unwilling otherwise to do, but a reaching out to what we know that He does do. an expressed longing to receive what God is doing in and for us in Jesus Christ. In obedience we pray mercy instead of give us what we want. We pray mercy and not reward us for our goodness so our neighbors will acknowledge our superiority. We pray mercy and not punish us for our badness so we'll feel better. We pray mercy and not be nice to us because we've been such good people. We live under the mercy of God. God does not treat us as alien others, lining us up so that he can evaluate our competence or our usefulness or our worth. He rules, guides, commands, loves as children whose destinies he carries in his heart. The word mercy means That the upward look to God in the heavens does not expect God to stay in the heavens, but to come down to enter our condition, to accomplish the vast enterprise of redemption, to fashion us in his eternal salvation. That's what we want. And in a word, it's mercy. We don't have a chance without it. And if this was a song that was going to be a hit on Christian radio, we cut it off right there. You cannot possibly end a hit song with, We're filled with contempt, our soul is filled with the scoffing of those who are at ease with the contempt of the proud. We'd end with grace, right? But this song breaks off different because this song is real life It breaks off unanswered. It leaves us looking and longing and praying. But it's taught us something. It's taught us how to serve God. It's shown us that God's people in trouble look to him, and though they are filled with ridicule and contempt and enduring the arrogance and pride of unbelievers, and that stuff hurts. But Jesus told us that's what we get if we follow him, because that's what he got. But it breaks off showing us that we're supposed to keep looking to God, keep humbly serving him. And keep pleading with him for grace. Y'all are in the journey of a lifetime in the book of Romans, I know with your pastor. Spoiler alert, go to Romans 12. I think this captures this this Psalm's message so well. Romans twelve one, you all know this verse. After all the glorious theology and the gospel of God presented to the Romans in chapter 12, he moves towards, so what are we supposed to do with all this? And I think it's the same message as Psalm 123. Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy , to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your I like the King James here. Reasonable act of service. Reasonable, Greek word is the word logos. It's what's what makes sense. In light of all that God has done for us, what's reasonable? What makes sense? Well, it's not that we keep dragging sacrifices to the temple, it's that we become the sacrifice. Jesus died for us and now we sacrifice our whole selves, right, in view of God's mercy, off of your bodies. What's that? It's all of your life It's your marriage. You offer it to God as a sacrifice. You're going to be a faithful husband, a faithful wife, a faithful spouse for God's sake, and it's going to be an act of worship. Worship is going to transcend these trips up to the temple and is going to encompass the entirety of who you are, heart, soul, mind, and body. And so your parenting is going to be an act of worship, of reasonable service to God. The way you work at work Will be your worship, a reasonable act of worship, of service to God. Your eyes of faith have been lifted to God's throne. He has Taught you and empowered you to serve him in humble dependence, and he has given you grace. And you respond with, I am yours, O God. I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship, no longer conformed. to the pattern of this world, but transformed by the renewing of your mind, and then you'll be able to test and approve what God's will is, His good, pleasing, and perfect will. You want to continue on in the Christian faith? You want to not give up and crater your life and ruin your testimony? Then you keep seeking God's throne. authentically and genuinely, and you serve him in humble dependence, and you keep getting grace. Father, thank you for your word. We need grace because we're sinners. And we need to respond to that grace in true obedience to our Lord and Master. May we never step out of place. You are the center. You are God. We live to serve and honor you. Thank you that we don't have to do this alone, that we're part of a church family that helps us along in the community project of sanctification. Work in us, God, to make us more Christ-like. Humble us. Strengthen us. All of it by your grace. In Jesus' matchless name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.