The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. One of the traditions that I grew up with in church was the tradition of the testimony service, and it seemed like most of the testimonies that I heard growing up all began in the same way. There goes something like this, praise the Lord, saints. I'd like to give honor to my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to the ministers, and then there would be this line. And I want to thank God for my life, health, and Strength. My life, health, and strength. Some of you know what I'm talking about. And then if if you're a little bit older, you know, you might add that you know the Lord carried me for a mighty long way. He's been with me for a mighty long way. Not just a long way, a mighty, mighty long way. And e even though at times it uh might have seemed uh to be just wrote and what was expected within the context It was still a reminder that we are dependent on God's strength. We're dependent on God's strength for each new day. And we should be thanking God. for the strength that we have. That he's the one who gives us the strength to carry on, to bring us a mighty long way. And we need to be reminded of God's character. The God is a God that provides us with stability even in the midst of turbulent times. The God is sovereign, that He's wise, that He's loving, that He gives to us each day only what seems best to Him. And whether you're facing an individual crisis or a global crisis, there's nothing that can change the character of God. Amen? And I hope you believe that. There's a hymn. It has these words, it says day by day and with each passing moment. Strength I find to meet my trials here Trusting in my father's wise bestonement, I have no cause for worry or for fear. He whose heart is kind beyond all measure gives unto each day what he deems best. Lovingly, it's part of pain and pleasure, mingling toil and peace and rest. And that's one of the differences between the ways that believers can encounter a trial and that unbelievers can encounter a trial. It's that we can encounter a trial knowing that it is God's strength that is giving to us all that we need and that He's only giving what He deems best. So we don't have to respond to trials in the same way that the world responds to trials, and for that we can be thankful. We can be thankful for that, that we have the strength and the ability to stand firm because of what we're provided for by the Lord of heaven. And in Philippians chapter 4, this is a text we've been to before, but in Philippians chapter 4, we have a text that gives us an exhortation. And this exhortation is really more critical to your strength and stability than you might realize. But in Philippians chapter 4, we have a that really uh talks about the stability that we can have in Jesus Christ and how we can encounter uh the trials of life in a way that's different than the world around us. Philippians chapter 4, I'll start at verse 4 and we'll read down to verse 7. Philippians chapter 4, starting at verse 4 and reading down to verse 7. It says, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your gentle spirit be known to all men. The Lord is near. Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, today as we do every Lord's day, asking you for your help, Father, that you would uh grant us uh Lord your strength, Lord, as we open up your word Our Father, we want to accurately and faithfully divide your word and to apply this word into our lives And Father, I pray that you would help us to do that today. And Lord, as many of us are just coming off of a week of thanksgiving and time with family, with friends, Father, we're just reminded of all that we have to be thankful for. Father, for the many physical blessings that you've given to us, but the many spiritual blessings that you've given to us as well. And Father, we do thank you for the strength. that's provided for us in Christ, Lord, to endure the things that we have before us. And Father, we know that it's only because of you that we're still standing. So Father, I pray that you would help us today as we look into your word and pray that you would bless me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, it could be argued that the three commands that we find here, and there are three commands, there's the command to rejoice in the Lord always. There's the command to let your gentle spirit be known, and there's the command to be anxious for nothing. Those are the three commands that we find here. And uh it could be argued that these three commands could be uh kind of analyzed separately, but they present to us a common theme, and the common theme is the believer's attitude. It focuses primarily on the kind of emotional stability that should characterize the believer's life. And it's evident that these attitudes were to be a constant theme of the believers' lives because of the way that these commands are modified. If you look at verse 4, it says, Rejoice in the Lord at what time? Always or at all times. In verse 5, let your gentle spirit be known to which kind of men? All men. It doesn't matter who they are. And then in verse 6, it lets us know where to be anxious for what? For nothing but in what? Everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. This is something that's to be happening all of the time. We're always to be rejoicing. We're always to allow the spirit of gentleness to be known among men, and we're always to bring every anxiety that we have before the Lord. All times, all men, everything. There's no exceptions here. No exceptions. These attitudes were to encompass the believer's life. They were to characterize the believer's life. And if they were to stand firm, it was necessary that they had these kinds of attitudes. And that's not to say that the Philippians didn't face their own set of difficulties. If you flip back to chapter 1, Philippians chapter 1, take a look at verse 28, Philippians chapter 1, verse 28. Let's us know the kind of difficulties that they faced. Philippians 1 verse 28. Actually I'll start at verse 27. Paul says, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear of you, that you are standing firm. In one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. Look what he says in verse 28. In no way alarmed by your opponents. They were opposed. They were attacked. They were persecuted. It says, in no way to be alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. And that too from God. When you were able to stand up under persecution and attack with a firm confidence in God, that was proof to those who were opposing you that there's something different going on in this person's life. Because I've seen other people go through what they've gone through and they don't respond in the same way that they do. There's something different about this person. It was a sign of destruction for them and of salvation for you. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to what? Suffer for his sake. These were believers that were suffering Paul himself faced persecution when he was at Philippi. Acts chapter 16 lets us know about that. And we learn that the church was faced with the same kind of persecution. He says you're experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me and now here to be in me. You're suffering the same way that I'm suffering. But that doesn't prevent them from saying that you need to rejoice. You need to rejoice. They're also distressed over their their leaders. Epaphroditus was one of their own that they sent with a gift for Paul. Look in chapter 2, look at verse 25. Verse 25. Chapter 2, it says, But I thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, who was also your messenger and minister to my need, because he was longing for you. He was longing for you all and was distressed because you heard, had heard that he was sick. For indeed he was sick to the point of death. But God had mercy on him and not on him only, but also on me so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow This church was concerned about their leadership. They sent Epaphras with the, who was one of the, uh likely one of the elders, the ministers, and Philippi. They sent him with the gift to the Apostle Paul. And on the trip he became sick to the point of death. The trip from Philippi to Rome would have been about a thousand miles, proved to be almost fatal for Epaphroditis. And now They heard news that he's sick and he's at the point of death, so they would have been distressed over what they heard happening in the lives of others. And on top of that, they're also concerned about Paul. Look at chapter 4 and verse 10. Chapter 4 and verse 10, they're concerned about the apostle. It says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have revived your concern for me. They were concerned for him. So this is a young church. They're under pressure, not just physically from persecution, they're also suffering emotionally as well because of their concern for aphroditis, their concern for Paul. And there are those who could have easily made an excuse for them to be emotionally unstable. I mean, you don't know what's coming next. You don't know what kind of persecution you'll be under. You don't know what's going to happen to your leaders. The Lord could take them out of here. And an excuse could be made for being emotionally unstable. You know, after all, wouldn't it be natural for them to lose joy at the many possibilities that flooded their minds? Wouldn't it be expected for some kind of anxiety to set in? You know, the worst that I imagine might actually happen. It's inescapable. And who could blame them for cracking under this pressure and becoming aggressive and trying to force something to change? You know, isn't that what we would expect to find? I mean, after all, we're only we're only human. I mean that's that's how we would respond. I mean of course we become anxious and lose our joy and and try to force change to happen. But here there appears to be no hesitation at all on Paul's part to turn to the same church and to say, saints! Those of you who are called saints, you have the ability to carry out what I'm asking you to do. I'm telling you that you can rejoice in the middle of your circumstances. I'm telling you that you can be gentle towards men. I'm telling you that you can cast off your anxieties and place them all on the Lord, trusting in Him to do what seems best. And I'm not saying that we don't struggle with these things as believers, but what I am saying is that we have hope as believers. We have hope. And unfortunately, we've accepted some of these attitudes, you know, some of these negative attitudes as if it's just an inalienable right. You know, that I should feel this way. And how dare you tell me I should feel differently when we have here an invitation to pursue a different path. Look at this first command. Look at chapter 4 and verse 4. Look at what he says. Rejoice in the Lord always. And just in case you didn't hear me the first time, again I will say rejoice. I'm serious about this. I'm telling you that you can rejoice. And rejoice here is actually a major theme. The word for joy is used some 16 times in the space of four chapters. It's a major theme of the book of Philippians. Now, everywhere you look, this is joy is just dripping off the page. And this is not the kind of attitude that we would expect from somebody who's on death row. I mean Paul at this point, he's writing a letter from prison. He's writing from chains. Look over at chapter 1 and verse 20. Chapter 1. I know I always do this. Let's go back to verse 19. Actually, I'll do better. Let's go back to verse 18. Verse 18. Look at what he says. What then? Only then in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice. Yes, and I will rejoice. Again, it's this double rejoicing I will rejoice, for I know that this, speaking about his imprisonment, will turn out for my deliverance, whether through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness Christ will even now, as always, be exalted in my body. But how will he be exalted? Whether by life or by death. Paul says Christ is going to be exalted one way or the other. But it might come by my release from prison, or it might come by my release through death. But one of these ways I'm getting out of here. This is going to turn out in my deliverance. Either that the chains could come off and the doors could swing open Or the gates of heaven will be opened up to me in paradise. But I'm going to be delivered one way or the other, and in this I rejoice. I have cause for rejoicing in this, even if it means my death. My joy is not robbed from me. Even if my life is being poured out upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, which he talks about over in chapter 2. Verse 17, even if I'm being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and share my joy with you all. There's no doubt that Paul's joy had the ability to rise above his circumstances. He was able to look death in the face with a positive attitude and declare that I am rejoicing. Even in the face of death, he opens his heart to reveal his joy, and then he encourages this congregation to come on and join me. You know, jump in, the water's fine. Join me in this joy. And Paul was very concerned that the Philippians would have this kind of joy within their hearts. And chapter 4 is not the first time that Paul has articulated his concern for the Philippians' joy. He's instructed them at least twice in this letter, chapter 2 and verse 18, where he says, you too I urge you, rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me. Chapter 3, verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things again is no trouble to me, and it is a safeguard for you. Do you know that joy has a way of protecting you? Because you're turning your eyes to the Lord, and it's a safeguard for you that you would not be carried away by the wiles of the enemy, the temptations of this world. That I would anchor myself in the joy that comes from God and from Him alone. It is a safeguard for you. It's protection for you. How many of us are getting joy from the Lord versus seeking joy after the mud pies of the world? It's a safeguard for you that you would find your joy in God. It's a protection for us. And right here with a few strokes of his pen, Paul's moved joy into the realm of morality. Now it's a it's it's a it's uh the difference between right and wrong. Because now it's a command. To rejoice is a moral responsibility from which no Christians are excluded, regardless of temp uh personality. It's not about your personality. It's not about your temperament. And it's not based on your circumstance. The present circumstances are no reason to exclude yourself from this invitation to joy. And he knew about who they were. He knew about their humble means. This was a poor church. He knew that they were a church that suffered persecution. He knew that they were a church that was deeply concerned about Epaphroditus and even about him. But even if Paul died, he says, that's no reason for you to lose your joy. We're commanded to have joy, and this command swings wide the doorway to true pleasure and delight. It's like the host of a banquet saying, hey, come come and feast. Come and enjoy. Come to the table. Pull up a chair. I mean, this has all been prepared for you. Why would you object to this? And inherent in this command is this extraordinary possibility of living a joyful life. You know, it reminds me of the you know the the children of Israel as they're you know uh going through the wilderness and they're trying to pick up the water and it's bitter water. And then the Lord commands Moses to cut down a tree and cast the tree into the waters, and that the tree made the bitter waters sweet. It's like this this is a command that can make the bitter life the bitter waters of life sweet for you You can live a life that's that's experiencing the sweetness of God, the sweetness of his son, Jesus Christ. All the promises and the blessings that come along with this, this is something that we can be thankful for. And the question is, is what does this mean and how am I to accomplish this? How am I to live a life like this? What does it mean to rejoice always? I mean does it does it mean that we just kinda walk around kinda giddy, smiling in everybody's face? You know, I'm joyful. What do they d deny the trials that they face, you know, the difficulties of life, as if like, hey, I just brushed that off, you know, water off my back. Uh doesn't matter. Doesn't matter what I find in life. You know, uh I'm I'm untroubled, I'm unfazed, you know, like the stoics that you know just taught themselves to like just grin and bear it. That's not what we're called to do. We're not called to ignore reality. I found this interesting as I looked up this word for joy. That often it can be used in context where the person who possessed joy often didn't show it externally. Flip over to 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians chapter 6. 2 Corinthians chapter 6, we find the Apostle Paul again speaking about this joy. But look at where he look at the context in which he speaks about this. I'll start in verse four. It says, but in everything commending ourselves as servants of God, in much endurance and afflictions, and hardships and distresses, in beatings, and imprisonments and tumults. And labors and sleeplessness and hunger, and purity, and knowledge, and patience, and kindness, and the Holy Spirit and genuine love, and the word of truth and the power of God by the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and the left. by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report, regarded as deceivers and yet true, as unknown yet well known, as dying, yet behold we live. As punished yet not put to death, as sorrowful yet always rejoicing. As poor yet making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing all things. There's something that the Apostle Paul again learned, that even while sorrowful, that something on the inside is still rejoicing. But there's a confidence that I have that the world can't shake. Even though life brings sorrow and difficulty, even through our tears, our joy is not stamped out. And I would give the example of a volcano that it may not appear warm on the outside, but beneath the surface, you better believe it's hot. And that should be like the life of the Christian. I mean, joy should always be present within the Christian, that there's a deep down confidence that I have in my Lord that, you know, I know that everything's going to be alright. And it's not just because I got that feeling that everything's going to be alright. It's not just that feeling that everything's going to be alright. It's the confidence because of the Word of God that I know that everything's going to be alright. That all these things are going to work for my good because I love God and I'm called according to his purpose. That I know that there's an afterword. Psalm 73, Asaph was concerned about what he saw in front of him, but there was an afterword. He says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And what do I desire on earth besides you? Even though my heart may fail, that you are the my portion forever That that should be the confidence that the Christian has that God, you're my true portion. That even if everything else is stripped away from me, that I haven't lost everything. That I have what's most important in my life. That even though life can bring difficulty, that there's an afterwards, that there's a joy that comes in the morning. And that I'm looking forward to that, and that that can sustain me even through what I'm enduring. That there's a joy that should be present and it shouldn't take much to cause an eruption because it can't stay contained all the time. That if somebody reminds you of the truth, that you're connecting to that truth, that yes, that's true. I know that that's true. I'll give you just a short example. I remember when I was It was a number of years ago when Lance Quinn was with us, and many of you know Lance, he was with us for our 10th anniversary And as many of you know, his his wife was uh taken home to be with the Lord with uh non-smokers, lung cancer. And I was with him while we're driving. To Dulles Airport so that he could go back to be with his wife. And during that time, as we're driving, he's calling up every one of his eight kids. To tell each one, one by one, that your mother's been diagnosed with cancer and it's pretty severe, and we're not sure how long she has. He's calling up every one of his kids and just bursting in tears after every phone call or during the phone call. And I'm just thinking about, you know, what am I going to do to try to encourage my brother? You know, so so we prayed, and then just the scriptures came to my mind, I would quote scripture Scriptures that would remind him that the Lord is our strength, that the Lord is our shield, that the Lord is the one who watches over us. I'd remind him of uh one of the ones that I reminded him of was Psalm 91, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust. And as I would quote scripture, he would say, yes, that's right. Yes, that's right. Yes, I believe that. And it was just that reminder of what we believe to be true. Not that it that it removes the difficulty that you're going through, but it reminds you of what am I anchored to? I'm not anchored to my circumstances. My circumstances are always going to change. I can't control the circumstances around me. But I go to one who does not change. And I'm anchored in him. That's how we can have joy. And if the only and the only fuel that's sufficient to keep that fire burning is the Lord Himself. Anything else is a poor substitute for joy. If you're going anywhere else to try to get some kind of satisfaction in life, if you're going anywhere else besides the Lord, it is a poor substitute. The joy that endures ultimately is anchored in the Lord. And Paul is here saying that as a Christian, that you can find a reason to rejoice. Because I'm not saying rejoice in your circumstances always. I'm saying rejoice in the Lord always. And what Paul is saying by that is that I'm assuming that your circumstances can't change the Lord. Because the Lord stays the same. Rejoice in the Lord always The Lord is constant, and the only way the Philippians could escape this command would be to prove that Christ gave them some reason not to rejoice. So if the Philippians were not rejoicing, it was not because they found Christ to be unstable or undependable, but because they pulled their anchors up from Christ and sought to place them somewhere else. And when you're not anchored to Christ, the changing waves of your circumstances are free to toss you this way and that way. One moment you're calm and your emotions are peaceful, and the next moment you're a violent storm. And God wants us to live above that, to live above those circumstances. And the better we know Christ, and the more that we experience of Him, is the more that we can experience this joy. Rejoice in the Lord always. The joy of the Lord is our strength. Amen. Number two, not only rejoice in the Lord, but remain gentle towards men. Look at verse 5. Rejoice in the Lord. Always again I will say rejoice. Verse 4 and then verse 5. Let your gentle spirit be known to all men. This is a passive command. You know, the context implies action though, you know, to let your gentle spirit be known. means that uh uh this is something that's supposed to be displayed. You know, what's inward, you know, what you are is supposed to be displayed in your attitude towards others. The word for gentleness here, it's an interesting word. It's the Greek word epekace. It's defined as yielding or being kind, forbearing. It's a word that uh appears in two other places in Paul's usages that help us define it in 1 Timothy 3, Titus 3, in the outline for the qualification for leadership. In uh 1 Timothy 3, it's contrasted with being violent, and in Titus 3 and verse 2, it's contrasted with slander. So epechase would be the opposite of a vindictive, malicious, cruel spirit. that can manifest itself in slanderous words or violent actions. It's an attitude that chooses to suffer injustice graciously. Want one dictionary defines it this way. It's not the strictness of legal right, but consideration for another. It is satisfied with less than its due. Aristotle used it for the person who does not stand on his rights, but is content to receive a smaller share, although he has the law on his side. To be gentle is not to seek your rights, to retaliate for wrong done, it's to let your rights go in order to consider others. And that's not easy. And I'm not saying that in every circumstance that we uh don't exercise our rights. But this kind of gentle attitude is what we are to display towards men. And in the world that we live in, we're not encouraged ever to let our rights go, are we? If you have have a right, you're to use that right. You're to fight for your rights. But God is calling us here to forget about your rights, to be concerned for others, to be considerate of others. And like I said, again, there's a proper and a biblical time to use your rights, but uh there's a a way that we we do that in in scripture, and there's a lot of scripture that we could turn to, but I'll just give you a couple principles and I thought this was It was really helpful. A couple questions that we could ask ourselves. This comes from a book, Peacemaker, by Ken Sandy. He asks these questions. He says, number one, will exercising my rights honor God by showing the power of the gospel in my life? Will exercising my rights advance God's kingdom, or will it advance only my interests at the expense of his kingdom Will exercising my rights benefit others? And is exercising my rights essential for my own well-being? We find that when uh even the Apostle Paul used his rights as a Roman citizen, you know, he used it to uh you know protect himself. He used it for the rites of the Philippian church to make sure that even in Philippi, after he was beaten, that the magistrates came to pull him out of jail. To say that we've done this unlawfully, you know, as a protection even for those who are present , time when exercising your rights is appropriate, but it never gives us an excuse for an ungracious attitude. And if it will benefit others, it's better to lay our rights down. To lay our rights down. And this has already been alluded to back in chapter 2, if you have any question about this. You have to look no further than the example of the Lord Himself. Look back at chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2. Start at verse 3. Philippians 2 starting at verse 3. It says, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. How did Christ Jesus display this attitude? Who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. But emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. If you want an example, a perfect example of what it looks like to lay down your rights for the sake of others, you have to look no further than Jesus Christ. That he was willing to lay down his life even to the point of death on a cross if it meant that we could have salvation. That's the kind of life that we're called to imitate. You want to know what gentleness looks like? Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Think about Jesus on the cross as he says, Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they do. Forgive them. He didn't hang on the cross and say, Fry them, Father. No, it's forgive them, Father. Don't give them what they deserve. I know that I have rights. At any time I can call down the Legion of Angels and wipe these guys out. All it takes is a word. That's all it takes. But Jesus laid down that right for the sake of you. Why are you here today? It's because Jesus laid down his rights. That's why you're here today. Why are you going to heaven one day? It's because Jesus laid down his rights for you. Laid his life down. That's the example that we look to. And this is the kind of attitude that we're to display before men. Even after suffering the ultimate injustice, temptation for us is to say, Lord, that's not fair. People get away with that. Somebody needs to pay But the truth is that nobody gets away eventually, right? Every sin will be paid for, but that penalty can either be paid for on the cross by Jesus Christ. Or will come down upon the head of that person. And I pray that we would have the attitude, Lord, forgive them. Don't give them what they deserve. Even for our enemies, Lord, don't put upon them what they deserve. Father, I pray that you would forgive them. But we leave vengeance to the Lord Vengeance is mine, I will repay. You don't have to worry about getting them back. I I I can do that just fine by myself. You you don't need to be the one that gets involved. Then the Lord has to turn his attention away from them and turn it to you. You don't need to get involved in that. Let the Lord worry about vengeance. You do what the Lord has called you to do. And the question that comes is, well, what about me? Am I just supposed to suffer endlessly? And this is where the encouragement comes in. Because what's the next phrase? Look at verse 5 again. Let your gentle spirit be known to all men. Why? The Lord is near. And this word here, the Lord is near, can either be uh understood as time or location. You know, he's near in time or he's near in location. If it's location, it's the a reference to the Lord's presence with us. But if it refers to time, as I believe it does refer to here, it's referring to the timing of the Lord's return. And Paul has already mentioned that the Lord is soon to come. If you look back in chapter 1, chapter 1 and verse 6 of Philippians. He's already talked about the return of Christ. He says, for I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ. The day of Christ Jesus, this is the day when the Lord comes back. Philippians chapter 1, look at verse 10. Philippians were to be sincere and blameless. until the day of Christ, so that you may approve the things that are excellent, in order to be sincere and blameless until the day of Christ. Look at chapter 2, chapter 2, verse 16. He speaks about us holding fast the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory because I did not run in vain nor toil in vain. And then later on in chapter 3 and verse 20, he speaks about our citizenship. Our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. So this letter is focusing our attention on the appearance of Jesus. Jesus Christ is coming back. It's okay if you don't get everything that you believe you deserve in this life. Jesus is coming back. It's okay, he's gonna come, and when he comes, Revelation says, I come and I bring my reward with me. And then if you've suffered in this life, don't worry about it. You will be rewarded when Christ returns. Jesus Christ is soon to return. We find a similar statement over in James 5 and verse 8 where the scripture says, you be patient. Strengthen your hearts. You know, Lord, give me strength. Strengthen your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is near. Jesus is coming back. And it's okay. The coming of the Lord is going to provide here, is to provide here stability for the Philippian believers. That Lord, I don't have to lash out. I don't have to get back. I don't have to take vengeance. Lord, I know you're soon to come back. You're soon to return. And when you return, I want to be found faithful I don't want to be found trying to to get my pound of flesh because somebody owes me. Lord, let me let that go Let me trust in you, you're soon to return. And here their eschatology, their view of the end times was to have a direct effect on their daily life. The second coming of Christ wasn't some kind of dusty doctrine. You know, you eggheads, you get in the you have that conference, end times conference, because you're just worried about all this stuff. Try to figure it all out, got your charts out, whatever else. That's not what it's about It's because it brings us hope. It brings us encouragement. It focuses our attention on what's to come. It affects our present attitude. Because the Lord is coming back. Never lose sight of the end. The end of the story matters. And Christ sees what you suffer, and He promises to reward the right attitudes. He's not missing a thing. God doesn't miss it. And we need a church that's ready to stand firm. We're to rejoice in the Lord, remain gentle towards men, and finally, number three, refuse to be anxious. Look again at chapter 4. Verse 6, be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. In this section here, it contains a prohibition, a prescription, and a promise. A prohibition, the negative side, don't do this. Don't be anxious for anything. The prescription is the positive side. Let your request be made known to God. That's the prescription. And then finally, we have this promise. In verse verse 7, the promise. What's the promise? And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. A prohibition, a prescription, and a promise. Let's take a look at the prohibition. Be anxious for nothing. The order of the sentence in the original Greek is in nothing be anxious. It front loads it in nothing. There's nothing. That you should be anxious about. And he wants this congregation to know that there's no trial, no circumstance that gives the believer sufficient reason for anxiety of heart and mind. And the word used for anxious in some contexts can speak about a positive concern, but in this case, it's speaking about an unhealthy or a sinful worry. Or as one person said, to care, to care is a virtue. But to carry cares is a sin. You know, we should care for people. We should have a concern for people. But when you walk around burdened carrying those cares, to carry those cares is a sin. Because what you're supposed to do with those cares is not to carry them. You're supposed to offload them to the Lord. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication. Let your request be made known to the Lord. You're supposed to offload those cares I'm not supposed to walk around carrying them as if I can do something with it. I'm to go to the Lord because, Lord, I know that you can do something with it. Yes, I'm concerned, and I'm giving it to you. Because I can't carry this. This is not meant for me to be burdened by. I cannot do it. So he wants this congregation to know that there's no trial, no circumstance of life that you can't turn around to the Lord and offload that. You're not supposed to walk around with that. Be anxious for nothing, it says. Don't walk around with this unhealthy, sinful worry about things. This is the same kind of command that was given over in Matthew chapter 6, if you want to flip over there, Matthew chapter 6. Love the words of Christ here, Matthew 6, starting at verse 31. Look at what Jesus says. Matthew 6. 31. He says, Do not worry then. Saying, what will we eat? Or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your heavenly Father knows what you need, knows that you need all these things. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Isn't that true? Each day has enough to be concerned about. Why am I going to add tomorrow's concerns and add next week's concerns and then next year's concerns? And why am I going to do that to myself? And then walk around carrying all of that like I can I can bear up under that kind of pressure. You're not meant to do that. That's why you give it over to the Lord. You realize your limitations. Because, you know, there's just some things that are outside of your control, right? No, let's let's go further than that. Most things are outside of your control, right? You want to go one step further? Everything is outside of your control. You can't control any of it. And here's the problem that we think we can. That's where the problem comes in. You think that somehow I can do it. Lord, you give it to me. I'll take care of that. No. You give it to me. You you offload that to him, and he can do it We can't walk around as if we can take care of this stuff. Like James talks about, you don't even know if you'll be around tomorrow. You are worrying about next week and you're dying tomorrow. Why are you carrying burdens that don't even belong to you? You don't know what tomorrow holds. And once we realize our limitations, the prescription makes sense. You bring that to the Lord. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And this this kind of prescription here is not just, you know, hey, don't worry about it. You know, no worries. You know, don't worry, be happy That's not what we're told to do here. The reason that we can be free from this kind of worry is because we know who to take it to. You know, some of you have a headache this big, and it's got prayer written all over it. You bring it to the Lord in prayer. That's the cure for this kind of anxiety. We make a habitual practice of bringing every concern to the Lord in prayer. And that's what's going on here, verse 6. But in everything. By prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. I love this. And everything. Everything we bring to the Lord. It's not just the things that we think we should bring. It's everything. By prayer, prayer speaks about the general request. Supplication speaks about specific needs that we bring to the Lord. And we bring it to Him with thanksgiving Meaning that we're looking back to the past and saying, Lord, I know you've been faithful before, and I trust that you'll be faithful again. So we don't have access to the future, but we have all kinds of access to the past. So I can look back to the past and say, Lord, you've been faithful here, you've been faithful here, you've been faithful here. Now I'm looking at this trial and you know what, Lord? I'm trusting you to be faithful there as well. So we we come before him with thanksgiving. And because we know that the Lord has no worries, neither should we You know, one illustration I thought of, you know, when considering this is like a you know a child who might be on the floor and she's a she's afraid of a dog. But then if her father picks her up and puts her on his shoulders, then she barks back at the dog. Because now I'm with my father. And I have no worries because my father has no worries. And that's how we should be. We bring our petitions to the Lord. Lord, I know that you can handle this. I don't have to walk around and defend myself. Lord, I'm trusting in you. And we bring our requests to the Lord. The reason we worry is because we don't know how things will turn out. We don't know what the future will be. But God is the one who knows the future infinitely. He's given us free access to the past so that we can trust him for the future. And what's the promise? Verse 7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Peace, this is harmony, order, stability, to be undisturbed. God is the God of peace in verse 9. And God has no worries and He wants the same for us. And here it's the peace of God that guards our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. This is a peace that comes from God. It's not going to be found in our circumstances. It's coming from Him. It's a peace that's outside of this world. That's why Jesus can say in John 14 and verse 27, peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give. The world can give you peace when everything's working well. You have all your needs met, all circumstances are in your favor. Hey, I I've got peace with that. I mean who doesn't? Like do you really need like the uh you know the supernatural power of God to have peace when everything's going well It's like, no, the peace of God is demonstrated when things aren't going well. When Jesus is sleeping in the midst of a storm, that's when you know he's got peace. He's got something I don't have. How can you go to Lord, don't you care that we perish? Come on, Lord. Sleeping on the job No, he's taking care of his job. He upholds the entire world with the word of his power. And here he is sleeping in the boat because everything's under control. And the first thing that he has to do when he wakes up is calm the disciples down. I gotta rebuke you before I rebuke the wind and the waves. I mean, get it, get it together! Who told you that you're going on the other side of the lake? I did. You don't think I can get you there? Why are you so fearful? Oh, you have little faith You have little faith. And then he turns around and he rebukes the wind and the waves. And now they're more fearful of Jesus than they are of the wind and the waves, right? It's like who do we have in this boat? It's the same one that we come to here, who says, I can give you that kind of peace. My peace I give to you. Not as the world can give. Don't let your heart be troubled. Don't let it be fearful. The world can give circumstantial peace, but the peace of God is beyond that. And this is a peace that the world can't give and the world can't take away. The world can't give it and the world can't take it away. Why? Why can't the world take it away? Because it's guarded. Look at verse 7 again This peace which surpasses all comprehension, beyond anything that we could understand, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. No, the word for for guard, it's only used four times in the New Testament. Paul used it over in 2 Corinthians 11. 32, where he talks about his escape from the city of Damascus. And the governor of the city had this attempt to seize Paul and stationed a battalion of soldiers around the city to prevent Paul from escaping. And that's the same word that he uses here. That the peace of God is like a like a a battalion of soldiers encircling around you for your protection. A garrison, a troop that keeps watch over your soul, keeps watch over your peace. And just as soldiers protect and guard A city, the peace of God literally will stand guard over the mind and heart of those who make their request known to God. For those of us who make it a habit of coming before the Lord in prayer , Our prayers, our petitions, our supplications, our thanksgiving. Those of us who are going to the Lord with that, he says, I'm going to promise that you'll have peace. Some of you might not have this peace because you're not bringing your petitions to the Lord. When it says here, let your request be made known. What does that mean? Make your request known. Doesn't God know everything anyway? Why are we to make him make known to him what he already knows? Because it's not about what God knows. It's about you knowing that God knows. That makes a difference. Lord, I'm bringing these petitions to you, but you know what, Lord, you already know this, don't you? But I'm going to bring it to you And Lord, as I'm bringing these things to you, it's growing me in my confidence that Lord you already have a plan for this, don't you? Lord, you are already aware of this, weren't you? And Lord, as I'm bringing my thanksgiving to you, I'm reminded of the other time when the same thing happened, and you answered my prayer then, didn't you? And as you're coming to the Lord in prayer, guess what's happening? You're starting to calm down. Like your heart's being brought peace because you're in this conversation with the Lord. I'm making these requests known to God, but then I'm reminding myself that the Lord knows all these things. And now I'm being brought peace. And now it's guarding my heart and my mind in Christ Jesus. So that now I'm having this harmony and order and stability in my life that I didn't have before. In his book, Anxiety Attack, John MacArthur said the real challenge of Christian living is not to eliminate every uncomfortable circumstance from our lives, but to trust in our sovereign God in the midst of every situation. Is that where you are? Do you flee from your discouragement? Pressures of life. Because you're running to the Lord and you're finding in Him the answer for everything that you need. And just want to point this out, that Jesus is involved in every one of these points. We're to rejoice in who? Rejoice in the Lord always. We're to remain gentle. Why? Because the Lord is near. And how is your heart and mind guarded? Your heart and mind is guarded in Christ Jesus. This is really focusing your attention on Christ. That's where your hope is found. That's where your peace is found. Focus your attention on Jesus Christ. The only way that you'll be able to have spiritual stability in your life is if you find your stability in Jesus Himself. And if you understand that Jesus does not change because of my circumstance. And that's something that we can give God thanks for, can't we? The Lord gives us strength for each trial, for each day, and it all comes in Christ Jesus. Trusting in my father's wise bestowment, I have no cause for worry or fear. He whose heart is kind beyond all measure, gives unto each day what he deems best, lovingly its part of pain and pleasure, mingling with toil, peace, and rest. And day by day, with each passing moment, there's strength that I find. Strength that I find to meet my trials here Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for all that you've given to us because of Jesus Christ, and that it's because of Him. Lord, that we are brought strength, that we have strength for each new day, for every trial that we face. And Father, that this gives us a reason for thanksgiving. My Father, that you are the God who gives us joy, that you are the God who can settle our hearts, Lord, and that we can deal with others in the way that Christ has been the example And uh Father, that you can bring peace to our hearts as we bring our petitions to you, our requests before you, our thanksgiving before you, Father, that you can settle our hearts and our minds in Christ Jesus. So Father, we do thank you for your word. Your word is rich. It's powerful, Lord. It's sufficient for the trials that we face. And Father, I pray that you would uh Just grant us, Lord, even this week, Lord, as we end this week of Thanksgiving, Lord, just more reasons to rejoice because of you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.