The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and open up to the book of Romans? The book of Romans We're going to be back in Romans chapter 5. Today is Reformation Sunday, and it's been our practice to take some time off to reflect on the history of the church and the central truths. of the gospel, which were recovered during the Protestant Reformation. But since we're in the book of Romans, there's really no need to break away from our consecutive exposition. uh through the book of Romans. Uh Romans is such a central text for all of the truths of the Reformation, salvation by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone, to the glory of God alone, you can find all of those truths in the the book of Romans. Pretty much you open up your Bible to the book of Romans, put your finger down, and you're talking about Reformation truth, okay? So we're just going to open our Bibles to where we are in Romans chapter 5. Put our fingers down and uh just keep going with where we've already been. And I'll wait until uh next week just to give a historical uh sketch like we normally do on Reformation Sunday. But I didn't want to break up the flow of Romans chapter 5, especially as we're at the tail end of this section from Romans 5, verse 1 down to verse 11. And we're in a section of Romans where we're talking about the benefit package of salvation, or what I like to call the treasury of justification. And what's in this package of salvation? And this is just review for those of you who uh need to catch up or haven't been with us. Number one, what do we have in this package of salvation? Number one, we have peace with God. Take a look at verse one. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. What does that mean? We're no longer pointing our weapons toward God and we're no longer sitting underneath the wrath of God, the war between us and God is over. And how did that peace take place? What was necessary for that peace to come about? It was through our Lord Jesus Christ. It was through Jesus Christ that this happened. There's no way for peace to be established apart from Jesus Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 14, it lets us know that He Himself is our peace, and if we don't have Jesus, we don't have peace. No Jesus, no peace. You know, people talk about making peace with God. Even people say I'm at peace in my relationship with God. But if you don't have Jesus, you don't have peace with God. And you can feel all that you want to, that you and God are okay, that you're at peace with God, but if you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, there is no peace. between you and God. You know, an a an enemy nation could feel like they're at peace until the bombs drop, right? And people can feel like they're at peace with God until the wrath drops. So we don't have peace with God apart from Jesus Christ. It's objective, it's external, it's found in Christ and in Christ alone. So the believer has peace with God because of their relationship with Jesus Christ. Number two, we have grace. Verse 2. through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. So the grace that we enter into is the same grace that we stand in. We enter by grace, we stand in grace. We've not entered by the Spirit in order to be perfected by the flesh. Your righteousness wasn't enough to get you saved, and your righteousness is not going to be enough to keep you saved. It's an amazing grace that we've been saved by, amen. And we should never tire of hearing about grace. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound, right? You know, we we delight to hear in grace, and it's grace that has brought me safe thus far. This is what John Newton writes It's grace that has brought me safe thus far, and it's grace that will do what? Lead me home. I come in by grace and I finish by grace. I'm led all the way home by grace. It's the same grace that I'm standing in. Number three. We have hope. Again in verse 2. It says, Through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace, in which we stand, and we exalt in the hope of the glory of God. And what does that mean to have hope of the glory of God? It's not a hope that one day God will be glorious because that's already true of God. God's already glorious. Paul is talking about the benefits of our salvation, and what is the benefit of our salvation in this hope of the glory of God It's the hope that one day we will reach our destiny, that we will be glorified in his presence, and that's a steadfast and sure hope that belongs to us as believers. And that's what Romans chapter 8 goes on to describe for us in verse 17. It says, indeed, we suffer with him so that we may be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the what? With the glory that will be revealed to us. So it's our destiny as believers that we would be conformed into the image of Jesus Christ and that one day we will enter into glory. And that's the hope of glory that Paul talks about. Number four, we also have joy. In verse 3 of Romans chapter 5, it says that not only this, but we also exult, that's a word for boasting or rejoicing, even in periods of tribulation. That I can exult, I can boast, that I can glory, even during a time of tribulation. So we don't escape the crushing pressures of life, but those pressures don't have to crush us under their weight. 2 Corinthians 4 and 8 says, We're afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not despairing, persecuted, but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed. What God gives us in our salvation is an ability to stand firm. It's not the idea that I'm just passively resigned to whatever comes to me. It's not simply going through a trial, but it's going through that trial knowing that I have peace with God, that I stand in grace, and my eyes are fixed on the glory to come, and that the Lord can bring me through this trial. Intact, that I don't have to be crushed under the weight of whatever pressures I might be under. And then last week we pulled the car over to take a view of our great hope. This great hope is supported and reinforced by the love of God. So we could just call this point that we have love. If you take a look at verse 5 of Romans chapter 5. It says, and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. The love of God is evidenced, it's demonstrated in this text by the Holy Spirit who is given to us. And the death of Christ is also something else that's talked about as being from the love of God. It says here in verse 8, but God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, that Christ died for us. So we have in verses 5 to 8 of Romans chapter 5, we have this hope that does not disappoint, but this hope is being reinforced by the love that God has for us. The Holy Spirit is given to us as a demonstration of God's love. Christ was given for us as a demonstration of God's love. So we're bound in this love of God, and this is what we can have. Hoping that God loves us and it's shown objectively by the death of Christ and the giving of the Holy Spirit. But there's two more benefits of our salvation. that Paul's going to get into in this passage that we didn't cover last week. And this is the final week to kind of wrap up this package, or actually fully uncover this package. And they're found in verses 9 to 11. And first of all, we have in verses 9 and 10 the benefit of salvation from future wrath. Salvation from future wrath. We have salvation. Take a look at verse 9. It says, much more then. Having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him We're saved from this wrath to come. We shall be saved. Speaking about a future wrath to come, we'll be saved from that. And then in verse 11, we have the benefit of present reconciliation with God Himself. Look at verse 11. And not only this. But we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. We have now received Reconciliation. So we have future salvation and present reconciliation. And all of this is presented to us as just this piling on of the blessings of Christ. It's and as you look through this text, it's like in verse 3, and not only this, verse 9, much more then, verse 11, and not only this, it's like, and there's more, and there's more, and there's more And we we just keep on you know taking it out of the box and there's more. You know, it's like how some of us want to feel on Christmas morning. It's like, hey, is there another one? There's more, right? There's another one, there's another one We have these blessings in our salvation. They're abundant. They're lavish. They're generous. They're over the top. And that's the way it's presented here. It's much more. Verse 9 opens up with much more than. God doesn't just give us more, God gives us much more. He piles on the blessings of his love. And in a similar passage in Ephesians 3. Where Paul is speaking about the blessings we have in Christ, he says in Ephesians 3 and verse 18, he prays that we may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the depth And the breadth and the length and the height, the depth, to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled up to all the fullness of God. God wants to fill us up with all of the breath breadth, length, height, depth. It's just like in every way possible, any way that you can stretch this, He's filling us with the fullness of God, the blessings of God. One commentator puts it this way, the preceding paragraph in Romans dealt with the depth of the love of God as seen in the cross, and the present section moves on to declare the height of that love. and its refusal to stop short of affecting final and everlasting salvation in which the enmity created by sin has been completely overcome God does not stop until he brings us all the way to glory, and every vestige of sin has been completely overthrown and obliterated. And the purpose of these verses is really meant to bring us comfort that God has a love for us that will not let us go. Because we need to be encouraged that God demonstrates his own love towards us, that even that while we are sinners, that Christ died for us And we may wonder, you know, is that fountain ever going to run dry for me? You know, I know the God has talked about all these blessings, but you know, I wonder if that fountain will ever run dry. What happens when I sin against that love? Ever feel like that? You know, does does God still love me even after I've sinned against him? Even after I failed him? Is is does he kind of start turning off the tap? It's like, you know, no more, no more love for you. You know, wait till you get yourself right and then I'll think about opening this back up again. You know, how does God how does God treat us even during times of our failure? What happens when I sin against that love? I know that God loves me, but what about all the time between now and the day of judgment in the future? I mean, there's a lot of room for error right there. You know, use your error. Could things change? Could I mess things up? Could God change in his disposition toward me? What will God think about me on that day? And those are the kinds of questions that these verses are meant to address. And Paul reminds us that we have a love that will not let us go, and that we can rest our weary souls in him. We can rest our souls in God. This is the much more kind of love. And God is committed to us to complete the work that He started in us. Amen. He who's begun a good work in you, right? Will be faithful to complete it. He will complete the work that he started. So let's jump back into Romans chapter 5. I'll just start from verse 1 just for the sake of context Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we exalt in hope of the glory of God, and not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance and perseverance proven character and proven character hope. And hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. For while we were still helpless at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will hardly die for a righteous man, though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more then, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. For if while we were enemies, we are reconciled to God through the death of his son Much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only this, but we also exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. We're grateful for this text. We're grateful for your word. And as we do every Sunday, Father, we ask that you would open up your word to us. Help us to understand the things that are written in this book. Father, I pray that you would open up these truths to us, Lord, that we would celebrate these truths, that we would be comforted by this truth, that we would not be shaken because we hold on to this truth. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. What we have in verses 9 to 11 is a continuation of the list of our benefits connected to our salvation. Verse 1 begins with the words, Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace. And then verse 9 continues and says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved. So this is just the continuation of this list. We have justification, and these are the benefits of being justified. So all this is connected to the blessings of salvation, the blessings of justification, because we've been justified, declared innocent in the sight of God, that's what justification means. All of these blessings are now given to us. And most of these blessings that we've talked about already are present blessings. You know, we have peace, we have grace, we have joy, we have love. Even right now we have hope, even though that hope is about what's to come in the future, it's about a present hope that we have right now about what's coming in the future. But what we read in verse 9 is something different. In verse 9, it's speaking about something that we will have in the future. Look at verse 9. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. I'm talking to you now about something that shall be true in the future. So what this verse does is it pushes us into the future when the wrath of God will be poured out upon sinners. That wrath of God that abides upon mankind right now, those that are unbelievers, those that do not bow the knee to Christ, that wrath of God that abides upon them right now, hanging over them like a guillotine, will one day fall. And what the scripture lets us know is that you shall be saved from that wrath. That wrath which is to come. Wrath shows up in many different ways in Scripture. We have wrath that abides upon the unbelievers in Ephesians chapter 2 it speaks about that. John chapter 3 Speaks about the wrath that abides upon the unbeliever. John 3. 36, Jesus says, he who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. If you're an unbeliever, you are right now living underneath the abiding wrath of God. There's wrath of God that rests upon the unbeliever. The Bible says that you're a child of wrath It might not have fallen yet, but it's like hanging over your head, this wrath of God. There's what's called a consequential wrath of God, and MacArthur's categorization is helpful here. Speaks about the consequential wrath of God, where you basically just reap what you sow. Right? You know, you you you uh the Bible says in Galatians 6, do not be deceived, God is not mocked. Whatever a man sows, this will he also reap. So we shouldn't be surprised when people suffer the temporal consequences of their choices. That's just how God has designed the world Proverbs 13, 15, good understanding produces favor, but the way of the treacherous is hard. We shouldn't be surprised when people act treacherous that their way is difficult, but the way becomes hard for them. There's also what could be described as as a cataclysmic wrath, like a worldwide flood or the fire and brimstone that fell upon Sodom and Gomorrah when God visits nations and peoples in judgment. So we uh shin it. kind of uh rule out the possibility the guy can visit nations in judgment. We also have the wrath of abandonment, which we read about in Romans chapter one, where God will give people over to their own sins. You know, they they keep on you know, pressing and and bucking against God and God finally says, if that's what you want, you can go for it. You know, you you want to keep on you know trying to get over every barrier that I put in your way? If that's what you want, I'll lift up the gate and let you run And that is actually the wrath of God. When God lets you do what you want to do, that is the wrath of God. You know, sometimes you don't want God to answer your prayers. If you're asking for sin, you know, Lord, let me go, let me go, let me do what I want to do, if that's the kind of attitude that you have, that 's actually a judgment of God if He lets you go. It's a wrath of abandonment. And then there's Eschatological wrath. This is end times wrath when Christ returns. Matthew chapter 24 speaks about a great tribulation such as has never occurred since the beginning of the world. There's coming a time of great judgment on the earth before Christ returns. And then there's a wrath of eternity. Mark chapter 9, 43 says, It is better for you to go into life crippled than having your two hands to go into hell into the unquenchable fire. Where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. There's an eternity of wrath that it would be better if you entered into life without limbs Than to be thrown into the eternity of wrath in the future. And that's the kind of wrath that the Bible says that you as a believer will never face. You as a believer will never face. But for an unbeliever, if they face that eternal life eternal wrath, they will never escape Never escape. You can live under the wrath of God as an unbeliever, experience the consequences for your sin, survive the cataclysmic event, live for a period of time in a state of abandonment. You can even enter into the end times judgment as an unbeliever and still have the possibility of turning to Christ and finding eternal life. There's going to be people who enter that time period that comes upon the world, that great tribulation, who will still be saved in it Revelation 20 and verse 4 speaks about the souls of those who had been beheaded because of their testimony of Jesus, and that happened during the time of the Great Tribulation. There will be people who will turn to the Lord, as difficult as it may be. They'll turn to the Lord and even suffer the loss of their head for it, but they will not enter into eternal wrath. No , they're they're talking about losing, you know, better to lose an eye or a hand. They're losing their heads. And it's better for you to lose your head and enter into eternal life. than to keep your head and enter into hell. But for those who enter into this eternal wrath, there is no escape. One wrath that you never get out of. Eternal wrath, because the Bible says it's appointed to men once to die, and after death comes the judgment And that's the kind of wrath that the Bible says is taken care of for you if you've entered into salvation. You will never face the eternal wrath of God. When we talk about justification, we're saying that God is taking care of your sentence. That sentence of eternal wrath is no longer yours. That Jesus Christ has taken that sentence upon himself on the cross So that we don't have to bear that. So when we use the word justification, we're talking about a legal declaration where God declares the guilty sinner as innocent and righteous in his sight forever. Romans 3. 22 gives a great description. It says, In justification we receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. And this is where Luther and the Reformers had no small disagreement with the Roman Catholic Church. Because justification in Roman Catholic theology is not based solely upon the righteousness of Jesus Christ. It includes the renewal of the inner man. In other words, you have to be holy before God can declare you holy. You have to be holy. And if you die without being perfectly holy, according to the Roman Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church, you can undergo a purification period in purgatory. So as to achieve your holiness. You know, because until you're purified, until you're holy, you can't enter into eternal life, and God can't actually call you holy. So you actually need to be holy. And if it takes you a couple thousand years In purgatory to get there, like so be it. That's Roman Catholic theology. The Roman Catholic system withholds the declaration of justification until you're actually righteous. You actually have to be righteous in yourself before God will declare you righteous. What we find in Scripture is that Romans chapter 4 and verse 5, that God justifies the godly? No, God justifies the ungodly. Meaning that you don't have to somehow have a pure, you know, totally clean life before God says, no, you're you're one of mine. That even in our sin, even in our failures, that God will still say, I've declared you as holy, not because I see it in you, but because I see it in my son. My son is the one who's holy. And that's why in Romans 4 and verse 5 it says, To the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. The righteousness that we stand in is not our own. It's the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is our righteousness. He takes our punishment and we receive his eternal reward. And the graphic reminder of the punishment that was paid is found right there in Romans chapter five and verse nine. For it says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood. What's the price that was paid for my admission into heaven? It was paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ paid the price of blood. And when when Paul uses the term blood, he's not just saying that uh you know Jesus just spilled uh you know some drops of blood. What he's talking about is the violent death that he gave up his death gave up his life and death, a cruel and violent death, to make atonement for sin. That he gave up his life as a ransom for many. As one older commentator wrote, he says, It's not enough that he shed a little blood for us. It's sometimes said that one drop of his blood was enough to atone for the sins of the world. And while that may be well intentioned, there's no truth in such a statement. There 's songs like you know that's the songs that say, you know, just one drop of Jesus' blood wash away my sins forever. But if that were the case When Jesus was in Gethsemane and his sweat came down and great drops of blood, that would have been enough to atone for your sins right there. Why would he have to go to the cross? He had to go to the cross because he had to die. It wasn't just that he he he bled. It wasn't just that he was cut. It was that he died. It was his death that paid for the sins of the world. If Christ himself would save, as it goes on to say It must be by his , tasting death for every man. And every time we celebrate the Lord's Supper, what we're doing is showing his death until he comes. We celebrate the death of Christ. Because it's that death that paid for our sins. Only saying what can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus Or when we saying that there's power in the blood, we're not talking about just the physical blood of Jesus. We're saying that it was his death that paid for my sins. It was his death that there was power in. It was power in his death. We're talking about the death of Jesus. We're calling to mind the all of the sacrificial system, the bloody sacrifices for sins. It's a way to speak about the death that he gave to God. And it's the wrath that abided on him as he he suffered his holy death. One systematic theology says, his divine righteousness and holiness speaking about God. cannot simply overlook defiance to his infinite majesty, but he must needs visit sin with punishment. We're told in Scripture that God will by no means clear the guilty, that he hates sin with a divine hatred. that his whole being reacts against our sin, and that the soul that sins shall surely die. And God hasn't changed his character. Sin still deserves punishment. But instead of us receiving the punishment, the punishment fell upon Christ. And what happened on the cross was God's divine being was reacting against his own son. His hatred was directed against his own son, because his son became sin for us. His son became sin for us. And now the question is this: having gone to the depths of giving the blood of his son. Do you think that God will not now save you from future judgment? After God has done all of this for your salvation, do you think that God is not going to bring you all the way to glory? After sacrificing his son for you? After doing the heavy lifting, is now God going to refuse to do the lighter thing? It's been said if you can bench 500, you can bench a hundred, right? The logic in this passage is if God has done the greater thing in giving up his son, do you not think that he'll do the lesser thing, which is keeping you? If he brought you into salvation, will he not keep you in salvation? It's described as the argument from the greater to the lesser. Or the rabbis, Jewish rabbis, would say it's the light and the heavy. And what God has done in in our salvation is he's done the greater thing. And it's like if he's done the greater thing, will he not also do the lighter thing? I'll I'll just give you a biblical illustration. If we'll back to Exodus, Exodus chapter sixteen. Exodus chapter sixteen. Exodus 16, you have the children of Israel. They're delivered by the mighty hand of God. Pharaoh has uh released his grip on the children of Israel after all the multiple plagues. In Exodus chapter 14, God overthrew the Egyptian army in the Red Sea. You know, the waters returned and cover over the covered over the chariots and the horsemen. Pharaoh's entire army is drowned in the sea. Not one of them remained. And then we get to chapter 16. Look at chapter 16. I'll start at verse 1. Says then they set out from Elam, and all the congregation of the sons of Israel came to the wilderness of sin, appropriate name for what's about to follow. Which is between Elam and Sinai on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departure from the land of Egypt. The whole congregation of the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. The sons of Israel said to them, Would that we had died by the Lord's hand in the land of Egypt when we sat by the pots of meat When we ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Think about that for a moment. God has just delivered you by the plagues in Egypt. God has just parted the Red Sea so that you could walk through on dry land. You're looking behind you, and the armies of Pharaoh are being washed up on the shore, dead. That's what God has done to save you. And now you have the nerve to turn back and complain? And say, God, you brought us out here to die. Where's my bread? I need my piece of toast. Like, are you serious? God has done the greater thing? By delivering you from Pharaoh, and now you're going to complain about the lesser thing that you don't have bread to eat? If God has done the greater, don't you think He'll do the lesser? That's the kind of example that's being used here. I'll give you one more example. Flip over to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6 And this one goes in the opposite direction. But just to give you the examples from scripture of using this kind of logic, Matthew chapter 6 gives us the argument in the opposite direction. It goes from the lesser to the greater. Matthew chapter six. Take a look at verse twenty-five. For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life, as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And the argument here is if God feeds the birds who are so much more insignificant, will he not take care of you? Won't he take care of you? But back to our point in Romans, the the argument is if God is Willing to endure the greater sacrifice of placing his son on the cross in order to save you, would he not do the lesser thing by keeping you saved? God is the one who cares for us. If we can trust God with these things, but the greater things, why can't we trust Him with the lesser things And if we can trust God just by way of application, if you can trust God to, you know, take care of birds, he's the bird feeder, right? If God can take care of birds, you know, can't he take care of you during a government shutdown? God can care for you. God is the God who will care. But again, back to Romans. Back to Romans. Find that God is the one who gave the greatest gift of his son. We've been justified by his blood. And having that, aren't we going to be saved from the wrath of God through him? Verse ten. Look at look at the the condition we were when God saved us. Verse ten. For if while we were enemies We were reconciled to God through the death of a son. Much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life And again, this is the same kind of argument that's being made. Those who are reconciled to God were enemies of God. God did the work while we were enemies. While we were. It's a present active participle which could be translated as being enemies. We were being enemies, meaning we were not done being enemies when God decided to reconcile us to Himself. One preacher said it this way, it's as if God came to us to say, Will you be at peace with me? And we said no. And then God says, Then I'll die to make it so. I'll die to make it so. His son comes to die to bring up bring about this reconciliation while we were still enemies. We hadn't changed. We were still hostile against God. And God still decided to reconcile us to Himself while we were His enemies. Think about that. God sends his son to die for people who could care less, for people who did not want it. For people who were happy in their sin, happy in the dark. They did not want God, but God still sent his son to die. What kind of love is that? While we were dead, God still made us alive. While we were helpless, while we were ungodly, while we were sinners, while we were enemies to God, he reconciled us to himself. From the first temptation, Adam and Eve joined Satan in his rebellion, and we've been born rebels ever since. Hostile to God, children of wrath, bent on our own rebellion. Nobody sits out on the war against God , but God still says, I will save them. Colossians 1:21 says, You were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. James chapter 4, verse 4 says, Whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And these are the people that Christ died to reconcile. That's a word that means to bring back into harmony. Change from hostility to friendship. Use for the restoration of a broken relationship. An ancient preacher, Chrysostom, says, Shall then he who spared his enemies by not sparing his son Fail to defend them now that they've become his friends? If God reconciles you while you were an enemy, do you think he'd not keep you now that you're his friend? And here's the argument again from the greater to the lesser. MacArthur writes this, he says, if the dying Savior reconciled us to God, surely the living Savior can keep us. We shall be saved by his life. He's died for us. He's done the greatest work. He's given all that he could give. Don't you think that he'll save you by his life? And even though the resurrection and ascension isn't the main point here, we have it. You know, he died, and now he's alive. He's risen. He's risen indeed. And he guarantees our future salvation because of his life. He's alive and he's living right now, interceding for us, as Romans chapter 8. 34 says, who is he who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, yes rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God who also intercedes for us. In Hebrews 7, verse 25, it says, Therefore he is able to save forever those who draw near to God through him. Jesus saves, and he's given his life to save us, and we're now in his hands. John chapter 10, I love this. Jesus says, I give them eternal life, right? And they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. And my Father who has given them me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. I and the Father are one. We're in this double grip of God. He says, You're Jesus says, you're in my hand, you're not going anywhere. But then you're also in the Father's hand, and you're not going anywhere. It's like this double class grip on us, meaning that you can't even get yourself out of it You know, if you could lose your salvation, you'd lose it every day. But it's God who keeps us, it's Him who holds us fast, and the entire Trinity is at work for your eternal salvation. But there's one more blessing. That Paul wants to speak about before we end our time together. And uh we have it in verse 11. And this is where where Paul kind of pulls the car over again, you know, having just Spoken about reconciliation, he says, I'm not finished with that. We got to talk about that some more. I want to get in the full view of this reconciliation. So he's just spoken about reconciliation in verse 10. For while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Much more, having been reconciled, we'll be saved by his life. But then in verse 11, it's almost like he's starting a new point. And not only this, but we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. It's like not only this, didn't you just talk about that in the last verse? But now he brings it up as like almost as if it's a new point. I I gotta talk about this reconciliation again. That not not only this, but we've now received reconciliation. So Paul is is boasting, he's glorying in this reconciliation that we have, and uh my mentor Tom Leake said this, he says Paul wanted to make sure If any were faltering or weak in their glorying and boasting in Christ, that they take time to contemplate just how amazing a salvation we possess. We are not to be those who are downcast or fearful about the future, but exuberant. Our joyful boasting in God is a reflection of our confident faith in his present work and faithful promises. This is something he's saying. I want you to be excited about this. I want you to exalt in this. Not only this, but we also exult. We boast. We joy. We glory in this. And what are we glorying in? Our reconciliation. Again, it's to be brought from hostility to friendship, to restore a broken relationship. It's often used in Greek literature, this uh Greek word for uh reconciliation, katalage. was used for uh social relationships, political relationships, reconciling personal enemies with one another. And what's interesting about this is that it's rarely used in a religious context. You know, so Christians talk about reconciliation all the time. In pagan religions, they didn't talk about reconciliation. Because they didn't think of this kind of personal relationship with their God. As Christians, we we want that personal relationship. God desires to have a personal relationship with us. He's not just some distant deity wound wound up the world and just kind of like let it loose. No, God is very intimately acquainted with everything that's going on in our lives, and he wants this personal relationship with us. So it's Christians that talk about being reconciled to God. And it's God who initiates the reconciliation with us. Think about that. God is the one who's been offended, but he's the one who initiates the reconciliation. It's him coming to us, him making the move towards us. We're the ones who don't want to be reconciled. We're the ones who are in our sin, dead in our transgressions and trespasses, and God makes the move to us to reconcile us to himself. One commentator writes this, reconciliation typically flowed from the human side to the gods or their God. Whenever they did talk about reconciliation, it was about them doing something to get to their God. Through pleas of a mediator, fervent prayers, even martyrdom, you know, people giving up their lives, you know, in order to somehow appease their deity. you know, the very dark kind of religions that people were involved in. God is the one who's angry, and we're trying to appease his anger. You know, somehow we can do something that can satisfy God. MacArthur shares a story about a missionary from India who visited his office and showed him a copy of a magazine. that featured the great Hindu religious festival called Maha Kub Mela, which is celebrated every 12 years at the confluence of the Ganges and Yamana rivers. And it's claimed to be the biggest, largest, single largest religious event. World's largest religious event. What happens at the world's largest religious event? Listen to this. Disregarding the difficult journey, the great expense, the chilling waters, multitudes of the faithful are drawn to the celebration. Castes and economic class are temporarily set aside. The festival is led by a group of stark naked holy men. Who lead a procession of millions of pilgrims down to the water, fakirs, or these uh kind of ascetic worshippers, Hindu ascetic worshippers, sit on beds of nails Walk over broken glass and lie down on hot coals. A common sight is to see worshippers taking long knives and piercing their tongues in order to sentence themselves to eternal silence as a way to appease their myriad of gods. Some worshippers will stare at the sun until they're blinded Others intentionally caused their limbs to atrophy in gestures of worship. One man had held his arm upright for eight years Although his arm muscles had long since atrophied, his uncut fingernails had continued to grow and descended some two and a half feet below his hands. Talk about needing a manicure, right? And he comments this, this is what uh MacArthur says, what a hellish, damning deception of Satan. This this is the kind of thing that people are led to when they have to try to ascend to their deity. But it's not us who are trying to get to God. It's God who's coming to us. Aren't you thankful that God came to us? God came to us Do you understand what kind of joy belongs to those of us who have reconciliation with our God? Peace with our God, union with our God. Even though God is the offended party, that he pursues us to reconcile to us. 2 Corinthians 5. 18 It says now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, namely that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. God is a reconciling God. And you know what? He sent us on that same ministry of reconciliation. That's what he sent us to do. He's reached down to us and now he's saying, I want you to reach out to others. I want you to give the same message of hope to others In verse 20, it says, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. Are you waiting for somebody to come to you to say, you know, I'm really looking for uh reconciliation today? I'm really hoping that somebody would come to me to give me the gospel. Is that what you're looking for? Don't don't expect it. It was God who had to take the initiative with us, right? You know, people aren't, you know, after uh uh Adam and Eve Sin against God, they're not roaming around the garden saying, you know, God, where are you? God, where are you? No, they're hiding in the bushes. It's God who has to come and say, Adam, where are you? We don't seek God. And yet some of you have friends and family members and Acquaintances, and you might be waiting for them to come to you with the question, you know, hey, I just want to talk to talk to you about the Bible today. Not likely, not likely. We are going to be the ones who have to go to them. To say, I I have a message I'd like to talk to you about. You know, do you have do you have a minute? Maybe I can take you out for lunch, or maybe I'll meet you before work or something like that. But but I want to talk to you about a God who will reconcile with you. If you trust in Jesus Christ, reconciliation doesn't happen from our unbelieving initiative. It happens from God's initiative. And God has sent us to be the messengers of reconciliation. So it comes through God. God is the initiator. And also comes through Christ. Look at verse 11 again. It says, and not only this, but we also exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. God is the offended, we're the offenders, and Jesus is the great reconciler. Nobody occupies this space but Jesus Christ. This leaves no room for saints No room for angels, no room for Mary being some kind of co-redemptrix to bring us to God. It is Jesus who brings us to God It was Christ who accomplished this reconciliation. He did this alone and by himself. And if it was not Christ who accomplished our reconciliation, our devotion would be divided as it is today in the Catholic Church. If if you really think that Mary had some kind of role in your salvation, yeah, you'd be giving prayers to Mary and bowing before a statue of Mary and you know, giving her little prayer cards so that Mary can bring them to God for you. If you believe that Mary was somehow some mediator, but Jesus says he's the only mediator. He's the only way. That's why we give all glory to Christ. It's Christ and it's Christ alone. And it's his death that was sufficient to pay for our sins. It took death, it took his sacrifice. One author writes, it's been very costly. Listen to this. I love this. He says, it did not cost God even an effort to make the universe. God just said, let there be, right? Didn't it cost God anything to make the universe? But it cost the agony of Gethsemane and the awful scenes of Calvary to redeem men. Your redemption costs. God can create the galaxies with just a word. But when it came to saving you, it cost him. Cost him the death of his son. And who besides the Prince of Life could ever give himself as a ransom? For his enemies. Only the death of Christ could satisfy the payment that was required. Christ also died for sins once and for all. And then finally, we have the reconciliation. Verse 11, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. We're not waiting to be reconciled. We're not hoping to be reconciled. Right now, today, October 26, if you've trusted in Christ, you are right now reconciled. You're reconciled with him The verb for being reconciled, have received reconciliation, the verb that's used there is an heiress verb that speaks about your reconciliation as an accomplished fact. It's happened. You have it. It's not coming. You don't have to pay installments for it. It's not on the layway plan. Like you have it right now. You have reconciliation with God. Just like justification is a legal declaration, like I have it, it's a fact, it's an accomplished fact, our reconciliation with God is an accomplished fact Justification emphasizes that believers stand in the right relationship with God. Reconciliation emphasizes that we who were formerly God's enemies are now been made friends. Justification is a legal term. Reconciliation is a personal term. Justification is a legal term relating to decisions in the court of law, whereas reconciliation is a personal term relating to the restoration of relationship. And being seated at the same table. And the idea that's contained in this verse is that not just that we were enemies of God, but God was also an enemy of us. And he had to bring us this reconciliation. Verse 10 says we were enemies of God while we were enemies, verse 10 says, and I believe verse 11 indicates that God's hostility against us was also removed because he's the one who brings us the reconciliation. One commentator says this: the ultimate threat confronting sinners is neither sin itself nor the power of Satan, nor even death, but the wrath of God. Your greatest problem is the wrath of God. That's what you needed to be saved from. You needed to be saved from the wrath of God. That's what verse 9 says. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God. You know, so many people talk about being saved, they don't know what they're saved from. You know, I'm saved, I'm saved, what are you saved from? Well, you know, saved from sin, saved from hell, yes, but ultimately you're saved from the wrath of God. We're safe from God being the one who's our punisher. We're safe from his wrath. And because of God's love for the sinner, he satisfies his own wrath. Think about that. It's his wrath that needs to be satisfied, but he satisfies his wrath so that he can pour out his blessings upon you. What a glorious God we have. What a glorious God we have. And this is really the final step. This is the end of our list of blessings because we've really reached the ultimate goal. This is the ultimate goal. Because if we have peace with God, if we have grace from God, if we have hope of glory, if we have joy, if we have love, if we have salvation, but then at the end we don't have God, what do we have? Like the ultimate thing that we need is God. I need God. Like God is the ultimate goal. And it's in reconciliation that we are brought to God. The fellowship that mankind lost in the garden when he's running around in the bushes is finally brought back. Like now you are brought back to God. I'm brought back into fellowship with God. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 21, it says, although you were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body. Through death, listen to this, in order to present you to God. In order to present you before Him, holy and blameless and beyond reproach. Why is the Lord doing all of this? So that He can bring you to Himself. So that you can be brought back to peace with him and at the same table with him. First Peter 3, verse 18. It says, For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust. so that he might bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Wise Christ died for our sins, the just for the unjust, so that he might bring us to God. We're brought back to God. You know, we sing that song, God and Man at Table Are Sat Down. I mean, this is what this is talking about. This is the joy that we have. And do you recognize the vast and glorious privileges that you have because of your salvation? We've been brought all the way to reconciliation with God. And just to bring it back around to Reformation Day before I let you go, this is a quote from Martin Lloyd Jones, and I thought this was going to be helpful here. He says, do we realize what a tremendous thing justification is? And remember, all these things come because we're justified, right? Verse 1, having been justified. Verse 9, much more than having now been justified. Like because I'm justified, what all belongs to me? He says, do we recognize what a tremendous thing this is? When God justifies a man, he is really making a final pronouncement concerning him. That man is justified. That man that is justified is a man who is safe, and he's safe for all of eternity. No man says our Lord shall be able to pluck them out of my hand. Because it is God who justifies who can condemn. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Justification is the most momentous, the most glorious thing we can ever grasp or experience. That is why Martin Luther was so moved when he realized what it meant. That is why that realization led to the Protestant Reformation. It was no longer a matter of works. No longer a matter of penances, no longer a matter of confessing to priests and priests doing various things for us, no longer a question of transubstantiation and depending on the so-called real presence of Christ in the sacrament to build us up and to make us worthy of forgiveness? Salvation was no longer something uncertain. Something contingent. No longer was there the dread possibility that we might not finally be saved after all, but would need the church and her ministrations throughout life and indeed after death because of purgatory No longer was there need for others to go on praying for us after our death and lighting candles for us and praying to the saints to shorten our time in purgatory. All that was abolished. But what abolished it? The realization of the truth of the doctrine of justification by faith alone Justification is final as regards our standing before God. Justification means that God makes the pronouncement, and the pronouncement that he makes is that he has finally forgiven us and regards us as righteous in his most holy sight. There is nothing that you and I can ever know in this world that is in any way comparable to the knowledge that God has justified us and that we are just in his sight. And it's these truths regarding salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, to the glory of God alone, that are all found in this tremendous book of Romans. And just before I close, Just before I close, look back at Romans chapter 5 again. I just want to point this out. Just want to point this out. Take a look at verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, what are we talking about? Faith alone. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we've obtained our introduction by faith into this grace. What's that? Grace alone. In which we stand and we exult in the hope of the glory of God. What is that? Glory to God alone. And not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that our tribulation brings about perseverance and performance Perseverance, proven character, proven character of hope. Hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who was given to us for while we were still helpless. Meaning that you couldn't do it, so it took God's grace alone. At the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will hardly die for a righteous man. Though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die, but God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him, and all of that is Christ alone For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only this , But we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we've now received the reconciliation. The exulting, the glorying, the boasting goes to God. It's glory to God alone. And the authoritative message comes from the scripture alone. We have all these Reformation truths right here. In Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 11, and my question for you is: are you exulting in this? Is this what you glory in? Is this what you boast in? Is this what you speak loudly about? I know I said that was the last one. One more. One more. I just gotta read this quote. I love it. Donald Donald Greg Barnhouse, he says this, if I were to name the name of my God, you would see that there is none like him. How shall we call him who has revealed himself in so many ways? For he is the Creator, He is Jehovah, He is the Father, He is the Son, He is the Holy Spirit, His name's reveal His power. Wisdom, holiness, justice, truth, loving, kindness, ineffable, measureless wonder. His name is wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace The Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. He is the Most High God, Processor of Heaven and Earth. He is the eternal almighty God. He is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. His name is Jesus, Savior, Redeemer, Lord. Oh, let me boast in my God. There is none like unto him He is the ancient of days, seated upon the throne of heaven. He is the man of sorrows walking upon the earth. He is the way, the truth, and the life. He is the light of the world, the bread of life, the good shepherd that giveth his life for the sheep. Oh, let me boast in my God. There's none like him. None like him. Do you boast in this God? This is the exhortation from this chapter. We need to boast and glory in this great God. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Your word is so rich. Father, we thank you for the truths that we have in our salvation. Now Father, that we we don't stand based on what we've done, but based on what you have done for us in Christ. Father, that it was not us trying to climb up a ladder to reach our way to God, but you reach down in your love. And your amazing love, you reached down to us when we were sinking deep in sin. Father, you reached down to us and you grabbed us. It was not us swimming to you Father, we were dead, decaying at the bottom of the ocean, and you are the one who went on the rescue mission to save us, to reconcile us to yourself, even when we didn't want you, God. Father, what a glorious God we have, what a glorious salvation we have. Father, I pray that we would never lose the wonder of our salvation, the amazement of this grace that we stand in. Father, I pray that this would give us comfort even in times of trial, that our God loves us. How you have loved us. You've already proven your love for us. Let us never doubt your love for us. And it's a love that will not let us go. So, Father, we pray that you would help us, Lord, to glorify you, to honor you by recognizing what you have done and all that you've revealed in your word. Father, let us boast in our God. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and digital files