The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. But uh thank you again for uh for the teaching. It's been uh been fantastic. Uh really enjoyed uh uh listening to you for uh um Uh for all all three sessions were just very full. Just a lot, lot of uh a lot of great uh great help and uh uh I'm sure it's it'll be things that we'll go back to uh often. But anyway, we had a had a couple questions. We'll see if I can can work through them here. So I wanted you guys to give them to me earlier so I could actually uh uh work through it, but And we'll also ask some questions for uh Mrs. Busnitz as well. Mrs. Busnitz, do you want to share a hello or anything about you, background, where you came from? Don't be too honest now. Well, I grew up in a Christian home. My dad uh at first uh was my parents were actually planning to be missionaries to Cuba. and then my mother's health prevented that and then keep it closed. So they um were they joined the mission and went to Oklahoma uh at that time to um be uh sort of a church planner. I my dad would go to various free schools on a Sunday morning and there was a little group of believers at each school and then um uh they uh started a school and then my senior year of high school uh my dad uh just He had been working as um pastor as well as working as as a school teacher and then just it was got to m too much for him so then he just went into teaching. Um He had gotten his master's in education and so at that time he became a principal of a school in Kansas, a Christian school, and that's where how I met my husband because our family moved from Oklahoma to Kansas So that's how we met. And then um I Girv said earlier it was a blind date. So it was very providential when we look back because I mean, our past and never have really met and they did and So wha what were you thinking uh on the first flying days? Did you have to do that? Uh well his sister came up to me in the hall. I still remember her coming up and saying, My brother wants a date with you And um I said, what does your brother look like? It wasn't like, what is his character or uh you know, what are his plans for the future? It was just I was just totally naive and Uh but my mother had always uh told me, my parents, that you never um date anyone who's not a believer. And because his his n last name was Booznitz and his dad was part of the um board of the Christian school, we just I just took it for granted that he was a Christian. And uh so fortunately he was a true believer. Um but anyway. People don't realize that there are a lot of boosnites in this world. They all just happen to live in Kansas. At least start there. And uh I had sixty First cousins on my father's side alone, so that will give you a little bit of an idea. Uh there are a lot of them there. Alright, so uh so here we go with uh some of the questions that uh some came up you know just as a result of uh of the teaching that people have been thinking about uh that you've been uh sharing with us uh today. So uh uh here's one question. Uh how do you reach out for help in your marriage without putting your spouse down? So uh he talked about you know wanting to praise and kind of build up your spouse, uh, but how do you reach out when you know that you need help? uh within your marriage, that your marriage is in a in a bad place, but you want to do that in a way that doesn't put down your spouse. So go ahead. I think there are a number of ways that you can do that. First of all, you can read books, uh talk to your friends. What books do they have to recommend that would be helpful in a marriage? Seek the advice of an older lady, someone in the church, someone you trust, someone who seems to have a wonderful marriage, seek out that person and begin a relationship with that person. And uh in the case of a lady or the case of a man and so on, seek out somebody that you can go to and seek their counsel and their guidance. But reading a book, seeking out the counsel of a pastor, your pastor, uh seeking out the counsel of a of a trusted friend, someone that's older or whatever. would be a way in which to protect the relationship that you have with your spouse. No one needs to know your spouse doesn't even need to know that your visiting with seeking counsel from these individuals. Anything to add? Um also you might in even in uh describing uh the issue maybe make it in third person like What if something like this would happen to a couple? Um how would what would be a good response for the wife or Or maybe even taking ownership, like looking at yourself, what am I doing uh that is um making my husband uh respond this way? You know, just Trying uh to um rather than looking at his um um Splinter, you know, try and um identify the log in your own eye, maybe. That might be a starting point anyway, before you even go to anyone Um just check yourself. Alright. Thank you. Another questionnaire. What advice do you have for couples with young children? and very busy lives when one-on-one time is rare and energy seems hard to come by. I'm sure you have no idea what that looks like in busy lives, but uh what advice would you have for couples with young children and the parents have very busy wives. Well some of our seminary wives I know um they try and uh put their children to bed early. So that they do have a little bit of time ah with their spouse um before he has to study Or even um I mean, 'cause these are women whose husbands are probably doing some ministry. They're also going to school full time and having a full time job. So they have to be very creative in trying to find time with their spouse. Um and so Um, yeah, some of them put their kids to bed early, some will just plan on um being in the same room that their husband is as he studies, just having a book or something that they can be reading or whatever. Um Yeah. You just have to make it a priority. And I mean if you understand how important it is, you're gonna work harder at trying to make that time. Um when we were in uh seminary um or in when he was uh out teaching already and we had our boys We would often uh share babysitting with another couple. Um like um at least one Saturday a month uh we would uh babysit their kids and uh they would have the Saturday off and then the following Saturday or another Saturday of the month they would take our boys and so we could have a Saturday together. And so that was one way we worked it out. But I guess you just have to understand how important it is and then ask the Lord. uh to give you wisdom to carve out some time. I think one of the when we when we were in seminary we didn't even have children at that time and it was uh like Erv already mentioned our second year of marriage which was um probably uh our most difficult. Um when w we didn't have much time for one another and then when we did I would spoil it because I was so resistant or so bitter about him not spending time with me. So even the time he would want to spend with me, I just kinda uh put a real gamper on it. So Um you have to really guard your heart um as far as, you know, if I could have um just enjoyed the the the time we did have together it would have made it much better. Fortunately the Lord was so gracious to um give me a very patient husband and um help me to learn That, you know, keep the bitterness out of it. Just take care of that. Your family is your number one priority. They are your mission field. They are your priority in life. If you are too busy, then you need to scale that back. uh when we were going to seminary all those years, my degrees and doctoral work and everything else, uh she always encouraged me By saying I would rather sacrifice a lot for a short period of time than a little for a long period of time It's her way of saying, get in, get it done, let's go for it. This is not real life. And so by making that commitment to me and encouragement to me, I really tried to work work hard at getting through in a hurry as quickly as I could. And then when that was over, then I tried to spend more time, not having as many nights out a week, trying to be very careful to guard my nights out per week so that I'm home with the family, having time with the family, spending time with her as well when the boys went to school or went to bed There's a story that that I know that you share with all the uh incoming uh students at the seminary. I know it's something that had a big impact on on me and uh and Uh Pastor Matt as well. Do you mind sharing that with uh Sure, the one about uh the the books? Books, yes. Um It's a true story. A uh couple went to seminary and uh on the graduation morning he left to go early to have a little rehearsal and get there and expecting his wife to follow when he got there and did went through graduation he never did find his wife, so he went back to their apartment and uh upon walking in the apartment they went into their bedroom and there on the bed was piled all of the books that he had bought over the last four years. piled on the bed with a note saying you've gone to bed with these for the last four years, you can just keep on going to bed with them. And she had moved out. That was just a wonderful reminder to me as well when I heard about the story that it was something I needed to guard myself against. very very uh dutifully and carefully that that would not happen. There was nothing that important. The most important thing in life in terms of my mission field It's my wife and my children. They are the primary responsibility that I have as a husband and the father. And uh everything else comes beneath that. And again, to use the phrase that I know that Matt reminded me of, uh to put something, to take something out of a reservoir, you have to put something into the reservoir. And so there are times in life as a pastor, as a church leader, uh, in the home where where you can't always give the amount of time that you want to your wife or your children, but you put things into the reservoir so that when those times come you can take something out of the reservoir and she will understand, your children will understand. Say, Yeah, Dad doesn't run away, he's not out five nights of the week. We understand that he needs to go on this night. And that's not just for uh for ministry, you know, that's for you know people that that work late hours and you know uh uh invest in hobbies or whatever else it might be, you know, you can't uh make a priority out of uh you know other things besides your uh uh outside of your your home and and not, you know, like you said, give back uh so that your family knows that they're both the first priority within your uh your relationships and within your lives It's definitely something I've I've thought of a lot. Another question, since we're both sinners and constantly offending one another, talk a little bit about the grace that it takes to live our daily lives. What does that look like? Being gracious. You mentioned graciousness as one of your points there. How does that look practically in your marriage? I was just reminded about this story that Elizabeth Elliott talks about how um generally um You think about enjoying your husband at least 80%, but there's this 20% you want to change. And she said, we can we can um dwell We can dwell on that twenty percent and uh we're not gonna change them anyway, but we can be so locked in on that twenty percent that we're not enjoying the eighty percent that we really like. So she was saying. Let the twenty percent go and and really enjoy the eighty percent. And um I was reminded about it with um my daughter-in-law uh sh we were talking to um some ladies uh together and uh my daughter in law was saying how she and Nathan um they'll you know, do something irritating or whatever, the other person and they'll just say, Oh, that's in the twenty percentile Think about the eighty percent and I thought no that's that's That's a wise woman, you know. And she's gotten it from um Carolyn Mahaney mentions it in our book, um, Feminine Appeal, but she's actually quoting Elizabeth Elliott, so I'll just skip Elizabeth Elliott a chat out. I think you have to be careful if it's the same issue over and over and over again. I'm sorry I shouldn't have done that and then the next day, next week, or next month you're doing the same thing again Then then there's some other issues that you need to face as uh as a spouse uh to be careful that you're not always doing the same thing over and over. Um another question might be tied into that, you know, if the spouse is doing something you know repetitively, how do you begin a difficult conversation with your spouse maybe about that you know simple habit or attitude? Like walk us through that. Like what does that look like to say, hey, this is an area that you're going to need to consider, think about, pray about, something that's hurtful towards me, towards the kids. Generally, I think it comes up without you having to bring it up. It will come up and uh and when when that opportunity or when it does come up, because it it's happened, whatever it is, something has happened that has created that sense of uh animosity or whatever, that that then you you work on it, you begin to talk about it Uh I think that when my wife told me that uh I it feels like we're just roommates that I mentioned this morning Uh, I think those might be one of those kind of situations. And I'm sure that that was not the first time that she felt that way. I suspect it had been growing and coming to that point, and it finally boiled over the top and there it came. And uh So at that point it it was front and center and needed to be talked about. I can't remember the ensuing conversation at all. I'm sure we had a conversation. I certainly had a conversation with myself. uh after that, but I'm sure we had a conversation as well as to what that looked like and what we needed to do. And uh of course I immediately began to pull back and not said, well, you know, the church has hired me for halftime. I'm gonna give them halftime. And of course that's that was problematic because then the church says, you know, what's happened to her? He's not doing nearly as much as he used to do. Uh wha what's the issue there? And I and I had to uh Just explain that life was such that I I couldn't give more than that , that I I had to give in other places. Um, I also think that you have to be real careful um in giving a um in being confrontational because um you have to make sure that it is truly a sin. Um and I just think of Michael's story with um David I think as far as the why she 's gotta be very careful that it's uh like when I said that I uh I was um not thinking anything else. It was just so big. I just said it. But um since then I've learned that you have to be careful that it's uh you're saying it with the right attitude, uh and your motive is for his edification, it's not to put 'em down. You're trying to help them in this area and you want to take a meek stance like you don't know at all that you have issues too, but this is something you see being repeated. Um but like Michael, uh she wasn't David she was upset with David as far as how he danced in front of the Ark of the Covenant. Are you all familiar with the story? And then she um um uh it says she despised him in her heart and then when he got home he was ready to bless his family because he was so excited about the art being brought back into the city. And she just really puts him down. She cuts him um off, so to speak. And And as a result, um she died childless, which means that she probably cut off all forms of communication with her husband from that time on. We don't really know. But the thing is we have to be careful because husbands They're they're they may appear tough on the outside, but they can be hurt very deeply. And so when we um admonish or give them a word of correction, we have to be very careful and make sure it's the right time. We're using the right words. It's not in front of the children. Because in even if we disagree with them and it's in front of the children, um you um You don't correct them in front of the children because that is not, as far as I'm concerned, that's not showing respect You can do it when the children are in prison. But you want your children to uh love and respect their father and you know uh they will remember your response more than what maybe your husband did that wasn't um the best. But I just think if you wanna build your husband up And then if if you're if that is your um general um mode of operation, then when you do correct him about a certain thing, he's gonna really listen. But if you're constantly on 'em for various things, it's not gonna make a difference. So you just wanna be real simple. Men tend to have rather f uh sensitive egos, tender egos, and uh while like she said they tend to be hard on firm tough on the outside but down deep uh they uh are very sensitive egos that uh one needs to be careful with and certainly second Samuel six and the coming of the ark back into Jerusalem with with Michael uh She uh did not handle that well. Mm-hmm. Um another question. Um Men are called to to leave their their homes. How do you leave your home about sounding uh preachy or like the know it all, you know, like like that uh one story you read about the the wife getting rid of the encyclopedia because you know, hey my husband knows it all already. So uh so how do you uh as a as a husband lead your spouse, lead your family, uh without sounding preachy, you know, controlling. Um, how do you go about doing that? One of the things that we did in our home was that we had breakfast together as a family every morning, and as a part of the breakfast, I would always lead our family in prayer. I felt like I was the uh the priest of the home and I needed to to lead the family in that time of prayer. I would uh pray for a lot of different things. Uh I would try to pray uh somewhat in terms of uh Preaching, thanking the Lord for the forgiveness of our sins, which are many, but in Christ those sins have been forgotten and forgiven and forgotten, past, present, and future. that God is so gracious to forgive. I was trying to implant that not only in my own heart and her heart, but I wanted my sons to hear that. I wanted them desperately to hear that we are forgiven, that we are sinners, that God has forgiven. And so I would put those things into my prayer in the morning. And then I mentioned about the special day once a month. And on that special day, when in my morning prayer If it was, for example, Nathan's day for special day, I would pray specifically for that son by name And Heavenly Father, I pray that you would be with my son Nathan. He's a growing boy. He's learning. He's moving out of his elementary years and into teeni. That you'd protect him and keep him. You would guard his eyes. And I pray that you would also be with him as he grows to choose a wife wherever she is in the world that you would protect her and keep her. for him and him for her so that one day they might together exalt you and lift you up. I would pray very specifically for that that son. And in the early years, you know, when you're six and seven and it was a little bit like, you know, old dad. Whatever. But soon they grew accustomed to it and it wasn't and I wanted them to know that behind them when they left for college dad was praying very specifically. for that child, for him, and his relationship with the opposite gender, all of those different things I wanted them to know. And so I tried to inculcate practical life skills, living, faithfulness, Things like that. That's great. Um another question, uh what are some practical uh steps to take in order to return to your first love with your your spouse. So uh maybe if you've kind of fallen behind in your affection, um Um you know, difficulties, you know, bitterness might creep in. How do you return back to your first love for your spouse? Do the things that you did at the first, to quote Revelation 2, verse 5, I think it is, or verse 6. Uh I think yeah, doing nice things for them. Um yeah, make his favorite meal. Um Do what you what you know pleases him. And I might say about the last question about how to leave Um something that we've learned through our church is leadership is serving, uh to be a servant leader. And I think that's one way a husband can really show his wife Um just being genuinely uh a leader in serving. And um one thing um that my husband did when the boys were y younger is he started to say about, you know, when you'd ask him to do something, he'd say, Well, I'll be happy to do that or, uh, do you mind taking out the trash? I'd be happy to take out the trash. And it was so interesting. Our boys, I'd say, Um, do you mind doing something like this? And they started this say, oh I'll be happy to do that. And it was like, whoa. So just those little things. Um You wanna follow somebody who wants to serve you um and be um Yeah. And it wasn't I mean, I had to grow into the um allowing my husband to be a leader and um at first uh um I just thought that we would lead together. And um so that didn't go over too well. It didn't work well. Um and then I was introduced to a book by Alexander Strauk Strauk , Equal Yet Different. Um and he talks about husband-wife roles. And it was in that reading that book that the Lord really used his word to um just changed my heart about that whole issue and um yeah and then fortunately I do have a patient loving uh serving husband which really helped. So any questions? Uh just want to take a couple from you guys if you thought of anything that you might want to ask. Got a couple more, but wanted to give you an opportunity. Does that mean like all questions are answered? Like this this they discovered everything? Like we had no no questions left. That's good. Alright, here's another question. It's kind of like tied into what we've already um asked before. And if if you have a question you want to throw up a hand, uh totally fine. Um How do you remain sacrificial for ministry without sacrificing your family? Put something into the reservoir so when you need to take something out you'll have something to take out. What kinda what kind of boundaries do you do you guys make? Are they just kinda like talking it through, like what's too much, what's not enough? Um I was struck by a pastor friend that he said to me when we were having lunch a number of years back that He tries to have no more than two nights out per week And I think I even came home and commented to Karen and I just said, you know, that is that is sad because I try to have no more than two nights out per week. And of course that that's violated sometimes to where there's three or depending on the needs of the moment and so on. But I tried to To keep it was important for my sons to see what I did working on the car and the garage or building some furniture or whatever it was. You know, what what comes out of my mouth when the wrench slips and I skin a bunch of knuckles? It's important for them to see and hear and be around that kind of a thing. Uh They are following my example when they when they see that kind of a thing uh happen. And uh that was just so important for them To have a dad that was around, spending time with him, spending time. Equality time is equality time is a uh I think a lie that we've been bought into. It's not quality time, it's quantity time. Quality time, I'm the best father on the face of the earth. Uh it's quality time. Oh yeah, whatever you want, you know, No, no, it's quantity time. What do I do with my time? What do I do with how I spend my evening? What goes on? These kind of things. Just time. Maybe I ought to shared I hope it it's a little self-serving and I I hesitate to use it. But our boys played varsity tennis at uh the high school there. And uh when our son was a junior He was playing tennis and uh in between matches he would sit in the stands and there was a gal who was a senior and she played on the girls' tennis team in the fall. He was in the spring. And uh she was graduating and he says to her, Oh, what are your parents getting you for graduation? And uh he she said, Oh, they're buying me a new car You're getting me a car. And he said, wow, I wish my parents would get me a car. He knew that wasn't going to happen. And she said Yes, but they come to all of your matches. And it was and he came home and told us that. We weren't there sitting there with him. He came home and he told us that. And it was like ah yes, something important to him and to her, because she had observed that not all but Home matches. If there were home matches, we would try to be there. Uh it was it was important to him and it was important to her. that we'd be at the matches just to be there. I might also say one time he had a a trip to Australia, a ministry trip. And it was during uh the summertime um when our boys were in the baseball or whatever And um so our youngest was a pitcher and he came when Erv got off the plane he came up to Irv and said I lost every game you weren't here for. And so I was the cause of this thing, you know. And yet his mother had been at every game. I lost everything. But it was more important that their dad be there. So I just throw that out for the dad. Well all right. Well uh it's been uh been wonderful to to share some time with you guys. And uh Busnitz will be back tomorrow. So uh Dr. Busnit is going to preach our morning uh message for us And then in the evening we'll have another uh Q<unk>A. So uh we'll have some time split apart for the men and for the ladies uh so the men can you know, try to suck all the wisdom out of Dr. Kuznets before he leaves and the ladies can do the same with uh with Karen. So uh very thankful for both of you being here and it's been uh been a wonderful start to a weekend. So uh Thanks, both of you. Thank you. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.