The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimorebiblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Uh very uh grateful to have uh uh Dr. Buznitz and his uh wife uh with us. Um uh as you see on your uh in your your uh uh your bulletin here on page nine you have a uh um uh just a uh a biography of uh a doctor business uh doctor busnitz has been teaching and you said since 1974, is that right teaching Hebrew since 1974, which is uh a year before I was even born. So uh just to kind of give you a a little perspective. He's been uh teaching for a long time. Uh he was uh one of the founding members of the Master's uh seminary, also an elder at the Grace Church for many, many years. Um uh he was the uh um Uh while I was out at uh seminary he was the uh uh the the dean, uh academic dean for the for the seminary. And um uh you can read the the rest of it. I won't go into all the the details, you can read them for yourself. Uh it was kind of funny this morning we were reading a a biography from a uh a a pastor at another church and just went on to list all his credentials and everything else and I know Dr. Buznitz really isn't into all that. Uh he's a man of God. He loves the the Lord. He loves his word. Uh he loves God's people and uh and that's why he's here to share uh with us. So uh again, just very privileged to have both him and his wife um here with us. And uh they've been married for how many years now? 50 years? That's incredible. Praise God. Praise God. For 50 years of marriage, they have uh two adult sons, one of them that Many of you might know Nathan uh Buznitz, uh who's uh filling that position uh that that you used to have at the seminary. Uh just uh incredible uh joy I know for uh for them. And uh how many grandchildren now? Six? Okay, because sometimes that number can change. We pulled this off of the uh the Grace Kirch site, so I didn't know if there was a there was another one that we needed to add there, but Anyway, very thankful for him being with us and his wife as well. His wife also led the Seminary Wives discipleship program. There's like a Seminary Wives fellowship that they had out there at the seminary And um I know my wife uh and uh Nellie benefited uh from uh their time uh with uh Karen and uh the rest of the ladies out there. Uh so again, just very uh thankful to have uh both of them. Uh with us so uh Dr. Buznitz. I I can call you Irv now, you said, but uh but I'm still gonna go with Dr. Buzenitz. It's like it's hard to teach an old dog new tricks. It's like uh You're introduced as doctor and you'll always be Dr. Buznitz in my mind. So uh I did have him for Hebrew too, so you can blame like my lack of Hebrew skills on you know just joking, just joking. Come on up, Dr. Buznitz. Very grateful to have you. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Doctor Lawson. It's a great joy to be with you. What a beautiful day and a beautiful setting. It's wonderful to be here together with you and to enjoy this wonderful day together. Just a few things about uh Karen and me and our family a little bit. uh a little bit of uh family history so you get to know us a little bit. Uh I was born in central Kansas. I'm a farm boy uh just outside of Wichita, Kansas. My wife was born in North Dakota but grew up uh just uh near Tulsa, Oklahoma, about an hour away from Tulsa, Oklahoma. Uh we both come from large families. She's the oldest of five children, and I'm the seventh of eight. children. Um when you have a farm, uh children mean slave labor. Free free slave labor. And so uh Uh we worked very, very hard. My wife says I bore my yoke in my youth because of all the hard work on the farm and so on. Uh we met on a blind date. Um blind sort of. Uh it was blind for her. Uh I happened to catch a glimpse of her just uh for a a minute or two uh and I asked uh who's the new girl in town and they said oh her dad has just come to be the principal of a Christian high school where I had graduated from and I was in college already She was a senior in high school and I told my little sister, I said, I'm coming home in a couple of weeks for another event. Fix me up with a blind date with the new girl in town. And it worked Believe me, it worked and uh the rest is history. Uh we're almost at fifty years. We were married on July nineteenth, nineteen sixty-nine, so we just have to uh a couple more months. And then we'll celebrate that very, very special day. We have two sons and six grandchildren and so on. Looking back, uh We're old enough now to look back and see a lot of providential sovereignty that has taken place in our lives. It's just amazing. We sang about, have you not seen all that your desires have been have been fulfilled in what God ordained? And uh we look back at that and certainly agree with that. Uh it's just absolutely amazing. So that's a little bit about us, but I I did retire just last uh end of June, so I've Finishing up my first year of retirement and uh it's wonderful. We're writing working on writing some books and uh spending a little more time with the grandkids and things of that nature, but it's been a wonderful thing. One more item. God allowed both of us to be born into wonderful Christian homes. Wonderful Christian homes. We were blessed by that heritage that has come down to us, and I know that God has no grandchildren per se. But uh we were surrounded by that day in and day out, the uh a godly home, godly parents, godly families. And thus we have been blessed richly by that kind of a background in our lives. Well, the models, uh the model of a godly marriage, uh I have a few uh just some uh interesting things here. How do you decide who you're going to marry? Alan, age ten, you've got to find somebody who likes the same stuff. Like if you like sports, she should like that you like sports and she should keep the chips and dip coming. Ah yes, boy didn't he have it. uh mailed. Christian, age ten. No person really decides before they grow up who whom they're going to marry. God decides it all way before and you get to find out later whom you're stuck with. Okay. Let's go on. Camille, age uh ten. What is the right age to get married? Twenty-three is the best age because You know the person forever by then. Okay. No age is good to get married at, Freddie says. You've got to be a fool to get married. Well, that's age eight for you. How can you tell if a stranger if the two two people are married? You might have to guess based on whether they seem to be yelling at the same kids What do you think your mom and dad have in common? Lori, age eight, says they both don't want any more kids. Interesting what kids will say. What is the most important uh what uh what do most people do on a date Age seven. Let's go ahead and back one. Let's try it There we go. Lori AJ got some more. Lynette. Do we have Lynette there? There, one more back? One more There we go. Lynette, AJ, there we are. Dates are for having fun. People should use them to get to know each other. Even boys have something to say when you listen long enough. No. All the women are saying. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Martin age ten. On the first date they just tell each other lies and that should get them enough interest to go on a second date. All right. Uh when is it okay to kiss someone? Pam 87 when they're rich. Curtis age seven. The law says you have to be eighteen, so I wouldn't want to mess with that. Howard H. 8. The rule goes like this, if you kiss someone then you should marry them and have kids with them. It's the right thing to do. Okay. And one more, is it better to be single or married? Anita, it's better for girls to be single, but not for boys. They need someone to clean up after them. And how would you make a marriage work? Tell your wife that she looks pretty even when she doesn't. Ricky aged ten. Oh yes. Okay. Enough, enough, enough of that. Okay. See if we can get the history of marriage. We have a lot of traditions that have been passed down to us in marriage and so on, and we have a lot of history, different things in history that has brought us to this day. Certainly marriage began in the Garden of Eden with Adam and Eve, but many customs have come down through the millennia since then. In the first millennium after Christ A. D. marriage ceremonies took place mainly in the home, and then starting around 1200 A.D. and following 1200 to 1300 right in there, marriages began to move toward the church. Earlier than that, 1200 AD, marriages were ratified at the church door. By ratified we mean they were recorded at the church door. We see that with Martin Luther when he put the ninety-five theses and nailed them to the church door. He had ninety-five statements that he wanted everybody to read. It wasn't that he was trying to make a bold statement. anything like that. Uh he was still very uh much into reforming the Roman Catholic Church at that point. But he put them on the church door because that was kind of the community bulletin board. And so it served as uh a place to announce to the community what was taking place. And so they would record it there Around 1400 to 1500 A. D. , marriages moved inside the church and sometimes in the homes as well. Along the way, many customs accrued to them In the Grecian Empire, they had yellow roses with flowers. The Roman Empire had red roses. The rings in Egypt were woven vines and of course they needed to be frequently repaired. Romans uh had iron rings that they hammered out today as gold, of course. Why left finger? Because this vein seems to, or they suggest that the vein runs straight from the left finger to the heart. Europeans sometimes will put it on the left hand for engagements and then on the right hand for the wedding ceremony. Asians, of course, throwing rice at weddings. Rice was done because they wanted their pantries to be full of food, and rice was a staple with them. The model of a godly marriage. The model requires uh instruction, an instruction manual. You have to have a manual when you get an a an airplane, for example, for Christmas, when you're young and you have to put the parts together, all of those myriad of parts. How do we put those together? How are we to make this marvelous package called marriage? work and we to do that we need two things. Two things are needed to do that. We need a roadmap, an instruction manual. Something so important that God says the marriage reflects the church, Christ and the church. And something that important needs an instruction manual a guide to help us put this thing together. We need a model as well, a picture. It's like putting together a puzzle. You get a 500-piece puzzle or whatever, and you look the picture, you put the picture up and you constantly look at it to try to see how this puzzle is to go together God has given us a how-to manual in the scripture, as well as a picture, a model of what this is to look like. And so we come to The foundation, the foundation of a godly marriage. The foundation is solidarity with one another. Solidarity with one another. Now, in one sense You were never more married than you were the first day You were never more married than you were the first day. But in another sense, we are far more married today than we were on our wedding day. There was some aspect of growth there is a sum as there is an aspect of growing into marriage The opening chapters of Genesis give us a little bit of a glimpse of that. It's really a love story. Genesis provides the foundation where it all begins in a marriage. The story of a marriage of two people. Adam and Eve, two people who simply need each other. They can't get along without each other. They need each other. In Genesis chapter 2 He talks about that a little bit. Genesis chapter 2, verse 18. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable to him. It was not good for a man to be alone. It wasn't Adam's perspective. That was God's perspective. It was God's analysis. It was not good for Adam to be alone. He needed to have someone perfectly suited for him. It says there in verse 18, I will make him a helper suitable or corresponding to him corresponding, a perfect match, not the same, but a perfect match, the opposite image of the two that would then fit together Eve was a perfect match for Adam. Adam was a perfect match for Eve. On top of that, God officiated this first wedding Now, can you imagine that? God being the pastor and he officiates your wedding? God was there and officiated this first wedding. Absolutely incredible. God was there to lead in this first marriage. Two people coming together, perfectly made for each other. On top of that They honeymooned in Shangri-La. The Garden of Eden. The most beautiful spot on the face of the earth, that's where they honeymooned. Everything was perfect. Everything was perfect. Nothing would go wrong. A perfect honeymoon. Every honeymoon has a thing or two that maybe doesn't go quite like planned. Ours was pretty perfect, but we had a few things. It rained every day. It poured rain. On our wedding night and on every day of our honeymoon, it poured rain. And so we've always looked at Pouring rain as a blessing of God reminding us of our wedding day. Uh I don't know about your wedding, but at my wedding I uh There are always uh a few uh young teenagers that want to play havoc with the getaway car. So I wired the hood shut, but my wife's younger brother brought some old clothes along and crawled under the car and found out that it was just wired on so he unwired it and tried to put some smoke bombs to the to the to the uh ign uh to the uh ignitions there, whatever, I forget the word right it now. The spark plugs, you know, and so it it was raining so hard they got wet and they didn't go off. But it did serve to out uh short out the car. So we went through a few dips of water and then the car wanted to conk out and so then her my older brother got out and Ducked under the hood and took it all off and we made it off on our first night together. Eden was the happiest place on earth. A perfect day for a garden wedding. No rain. They didn't have to shop for a wedding dress. No tuxedo, no attendance. Everything was perfect. No sin, perfect spouse, perfect wedding, perfect honeymoon, and it was all paid for. Not a dime was spent on the wedding. Genesis chapter 2 1 verses 26 to 28. Listen as I read this. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky. And over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. God created man in his image. In the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Everything was taken care of. They were made in the image of God, just like you and I are, made perfectly before there was any sin, had mutual duties and responsibilities. Let them have dominion, the two of them together. But then you get to chapter 2, and you see the account there of where God then introduces Adam to Eve, or Eve to Adam, in chapter 2, verse 22. The Lord God fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken from the man, and he brought her to the man. The man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Can you imagine that? Adam was used to counting the animals and naming the animals and all of that, and then God makes a special woman just for him And it brings her to him and I suspect he went. Wow. Wow. Wow Totally new for Adam. How do I relate to this, he would say? This is a new person. I've been hanging around the animals all this time. And now Adam has a wife. He brings her, God brings her to him. So God tells them how they are to relate to one another. The foundation of a marriage is delineated here. in the text. And of course they tell us how we are to relate to one another as well. Three specifics on which to build. Three specifics on which to build a marriage. First of all , Leave. This is the first foundation stone of a godly marriage. Leave. Chapter 2, verse 24. For this reason a man shall leave. his father and his mother, and cleave to his wife, and they shall be joined together and become one flesh. Leave. The first question you come to when you you come to this verse is who writes this? Did God write this? Well, it's part of the scripture, of course. Did Adam write this? Adam didn't have a mother and a father So this is probably Moses that wrote this, probably authored by him, we're not sure, but he gives us some wonderful instruction. here to leave his father and mother. And of course then we go to the Old Testament and we say, now, is this what really happened? Did this happen in the scriptures? One of the uh accounts we have of the marriage would be that of Isaac and Rebekah. Did Isaac leave his father and his mother? Well, really, she left her father and her mother and came to be with Isaac. Did he leave his father? The instruction here that we are given is not so much locality as it is mentality or perspective. Mentality or perspective in terms of leaving. This instruction is all the more important when living near one's parents Marriage inaugurates a new and primary responsibility. It doesn't annul the idea that we are to honor our father and our mother. But leaving is something that we are to do not necessarily in locality but in mentality and perspective. You can continue to live near your parents. Some of you probably do. But even Isaac and Rebekah had their own tent. They had their own house. You must give priority to your wife. You can live far apart and still not leave father and mother. And you can live nearby and live separately, leave the father and the mother. Obligations to one's spouse supplant and become more important than obligations to one's parents. Little saying you've probably heard: a son is a son until he gets a wife. A daughter is a daughter all of her life. Interesting little saying. In other words, a man leaves home to the degree that she never does. But we should be careful with this. Wife needs to leave as well. Wife needs to leave as well. Both husband and wife are to leave father and mother and cleave to each other. And of course, there's a little aside here that we could just comment on. If you are the parents of married children, make it easy for them to leave. Make it easy for them to leave. Encourage your children to be promoting their oneness, their marriage with each other. First of all, then they are to leave. Secondly, they are to cleave The leave is first of all, then to cleave. The second foundation of this model is to cleave. Amazing, the word in English can mean the opposite. To cleave is to hold on to and to cleave is to cut in two. Obviously not so in the Hebrew. It means to be welded together. It's used in the scriptures in the Old Testament to be welded together. Have any of you done any welding? Okay, some of you have. Growing up on the farm, we had a welder, and we did a lot of welding, and you'll soon learn that two metals that you want to weld together need to be of a similar kind. It's very difficult to weld together something of very different kinds of metal Welded together. Can be done, those two kinds of metals, but it's much, much more difficult. And it always requires a third source, and that is the heat. The welding rod. And as that welding rod is applied to these two metals, it is so hot that it burns those two metals. And the The parts of the metal begin to integrate with one another and you weld in a circle, go in a real small circle, so that the two are welded together Two objects require a heat to keep them together. To leave and then to cleave, to weld together those two metals. And then thirdly, to weave. Weaving requires different colors or types of thread. Monochromatic is not as beautiful. You weave together two kinds of thread and it's familiarly like, well, why are we doing this? There's not a whole lot of color. But uh when you have different colors and different types of thread, it makes something very, very beautiful. Nothing is said here of procreation, that's not in the picture, that comes later. Man does not leave one family necessarily to have children. That may eventuate, without a doubt, but that's not the point of the passage here. Nor do two become one by having children. In fornication, that doesn't make them one. The point is becoming one in solidarity. Solidarity with one another. Alone, they are not one flesh. Remarkably, it takes two. Two are needed to become one. Woman was taken from man, so in a sense, she was One flesh already with him. There was a similarity there. But there's more. You ever stop to think about your children If you have children, your children have your DNA in them. But you are not one with your children. Your wife has no DNA that you share with her or your husband, your spouse Yet you become one flesh. A child is a combination of both parents, yet not one flesh with them This is a profound mystery, Paul says in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 32. Marriage is an incredible mystery. It is to be to put God on display. Intimacy does not equal marriage, but in the sight of God one cannot have cannot be married without intimacy being there as well. So we have leave, cleave, and weave. Every marriage weaves a different tapestry. But weave you must And you cannot weave unless you leave and cleave. Weave and cleave are required for you to be able to weave. The foundation of a godly marriage, solidarity with one another, welded together so that the minerals, the aspects of each metal pools together and you become one. Weave, leave, cleave, and weave. Then we want to go on from there, from Genesis to the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter 5, the focus of a godly marriage, Ephesians chapter 5, service. to one another. Ephesians chapter five. Genesis gives us the foundation of a marriage Solidarity with one another. Ephesians gives us the focus of a marriage, of service to one another. Ephesians chapter 5. Service to one another. We begin in Genesis chapter 2, where we just were about the helper. I will make a helper corresponding to him. Woman is identified there as a helper, but in reality, both husband and wife are helpers. They're there to serve one another. Both husband and wife are helpers. In the Old Testament, the word helper speaks of aid to one another, spiritual and physical aid given to one in great need. The word Ezra, for example, means helper. That's the Hebrew word for helper. God is called a helper of his people in 1 Samuel 7, verse 12, Psalm twenty-two, verse eleven, and so on. God is called a helper One cannot leave and cleave and weave without a companion. And so God has provided companionship. Marriage is to provide companionship. Without Eve Adam's creation was not good. There's a Yiddish, a Jewish proverb that goes somewhat like this. Even in paradise It was not good for man to be alone. It's not good for man to be alone. I will make a helper corresponding to him. Eve's nature, Eve's abilities. Provided what was lacking in Adam. They were not the same as Adam's. They were corresponding to him. Corresponding to Him. It's amazing how there are just uniquely Created items that God has made that are uniquely made to go together. For example, salt You maybe had salt for breakfast this morning. I did. Salt made of sodium and chloride. Sodium and chloride separated are poisonous and can cause death. But bringing the two together. They add wonderful flavor to food. Water, H2O, hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrogen and oxygen are both extremely flammable. They will ignite in a moment, and yet put together we pour water onto something to make the fire go out. Opposites attract. And then there's an magnet made up of aluminum. Nickel and cobalt, al nicomagnet, but those three things, aluminum, nickel, and cobalt, a magnet will not stick to them But you put the three of them together and it provides one of the strongest magnets ever made. Opposites attract. When combined, they are very helpful and useful, and so it is in marriage. Service to one another is the key. Ephesians 5, 22, and following give us the keys to those. And it flows really out of chapter 5, verse 18 and following. You know it well, do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. to God even the Father. It flows right out of that service to one another. Verse 19, ministering to one another, speaking to one another in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual psalms. Verse 20 Thanking the Lord for all things, always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 21: serving one another, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. And then he begins there in verse 22 to say, okay, now let me explain how that looks. What is the model of that? How is that going to happen? And so he begins to expand the thoughts of these verses right here. And the key here is service. The service is the key to all of this. Take just a moment to let me go over to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Let me just read a verse there. Verse 12 Paul says, But we request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you and have charge over you in the Lord and give you instruction, that you esteem them very highly in love. Because of their work. It is service. Because of their work, live in peace with one another. Servanthood is the key. Servanthood is the key to uh Relating to one another. Service becomes the key to relating to your spouse. Service is the key to relating to your spouse Some bullet points there. God created you for the benefit of your spouse. He didn't create the spouse for the benefit of you. He created you for the benefit of your spouse. All of married life is wrapped up in that statement God did not create your wife for you, for your spouse for you. He created you for your spouse. You are created, you and I are created for the benefit of our spouse, and together we are to glorify God. That's why marriage is such a great picture of Christ and the church. We live for Christ's benefit. We live for Christ's benefit. He is our bridegroom. He is our spouse to be. We live to put his glory on display. that we might be to the praise of his glory. Three times in Ephesians chapter 1, the Apostle Paul will remind us that we are to be to the praise of his glory. Christ lives for our benefit as well. He ever lives to make intercession for us. Hebrews chapter 7, verse 25. He's our public defender, our attorney before the throne of God in 1 John 2, verse 1. God has created you for the benefit of your spouse. Well, sort of. He created our spouse for our benefit as well, but that's not the point. It's the wrong perspective. There's a book that my wife and I read many years ago called His Needs, Her Needs. If you read that book from the standpoint of, wow, I sure hope she understands what I need and starts to deliver, then you've read the book for the wrong reason. But if you read it from the standpoint of I need to read it so I understand what my wife needs, what are her needs, what are her perspective on needs. Then then I've read it from the right angle. This is a very tough sell. Before marriage, while courting and so on, we do a pretty good job of it. We tell enough lies so she'll go on a second day with us. Okay. We but we get to the altar and we repeat the words, you know, for better or for worse, for rich or for poorer, in sickness and in health and so on. But then the real test comes. Marriage begins to show us who we really are. Seminary secretary a number of years ago, single and came to help us, and she fell in love with a seminary student and they got married. And one of her comments when she got back from their honeymoon early in their marriage, she says I can't believe how self-centered I am. And I said, yeah, just get married and you'll find out very much how self-centered you are. You work so hard at that. But it's difficult to avoid that. The focus of marriage is other focused. The focus of marriage is other focused. Two things Two basics that we are to focus on in marriage. First of all Selfless love. Selfless love. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 22 to 24. Selfless love. Ephesians chapter 5 Verse 22, wise, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church. He gave himself He himself being the Savior of the body, but as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. Submissive love, submission love, if you will is the point here. Very specifically, this is directed to the wise. However, let me be quick to add, submission principle cuts both ways. The submission principle does cut both ways. There is a mutual aspect to selfless love. All the one-anothers of the Scripture. Talk about how we are to encourage one another, be selfless toward one another. And we will see that shortly as to how this cuts both ways. But let's look first of all at what this means for the wife. What is submission love? What does it look like? First of all, we would ask what it is not. What it is not. It is not giving in to every demand of the husband. Certainly not if he would ask you to do something simple, something contrary to the word of God. It is not giving up independent thought or becoming intellectually stagnant Aquil and Priscilla both ministered wonderfully to Apollos. They did not uh become, she did not become intellectually stagnant. Uh there was uh An ad that ran in the newspaper not so long ago. For sale by owner. Complete set of Encyclopædia Britannica, 45 volumes, excellent condition, $1,000 OBO. No longer needed. Got married last month. My husband knows everything. Okay. All right. Thirdly, marriage is not letting your gifts or abilities lie dormant. God has given you gifts Use them for the benefit of the body of Christ. 1 Corinthians 12. We are all endowed with benefits, gifts, giftedness. Ephesians 4 verse 7. We've all been given a gift. 1 Peter 4. 10. We've been given a gift. We're to use it. Every person has. Fourthly, not giving up efforts to influence the husband. Not giving up efforts to influence the husband. 1 Peter chapter 3. It's interesting there in 1 Peter chapter 3. 1 Peter chapter 3, the context is speaking of being a submissive wife, but she is still seeking to influence her husband. In the same way, you wise be submissive to your own husbands, so that if any of them are disobedient to the word, they may be won without a word by the behavior of their wife, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior and so on and goes on to talk about that. It is in the context of submission that she still nonetheless tries to influence her husband We have an elderly lady that's part of Greece Community Church. Her husband has passed away many years ago. He was not a believer. She was one to Christ. And uh she was a model for years of being a submissive wife, so much so that her husband, not a believer at all , told one of his unbelieving friends that you need to have your wife go to church and for your wife to get saved because she will be a much better wife She was a wonderful example of 1 Peter 3, influencing her husband. It also does not mean doing nothing to protect yourself from abusive husband. Absolutely not, and not based on his superiority, because he is not. Galatians chapter 3 verse 27 says that in Christ there's neither Jew nor Greek, nor male nor female, for all are one in Christ. After all creation of man, he was the only one, part of creation that was not good. It was not good that man would be alone. What is Submissive love, let's turn the PowerPoint. What then is submissive love? It is, first of all, an attitude, an attitude, an attitude of love and respect. Ephesians chapter five, verse thirty-three. See to it that she respect Nevertheless, each individual among you is also to love his own wife, even as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband. An attitude of love and respect. A wife is a teammate. providing what is lacking, and the husband needs to recognize that and re respond to that. She is there to make him complete, not to compete But to make him complete. Where there's love, there's no need to keep score. Furthermore, it's showing confidence in his decisions, showing confidence in his decisions. I must read you a uh a letter here. Written by one of our seminary students. Uh she was and her husband, her husband was graduating from seminary in the final semester, or I think it was summer school rather, right after graduation, they took a last class called the uh marriage in the home. And she wrote this because they met weekly, every week, every night of the week for two weeks. She calls it the motorcycle marriage. My husband and I just spent the last two weeks taking the pastor's home class at the master seminary. Every night of this biblical married family seminar, God provided babysitters so that I could be there with him. We live 35 miles from the seminary, through all the heaviest traffics of the heart of LA. The very last night was the Friday before Memorial Weekend, so we thought the traffic would be unbearable. I built up enough courage to go on the motorcycle to class in order to split lanes in traffic. On the ride, all I could think about was how this ride was a picture of our marriage and our roles as they had been described to us in our class. My husband is to be the leader, the learner, the lover. I was to be supportive, supplier, satisfier, submissive, and soft wife. On the trip, I had to sit behind him. I had no control over where we went or how fast we were going. I couldn't even see what was coming ahead. Very well because he was in my way. I couldn't talk with great extensiveness because the noise in the helmets. I could only talk when we were stopped, or I could make small gestures to warn and make observations. I had to be ready and hold on tight. I couldn't just be lazy nap-taking passenger. I had to be ready to cling tight if we would break suddenly or speed up quickly. Or I needed to lean simultaneously to him when he would turn. I had to trust him implicitly, otherwise ride the whole trip with in anxiety and give myself an ulcer. Which means I had to surrender total control and be willing to be injured or die if he made a mistake. Of course, those are extremes, but he knows I'm on the back with him. He wants to protect me and the decisions he makes on the bike, splitting the lanes and speeding along will be tempered because he is responsible and held accountable by God. What a picture of marriage. I need to be willing to give him total control and to let him lead the direction of his family. It may seem dangerous or uncomfortable, but we're in it together, and he needs me to trust him that he sees what's ahead and he's maneuvering with skill and obedience to God's word If he's not in obedience, God says in 1 Corinthians 7, 1 Peter 3, that his grace will protect me and the children for our obedience to him in submitting to the husband. He has given me, the driver of our family. If I follow with quietness in our marriage, like I had to ride on the back of the bike, I will not be contentious, nagging wife. I will not be preaching at him or barking at him. He wouldn't hear me anyway because he's probably driving crazy so he didn't have to hear me There are times though when we would stop for a while and I can gently rebuke him for the wildness of the ride, or we can decide together on the direction we want to go next On the right, I would make a signal if I see a problem ahead before he does, or caution him to slow down. But unless those signals are discussed ahead of time, he's not going to understand what I mean At the beginning of the ride, I was very anxious and nervous about splitting the lanes. I compared it to the Valley of the Shadow of Death, where the enemy was all around me. Every car was an enemy as they tried to make the road slow The course windy and challenging. But that was when I realized it wasn't good to my health to be anxious. It wouldn't change a thing. God was my comfort. He would prepare a table before me at the end of the course. I wouldn't do any good. It wouldn't do any good not to trust my husband. It would actually make it harder He had to concentrate on getting through the maze. He knew I was he knew I was there and needed to protect me But I if I let my fears control me, it would distract him. It reminds me of early in our marriage and his motorcycle career. He was taking me up a windy hill to see the view of the ocean I got scared when he was turning a corner, and the bike was tilted so low that I put down my foot. It almost made him lose control and fall. My fears and reservations in our marriage cannot cause me to act on my own feelings. Because I'll make the leadership, my husband, fall, and me with it. One more line. Another thing that happened early on is when my husband's foot spilled the bike with me on it in a busy intersection. I was doing everything right, but he fell because that I had a real hard time getting back on. I was afraid. In our marriage, he's going to fail as a leader, even when I do everything right and put my confidence in him. But I need to get back on with him and let him learn from his mistakes Quite a story, isn't it? The motorcycle marriage? Quite a story. Showing confidence in his decisions. It hasn't happened but just a few occasions and I don't even remember what the occasion was, but there was some occasion probably 15, 20, 25 years ago, where we had a we had a major decision that needed to be made And we had differences of opinion as to what it would be. And finally, the final analysis was, you know, honey, you're just going to need to trust me on this. You're just going to need to trust me And she was gracious and she did. But I just distinctly remember that one occasion where it came to a head, and it was just a matter of her needing to trust me in whatever decision was made And I might add, my wife does a great job of this. She trusts me. She rather than criticize, she accentuates the positive, leaving the greatest impact uh of our marriage by her actions. Uh let me tell you another illustration. Have you ever thought and looked back on your marriage and said, okay, what are the greatest words that your wife have ever told you? I can name a few. She said yes to invitation for a first date. She said yes when I asked her to marry me. She said, I do at the marriage altar? She said, uh I think you should play golf more often? She did. You can ask her about that. And she did that about 25 years ago or so. And I'm about 20 years behind in taking her up on that. She was thinking I think my job was a little stressful or something. But one of the things that she has done really well over the years was use this phrase in a different way and so on. You're a great father. You're a great father. And by doing that, she is reinforcing good behavior rather than hitting me across the head with the two before, which I'm sure I deserve many times, for wrong behavior. But when there's something good there, then she I think you're a great father, you're a great dad. You're a great husband. And emphasizing the good points has far more power than all of the negative nagging that could go on. Greatest words my wife has ever told me. We had it just recently happened, by the way. We have uh our home second floor master bedroom on the outside. We have a uh um flue that goes up for the fireplace. And the roof comes down and it's a tile roof and so it's a little hard to keep it for watertight. And so we noticed there was a little discoloration above there, just a very small, no no water coming through and it just a little discoloration. And so finally we I cut out a section about four inches wide and about two feet long And uh worked in there and went on top and worked some more and put it put it back together. And she said, Well, you know, shouldn't we get that done? I said, I can do it. I can do it. Okay. All right. So I went and bought a little bit and and and cut out a piece that would fit up in there and then I began to put some spackle over it and so on and I thought, well, you know, i we're gonna spray a little bit of texture coat on it and so on. It doesn't need to be embedded, but She said, no, you know, I think it needs some more. So I said, okay. So I spent another one or two times with a wide trial getting that to to feather out really nicely. And uh Twice she told me, and this just happened the last couple of weeks, so this is very fresh, she said, that really looks great. And it was very meaningful to me because I know I'm one to take a few shortcuts. Oh, that's good enough. That's good enough. It'll be fine. Oh, the texture coat will cover it. No one will be able to notice. But uh she wanted it done a little more and she was right. But she complimented me a couple of times how nice it looked. And I thought, mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I need to learn from this lesson to do a little better job next time when I do repairs around the house. The best way to influence your husband? Without a word. 1 Peter 3, without a word. Sometimes it's very difficult, unfair by human definition. It's unfair, but yet That is the most powerful way to do it. An attitude of love and respect. Secondly, a willing choice. Being submissive, respectful is a willing choice. The Greek word here is middle voice, to place yourself under, to do it yourself, not to force it on you, but willingly to do it yourself. It's built on love. It's built on love. A loving relationship. Something you do willingly I love my spouse. I want to do this for her or for him. I love my spouse. It's a spiritual matter, thirdly. Ephesians 5. 22. As unto the Lord, doing this as unto the Lord. If the Lord was here and asked you to do it, would you do it? Of course you would. Of course you would. It's as unto the Lord. If the Lord was here, of course he would. These qualities, 1 Peter 3, verse 4 says, these qualities of a wife are precious in the sight of God. In the sight of God. And then if fourthly, it's an exemplary matter. It represents what the church is to Christ, it represents Christ to the world. Uh even this lady, this elderly lady who I was telling you about her husband was delighted that she became a believer, but he didn't want anything to do with it. It shows others how they are to respond, and it will show your children how to respond as well. Kids will do it just like you do. And so it's important that you exemplify this. The focus on a marriage, the wife is submissive love. Now of course we get to Spend a little time talking about the husband. Sacrificial love. Sacrificial love. Ephesians 5 verse 25. Sacrif sacrificing love, sanctifying love. Sacrificial love. The focus on the wife here is three verses. The focus on the husband, seven verses. Selfless, submissive love has a mutual aspect to it. Certainly does. 1 Corinthians 7, verse 14 says. The husband is to give to the wife what she needs, and the wife is to give to the husband what he needs, and so on. There is a mutual aspect to it. Either spouse can bring a sanctifying influence into the home. Blessings and graces flow from either spouse. But this now is talking about us husbands. So first of all, first of all How does this flesh itself out? What does it look like? Let me suggest five ways that this looks like what this looks like. First of all, you die for her. Verse 25. Verse 20. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. When you promised, when you married your wife, did you promise to love and to cherish her? Yeah, you probably did. If you married in the church, if you married in the Lord, you did. When you married your wife, did you promise to die for her? You should have, though we don't think I would stand there in front of the altar. Getting married, we don't think about dying for her, but we should have, because that is what is required of us as a Christian husband. We must die for her. No. To have a sacrifice, something has to die. Death is a part of it. You can't have a sacrifice without death. Mike Mason in a book called The Mystery of Marriage says that marital love is like death. It wants all of us. It wants all of us. Dying to self, giving ourselves over for the benefit of the other Marriage is not about self-fulfillment. It's not what I can get out of it. It's not what can she do for me It's about what I can do for her and am I willing to die for her in the process? That is the focus of the role sacrificial love of the husband. My willing to die for her in the process. That's the whole point of Philippians chapter 2. Christ didn't die for what he would get out of it, but for what we would benefit, how we would benefit from it. Furthermore, the text doesn't say anything about whether she follows or not. You die for her. Whether she follows or not, you die for her. While we were yet enemies, Christ died for us. Listen to one author's explanation. Is this a grim gallows call? Not at all. It is no more grim than dying to self and following Christ. In fact, those who lovingly die for their wives are those who know the most joy, have the most fulfilling marriages, and experience the most love. Christ's call to Christian husbands is not a call to be doormats. But to die. This can mean a death to our rights, our time, our perceived pleasures, all liberating deaths. This is truly a male thing, a masculine thing, for it takes a strong man. To die. Die for her. You suffer for her. Christ suffers for the church. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me Christ was in heaven, but he was still being persecuted as he persecuted the church. As Christ suffers with his people, so too we are to share our spouses ups and down, better or worse, we are yoked Together. You intercede for hers. Christ prays for his bride in John 17. He ever lives to make intercession for us. Hebrews 7 Do you labor in prayer for your wife? Do you pray for her? Do you have a prayer list for your wife? Fourthly, you love her first and foremost. You love her first and foremost. Christ loved us before we loved him. We loved because he first loved us We husbands must lead the way. It's not always easy. Each of us is married to a sinner, but that's what Christ did for you and for me. Fifthly, you love her unmistakably, you cherish her, you supply her needs, you love her in a way that's unmistakable, obvious to all, especially to your children. Everyone will notice. If you don't cherish her, she will grow thin. She will grow thin. Let us not love with word or tongue, but in deed and in truth, 1 John 3:18. Actions speak louder than words. Example, character, lifestyle. These are the ways that we feed and nourish our wife. Now, remember those special words that my wife has Best words she's ever told me? Yes, I love you. Yes at the altar. All of those wonderful words. Well there's one more word that she told me It seems like we're just roommates. One of the best words my wife has ever told me. It seems like we're just roommates. It's our second year of marriage. First year of seminary. I was halftime, part time at a church as a youth pastor, full time in seminary. I wanted the church to think they'd got a really good man, so I gave them full time work for Very part-time pay. I was full-time in seminary. I wanted to do well. Make the dean's list. Get good grades. My marriage was third. I'd checked that box. I was married. And one day , February, March of the year or something, she said, it seems like we're just roommates. I didn't love her with my example, my lifestyle. I valued my education and ministry more than hers. And in doing so, I was teaching her to hate the church. She loved me But the church is taking me away from her, and I was teaching her to hate the church. Greatest words my wife has ever told me. Because from that day forward I said, this will never happen again. It was like an arrow to the heart I was teaching her to hate the church on a spiritual level The more you give yourself to Christ, dying to self on the human level, the more you give to yourself to your spouse sacrificial love. Acts chapter 20, verse 35 says, Paul is there talking to the Ephesian elders, and he's Last time he's going to see them and so on, Acts 20, it says, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And we think money. But the context is not money there at all. It's not talking about money. It's about helping the weak. Blessings come when we help the weak. Love does not seek its own gratification. Motivated by love. The goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith. 1 Timothy 1:5. My wife and I enjoy snow skiing. It's something that men and women, boys and girls, with parents, children and parents can all do together, regardless of age, regardless of strength. Uh you can do it all together. We we don't do it often because it's very expensive, but we enjoy it. And one on one occasion our boys for their fifth birthday they got to go snow skiing and that was their gift And it was a our oldest was probably eight and our youngest six, something of that nature. And we always took on a two-man lift, we took uh turns riding with each of the boys. So one turn I would go with one and the next turn the other. And so Nathan and I, our oldest son and I, were just hopped on the lift and my wife and our younger son Ryan came under the lift and ready to get on the lift And we take off and he hollers down, Nathan hollows down to Ryan and says, You're looking good, Ryan. And I said to Nathan, I said, you know He really looks up to you. It's nice that you compliment your brother because he looks up to you. And he says to me, Well, Dad, you know, every time I seem to compliment him, he always compliments me back. I said, yeah, well, that's the way love is. The more I love your mother, the more she loves me. And then he said, unless you get a divorce. Eight years old. Whoa. Whoa. Her cousin lived out in California, was just going through a divorce. We had them to the house. We'd worked with them and tried to encourage them to to make the marriage work and so on. And so he was very aware of this. The neighbors next door were going through a divorce as well. And I said, well, but your mother and I, when we got married, we promised our families and we promised the Lord that we would not get a divorce. And I said, so we made a promise to God. And he says, well, what about Don and Carol? Did they make a promise to God? Said yeah they made a promise to God and they've broken it. So that's serious isn't yeah that's serious eight years old That's serious. And about that time the end of the lift ride is gone. We're jumping off. The topic never comes up again. It's just there. It's just there. Dying to self. Some question for us, man. Has my wife's love for the fellowship of other believers waned because of me? Does my wife love Christ more because she's married to me? Is my wife more Christ-like because of me? We 've looked At the foundation of a marriage, leave, cleave, and weave, we've looked at the focus of a marriage, Ephesians 5, selfless love, sacrificial love, and then we're going to stop right here. The fruit. of a godly marriage, satisfaction in one another. And we'll talk very briefly about that, but we'll wait and take a break and then we'll come back and pick up from that if that's okay. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.