The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew and we've uh finally crossed the threshold from the Sermon on the Mount. in the chapter eight, so uh we're officially uh into to new territory uh here in the the book of of Matthew and and I really hope that um as we continue to work our way through Matthew that you're you're growing in your your confidence and appreciation uh for Jesus as the promised king and messiah like like I am. There there never has been and never will be anyone Who could qualify for his position as Messiah? Nobody. There's nobody that's ever going to come. There's nobody that's ever come before him or after him that matched his credentials. Do you believe that Uh I hope you do. Uh sometimes you'll you'll read an advertisement for a job and uh sometimes it'll read, you know, unqualified applicants need not apply. And um that means if you don't have the skills or the credentials for the job that uh they're not likely to consider you for the position Uh but that's that's not always true. You know there's exceptions to that, right? You know, even when they say unqualified applicants need not apply. Uh because sometimes you can convince an employer that you still have what it takes, even though you might not match the exact you know, credentials or uh the skills that they're they're looking for. So, you know, for example, you can say, you know, I've never managed a company before, but, you know, I ran a large nonprofit organization. So I still have the the skills of leadership and management that you might be be looking for. Uh you know, I've demonstrated the skills that you need for this job and they they still might be willing to give you a shot. But when it comes to qualifying for being the Messiah, number one, there are no exceptions. And number two, there are no qualities that even come close to matching uh what's needed to to be the Messiah. There never was and never will be anyone who could claim to have the kind of credentials that that Jesus had. Nobody. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 8. We'll start at uh verse 1 and read down through 17. Matthew chapter 8. It says when Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him, and a leper came to him and bowed down before him, and said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Jesus said to him, see that you tell no one, but go show yourself to the priests and present the offering that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, imploring him, and said, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof. But just say the word and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority with soldiers under me, and I say to this one, go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my slave do this, and he does it. Now when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel I say to you that many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, it shall be done for you as you have believed. And the servant was healed that very moment. When Jesus came into Peter's home, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with a fever. He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on him. When evening came, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with the word, and healed all who were ill. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh this testimony of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, Father, for an accurate and faithful record of his life, of what he said, and Father, uh, those of us who Look back on this word, Lord. We can have all confidence, Lord, that this is the true Savior, that this is the Messiah. This is the one that was promised to come. And Father, we pray that as we look at this text, Lord, that you would open our eyes to what's here. And Father, that you'd use me to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So far in the book of Matthew, we've we've seen that there's there's nobody who could come close to Christ, as I mentioned before. In uh chapter one, we have the miraculous birth of the king. And uh nobody even came close to that, you know, the miraculous birth. You know, anybody here uh born of a virgin? You know, anybody? You know, didn't didn't think so. Uh nobody comes close to matching the the kind of uh of prophetic word about Jesus Christ being born of a version, the kind of miraculous power that it took for for that kind of miracle we've We have others in history who were born of women that were past childbearing age. Nobody, nobody in history born of a virgin. In chapter two, we have this divine recognition of the king. Not only was the coming of the king predicted in the Old Testament, but even his birthplace was predicted. The slaughter of the innocent was predicted as well, that the babies that were slaughtered at his uh at his birth. Uh there was even a sign from heaven that pinpointed the exact location. of where the Messiah was to be for the Magi so that they could locate him. Uh anybody have any stories like that? No? Didn't think so. Chapter 3, we have the announcement for the king, the forerunner of Jesus Christ, John the Baptist, was another fulfillment of prophecy. On top of uh John's voice in the wilderness, there was also the Father's voice uh that cracked the skies from heaven. Uh nobody had any public endorsements from from heaven. Anybody? Public endorsements from heaven saying this is the one? I mean I I this this I mean just just like I mean think about you know just a list of all the things that made Jesus Christ unique. In chapter 4, we have Jesus facing off with Satan one-on-one to prove the power and the purity of the king against the prince of of darkness. I mean if Jesus can't defeat Satan for himself, how can he defeat Satan for anybody else, right? So here's Jesus one on one with Satan and at the end of the battle, the last man standing is Jesus Christ, right? What a what a savior. Do you know anybody, anybody who's never given in to temptation? Not once. This is who Jesus Christ is. Never. And here's the full-on assault of Satan And uh we don't even know ba know anybody who hasn't crumbled under it like minor temptations. You know, we can't even get out of the little leagues, much less facing the the prince of of darkness. Satan was crafty enough. I mean think about this, Satan Satan was crafty enough uh to to to cast the whole entire human race into sin. He was crafty enough to get a third of the angels In the presence of God, a third of the angels on his side. And now you think that you might be a match for him? And here's Jesus just one-on-one. Taking Satan down. We don't even know anybody who hasn't crumbled under the minor temptations, much less the the best that hell has to offer. And then in Matthew chapters 5-7, we have the proclamation of the king, and nobody comes close to matching the majesty and authority. of Jesus' words. The disciples recognized Jesus' words as the words of eternal life over in John 6. 68. The crowds were spellbound by his teaching. Thousands gathered around Jesus Christ, even for days, without eating, just to listen to what Christ had to say over in Matthew chapter 14. And even his enemies were blown away. You know, trained officers didn't want to seize Christ, didn't want to lay a hand on him because they never heard a man speak. the way that he did. You know, anybody ever skipped three days of food just so they could listen to you speak? I mean this is the kind of person that Jesus was And then as we move on in the chapters eight and nine, we move from the authoritative words of the king to the authoritative works of the king. And this will be a recurring theme. uh throughout Matthew's gospel, he moves back and forth between Jesus' words and Jesus' works and often a a major block of uh of teaching he'll kind of signal that a major block of teaching is is over uh by the phrase when when Jesus had finished these words like if you look back at uh chapter seven verse twenty-eight. He says when Jesus had finished these words, he's letting us know that there's like a major block of teaching that's just been concluded and now he's going to move on. uh to something else and this shows up uh several times throughout the gospels. We'll kind of point that out you know after the Sermon on the Mount, after the the parables that he gives, after the the Olivet discourse, we'll kind of talk about those different things as we get to them. But sandwiched in between these words of the king, we have these authoritative works of the king that shows that Jesus can back up everything that he's saying. You know, it's one thing to talk about your authority, it's another thing to be able to back it up. Uh, you know, we used to say, you know, don't let your mouth write a check that you can't cash. You know, Jesus never wrote a check that bounced. You know, never wrote a check that bounced. Everything that he said he could actually fulfill, he could complete. And in chapters 8 through 9, Jesus caches every check. He uh proves his authority over sickness and spirits and storms. There's no disease or demon or devastation that stands a chance against the power and authority of Jesus Christ, even death itself. We'll learn that in Chapter 9. There's no obstacle for this kind of king. His sovereignty rules over all. And the main point of verses one through seventeen is really found there in verse 17 if you look at it again. It says, this was to fulfill everything that he had just spoken about from verse 1 down to verse 17. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. And as a nation. They witnessed the healing power of God just unleashed throughout their their land, throughout the land of Israel. And they should have been able to make a connection between what they were seeing And what the scriptures said about what they were saying. They should have been able to make that connection. Like I'm I'm seeing these spectacular signs. What did the scriptures actually say I should believe because of this? You know, what do the scriptures lead me to conclude because of everything that I'm saying? The scriptures predicted exactly what Israel should have been looking for There should have been like no it's like a no-brainer. You know, they the it was predicted exactly what they should have been looking for, the the way that they were to identify the Messiah. was given in the Old Testament. And just for a moment, why don't we flip back to the book of Isaiah, where uh Matthew chapter 8, 17 is actually quoted from. Back in Isaiah chapter 53. The book of Isaiah has been called the fifth gospel because in Isaiah we have more information about Christ than probably anywhere else in the Old Testament. It's quoted from or alluded to over 400 times in the New Testament. Only the book of Psalms has more quotations in the New Testament than the book of Isaiah. And uh what we learn from the the book of Isaiah is just so theologically rich. And this is 700 years before Christ even steps on the scene, you have these these uh just uh pinpoint uh predictions about who he was and what he would do. There's there's just no book like the scriptures. In Isaiah you have uh uh the Messiah uh presented to us in in kind of different different facets of the ministry of Jesus Christ. He's the sovereign king, he's the suffering servant, he's the anointed conqueror, he's the firm foundation, the fruitful branch, the infallible teacher. And he's also shown to be our divine healer. Let's look at Isaiah chapter 53, look at verses 1 through 4. Isaiah says, Who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted And uh in Isaiah chapter 53 we have this uh description of the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ. And and what the nation should have been expecting was exactly what Isaiah predicted they should have been expecting, right? They should have been able to look at Isaiah 53 and say, okay, well, where is he? Because he's he's going to match this. This is what I'm looking for in the ministry of the Messiah. And what they should have been expecting is that the Messiah wouldn't come in some kind of dazzling majesty and appearance for everybody to see. He wanted to have the kind of appearance that that would attract people to himself. You know, he wanted to come in all of his majesty. Instead of uh being immediately received and elevated by men, he was going to be despised and rejected by men. And that's exactly what happened in the ministry of Jesus Christ. But something else they should have expected was that their Messiah would have power over sickness and pain. Power over sickness and pain. And that's what it talks about in verse 4, where it reads, Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. That could literally be read, Surely our sicknesses he bore. And our pains he carry. That would be the literal rendering of that. And that's what Matthew picks up on. Those were the words that he uh repeats in uh Matthew chapter 8 verse 17. as the credentials of the king. If you're wondering about who this is, like look at the list. Look at look at his credentials. He matches, he meets the qualifications for the Messiah. If you flip back to Isaiah 35 It describes the conditions of the coming kingdom. And part of the blessing of the kingdom to come was that it would be marked by an end of sickness and pain. Look at Isaiah 35, starting at verse 3. It says, Encourage the exhausted and strengthen the feeble. Say to those with anxious heart, Take courage, fear not, behold, your God will come with vengeance, the recompense of God will come, but he will save you. Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped. Then the lame will leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute will shout for joy, for the waters will break forth in the wilderness and streams in the Arabah. And right here it lets us know that uh the kingdom condition, this is talking about the future kingdom to come, but the expectation was that whoever the king is can actually introduce these kinds of conditions into the into the world. Anybody who can do this, anybody who can eradicate disease and sickness This is the kind of person that we're looking for. He has the power to be the king. He has the kind of authority that we're looking for in the king. And then in Isaiah 33 and 24 , It says, and no resident will say, I am sick. Again, talking about the coming kingdom. No resident will say, I am sick. The people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity. And like I said, the expectation was that whoever could usher in these conditions was the one they were to identify as the king of the kingdom. Over in Matthew chapter 11, if you want to flip over there in Matthew 11, if you remember uh John the Baptist is in prison. Remember that? Uh John the Baptist is in prison uh because he's uh you know talking about the the king. He shouldn't have his uh his brother's wife and the king doesn't like that, so he tosses him in prison. Uh but he's terrified of John because he he knows that John is connected uh to a higher power. So you have in Matthew chapter 11, uh John the Baptist is in prison, and he sends his disciples to ask Jesus the question. Look at uh Matthew chapter 11 starting at uh I'll start at verse 2. It says, Now when John, while in prison, heard of the works of Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, Are you the expected one? Or shall we look for somebody else? Uh and and maybe he's wondering it's like, you know, if if there's all this uh freedom and power, it's like, you know, what am I still doing in jail, right? So he's like, are you the expecting one or shall we look for somebody else? Jesus answered and said to them, Go and report to John what ye see and hear. The blind receive sight. The lame walk The lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. Do you know what he's quoting from? He's from Isaiah chapter 35. He's saying the the the works of the king are are happening. If he really wants to know if if I'm the expected one, just look at what I'm doing. There should be no question about who I am because of what I'm doing. I'm fulfilling the prophecies that were predicted about me 700 years before my time. And Jesus fulfills the prophetic word regarding his power and his ability. He was identifying himself by the king by demonstrating his power. And just by the sheer volume of miracles that Christ performed, the people should have been been saying, what? This is him. This is the Christ. And that's the conclusion that they were starting to reach over in John chapter 7 towards the end of Jesus' ministry. After the crowds had seen so many miracles in in John seven, verse thirty one, look at what it says here. It says in John seven thirty one, But many of the crowd believed him. And they were saying, When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? I mean nobody else is going to match him. The kind of power that he had was just unmatched. Later on in John chapter 10, verse 24 and 25. It says, the Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered them and said, I told you, and you do not believe the works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me. You don't need any more proof than what I'm doing. You don't need any more proof than what I'm doing. The kind of miraculous power that Jesus displayed was unmatched, and the works that Jesus performed testified uh to who he was and the nation was supposed to make a connection between what they were saying and what the scriptures said about what they were saying. And nobody in in human history comes close. And the And that's because nobody is supposed to, right? Nobody's going to come close to Jesus because nobody's supposed to. And uh sometimes I hear people say that, you know, we should expect the same kind of miraculous power uh that we saw in Jesus' life and our lives. And uh, you know, somehow if you don't have, you know, the kind of wonderworking power that Jesus had, that, you know, maybe you just don't have the faith, you know, maybe you're not holy enough, maybe something's going wrong in your life, you know, we need to pray for revival and that you know God will just kind of rain down. you know, all these miraculous gifts on on us because we're supposed to imitate Christ. But his his miracles were supposed to be unique. and non-repeatable. Uh they were the credentials for identifying him as the Messiah. So we're not going to see this kind of power. We shouldn't expect to see this kind of power today. And that the time that we should expect to see the power is when? It's when he comes back. When he comes back to usher in his kingdom, and then we'll see again the eradication of disease and everything being reformed until he comes back. That's what we're waiting for. That's what we pray for, right? Let thy kingdom come. We're praying for the kingdom to come because we know that we're not in it now. This is not the full expression of the kingdom. And if you thought that, I'm sorry, you know, we can talk afterwards, but but if you're looking for the kingdom, this is not it What you're seeing around you is not the expression of the kingdom of God. We're praying for the kingdom to come. And Jesus is the only begotten of the Father. What happened in Jesus' life was unique. And we should recognize his ministry as unique. Jesus is called the only begotten of the Father. It's the Greek word, mono-genes. Mono one Genais kind. He's one of a kind. There is nobody that's going to match Jesus Christ. He's in a class all by himself. But today you have uh word of faith teachers. Who attempt to teach us that you're just as much an incarnation of God as Jesus Christ was. You know, I mean, to even say something like that, it's like, how does that even come out of your mouth To say that I'm just as much an incarnation of God as Jesus Christ was, because you know, we have God living in us. You know, so why shouldn't we be able to do all the things that Jesus did? Unbelievable. Uh Kenneth Hagan, who was considered kind of the father of the modern day Word of Faith movement, he wrote that God made us in the same class of being that he is himself. And that the believer is called Christ because that is who we are. We are Christ. According to Hagen, being born again means that the believer becomes as much an incarnation as Jesus of Nazareth. And then Kenneth Copeland, one of his followers, said this, Adam was not a little like God, not almost like God. He told his congregation that you don't have a God in you, you are one. And then people want to call it Christianity? You want to call that Christianity? I don't care what kind of title you have on your religion and what kind of name you have on your building. That is not Christianity. That has nothing to do with the God of the Scriptures. In the message that a Crufflow Dollar gave to his congregation, he says, if horses get together, what do they produce? Horses. If dogs get together, what do they produce? You know, the whole congregation, dogs. If cats get together, what do cats produce? Cats. And then he says, when the Godhead gets together and says, let's make man in our image, what does the Godhead produce? And he just jumped and twist scripture to just, and the whole congregation, what are they responding? Gods! We are gods. There's so many problems with that. It's just not even funny. But uh one thing that it fails to do is it fails to recognize the uniqueness of Jesus Christ. That we should only expect one to come and be the fulfillment of everything that the scriptures predicted. There's only one. It's not everybody in your congregation. There's nobody that's matching Jesus Christ. The miracles that Jesus performed identified him as the Messiah. And that's what verses 1 through 17 are all about. But not only do we learn that the king is to be identified by his authority over sickness and pain, We also learn that this Messiah is identified by his abundant mercy and his generous compassion. In verses 1 through 17 We have three unlikely candidates for the compassion of the king. Three unlikely candidates for his compassion. Number one, we have an unclean Jewish leper in verses one through four. We have an unworthy Gentile centurion in verses five to thirteen. And then we have this unhealthy Jewish woman in verses fourteen to seventeen. And in each each case Each case it would have caused people to kind of turn their heads sideways and like, you know, why is why is he why is he giving his compassion to people like that? Like like aren't there other people that are like first in line? You know, why why why these people? Why does he have focus why does he focus his attention his attention here? According to the Jewish tradition, there were three groups of people, listen to this, three groups of people who are not allowed into the most intimate expression of the worship of God. You know, to come to the temple, to offer their sacrifices, you know, right at the door of the court of the priests. There's three groups of people who are not allowed into that most intimate expression of worship. Ready? Ready for it? Lepers, Gentiles, and women. Lepers, Gentiles, and women And these are the exact groups that Jesus goes to to give these miracles to. The same groups that weren't allowed into this most intimate expression, they're the very groups that Jesus went. to go and and and sh display his his power and his authority. When it came to worshiping God at the temple, lepers weren't even allowed onto the temple grounds. They couldn't even get onto the ground where the temple was located. They were to be sent away from the camp, sent away from the dwelling of the Israel, according to Numbers chapter 5 and verse 2. They were cut off. from the house of the Lord. In 2 Chronicles 26, verse 21, it says that when King Isaiah was struck with leprosy, that one of the consequences was that he was cut off from the house of the Lord. He couldn't come to the temple anymore. He could have come to offer a sacrifice there at the temple. There was no access to the temple for lepers. Number two, Gentiles were also limited in their access to the temple grounds. There was an outer perimeter. around the the temple called the uh the court of the gentiles, that's as close as the Gentiles could get to the temple. You know, there's this outer perimeter where they were uh to be held and uh Josephus writes about the inscription that was on the warning wall uh outside the um uh uh the the court that separated the court of the Gentiles from the court of the the women There was actually a an inscription on the wall that read this, it said, No foreigner is to go beyond. Whoever is caught doing so will have himself to blame for his death which will follow. They took it serious. Gentiles don't get past here. You know, there's this warning wall, we gave you the warning. You step past this warning wall You know, you have nobody to blame but yourself. You know, if you shouldn't if you couldn't read, you know, maybe you should have got somebody to read it for you. You know, if you step beyond here, it's over. You only have yourself to blame. uh for your death. And that's what the the Jewish people were blaming Paul for. If you remember back in Acts chapter 21, they're crying out when Paul came to Jerusalem in Acts 21, verse 28, they're crying out, it says, Men of Israel, come to our aid. This is the man who preaches to all men everywhere against our people and the law and the and this place. Besides, he has even brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place. No, so here they are blaming Paul, which wasn't true, but they're accusing Paul of bringing Gentiles past the warning wall into the holy grounds. So they're saying, men of Israel, come to our aid, because this is the guy that we have to get, because he's defiling this holy place. They're accusing Paul of bringing Gentiles beyond the warning wall So that's the second group, lepers, Gentiles, and then third, Jewish women. Even though they were allowed beyond the warning wall, they were not able to go beyond what was called the court of the women Uh there was another barrier, you know, between the court of the women and the court of the the men, you know, right outside where the the the sacrifices would have been offered. And uh the Jewish uh uh uh court of the of the women uh was as far as the the women could get. And you actually have uh you know different Jewish prayers. There was one prayer that uh was said every morning, you know, God, I thank you that I'm not born a woman. You know, there's kind of like this disdain about women because of uh you know some of these things. And isn't it interesting here? That in Matthew chapter 8, Jesus starts with the least of these. You know, the ones that couldn't even enter the temple grounds. He says, I'm going to start with you. Gonna start with you, the lepers who couldn't even get to the temple, didn't even have access to the temple. Then he moves to the to the next group to the Gentiles, and then he moves to the to the next group to the to the women. I I love what he does here. I mean he just completely shatters the crowd's expectations of what he should have been doing. Completely shatters it. And no group here is beyond the grace of God. So there's really so much to learn here, but let's First look at the uh the unclean Jewish leper in uh in verses one down to four. It says, When Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. And the leper came to him and bowed down before him and said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing. Be cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed And Jesus said to him, See that ye tell no one, but go show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. As Jesus was uh making his way down from the the mountain, you know, there's these large crowds that gathered around him, and we learned about the crowds uh last week, you know, but he always has the crowds around him, just wanting to be close, wanting to warm themselves by the fire of Christ. And Jesus is approached by a Jewish leper. And we know that he's Jewish because after he's healed, Jesus sends him where? He sends them to the priest to be examined. You want to do that for a Gentile? So we know that this guy is Jewish because he's sending them, sending this guy back to the priest to be examined. But even though this leper is Jewish, he would have been treated by his fellow Jews with the greatest kind of scorn, greatest kind of disdain. Leprosy was a name given to a variety of uh infectious skin diseases, and it comes from a term that means scales. It actually talks about the appearance, you know, their skin was scaly. was one of the most dreaded diseases of the of the Near East. It was feared by ancient Israel not just because of the physical effects, but also because of the isolation from society as well. If you were a leper, if you were diagnosed with leprosy, you'd be separated from your family, from your friends, from society. I mean everything that you know would be changed There's nothing familiar to you anymore. In Leviticus chapter 13, Leviticus 13, it lets us know that the leper was supposed to distance himself not only by how he looked, but also by how he sounded. to distance himself from from people. Leviticus 13, 45 to 46, it says, as for the leper who has the infection, his clothes shall be torn. The hair of his head shall be uncovered. Like this is the way you're supposed to walk around. You know, it's not just like an option. It's like you walk around with torn clothes, shave your head, kind of like this perpetual state of mourning. So so just by the sight of you People can tell who you are. You know, don't don't get close to that guy. You know, that guy over there, torn shirt, bald head, you know, kids, you know, stay back. We don't we don't get close to him. Just by the way that he looked. And also by the way that he sound that he sounded. He was supposed to cover his mustache because the you know the the the disease could actually be be carried through the air. Cover his mustache. And cried out, Unclean! Unclean! Everywhere that he went. By how he looked, how he sounded, everybody knew. Identified him. Distance yourself from this guy. All you had to do was look and listen Verse 46, it says, He shall remain unclean all the days during which he has the infection. He is unclean. He shall live alone. His dwelling shall be outside the camp. His clothes, the very air that he breathed, were considered contaminated. And one encyclopedia describes the leprosy in this way. It says portions of the eyebrows may disappear Spongy tumor-like swellings grow on the face and body. The disease becomes systemic, involves the internal organs as well as the skin. Marked deformity of the hands and feet occur when the tissues between the bones deteriorate, disappear. Often the sensory uh sensory nerve endings no longer respond to heat or injury, and the unwary patient may be subject to further destruction of his limbs before he realizes he's in danger. Just the way that he looked. Would have been grotesque. And one description says this, he said, says, you could see the person in this condition was a leper. By the touch of the finger you could feel it. You could smell it because the leper emits a very unpleasant odor. You could hear it because the disease would often attack the larynx and the throat and would become hoarse. And if you stayed around long enough, you could even sense a particular or peculiar taste in your mouth. It's like by every sense imaginable, it's like you know who you're dealing with. Can't get close, you know, through the eyes, the ears, the touch. Everything about this would have been repelling. No one during this time would risk getting close to a leper. There's no such thing as treatment. It was only isolation during this time. No such thing as treatment. You don't get treated. You just get banished. That's what happens for the leper. Eder Sheim writes about the Jewish tradition, and he notes that one ancient rabbi said that when I see lepers, I throw stones at them, lest they come near me. And another said, I would not so much as eat an egg that was purchased on a street where a leper walked. That was the kind of disdain they had for lepers. I throw stones in them. I don't even eat food where they might have walked. I don't even eat the food that might have been on the same street as a leopard. That was their kind of attitude. And behold. Can you imagine it? Here comes a leper approaching the crowd towards Jesus. This is an incredibly bold move on the part of the leper. Incredibly bold. Approaching a crowd of people, I mean that's like a big no-no, right? Approaching a crowd of people, getting to Jesus, I mean he's the most holy man that walked the earth, and now you're trying to get to Jesus? He's risking getting stoned by the crowds. He's risking getting rebuked by the master, putting others at risk. Lepers don't enter into crowds. What are you doing here? But there was something about Jesus that caused them to put it all on the line. He recognized something different about Jesus. He was willing to risk further shame and embarrassment if he could get to Jesus because there's something different about him. What was it? What was it? What did he recognize that was different about Jesus than the scribes and the Pharisees and everybody else that he had encountered? First thing, first thing, he recognized Jesus was the authority. He recognized Jesus was the authority. He's prepared to receive whatever whatever Jesus has to say. As long as I can get to him. His word is final. I'll just listen to him if whatever he says goes. He recognizes Jesus as his final authority. I don't care about what the crowd say. I don't care what other people say about me. I want to hear a word from him. Let him tell me. He's the authority. I want to hear from him. Recognizes Jesus as a story. Look at the way he approaches he approaches Jesus. In verse 2, it says, the leper came to him and bowed down before him and said, Lord. First of all, he recognizes the authority of Jesus. We don't know if he truly understood just just how appropriate this was to bow down before Christ We don't know, understand like all of his theology at this time, but to lay prostrate before Jesus, this was the right move. This is the right thing to do. He recognized that Jesus had an authority that was beyond anything else that he had recognized. The word bow down, it's uh the Greek word proskaneo. It's the the same word that's used for the word worship To bow down here is the same word that we use for the word worship. This is the act of supreme reverence that he's given to Christ as he bows low. He's at least recognizing Jesus as a king, if not as God himself. And what should stand out to you even more than the leper bowing down is Jesus' reaction to the leper bowing down. Because he doesn't tell him to get up. He lets them prostrate himself before him and accepts it. That's different than anything that we've seen in Scripture. For any holy man, any holy angel, this is just something that you don't receive from anybody. If you flip over to Acts chapter 10, if you remember in Acts 10, Peter is given the vision about the Gentiles being accepted. By faith, uh, just as the Jews, and that there was no distinction between uh the Jews and the Gentiles as far as their acceptance before God And just after this this vision, if you remember, you know, had the vision of the sheep coming down with all the clean and or the unclean animals and you know God says rise, kill, eat. And he says, Oh, I've never had anything unclean before. And Jesus says, you know, God says, you know, what I've called clean, don't you call unclean? It's clean. If I if I say it's clean, it's clean. You know? So don't argue. Kind of like you do with your kids. It's like, open your mouth, right? So uh here he says, just open your mouth and eat it. Rise, kill, eat. I told you it's clean. You know, just just do it And uh he realizes from this that God is saying that there is now no distinction between Jews and Gentiles as far as being accepted and received and being cleansed by God. And in Acts chapter 10 and verse 25. He's approached by a gentile. It says, and when Peter entered, Cornelius met him, the Gentile Cornelius, by the way, is a centurion, met him and fell at his feet. And worshiped him. But Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up! I too am just uh just a man. You don't bow down before me. Who do you think I am? Ain't you trying to get me in trouble here? It's like get up. You don't do that. I'm just a man just like you. What are you doing on the ground? In a similar way over in uh Revelation chapter 19, the Apostle John He's just overwhelmed, blown away by all the revelations that he's receiving uh from angels, from Christ. And then he he He's at the feet of this angel, you know, after he's received all this these revelations in Revelation 19. 10. It says, and then I fell at his feet to worship him. Receiving all these revelations from the angel, I fell at his feet to worship him. But he said, do not do that. It's like I've already seen where that leads, right? We've already had an example of people who wanted to be bowed down and worshiped. I don't want any of that. Get up! Don't do that. I'm a fellow servant of yours and your brethren who hold the testimony of Jesus. Worship God. For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. So what you're hearing is from God. It's not about me. What you're hearing is you're hearing it from God. Jesus is the spirit of prophecy You know, he's the one that's really revealing all these things to come. I'm just a mouthpiece. Don't bow down before me. Don't do that. Holy men and holy angels wouldn't dare to get close to the glory that only belongs to God. They wouldn't dare. But Jesus is completely at home. with reverence, completely at home with people bowing down before him, completely at home with worship. He just receives it. Doesn't say get up. And 11, you have that word proscanato. It's used 13 times in Matthew. 11 out of 13 are all used in reference to Jesus Christ. Worship is at home with Jesus Christ. And the Gospel of Matthew points this out, and the leper recognized Jesus as the authority. Now I think it's also important to point out that he submitted himself to the authority of Christ. He submitted himself. He said, you know, basically, I want to hear from him. Let me hear from Christ. And whatever he says goes. And he comes to Christ and he doesn't say, Lord, I demand a healing. You know, I'm I name it and I claim it. I receive it, I blab it and grab it, right? That's not what he does. He comes and he says, If you are willing. You can make me clean. That's the exact opposite of the the naming and claiming kind of theology, the kind of Christianity that demands that God, you know, respond because I say so. Like he's some kind of genie, and you just kinda rub the magic lamp of faith, you know, I believe, I believe, I believe, right? And he's just supposed to grant me my wishes. You know, where's my three wishes, Aladdin? You know, that that's not God. It's not the sovereign God of the universe You know, you just rub the lamp in the right way and he's got to give you whatever you asked for. Well, who do you think you are? Who's God? You or him He realized that Jesus had the freedom to tell him no. He has the freedom to say no. In his book, Rise and Be Hill, Benny Hinn exhorts his followers to never, ever, ever go to the Lord and say, if it be thy will. Don't let such faith-destroying words be spoken from your mouth. When you pray, if it be your will, Lord, faith will be destroyed Doubt will billow up and flood your being. Be on guard against words like this, which will rob you of your faith and drag you down in despair. You know, don't come to God and say, hey, let it be your will. No, you just come and you just claim it. You say, It is your will. This is what's going to happen. I am going to be healed. I am already healed. You just come and make your demands on God. You don't say if it be thy will. I mean, that's that's a lack of faith. But far from a lack of faith, this is the epitome of faith. Because what does faith say? I trust you over me. That's what faith is. Whatever you say goes. I'm willing to submit myself to whatever you have to say to me. That's faith. That's trust. It's not putting me in charge. It's God's in charge. And whatever you say, I'm I'm I'm willing. But if if you're willing, I know you can make me clean. I'm not making any demands. I'm not saying that it has to be my way. If if you're willing, if you would That's the attitude of faith. That's trust. And this leper was a model of trust. But not only did he recognize the authority of Jesus, he also recognizes his power. Recognizes his power as he approaches him. As far as we know, this is the first leper that has ever been healed in the ministry of Christ. First one. We don't have a record of another leper before this. We have other lepers after this, but we don't have any lepers before this. But he comes to Jesus with this kind of confidence that he's able to do it He's able to do it. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 24, it talks about Christ healing all kinds of diseases. And it's interesting to note that even in all of biblical history, listen to this, in all of biblical history, there has only been one leper ever. That we know of that's ever been healed. In all of biblical history. It was Naaman in 2 Kings chapter 5. The Gentile, the only leper that we know of in all of biblical history that's ever been healed. The only one that we know about. But here this leper comes to Christ and says, I can be the second. I have confidence that I can be the second because I recognize that he has a power that's just unmatched by anyone. He doesn't approach Jesus with the words, you know, if you can, you know, you can heal me. No, we have another person that approached Christ like that, you know, if you can. Do anything, you know, please help me. You know, that's that's not how the leper approaches Christ. Ability is not the question in his mind. It's just whether or not Jesus is willing. Are you willing to do it? I know you can. I have confidence that you can, but are you willing? He believed that Jesus could heal every other disease and his leprosy wouldn't be an issue to God. Says if you will. He understands that his power is there. He just wants to know if he's willing. And uh another thing that's kind of fascinating about this is he doesn't say, you know, um, if if if uh if God wills, you know, uh, you know, maybe you can pray for me or something like that. He says, if if you will, you can make me clean. It's not if God wills, you know, he can make me clean. He says, if you will, you can make me clean. He recognizes that Jesus has the power on his own. That whatever you want it if whatever you want to happen, I know it can happen. If you will, I can be cleansed. If you want to. He understands that the power is Christ to do this. And like I said, this is not said of any other apostle or prophet Nobody approached Peter and said, hey, if Peter, if you will, you can make me clean. Nobody said to Paul, if you will, you can make me clean. Only to Jesus Christ, if you will. You can make me clean. So he recognizes this kind of authority and power that belongs to Christ that's unique. And third, he recognizes Jesus' compassion. There was something about Jesus that made him think, he's not like the scribes and Pharisees. I'm not going to get any rocks thrown at me by Christ. He's not going to turn me away It's not going to be like everybody else that I've encountered, but there's a kind of compassion that Jesus has, a kindness, a tenderness. that he just believed that that if I come to Christ that there's there's a possibility that that he'll be willing to cleanse me. He came expecting to find a compassionate heart. And when Jesus saw this poor, despised, diseased man, there was this deep inward pity that he had toward him. And he reached out in compassion to help. Jesus felt compassion towards him. That's what uh Mark chapter 1, verse 41 points out, that Jesus was moved with Compassion. It's a word that means like the the the bowels just kind of move like his stomach turned towards this guy, just reaching out to help. And he stretches out his hand to touch him. Stretches out his hand to touch him. And this scene would have like just gone in like slow motion. You know, I mean just imagine this. Nobody gets close to a leper. They've never seen anybody touch a leper. And here you have the master like reaching out his hand, and it's like the crowd's like, no, like don't do it. What are you doing? You don't you don't get next to this guy What in the world is going on here? But here you have Jesus, he's just reaching out his hand. Like I said, they've they've never seen this Period. At all. This is brand new. Jesus reaching out his hand to touch the leper. And what makes this so compassionate on the part of Christ is that Jesus doesn't have to touch him to heal him. Just a few verses later, he'll heal the centurion servant with a word. What is Jesus doing touching this disease scaly, you know, smelly? Ripped clothes, hair torn. I mean, what is he doing reaching out to this guy? Jesus doesn't have to touch him in order to heal him. He could just speak the word and he would have been healed. But Jesus in this act of compassion, he reaches out. And touches him. This is the first time this guy has probably been been had any human contact since he had this disease. First time. Any human contact. Somebody touching him that's actually well? He's never experienced this before. But in this act of compassion, Jesus reaches out in kindness and pity to heal him with a touch. And the healing that Jesus performed, it was direct. It was instantaneous. It was complete. It wasn't through the means of medicine, surgery, you know, that he didn't have to wait, you know, hey, come back and uh we'll make another appointment and we'll clear up the other arm. It's not like that. It's just it's immediate, it's complete. No appointments necessary. With a touch and the observable disease would have been reversed right in. I mean, talk about Transformers, right? I mean, this is it. Watching this guy come in, you know, hair falling out, you know, nails falling out, deformed, you know, uh limbs and everything else, scaly condition. And and you're watching this guy instantly be transformed right before your eyes. I mean, can you even imagine that? Skin clears up, tumors gone, internal organs healed, hair grown, deformity reversed, tissues repaired Senses restored, limbs if they were shortened, recreated, lengthened. I mean, you're just seeing this guy transformed in front of your eyes Amazing. Nobody can deny the power of Jesus Christ. Nobody could deny this. They're seeing the transformation right in front of their faces. And again here we see this overwhelming power of Christ. According to Levitical law, a person was forbidden to touch an unclean person, according to Leviticus 5. 3. But the purity of Christ is so overwhelming that whatever he touches is purified. Whatever he touches is cleansed. It's transferred from Christ to this person. It's kind of like uh, you know, you wouldn't call the rain dirty because it's washing a dirty street. You know, the rain is pure. The rain is what's washing out the filth. You don't call the rain dirty because it touches a dirty street. And it's the same way with Christ. It's like what Christ touches becomes clean. He washes, he cleanses. with a touch. He's not defiled by touching the dirt. He's not defiled by touching what's defiled. Jesus is is just miraculous. The the power and the purity of Christ. And then Jesus gives them this command in in verse four. Verse 4 he gives them the uh the command which would have been hard for probably any of us to obey. Jesus said to him, see that you tell no one. Like what? What do you mean see that I saw no one? Yeah, I've just been miraculously healed. I haven't had like human contact in like years. And now you say I'm not supposed to talk to anybody? See that you tell no one, but go, show yourself to the priests, present the offering that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. He gives them this command, strange command it would seem like to us. Don't tell anybody But Jesus always has a reason for his commands, doesn't he? Always has a reason. Over in Mark chapter 1, verse 45, we learn that when the news got around about Jesus' healing, the miraculous work of Christ, that the crowds became so dense. That Jesus was no longer able to move around and do what he had been sent to do, which wasn't only to heal, but was to what? To preach. To preach. To give the message. The crowds, when the news got out, became so dense that he wasn't able to get out and do his greatest ministry, which was to preach the word. In Mark chapter 1, verse 38. Right after this full day of healing, the whole town shows up at the door of the house where Jesus was staying. But Jesus escapes early in the morning before the crowds could reach him Escapes early in the morning in chapter 1 verse 38 he said to his disciples Let us go somewhere else And it's like you know what do you mean it's like all the crowds are coming to us Why do we have to go anywhere? Let us go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for that is what I came for. It's not just to heal. It's not just to dish out meals. I came to preach. There's a message that they need to hear They don't just need to be healed and fed. They need to be saved. They need to be saved. So he tells this guy, you know, I want you to go. Don't talk to anybody. Don't talk to anybody. And uh we find out that um that later on he actually uh actually did if you flip over to Mark, if you're to uh you don't have to turn there, but in Mark it actually says that the guy went out and he's telling everybody. And Jesus is no longer able to get into the cities to preach. So uh yeah, this uh this one reason that Jesus told them. Sometimes it's said that uh like with celebrities That they want to go places where they're not known in order so that they can be known. That makes sense? They want to go where they're not known in order that they can be known. Because where all the crowds are, it's like you know, they just have their own perception about who this person is because they've seen them on screen or whatever else. They have their own idea about who who they are. Often celebrities want to go to a place where nobody knows me So then they can really know who I am. It's kind of like the same thing with Jesus. Like, you know, I don't just want to go where all the crowds are and everybody's all they know me for is that the healer. I'm the healer. Like that's that's it. I want them to know me as the preacher. I want them to understand the message that I have to give. You know, so he wants to go to these these other, let's go to other cities, let's go to other towns, so I can preach there because the message needs to get out. He has a message to give. He's not just a miracle worker. Jesus is so much more than that. And he sends the uh this guy off to the to the priest. You know, sends them immediately to the priest for for another reason, uh, because the the priest had the the interesting job according to Leviticus uh 13. It was the priest's job to inspect the person who was said to be healed from leprosy. It was the priest's job to inspect them to see if they're they were really clean. So he sent them to the priest so uh that he could be declared clean according to the to the law. You know, Jesus didn't come to abolish the law but to fulfill it, and here he You know, according to the law, he sends them back to the priests. You know, bring the sacrifice. There were supposed to be two birds they're supposed to bring. One was to be killed, the other was to be let go. He says, bring the sacrifice, go. Put yourself before the priest and let him declare you you clean. And here, listen to this. The priest would have actually been forced Forced to testify to the power of Christ. As as as these streams of people are coming in, being healed from diseases. You know, here the priests are having to say, yeah, I mean it, yeah, it's it's yeah, it's gone. They're forced to give testimony to Christ. Christ actually has the power to do this. You have in Luke chapter 17, Jesus healed ten lepers in one day. You know, you can just imagine the priest, well here comes another one, you know. All right, let me check you out. Yeah, you're clean. You know, here comes another one. It's just like one after the other. Who did this for you? You know, Jesus healed me. It's like, okay, that's It's like this this constant stream of people coming to the priest saying, I'm healed, Jesus did it, I'm healed, Jesus did it. And here they are as priests, forced to to call them clean, testify to the power of Christ, even though they might not have wanted to do it. Can you imagine it? Forced it to verify over and over again that the power of Christ. This is why the Jewish leaders never disputed the miracles. You ever wonder that? It's like as much as they wanted to attack Christ, why didn't they ever say, oh, you can't really do what you said you can do? They never said that. Why? Because they knew it could back it up. They have these lepers that are coming to them as the priests and seeing that they've been cleansed. They can't deny the miracles. So what they try to do is deny the source. Oh, he cast out spirits by the the prince of the demons. But it's like I've got to come up with some kind of explanation. I can't say that he actually is who he says he is He yelled a blind man in John chapter 9, and they said to the blind man, give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. And what did the blind man say? Whether he's a sinner or not, I don't know, but what I do know Is that I once was blind and now I can see. You know, you guys can try to figure that out on your own. I know what I know, right? They couldn't stand it. They couldn't refute his miracles. They couldn't refute it. That's why, like I said, when uh when Lazarus was actually raised from the dead. What do they want to do? Let's get rid of the evidence. I mean, I know he was raised from the dead once, but can we put him back in Like, can we kill him again? Because he's just walking around, it's like this billboard, this like neon sign. I'm a testimony, you know? Look at me. I've been raised by Christ. I once was dead, look at me, now I'm alive Everywhere that this guy went, it was like this walking sign for the power of Jesus Christ. And they're like, can we get rid of this guy? Like, this is too much. We can't handle this. Every leper Jesus sent their way was just another reminder. There's never been and never will be anybody like Jesus. And what Jesus did was prove his claim to be Messiah in ways that are Observable, verifiable, so that we can have confidence to trust in him for the things that we can't observe or verify. Does that make sense? I love the question that uh he asked the scribes in Matthew chapter nine. Verse 5, remember when the paralytic was brought to him? And Jesus says, so what's easier to say? Your sins are forgiven, or get up and pick up your bed and walk. You want to know what's easier to say? It's a lot easier to say your sins are forgiven. That's what Jesus told the guy. He says your sins are forgiven. It's a lot easier to say that. You know why? Because nobody can see that. How can I see the spiritual transfer that takes place between you and God in that moment when you're forgiven of your sins? I can't see that. That's not observable, verifiable. It's not like you know a light bulb flashes off and says, forgiven, forgive. I can't see that. How how can I tell whether or not this guy's sins have been forgiven? And this is what the Roman Catholic priests do all the time, don't they? They claim the power to forgive sins. You know, say, you know, five Hell Marys and you know you're absolved from this and you're absolved from that. How do you know? Why am I supposed to believe you? And then you have like uh you know just the the weird things like you know, hey, I know this bread and wine looks like bread and wine, but it's not really bread and wine. You know, it's really uh the body and blood. I'm just supposed to believe that? Like nothing's changed, nothing's observed, nothing's verified, but I'm just supposed to take your word. Just like I'm supposed to just take your word that my sins are forgiven. Just take your word for it, right? Jesus said, which is easier to say. Sins are forgiven or get up and walk. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, like to verify what you can't see, I'm going to give you something that you can see. Get up, pick up your bed, go home. Observable, verifiable evidence. I'm going to give you something that you can see so you can believe what you can't see. I have authority to do both. I have authority to raise. I have authority to forgive. I have authority to heal. I have authority to save. I've got authority for both. Just take your pick. I mean, anyway that you want to go, Jesus has the authority Why don't you flip back to Isaiah 53 one more time? Just want to show you this the same kind of pattern over in Isaiah as well. And I think that sometimes uh people people miss the distinction uh that's found in Isaiah. But in Isaiah 53, in verse 4, uh Isaiah discusses the physical healing of Christ. Surely our griefs he himself bore, our sorrows he carried. And in that verse in verse 4, it's talking about the physical sickness, the physical pain, that Jesus was able to heal. That came first. You know, that was the observable and verifiable. testimony of the power of Christ in this earthly ministry. But look at where we're immediately pointed to in verse 5. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are A lot of people look at that verse, uh verse five, and they say, oh, that's talking about our physical healing. By stripes, we are healed. By a scourging, we are healed. That's not what it's talking about. It's not talking about physical healing in verse 5. Verse 4 talks about physical healing. That was evident in his earthly ministry. Verse 5 talks about a spiritual healing. Because what what what does it talk about? What does it talk about? Transgressions, iniquities, well-being. The healing that's mentioned in verse 5 is not talking about physical. Verse 5 switches to the kind of disease that you can't see. It's not a skin disease, it's the sin disease. That's what he switches to. He talks about something that's internal, the kind of disease that you have in your soul. In Isaiah 53, Jesus is presented to us not only as our divine healer physically, but our divine healer spiritually. Because what we need more than just a remedy from our sickness and pain is a remedy from our transgression and our iniquities for our spiritual well-being. And when Isaiah says by a scourging or by stripes we're healed Like I said, he's not talking about physical healing, and this is what Peter picks up over in 1 Peter chapter 2. I'll just read it for you. 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, you can jot it down. It says, He himself bore our sins in his body. On the cross. This is the scourging, the stripe that he's talking about. He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. For you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the guardian and shepherd of your body? No, the shepherd and guardian of your souls What's he talking about? He's talking about the inside. He's talking about a spiritual healing that we need. It's not just the body, it's of the soul. You need a shepherd and guardian of your soul. Your soul needs to be saved. Not just your body. And we've received those who have received healing should have looked for for more than just the the physical healing. They should have also been able to to identify Christ as not only the physical healer, but also as the the spiritual healer. But he's the one that heals our souls. And that's the greater need that we have. It's our souls that need the greatest healing, and that's what Jesus provides for us He provides for us observable and verifiable evidence of things that we can't observe and verify, things that happen internally, spiritually, and he's proven himself to be mighty to save Proving himself. Just over and over again. Miraculous birth of the king, the uncommon recognition of the king, the announcement for the king. I mean, all these things to verify prophecy, the purity of the king. One-on-one with Satan and the power and the words of the king in Matthew chapter 5 through 7. And then in uh chapters 8 and 9, we see that the works of the king, divine, one-of-the-kind works that only Jesus Christ can produce. Jesus Christ has given us every reason to trust him, to shepherd and to guard our souls. And the question is, do you trust him? You know, sometimes you uh might be looking for a doctor and you want to find out, okay, well, like where did he graduate from? Like, you know, what kind of credentials does he have? You know, does he have some kind of plaque on his wall to say that he actually knows what he knows? And uh what Jesus Christ does is he gives us all the all the credentials. Gives us all the credentials. You can trust me. Look at who I am. There's nobody else in all of human history who can do what I can do. So we can trust them not only for our our our physical healing as these people did, but we can trust them even more importantly for our spiritual healing. Right? We can trust Jesus Christ. And uh we come to him and uh the thing that we find out about Christ is that Christ is compassionate. You know, as the leper comes and says, If you're willing, you can make me clean. When we come to Christ, we come with the same kind of question. If you're willing, you can make me clean. You can cleanse me. Kind of interesting with uh leprosy. It's kind of different from the the other diseases. You know, other diseases were healed. Leprosy was cleansed. You only find that about leprosy. Leprosy was actually this picture of sin. Something that's defiling, something that defiles everything you touch, something that you can't be cured from. It was a picture of sin. And what a leper needed to be is not just healed. He needed to be cleansed. For us as sinners, there's something that we can't take care of on our own. There's something that we can't do. We can't clean ourselves up. We can't remove the scales and correct our organs and reverse the process of Degeneration. We can't do that on our own. We need somebody outside of us to touch us, to cleanse us, to bring the healing that only Christ can bring. And it's through his touch, through his willingness, through his compassion. That we're brought spiritual healing to our souls. Amen. I pray that pray that you trust Christ. I pray that you trust Christ this morning. There's nobody else that's going to come that's going to have any anything to tap what Christ has done. No credentials are going to gonna match his. Ever. Ever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity that we've had to take a look at your word. Father, we pray that uh you'd use your word to Instruct us to help us to grow in our confidence of the King, Father, that as we share this good news with others, that we would do it in the boldness and confidence that your word gives us. That it's not just uh words on a page, that this was verifiable, observable evidence. There was a real Jesus Christ who did what he did. There's no explanation for Christianity outside of this. Even secular historians admitted that there was one who worked miracles in their midst. Father, why would we doubt Christ? Why wouldn't we come to Christ? Why wouldn't we trust in Christ? And his compassion and his love and his power, his authority. He's proven himself. What more can he do than what he's done? So Father, I pray that if there's any who are listening, Father, that don't know your son, Lord, I pray that they would come to Christ to be saved, to be cleansed, to be healed. Because only you can do it. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files