The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh open up our Bibles to uh Matthew chapter eight? Matthew chapter eight, we're uh still making our way through the Gospel of Matthew and uh In Matthew chapter 8 and 9, we learn and discover that there's no one in all of history that comes close to the person of Christ. No one in all of history who comes close to the person of Christ. In Matthew chapter 5 through 7, we heard the words of the King. And in Matthew chapters 8 and 9, we see the works of the King. The words that Jesus proclaimed. And the the works that Jesus performed testified that he was in a unique class all by himself. No one ever spoke like he did. Nobody ever served like he did. It was evident by his life that it was uh marked by by things that only God can do. And if uh if you remember, uh if you remember when uh God poured out the plagues on Egypt, you remember that? God poured out the plagues on Egypt, and uh there was a period of time uh when the uh Egyptian magicians were able to kind of hang with uh the the the plagues that were were happening. You know they were able to kind of mimic and imitate Some of the things that the God was uh was able to do and uh through their their lying wonders, their secret arts, uh they were able to, you know, uh turn s sticks into snakes and water to blood. But after a while the magicians came to Pharaoh and said, You know what? uh we give, right? You know, I 've I've got nothing. Uh this is the finger of God. There is absolutely nothing that we can do to try to imitate what God is pouring out on Egypt. In uh Exodus chapter 8 verse 19, it says, Then the magician said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. This is God that's doing this. So they knew that they were out of their league, their way over their heads. And in a similar way, the kinds of miracles that Jesus was able to perform had never been seen in the history of the world. It was evident that this was the finger of God, that God was at work in the earth. Uh you may not realize this or not, but the kinds of miracles that Jesus performed had never been seen anywhere. Like nobody could match this. Uh yesterday at our uh men's breakfast we read uh John chapter nine, and in John chapter nine there was a man who was born blind. And uh he responds to the religious leaders that are questioning him, you know, about, you know, where did you you know, who who made you to see, you know, and how did it happen? You know, they're asking him all these questions as if like he could come up with the answer of like how it happened, right? He said that since the beginning of time it has never been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a person born blind You know, here's this blind man trying to tell the religious leaders, like, don't you guys know that there's nothing else like this that has ever happened in the in the all of human history? Like, who do you think this person is? Why are you asking me? You guys should know, right? And the number of miracles that Jesus performed were unsurpassed. In John chapter 7, when the crowds witnessed the sheer multitude of miracles. uh that they were witnessing. In uh John chapter seven verse thirty one it says uh the crowds were believing on him and they were saying, When the Christ comes he will not perform more signs than this, will he? I mean nobody can do more than what Jesus can do The miracles that Jesus performed were not just intended to be an end in themselves, though. And sometimes people think about miracles as if like the focus and concentration is just supposed to be on the miracle. You know, they have uh churches that run around and have these deliverance services and miracle services and you know come and get your your blessing, come and get your healing. But the the focus was never just on the miracle. It was never just on the healing, it was never just on the sign. You were supposed to make a connection between what you were seeing and what the scripture said about what you were seeing. It was actually meant as a sign to point you towards something else. Just like we use signs today, it's not meant to say, you know, just concentrate on the sign. It's to concentrate on what the sign is pointing you towards. The miracle was to point us towards Jesus Christ. In Matthew chapter 8, verse 17, it points us out. When it says this was to fulfill the miracles that Jesus performed, this was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. The the miracles were like you know Jesus' ID card. You know, there was license and registration that proved that that he owned the title of Messiah and that he could operate uh under the office of Messiah. Isaiah chapter 53 verse 4 proved it. You know, I I have the ID. You know, I I am the Messiah. I am who I say I am. That's why when the disciples of John the Baptist came to Jesus asking, you know, are you the one or should we look for somebody else? Are you the expected one? He says, just look at what you're seeing. What are you saying? The things that you're saying give evidence to who I am. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor have the gospel. Preach to them. Go and report that to John. Show them my ID card. Show them who I am. Because of the works that I'm doing, demonstrate who I am. Jesus said, if you really want to know who I am, just look at look at what I do. Look at the credentials. And the world has never seen power like this before, and it has never seen power like this since. I don't care what TBN is telling you. You've never seen power like Jesus since Jesus Christ Nobody else comes close to Jesus Christ. But what blows me away about the way that God demonstrates his powers, that God could have chosen an infinite number of ways to demonstrate who he was. He could have chosen an infinite number of ways to demonstrate who he was. He could have uh you know chosen earthly glory and riches. He could have chosen uh earthly pleasures and recognition for men. He could have chosen some physical display of earthly power. You know, Jesus Christ could have just kind of floated around the earth, you know, uh faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive, able to leap tall buildings. by a single bound. I mean Jesus could have done that, right? He could have come on earth and, you know, hey, jump off the temple and just kind of float down and uh and d demonstrate to everybody, you know, hey, do you believe me now? Jesus could have done that. That could have been the way that the scriptures predicted that, you know, this is how you're to identify the Messiah. You know, he's just going to fly around everywhere. That's how you identify the Messiah. But that's not how it was done. Instead, the way that the Messiah chose to reveal himself to people was by helping and healing By cleansing and delivering the authority that Jesus had, it was authority that was for us. He's not just above us, he is for us So the authority that Jesus had, it was demonstrated for our good. And according to Jewish tradition, as we talked about last time, there were three different groups of people that uh were not given access to the most intimate expression of Israel's worship. Lepers, Gentiles, and women. There were rule rules and barriers that prevented these different groups from close proximity to the temple, but it's it's fascinating to see that the the order of the miracles in uh Matthew chapter eight verses one to seventeen it shows that he starts from the the least of these and works up. So he starts from the lepers, the ones that were cast out of even the temple grounds. They couldn't even enter the temple grounds. And Jesus starts by touching the leper. And then he goes to the to the Gentiles. That was like the next kind of step in. You know, they could kind of be on the outer perimeter and he heals the Gentile. And then the women, there's a court of the women before you get to the court of the man, before the court of the priest, and he just works his way in and he heals a woman. And here you have Jesus, his power was demonstrated. through helping and healing, through delivering and cleansing people. This is how God decides to demonstrate his power. So Christ doesn't only display his authority over us, but his authority for us. So let's take a look, second look at Matthew chapter 8, starting at verse 1 down to 17. It says, when Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him, and a leper came to him and bowed down before him and said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I'm willing, be cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one, but go show yourself to the priest and present the offering that Moses commanded as a testimony to them And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him, imploring him, and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority and with soldiers under me, and I say to this one, go, and he goes, and to another come, and he comes, and to my slave, do this, and he does it. Now when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. I say to you that many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, it shall be done for you as ye have believed. And the servant was healed that very moment. When Jesus came into Peter's home, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with a fever. He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on him. When evening came, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with the word, and healed all who were ill. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. Last time we uh took a look at the uh the leper. that was healed, touched by Jesus Christ. We took a look at that last time. And this time we take the look at the the second uh unlikely candidate for Jesus' authority and compassion. And this one is a Gentile. He's a Roman Roman soldier. The centurion was a commander of a hundred men. In the Roman army, our English word sent actually comes from the word for a hundred, you know, a hundred years is what? It's a century. You know, if uh you have a hundred cents, it equals a dollar, and a Roman commander was uh the centurion was a commander of a hundred men. Uh they often rose from the ranks uh of being a soldier, kind of rose up the ranks to being in charge, being the captain of a hundred men. And uh usually this was the highest position that a soldier could ever hope to obtain. You know, the highest rank that he could hope to obtain is being a centurion. So this is kind of like at the at the top of uh what he would have expected that he could do They were responsible for drilling their men, inspecting the arms, inspecting the food, the clothing, commanding the men in the camp and in the field. And as a respected position, he had authority that was extensive among the men that he served over. Even those who might have been honorable among the centurions were still a sore spot for the Jewish people because they still represented the Roman rule. You know, uh Israel longed to be free from Roman rule, to govern themselves. So the centurions were kind of like this constant reminder that, you know, we're still in charge. Rome Rome's still in charge. And there's no doubt that this man was a Gentile. First of all, the troops of uh Capernaum, uh where this takes place, were recruited from the Gentiles and from the Samaritans. Uh the Jewish people weren't recruited. Uh Jesus also makes the distinction between the centurion and the nation of Israel when he says, I have not found such great faith in Israel. And then also in verse 11 he says, many will come from east and west, which was a phrase that actually referred to the Gentile nations, kind of starting from uh Jerusalem and you go east and west and then you start getting into the Gentile nations. So when Jesus refers to that, it's actually a phrase used in Zechariah 8. 7, it's uh clear that he's referring to this centurion as a as a Gentile man outside of the nation of of Israel. But here you have uh this gentile who was uh not only considered defiled, uh this gentile was actually considered defiling. You know, if you came into contact with the Gentile, he could defile you by his presence. The Jewish rabbis actually had uh eighteen different laws that that governed uh the interaction between Jews and Gentiles, you know, including laws against the uh the women, laws against food, against physical contact. According to one source, any contact with a heathen, a gentile was defiling. Even the the touch of his clothes would be considered defiling. He'd be defiled just by touching the clothes that he wore. Faithful Jews were expected to completely immerse themselves. in water to bathe every time they went out into the marketplace, you know, because they would have come into contact with Gentiles while they're out. But uh whatever hesitation uh or reluctance there might have been with this centurion, there was something about the compassion of Jesus Christ. that that just totally compelled him to come, to say that Jesus Christ will be a person I can bring this request to. And it's really an unselfish request when you think about it. Look back at verses five and six. It says, when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him imploring him and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. And this is really a a tender scene when you think about it, right? This is uh he's not coming on behalf of himself. You know, Lord, I have some kind of disease I'd like you to get rid of. He's not coming on behalf of even a family member. He's coming on to the Lord on behalf of of a servant. This is a servant. This is a slave. And this was a a day when when servants were considered property, you know, living living property. You know, much like cattle or oxen, they'd say, you know, they kind of lump the servants right into the same category. Aristotle called slaves living tools. He said this, he says, there can be no friendship and no justice toward a horse, an ox, or a slave. For a master and a slave have nothing in in common. You know, horse, ox, slave, you know, all in the same category. They're all in the same category. Vero, a Roman writer, said this. He says, the only difference between a slave and a beast and a cart is that the slave can talk. That's the way they they looked at at slaves. But this centurion considered his slave as dear to him as his own family. And uh even the way that he refers to this servant is is different. The normal word for slave in the scriptures is dulas. You know, some of you might might recognize that word. But the centurion uses a different word, pice, which was uh translated in in many places in the New Testament as child. He looked at the servant as like like my own son. Like this was somebody that he cared for. Even stayed in his own home. So you can tell that he's he's really identifying with the servant. And uh even beyond the the way that he speaks about them, uh, he's like entered into the pain and suffering with this servant as well. He doesn't just say, uh, you know, my my servant's at home paralyzed. He says he's fearfully tormented. He uses a word for suffering that's uh that's the same word that she used for uh for the torment that demons will experience in hell It's the same word that was used for the waves that crashed against the boat, you know, while Jesus is crossing the Sea of Galilee, the waves that crashed, it's that same kind of violent rushing on. And he says, my servant, he's home and he's fearfully tormented. He's entered into this pain with this servant, and it drove the centurion to seek out Jesus because he realizes that this is the battle I have, no weapons to fight. There's only one person that can take care of this. And he goes to Jesus with this request. And uh if you notice, he doesn't even ask directly for a miracle. It just says, you know, Lord, my servant is lying home paralyzed, fearfully tormented. He doesn't say, you know, hey, can you can you heal him? Can you do this? Can you do that? Just like presents the facts to Jesus and hoping that Jesus would have compassion on his servant. And here you have something that's unexpected. You have an unexpected reply. Because in verse 7 It talks about Jesus saying, I will come and heal him. And you might wonder why would I call that an unexpected reply? Because it's not necessarily unexpected that Jesus has the power to heal. I mean, everybody knows he has the power, right? It's not unexpected that Jesus would be willing to heal because we know he's full of compassion and mercy. We've demonstrated that. You know, he's already touched a leper. You know, why wouldn't he have compassion on this child? Person that the centurion considers like his own son. What would have been unexpected is that Jesus is prepared to enter into a Gentile's house. That would have been the shock. You know, come and heal him and hey, I'll I'll come to his house. I'll come to your house. I'll enter into your home. Remember that contact with a heathen, a gentile was considered defiling. You know, Jews didn't have any contact with Gentiles. They didn't want to touch their clothes. They didn't want to eat their food. They didn't want to have anything to do with the Gentiles in the, I mean, to come into their house? To come into their home? But just like we learned with the the story of the leopard, the purity, the purity of Jesus Christ is so overwhelming that whatever he touches is made pure by his touch. He's not defiled by touching what's unclean. What's unclean is made pure until the city. by the touch of of Jesus Christ. Just like I said, the rain that falls on a dirty street, the rain's not impure. The rain is pure and it washes out, it cleanses what it falls on. And this is the same way with the power of Jesus Christ. He always remained pure, but whatever he touched became cleansed just by his very touch. It was so overwhelming. And here is where the narrative takes this kind of unexpected twist. Because you'd expect, you know, verse 8 after you know Jesus says in verse 7, I will come and heal him, you'd expect verse 8 to just read, and he came to his house and he healed the servant. You know, that's how you expect it to read. But here you have this unexpected response in verses eight to twelve. And before Jesus can make his way to the front door of this centurion Before we have this undeniable restoration of the servant, Jesus is stopped in his tracks by the words of the centurion. This is an unexpected response. He responds, first of all, with humility. Look at verse 8. But the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof. I'm not worthy of this. Kind of reminds you of uh you know John the Baptist. I'm not worthy even to stoop down and tie your shoes. I'm not worthy of this. Why would you come to me to be baptized? I'm not worthy even to unloose your shoelaces. I'm not worthy of this. And here you have this incredible response of humility. This is an accomplished and respected military captain. You know, he's risen in the ranks. He's got people underneath him In the highest position that he could hope for. He was noble far beyond anything that was expected of him. And I mean caring for a slave, I mean that's noble, isn't it? Care for a slave like a son? When other people considered them property. And then when you compare this account with Luke 7, and why don't why don't we flip over to Luke 7 real quick? Because over in Luke 7, to top it all off This centurion was actually responsible for getting the synagogue built in Capernaum. So this is not your everyday average centurion. This is not like the average run-of-the-mill soldier. This is a guy who who rose up in the ranks. He's risen above above in nobility and even religiously. Like this guy has like kind of got it all going on in all these different areas. And Luke fills us in with a little bit more of the details over in Luke chapter 7. We find that the Saterians' request actually came through Jewish messengers. Which even heightens the level of his uh humility. But look at what it says here in uh Luke chapter 7, starting at verse 2. It says in a centurion slave who was highly regarded by him was sick and about to die. When he heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders asking him to come and save the life of his slave. When they came to Jesus, they earnestly implored him, saying, He is worthy. For you to grant this to him. For he loves our nation, and it was he who built our synagogue. He's worthy of it. Centurion says, I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy. There's nothing that I've done that's worthy of Jesus coming to my house. Absolutely nothing. And you know, if you were the centurion, I mean wouldn't you feel like, well, maybe maybe I am worthy of a visit, you know? Like look at all that I've done. You know, look at look at how far I've risen. You know, you're gonna have to bathe anyway, you know, so might as well get dirty over here and then go go home and bathe if you gotta do the ceremonial kind of purity. But but no, that's not how he looks at it He says, I don't have the kind of purity that it takes even to host you. I don't have it. Doesn't matter what I've done. And here you have this outsider. outside of the the the nation of Israel who has more understanding about the glory and majesty of Jesus Christ than the the Jews that were around him, the Jews that he was sent to. He understood that it wasn't by he understood this and listen to this. He hasn't even seen Jesus. This is what he's heard about Jesus. He's heard about his healing and all of his ministry. He's heard the stories. And he still has this response of just utter humility before Christ. You have people that were like eyewitnesses of his majesty and still felt like they could just approach him any kind of way. And here's a guy that just heard about Jesus and his miracles. And he says, like just from what I'm hearing about this guy, I am not worthy to have him in my house. I'm not worthy. This is uh, again, it's uh it's this reply of uh of just humility. He replies in in humility. Not only does uh he reply with uh with humility, but he also replies with faith. Replies with faith. Look at verse 8, back in uh Matthew chapter 8 again. He says, this attorney said, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word. Just say the word, and my servant will be healed. And you've got to realize that up to this point in the ministry of Christ, nobody has been healed with just the word. Up to this point, everybody's been touched by Christ. Nobody's been healed with just the word. So here he understands that if Christ has the power to heal, that there's something else that he believes about Christ too, that he has the power to heal absolutely and without touching anybody because of the authority that Christ has. Without hearing uh his his uh his name and seeing a face of this the servant, you know, he he doesn't say, Well, well this is my servant and this is where we live, you know, kind of make sure that your power kind of reaches the right address He just says, you know, just speak the word. Just say it. And he'll be healed. Think about what kind of recognition this gives to Jesus. Who do you think the centurion thinks that Jesus is? Listen to this. He recognizes that Jesus isn't limited by space. He's not limited by space. His influence is everywhere. That's what he recognizes about Jesus. Your influence is everywhere He realizes that Jesus is not limited in knowledge. You know, you don't need me to identify a certain servant, you know, to give a name, give an address. Just by speaking the word, that's enough for you to make sure that it gets into the right place. And he also understands that Jesus is not limited in his power, that you can heal anything. You have all authority over disease. Sounds a lot like omnipresence, omniscience, and omnipotence to me. Not limited by space, not limited by knowledge, not limited in power. Sounds a lot like uh he's given a lot more credit uh to Jesus Christ than uh than the the people around him were giving him credit for. This is really an incredible statement about the deity of of Jesus Christ. And what he believes about Christ is even made more clear when you realize that this Roman captain sees himself as underneath the authority of Jesus Christ. He responds with submission. Look at verse nine. He says, For I also am a man under authority with soldiers under me. And I say to this one, Go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to another to my slave, do this, and he does it. He responds with submission. He knows that he's a man that's under authority. I know how authority works. I know how it works. As a Roman captain, he would have reported to those that were above him in the chain of command. He says, I'm a man under authority. I know how it works. I know when I get a command, what I'm supposed to do. I know when I give my servants commands, I know what they're supposed to do. Expected to to to reply immediately. As a captain, I can say, go, come, do, and it just happens. So what he simply does is he puts the pieces together. He says if Jesus can heal every kind of disease, that means he has authority over disease. And if you have authority, you don't need to touch anybody to exercise your authority. Because I don't have to touch my servants to make them do what I ask them to do. You know, come here and I have to like grab them. You know, go do this and I have to go push them. I don't have to do that with my servants. All I do is just say the word. And it happens. If I can do that with my servants Jesus Christ can do it with what he has authority over as well. If I know how authority works, it works in the same way in his life, doesn't it? So he can just say the word and it'll happen. As a captain, he under understood that. And without any kind of help, without an example, he just recognizes the authority of Jesus Christ. And he also recognizes that he's underneath that authority. And how do I know that Listen to how he addresses Jesus. Listen to how he addresses Jesus. Verse 6, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home. Look at verse 8. The centurion said, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof. Who's he acknowledging? Jesus says, Lord, you're above me. I'm in submission to you. I'm underneath you. He recognizes the authority of Jesus Christ. He's underneath him. And what made this significant is because as a soldier, as a centurion, who was he supposed to recognize as Lord? Caesar. You're supposed to recognize Caesar as Lord. But here he's saying, not Caesar, your Lord. You're the one that I submit to. You're the one that I'm underneath. He recognizes Jesus Christ as having authority even over Caesar, the greatest government known at the time. And here he recognizes this just, and he just has this amazing response on the, and this is on a part of a Gentile. This is astonishing. Without meeting Jesus in person, just hearing about what he was doing, he's able to arrive at this surprising conclusion that Jesus is Lord just by hearing about what was going on in Israel. With a limited exposure to Christ, a little bit of information he received, he was able to put the pieces together. That is amazing. That is absolutely amazing. One author remarks, he says, this man whose faith made Jesus marvel was not a disciple. He didn't do any miracles. He didn't plan any churches. He had no degree. No religious title. His spiritual resume was unimpressive The man with the greatest faith in Israel was a centurion who simply knew who Jesus was and was able to do humbly asked him and trusted that he would receive what he needed. This is the man with the greatest faith in all of Israel that we're talking about here. Putting the pieces together and saying that I know that I have authority and how it works, and he's in authority and I know how that works. And all he has to do is just say the word. And he's putting the pieces together. This guy's in authority. This person is Lord. He's putting the pieces together as a Gentile. Greatest faith in all of Israel. Even to Jesus' own disciples, what did he say to them? O ye of little faith. Even to his disciples, he said, You got small faith And here's the centurion Gentile, and he says, there's no greater faith than this right here. Holds them up as an example. Only two places in all of scripture where Jesus marvels. Only two. Two places in scripture where Jesus marvels. One is here and the other is over in Mark chapter 6. Why don't you flip over there? Mark chapter 6, we find Jesus in his hometown of Nazareth. Nazareth was where Jesus grew up, according to Luke chapter 4 and verse 16. He came to Nazareth where he had been brought up is what it says there. And uh that's why Jesus is known as a Nazarene. So out of all the people who would have known Jesus, these would have been the people who would have known Jesus the best. When it comes to seeing the light, they had the longest exposure to the light of the Son of God. But look at how they respond to Jesus. Look at Mark chapter 6. Jesus went out from there and came into his hometown and his disciples followed him. So here's Nazareth. When the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue and Many listeners were astonished, saying, Where did this man get these things and what is this wisdom given to him? And such miracles as these performed by his hands. Is not this the carpenter? The son of Mary, the brother of James and Joseph and Judas and Simon, are not his sisters here with us? And they took offense at him Because they were so familiar with Jesus. I mean you you grew up right here. I mean this is your hometown. I grew up with you. I know who you are, I know your family. What are you coming in here talking about your authority for? Acting like you're you're better than us, like you have power that we don't have. Jesus said to them, A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown, and among his own relatives in his own household. And he could do no miracle there except that he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them. And he wondered, same word, marveled at their unbelief. And he was going around the villages teaching. Only two places in the scripture where Jesus marvels. Matthew chapter 8 and Mark chapter 6. Two places where Jesus marvels and it's both about the same thing. It's about faith In one instance, this Gentile with very little information fully, completely trust in Jesus Christ. And he's just like amazed. In the other case, there's people that grew up with him, known him all of his life, seen all of his miracles. And he says, and and you don't get it? Out of like this maximum exposure to who I am, and you still don't believe? And this guy just hears about me? And he's willing to believe and trust me completely? Amazing. Amazing. How does the Gentile get it and you don't? And if you remember, Nazareth was where they rejected Jesus' message so strongly that they attempted even to throw him off a cliff. That's how much they oppose Jesus' message. Attempted to throw him off a cliff. How does the Gentile get it and you don't? So Jesus arrives at this surprising conclusion back in Matthew chapter 8. He says that the faith of this Gentile exceeds all faith that I have ever seen in Israel. Look at verse 10. It says, now when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. I mean, talk about a slap in the face. This is it, right? This is a slap in the face because he turns to the Jewish crowds that are following him. He says, guys, you know, hey, exhibit A over here. You know, you really want to know how faith works? Look at this guy. Look at this Gentile centurion. Learn from him. That's where you need to go. And throughout the Gospel of Matthew, this is the kind of thing that that's just brought up again and again. And it's really fascinating. Matthew is uh recognized as one of the most Jewish gospels. You know, the most Jewish gospel is considered Matthew. It's one of the most Jewish books in the New Testament. makes the most references to Old Testament prophecies and fulfillment of prophecy and Jewish traditions and illusions. I mean it's all in Matthew. That's where you're going to find it. Uh it's just a very Jewish book. I remember uh there was a TMS um uh chapel speaker, uh Marty Wolf, who uh does a lot of uh work with uh uh the Jewish people, reaching out to Jewish people, and uh he he shared his testimony one day at a at a chapel. And he says, you know, there's this Christian, he's trying to witness to me, and he's, you know, telling me I need to read the Bible. So he says, Oh, I'll just pick it up and read it. And uh he starts at Matthew. And then, you know, you know Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham, he's like, hey, those are my guys. You know? And he keeps reading and it's just like, you know, keeps referring them back to the Old Testament, back to the Old Testament. He's like, like, what is all this doing here? And he came to faith just by reading the Gospel of Matthew. You know, just as he was convinced that Jesus Christ was the fulfillment of all the prophecies in the Old Testament. Matthew is just a very Jewish book, very Jewish flavor to the book. But it could also be considered one of the most Gentile gospels at the same time. Because throughout the book, God continually reminds them about his plan for the Gentiles. Just to give you a quick quick sample. Just real quick. In Matthew chapter 1, three Gentile women are mentioned in the genealogy of the Messiah. And all the Jews would have recognized that this genealogy was legitimate with Gentiles in the genealogy Chapter 2. Gentile magi from the East come to recognize Jesus Christ. He ministers in Galilee of the Gentiles in the fulfillment of prophecy. They see a great light in chapter 4. In chapter 11, he says the Gentile nations would have repented long ago. You know, with all the miracles and things that he was performing, he says, if the Gentiles were seeing all of this, they would have repented long ago. Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 12, he predicts that the Gentiles will hope in him. As the fulfillment of prophecy in chapter twelve again, he says that the men of Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba, both Gentiles, you know, the people of Nineveh, Gentile group, the Queen of Sheba, a Gentile. He says, the men of Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba Will arise and condemn this generation. Gentiles, a Canaanite woman, expresses her faith in Christ in uh Matthew chapter fifteen, great faith again In Matthew chapter 21, he says that the kingdom will be given to the people who produce the fruit of it and taken away from those who do not believe. Kingdom taking it away from the people that it was originally promised to. That's what he talks about in Matthew chapter 21. A Gentile centurion was guarding Jesus, and he looks up and he says, Truly, this was the Son of God. Just by seeing Jesus die. Just by seeing him die. This other centurion, he hears about what Jesus does, and he says, this is Lord. This other centurion, he just watches Jesus die. He says, Surely this is the Son of God. Such little information. But they make such, they have such great faith. And in Matthew chapter 28, the gospel of the kingdom is sent where? To all the nations. It's opened up to all the Gentile nations And the surprising conclusion that Jesus reaches in chapter 8 is that this Gentile outdid everybody in Israel. His faith outdid everyone. The faith of this Gentile is an indication that there's going to be many more included on the guest list that weren't necessarily expected to be in the kingdom of heaven. And Jesus also announces this surprising, not only the conclusion that he reaches, but he also has this surprising inclusion of the centurions because of the centurion's faith. the surprising uh announcement of including a great number of Gentiles. Look again at uh verse 11 in Matthew chapter 8. He says, I say to you That many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. And there's a number of times where the kingdom to come is described. With the this kind of picture of a of a banquet. You know, Jesus gave parables of the kingdom that included a feast like in Matthew chapter 22, Matthew chapter 25. And the picture of reclining at the table is really like this picture of of rest and refreshment and peace and blessing and bounty. There's also uh Jewish literature that reflected on this idea of a great banquet to come where there would be this incredible spread. before the Jewish people, this kind of meal that that would outdo any Thanksgiving meal that you could prepare. In a book named uh Second Baruch it talks about this banquet to come. It says the Jews are going to sit down at a great feast and they're going to eat behemoth and Leviathan. If you've ever heard those uh you know, these aren't animals you're going to find anywhere. You're not going to go to a zoo. And find Behemoth and Leviathan, okay? But uh behemoth and Leviathan are no longer in existence. Uh but behemoth was spoken about in Job chapter 14 and verse 15 as the largest land creature. You know, the largest creature on land was the behemoth. The largest creature in the sea was the Leviathan. And it says, Behemoth and Leviathan, the largest creatures you can think about are going to be our spread. You know, so it's just talking about like, you know, we're just gonna have so much bounty, so much plenty, so much blessing. This this is gonna be a rich feast. One of the great joys about this feast, according to the Jewish people, was that no Gentiles would be present. That was one of the joys they had. One rabbi taught that the God said, I shall spread for you Jews a great table, which the Gentiles will be ashamed. And this was likely how they interpreted uh Isaiah chapter 65, if you want to flip back there uh for a moment. Uh the book of Isaiah is uh is a rich book that has uh many prophecies about Jesus Christ and his earthly ministry. And it also gives us a lot of vivid detail about the uh uh the kingdom to come as well. And in Isaiah chapter 65 it actually uh uh talks about that. Isaiah 65 starting at verse 13 Look what uh Isaiah says here. It says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, my servants will eat, but you will be hungry. Behold, my servants will drink, but you will be thirsty. Behold, my servants will rejoice, but you will be put to shame. Behold, my servants will shout joyfully with a glad heart, but you will cry out with a heavy heart, and you will wail with a broken spirit. You will leave your name for a curse to my chosen ones, and the Lord God will slay you, but my servants will be called by another name. So some rabbis read that and said, hey, hey, you know, that's that's the Jewish people. You know, so everybody else is on the outside. You know, we're the ones that are on the inside, we're the ones that are blessed, everybody else is cursed. We're the ones that are going to participate in this great feast. But if you uh kind of pull out and read the rest of the context, you'll find that there's going to be uh quite a bit more people at this uh banquet than they expected. Flip over to Isaiah chapter 25 in the same book, Isaiah 25. Begin to realize that uh God sent a number of uh dinner invitations for this feast that the Jewish people weren't counting on. In Isaiah chapter 25 it lets us know about this. Look at this in uh verse six of chapter 25. Says the Lord of hosts will prepare a lavish banquet, listen to this, for all peoples on this mountain. A banquet of aged wine, choice pieces with marrow and refined aged wine, and on this mountain he will swallow up the covering which is over all peoples, even the veil which is stretched over all nations. He will swallow up death for all time. This is the end of death. The Lord God will wipe tears away from all faces. He will remove the reproach of his people from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. And it will be in that day. Behold, this is our God for whom we have waited that he might save us. This is the Lord for whom we have waited. Let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation. It's talking about a banquet for all people, all nations, all the earth. God has a bigger plan than just one nation. Also flip over to Isaiah 19 just to kind of fill this out a little bit. Isaiah chapter 19, we read this a couple weeks back during our scripture reading in the morning. Isaiah 19. Now I don't want you to miss how significant uh this is because in uh Isaiah 19 it talks about Egypt, which was an enemy of of Israel. You know uh the the children of Israel were captive in Egypt. It also talks about Assyria. The capital of Assyria is Nineveh, which was a wicked city that tormented the people of God. And it talks about the judgment of these these nations, but then look at verse 18, starting in verse 18. It says, in that day, five cities in the land of Egypt will be speaking the language of Canaan. And swearing allegiance to the Lord of hosts. One will be called the city of destruction. Here they all are speaking the language of Canaan, and what was that? Canaan was the promised land. Promised land. Swearing allegiance to the Lord of hosts, Yahweh, the God of hosts. In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord near its border. In the midst of Egypt? Worship? Going on to the true God? Worship to the true God? Verse 19, In that day there will be an altar in the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord near its border. It will become a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt, for they will cry to the Lord because of oppressors, and he will send them a Savior. And the champion, and he will deliver them. Who is the savior? There's only one, Jesus, right? He's sending them a savior Thus the Lord will make himself known to Egypt and to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians will know the Lord in that day. That's salvation language. Knowing the Lord, they will know the Lord in that day. They will even worship with sacrifice and offering. They will make a vow to the Lord, perform it. The Lord will strike Egypt, striking but healing. So they will return to the Lord, and he will respond to them and will heal them. In that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, like I said, the other nation that was an enemy. The Assyrians will come into Egypt, the Egyptians into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians. In that day, Israel will be the third party with Egypt and Assyria. Here they're joining up. Israel, Egypt, Assyria, all joining together. To give blessing in the midst of the earth, whom the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying, Blessed is Egypt, my people, and Assyria, the work of my hands, and Israel, my inheritance. I'm telling you guys, you know, heads would have been spinning, you know, jaws would have been on the floor. Israel's reading this like, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Egypt, my people? That's that's our that's our title. Where are the people of God? Egypt, my people? Assyria, the work of my hands? Are you kidding me? The filthy Ninevehes, the work of your hands? And we're going to be a third party to them. We're just going to join up and be all one big happy family. Yes. That's exactly what's gonna happen. How long do you think they they took to swallow that one down? You need a whole lot of water to chug down that pill, right? It's like, what in the world And what Jesus indicates in Matthew is that even though the centurion may not be a physical descendant of Abraham, he was still considered a spiritual descendant of Abraham because he was a man of faith, because he trusted in God. He's got a seat at the table. And if you're looking at Jesus by faith today, you have just as much right , just as much right to be at the table in the kingdom of heaven as Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Just as much of a right. To be right there at the table dining together with them. Isn't that something? We're not second class citizens. Have every right to pull up a chair, you know, hey, pass me some of that Leviathan over there, you know what I mean? Every much of a right to just get up, pull up a chair and say, Hey, I'm I'm here. Charles Spurgeon Actually, I'll tell you two stories. Charles Spurgeon, um, he told a story about a uh about a woman who was who was dying, and um she called for a preacher to to come and and minister to her and She says, oh preacher, I have one question. And he says, you know, go ahead. What's the question? She says, are there going to be two places in heaven? Is there more than one place in heaven, like two compartments in heaven? And he says, why? It's because that Betsy over there in the kitchen, I just can't stand to spend all of eternity with her. And he says, ma'am, there's nothing at all to worry about. You have no fear. There's nothing to worry about. Because until you drop your pride, you won't even get into the kingdom of heaven. There's not going to be any two compartments. We are the people of God. We are the people of God. Another story. Charles Spurgeon, who was once uh who's considered the prince of preachers, still is considered the prince of preachers. He described his own conversion experience after listening to somebody who would be considered probably the poorest of preachers. So here you have the Prince of Preachers, and he's listening to somebody who would be considered one of the poorest of preachers. I wasn't really a preacher, but I was filling in for a pastor while the pastor was absent. And he says, I remember the hour when I stepped into the little place of worship and I saw a tall, thin man step into the pulpit. I've never seen him from that day, and I probably never shall till we meet in heaven. He opened the Bible and he read with a feeble voice, Look unto me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God, and there is none else. He's reading from Isaiah chapter forty five, verse twenty-two. And basically like he's done. This preacher, like, I don't know what else to say. So he just uh kept repeating himself. Uh look! Look! Everybody, you can look. It doesn't take much to look. Even a child can look. Look unto him, all the ends of the earth, and be saved. Why don't you look? And here he is, and he's speaking to Charles Spurgeon, so he turns and fixes his gaze on on uh Spurgeon. He says, hey, look! Look! Look! That's all he's saying is just look. And Charles Furgeon, as he's listening to this preacher, like his like I said, he was a poor preacher. But he says as he was hearing this preacher talk, all ye ends of the earth, look. He says, that includes me. I'm part of the ends of the earth. I'm part of the nations. This promise is for me. That if I just look to Jesus Christ, if I look to him, I can have my sins forgiven There's nothing I have to do. There's no good works that I have to perform. All I need to do is stretch out in faith, look to Jesus Christ, and I'll be saved. And he says from that simple message, he was converted. Just by hearing the preacher just kind of stumble over his passage. Look, you can look. And isn't it true? You can look. Look to Jesus. That's the only place of salvation. We need to bless God. That that's the place of salvation. That it's not based on how we were born, what we could do, some kind of achievement that we could present before God. All you have to do is look. Look to Christ and be saved. And it includes us. In 1 Peter 2, verse 9 and 10 it says, and you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Listen to this, for you once were not a people. But now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. That's us. We've been included. By looking to Jesus Christ and we bless God for the surprising inclusion of the Gentiles into the kingdom of God. But in addition to the surprising inclusion of the Gentiles into the kingdom, We also have a surprising exclusion as well. There's certain people that are going to be excluded from the kingdom. And Jesus admits this surprising exclusion in verse 12 back over in Matthew. Back over Matthew chapter 8. Look what he says in verse 12. He says, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And when Jesus affirms the faith That faith is the means of entering the kingdom. You only enter in by faith, right? You only enter in by by trusting in Jesus Christ. When he says that that it's through faith that we enter the kingdom, what is he excluding? Any other means. You try to go through any other means. What you're, instead of going on the way in, you're on your way out. Try to go through any other means. The Jewish nation was attempting to get in through another way. You know, Jesus says if you don't come through the door, you're like a thief and a robber, you know, trying to climb up the sides of the house and you know, uh crawl underneath. I mean it's like you're you you don't belong here. If you're trying to get in another way except through the door, you know, something's fishy Even though sometimes we lose our keys and have to climb through the window anyway, right? But what he's saying here is that when it comes to the kingdom, you try to enter in another way, you are a thief and a robber. You are a thief and a robber. As we saw before in the Sermon on the Mount, the Jewish people attempted to enter the kingdom through another entrance. They looked to their tradition. You know, this is how I've been raised. This is what I'm used to. This is what I believe. But Jesus totally shatters the traditions of men, doesn't he? Totally shatters it. They look to their rituals, you know, they're comfortable with their practices. You know, all these rituals, you know, that that I that I kind of amass up, you know, maybe they can present me before God. But all the rituals in the world can't even come next to one drop of the cleansing power of Jesus Christ. They looked to their hypocrisy, their feeble attempts to keep the law, but all their attempts to keep the law fell far short of what Jesus demanded. And they look to themselves. They look to their lineage. You know, I can trace my lineage back to Abraham. And Jesus says, so what? I can raise up these stones to become sons. What does it mean to be a son of the kingdom? It means that you're a son of Abraham. The person who was promised the kingdom in the first place. Like I can actually trace my line back to Abraham. And in Acts chapter 1, in verse 6, right after the disciples spent some time learning from Christ and being taught about the kingdom, the disciples come to Christ and they say, They're asking him, Lord, is it at this time that you're restoring the kingdom to Israel? They understood that the kingdom belonged to Israel. Is it at this time that you're restoring the kingdom to Israel? That is going to happen. But they understood that the the promise was to come. Jesus says, you know, it's not for you to know the you know the time. But they understood that Israel was going to get the kingdom, but the only way that they would receive the kingdom was the same way that everybody else received the kingdom. It was never going to be through another way. They had to trust. They had to believe. So what did they go out and do? They preached. Repent. Believe. Trust in Jesus Christ. Because that's the only way that you're going to inherit the kingdom. That's the only way that the kingdom's going to come. If you repent, if you believe, if you trust. And then what you have Jesus doing is um Something that that a lot of preachers today could really learn from. Because uh you have preachers to today that that that think they're they're following Christ and we're going to follow the model of Christ. But then they avoid the very things that Christ talked about. So here you have Jesus, and this is merciful. You know, you might think about this as like hellfire, brimstone, you know, kind of preaching, but but this is merciful. It's merciful for Christ to describe the horrors of hell to try to warn us against going down that path. That's a mercy. That is a mercy from God To warn people. If you see somebody going down a one-way street, you what do you do? Just, oh, you know. Everybody, you know, to their own. You know, no, you you blow your horn, you tell them something's wrong, hey, go the other way. You're going down the wrong path. Jesus here warns people who are going down the wrong path. He says, you are heading to hell. Most preachers don't even want to mention the word hell. Jesus describes it. Jesus describes it. How many times have we talked about those that perish? We're barely into chapter 8 of Matthew. And so many times already throughout the Sermon on the Mount and elsewhere we've learned about the destruction to come. This is a mercy from God to warn us about hell. Jesus lets us know again in verse 12 that you're not you don't enter into hell into hell you're cast into hell You're thrown into hell. You're discarded into hell. Cast out. And you're completely separated and excluded from all joy, peace, blessing, bounty for all of eternity. The sons of the kingdom will be cast out. Cast out of what? Cast out of the joy and presence and blessing of God. You are banished. It's over. Cast out. Cast from the table. You remain in total darkness. It's described in verse 12 as outer darkness. The fire that burns in hell burns with the heat without light. You have heat, no light. Utter darkness, but you're still burning. A combination we can't even imagine. We don't have any fire like this. Suffering in hell is marked by conscious torment, which produces weeping that's never comforted. There's weeping going on continually in hell. And then the gnashing of teeth, which is this unbearable pain, which is never alleviated in hell. And what makes hell so frightening, one of the things that makes hell so frightening, is that there is never a termination point when you get to hell. This virgin writes that on every chain in hell there's written the word forever. He says, Oh, if I could tell you tonight that hell would one day be burned out, and that those who were lost might be saved, there would be jubilee in hell at the very thought. At the very thought of it, that I could just be put out of existence. Like that would bring comfort But he says it can't be. It's forever and they're cast into outer darkness. And to think that the escape from hell is as simple as looking to Christ. All you gotta do is look. All you gotta do is trust. It's that simple. Turn to Christ. Be saved. He's the one that can save you. You don't have to endure the torments of hell for all of eternity. Turn to Jesus Christ Why would you close your eyes to Jesus Christ and hang on to your miserable love for sin? Knowing that this is the end of every man who rejects Jesus. This is it. And there is no ending point. Why wouldn't you turn to Christ? The only one who has the power to heal. The only one who has the power to save. And that's exactly what this centurion found. Look at verse 13. Verse 13, it says, And Jesus said to the centurion, go, it shall be done for you as you have believed, and the servant was healed that very moment. I want to explain this to you because there's certain times in scripture where people are healed physically, but it says nothing about their spiritual state. Certain times when Jesus will perform a miracle for people, but it says absolutely nothing about the person that he did the miracle for. Absolutely nothing. But then you have certain times when uh a healing actually indicated that something else was at work. You had that in the the case of um uh remember the paralytic who was brought to Jesus, you know, he's laying there stretched out before Jesus Christ. And what did Jesus say to him? He says, Take courage, son. He doesn't say get up and walk. He says, Your sins are forgiven you. Something else was going on inside that paralytic's heart. You've got sins that have been forgiven. You're saved. You've trusted in me. Your sins are forgiven. You have the ten lepers, remember the ten lepers that came to Christ to be healed? And only one returned to give Jesus thanks? And Jesus says to him in Luke chapter 17, verse 19, he said to them, Stand up and go. Your faith has made you well. What's he talking about there? He was already well. He already had his leprosy cleansed. So what is he talking about? Your faith has made you well. What kind of well are you talking about? Spiritually He was the only one out of the ten that returned, and he says, spiritually, you're the one that's well. Your faith has made you well. There's something else going on besides the physical healing. For some they were just healed physically. For some, they were healed physically and spiritually. And here you have with this centurion, when Jesus says to the centurion, go, it shall be done for you as you have believed. When he's talking about belief, he's talking about salvation belief. That you haven't just believed in me for healing. You trust in me. I haven't found faith like this anywhere in Israel. And and the sons from the e from from east and the west, people are going to come from the east and the west and dine at the table with Abraham. And guess what? You're one of them. You are one of them. You have faith. You believed. And this physical healing is just an indication that there was a spiritual healing that took place in your heart already. The servant was was healed. But even more importantly, the centurion was healed. He's healed spiritually. Isn't that amazing? What a God we have. What a God. Centurion was healed. His faith was was real. It was genuine. And more than a servant whose body was restored, you had a centurion whose soul was restored to God, restored to God's kingdom. Jesus performed a miracle on the outside that he could verify to verify something that's going on on the inside that you have real faith. You have real real belief. And originally I thought I was going to get to uh to the next Healing, but uh but we're not gonna get there. I just want you to think about this story though. Think about what happened in the centurion's life. I want you to think about the compassion of Jesus Christ Jesus Christ, like I said, he could have it could have been any way that he demonstrated that he was Messiah. You know, the scriptures could have predicted anything, but what does he do? He says, I'm gonna I'm gonna demonstrate my authority, my power by how I touch people, by how I heal people, by how I deliver people. by how I save people spiritually. That's how I'm going to demonstrate my power. And his power is not just over us, his power is for us. So my my question for you is have you looked to Christ? Have you looked at Jesus? That is the only look that saves. Looking with the eyes of faith, trusting in him. There's a song that we sang earlier, come ye sinners, poor and needy. Listen to the words. Come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. Come, you thirsty, come and welcome God's free bounty, glorify true belief and true repentance, every grace that brings you nigh Come you weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall. If you tarry till you're better, if you wait around until you can get better, like I'm going to clean myself up and then present myself to God. If you wait until you're better, you will never come at all. You're not going to clean yourself up. View him prostrate in the garden. On the ground your maker lies. On the bloody tree, behold him. Look! Look to Jesus. On the bloody tree, behold him. Sinner, will not this suffice? Isn't this enough? You don't have to bring your rituals and your pedigree and your accomplishments. Look to Jesus. Isn't that enough? Lo the incarnate God ascended. Plead the merit of his blood. Venture on him, venture holy, let no other trust intrude. Let not conscience make you linger. Don't stay away because I just don't feel clean enough. I'm guilty. Don't let conscience make you linger. Don't wait around. Not a fitness finally dream, one day I'll get better on my own. All the fitness that he requires is to feel your need of him. Look to Jesus and be saved. Look to Jesus. He's demonstrated his authority. He's demonstrated his power. He's demonstrated his compassion. And he'll save those that look to him with faith, trust in him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we We thank you, God. We bless your name. Father, what a joy it is to think about Jesus Christ. How marvelous the Son of God is. Father, I pray that there's not one eye here that will not turn to Jesus. There is not one person here who will not look to Jesus Christ. The consequences are too fatal. Consequences are too grievous to bear. Father, why would anyone suffer for an eternity in torment when all they have to do is look to Jesus Christ? Why? Well Father, I just pray that you'd help us as a people to cherish our salvation, that we would glorify you for your cleansing power. Through Jesus Christ, that we've been saved, that we've been redeemed, that we've been brought to you, that we have a seat at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that we can pull up a chair because of what Jesus Christ has done And Father, I pray that we'd also look to those who have not turned their eyes to Jesus, that have not looked to him for salvation, Lord, and that we would plead for them to come to Christ. And that we wouldn't shy away from the hard truths of the Bible. Words that we don't even want to say that Jesus actually fully described for us. Father, I pray that we'd follow the model and example of our Lord. In Jesus' name, praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files