The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online. at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. We talked in the first session about Paul's plan. I mean Paul's plea, right? This was Paul's plea to have the mercies of God so effect us. That we are living our lives as a sacrifice unto God, a living sacrifice, a holy sacrifice, and an acceptable sacrifice. But if you're like me, and of course if we're like Paul, we need to have a plan to execute such a thing We need to have a very, very practical plan. And this is a plan that you can help in your counsel of others, in your exhortations to others, in your work with others. And in their work with you, we need to have a plan. And so Roman numeral 2 in your notes is Paul's plan to bring all of this about. To be that living and holy and acceptable sacrifice. So what is his plan? Look at Romans 12. 2. Romans 12. 2. And we'll start out from what we might say is the negative part of the plan. There is a positive part. And that positive part is to be transformed by the renewal of our mind. But Paul doesn't start there. He starts with the negative plan in the beginning of Romans 12. 2, and that is That if we're going to present our bodies as a living, holy, and acceptable sacrifice to God, which is our reasonable or logical or spiritual worship unto Him, It'll be first in Paul's plan, negatively speaking, by not being conformed to this world. by not being conformed to this world. This is a very interesting word, the word conformed. I mean, we we just sang the idea of form and transform and conform, and this is that word conform. And we derive from the Greek word that's used here by Paul, we derive the English word schema from it. Not to be schematized by the world, not to fall prey to the world shaping and molding us into its image. That's what he's saying here in Romans 12. 2. The evil world wants to perpetually attempt to press us into its ways, its habits its way of thinking and acting. And so if you're a new believer or if you're a seasoned saint, And you're needing help or you're giving help, the way that you and I present our bodies as a living and holy and acceptable sacrifice to God is in Paul's mind. According to his plan, first negatively by not seeing your lives any longer conformed to the image of this world. That's where he starts out There's a domination that the world foists upon its own, those who are owned by the world. You know, Satan is the God of this world, and so he he conforms us to his will and to his ways. And Paul says, if you and I, as Christians, as legitimate Bible-believing Christians, There is a process of transformation. And he's going to talk about that at the latter part of verse 2, the renewal, the being transformed by the renewal. of your mind. But he starts out by saying, you first have to cease being conformed to the image of this world. So you have to be no longer conformed before you can be transformed. And that, my friends, is no small battle. That's no small battle. And I think the first and most important element of not being conformed to this world is to deal with what we could call the nature of indwelling sin. to deal with the very nature and impact of indwelling sin. My good friend Dr. Wayne Mack, who's been a Biblical counselor of note for many decades, has written a very helpful book called A Fight to the Death In which he says this. They say that ignorance is bliss. That may be true when it comes to knowing how many calories are in an ice cream cone. But when it comes to things that are really important, ignorance is dangerous. Ignorance is certainly dangerous when it comes to the subject of sin. One of the reasons we play with sin is that we are ignorant about how dangerous it is. To make matters worse, we are ignorant about how ignorant we are about sin. We know sin is bad, but the way we live makes it clear that we do not know how terrible it really is. We're talking, of course, in this context of not being conformed to this world. And I want you to notice the idea of Paul repeatedly talking about not needing to be or wanting to be ignorant of sin and Satan's devices. Turn in your Bibles over to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 2. This is a most interesting context in which Paul is pleading with us not to be ignorant of Satan's devices Here's what's going on in the first part of 2 Corinthians chapter 2. Paul is challenging the Corinthians. And uh as you know, if you've read 1 and 2 Corinthians for any length of time, you know that the Corinthians needed a lot of challenging, right? Because they were a tremendous challenge. Maybe a lot like us, right? And the Corinthians were being challenged in a particular way here in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. And here was that challenge. Let's say, because it is possible, we don't know with any real certainty, but let's say that the context of 2 Corinthians 2 might go all the way back To 1 Corinthians 5. Now we don't have time to go to 1 Corinthians 5, but in 1 Corinthians 5, there was a man in the Corinthian church who was apparently having a sexual relationship with his stepmother. As gross as that sounds. And apparently the Corinthians were doing nothing about it. It was known within the fellowship, and Paul was aghast. And he says in 1 Corinthians 5 that if you don't deal with this by the majority of your members, I am going to have to come apostolically. And remove this man myself. Because this is a gross sin. In fact, he says it's so gross that according to 1 Corinthians 5, he says, even the pagans don't do this. So why are you doing it? And we don't know exactly why they were doing it, why they were allowing it. Perhaps it was a kind of twisted understanding of God's grace. You know, Paul dealt often with those who would say, well , if God's grace is what it is, then maybe we ought to send up a storm so that grace may abound. In other words, if God 's grace is greater than our sin, then maybe it doesn't really matter how much we sin, because God's grace superabounds over all sin. So maybe they have this twisted idea that they should allow something like this to occur with this man in the church. Because God's grace will be seen as over-abounding, superabounding, even over the most gross form of sexual sin. Something like that. We don't know. And we don't really know how that situation was ultimately dealt with, other than to say that Paul said, you must put him out of your midst, right? He says, don't even eat with such a one. In fact, he even questions the person's spiritual life to begin with because he says he's a so-called brother. It's possible that we find out more about him in 2 Corinthians 2. Because notice 2 Corinthians 2 verse 5. Now, if anyone has caused pain, He has caused it not to me, but in some measure, not to put it too severely, to all of you. What does he mean? For such a one And the reason why we link 1 Corinthians 5, possibly, potentially, to 2 Corinthians 2, is because in 1 Corinthians 5, Paul uses that same language, such a one. Such a one. Maybe he's referring to the very same man. For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough. We suspect that what's going on here is that in 1 Corinthians 5, the such a one, the such-a-one so-called brother who was being allowed to sin in this way without the infliction of the majority and a judgment upon this man, maybe the Corinthians had swung to the opposite pole now And he'd not only been dismissed from the congregation, but now the majority was inflicting this kind of punishment of the estrangement. even though the man has apparently sought to repent of such a sin. Because it says here For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough or sufficient. So you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him. In other words, maybe in the process of the Corinthians obeying Paul and putting him out, While he was living in the world, as it were, he saw his sin. He saw it for what it was. He repented of his sin, and now he's actually actually asking to be rejoined to the fellowship because of his repentance. And apparently they've swung to the pole on the other side and they're saying, absolutely not, shall you be here? And they're refusing to forgive. And he says, I beg you to reaffirm your love for him. For this is why I wrote. that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything. In this context, are you obedient enough to forgive the man? He's repented. He's put away his sin. He ought to be reaffirmed by your love of forgiveness and restoration Then he says in verse 10, anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. The Apostle Paul. Indeed. What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ. In other words, apostolically, I told you to deal with him, you dealt with him, now he's repented, and now we need to forgive. And if you forgive, I forgive apostolically so that we can reaffirm our love for him. Now here's what we ought to do for the repentant person. We ought to throw him a party. And he says, and I'm testing you. I'm testing you to see if you're obedient. And then he says in verse 11, so that in this matter of forgiveness, so that we would not be outwitted by Satan, for we are not ignorant of his designs You know what I fear in the church today, among other things? I fear that we are in fact ignorant of Satan's designs. Now, I'm not suggesting we ought to go on a full four study of Satanology, the doctrine of Satan. in the sense that we know experientially all of his outwitting schemes. But I am saying we need to know about how Satan operates, especially in the matter of forgiveness. You say, how does that relate to Romans 12,2? I think it relates in this way. There is a huge lack of forgiveness in the church. For when people genuinely repent of their sins, whether that means they've come into the fellowship so as to be forgiven, Or they're already in the fellowship and they're dealing with excessive sorrow because they're trying to work their way through their sin. And we do not live a life of forgiveness toward them: bitterness, anger , wrath , malice , slander. A number of those sins that Paul talks about in the lists that he gives of sins. And when we operate in those ways toward brothers and sisters in Christ, We are being outwitted by the designs of Satan. You know, I don't think, when people ask me, what do you think uh what do you think Satan's doing right now? Where do you think he's operating? Las Vegas? The bars? No, he's already got them right where he wants them. You know where I think Satan is most operating? False teaching and false teachers and seeking to overthrow the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace in the local church. By causing brothers and sisters to be at odds with one another, causing bitterness and anger and slander and malice and backbiting Toward one another, including, and I think most importantly, a lack of forgiveness toward one another. This is what he says. So if you want to ask me for a prime example of how not to be conformed to the world, I would say be a quicker forgiver and a quicker repenter. Work hard at not being ignorant of Satan's schemes. So as to be duped in presuming that it's all about us. It's actually very little about me, because as I look outward, it's all about you For me. And for you, it's not about you, it's for me. It's the reciprocal relationship, right? If I'm working hard at centering my life on ministry to you, you're working hard in your life to center your ministry on me. And we have a reciprocal relationship as brothers and sisters in the body so that I don't have to be concentrating on me. That's why Paul says ingeniously in Philippians 2, do not merely look out for your own interests. You know why he says it that way? Because he already knows we're going to be looking out for our own interests. That's why he says don't merely do so. But look out for others and their interests. Don't merely look out for your own personal interests. But look out for the interest of others. And by the way, if you want a fine example of this, the finest in all the land, look at Christ. Look at Christ Jesus, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, to use the language of the writer to Hebrews. And this Christ left his lofty place. So that he could condescend to being a slave, a slave even to the point of death, even death on a cross. That's the ultimate example of someone who is not looking out for his own interests, but for the interests of others. In fact, so much so, he died on a cross. The most shameful execution of the day. That's the anti-type for someone who's refusing to be conformed to the image of this world. Now there are a lot of practicality to this, and I want to help you with this. Do you see in your notes there that there are some categories? About how not to conform yourself to the world. I want to go over some of these categories very practically with you. And I'll introduce it with this, J. I. Packer, who's a wonderful Christian writer. He says this, sin 's strategy is to induce a false sense of security as a prelude to a surprise attack. Sin is always at work in the heart. A temporary lull in its assaults means not that it is dead, but that it is very much alive. I say it like this, if you're not being attacked by Satan, cheer up. It's gonna happen. He's just now pausing to reload. Packer quotes John Owen, Sin is never less quiet than when it seems to be most quiet. And its waters are for the most part deep when they are still People get conformed to the image of this world because they live a life unsuspecting of Satan's attacks. And here's the first category. The no one will know category. That's a device of Satan. That's a design of the evil one. lulling us into thinking that no one will know. No one will know about my sin. It's just. It's just me knowing what I'm doing and no one else is knowing what I'm doing. Don't fall for that. This is the category where some Christians assume that they can be so isolated from accountability and the observation of others. that they're satanically lulled into thinking that they can get away with something because no one is around to see them. How wrong that is. If for nothing else, even if another human being isn't seeing what you're doing, God is watching. His omnipresent, omniscient eyes are always watching. And even if you presume on the grace of God like that, you'd better know that you will inevitably be found out. Do you remember Numbers 32, 23? Numbers 32, 23, the latter part of it, you have sinned against the Lord, and be sure your sin will find you out. I think about that with politicians. You know, all of this current controversy about sexual harassment in the workplace, aren't they presently falling like flies? All of their secret sins are coming home to roost. It's almost every day or every other day that someone is being fired. Someone is being exposed to what they thought was their little pet sin. Their little peccadillo. You cannot assume that no one will know. You cannot assume that. And you can't assume that the little slow spiritual compromises in our lives will not build into a superstructure of compromise. It's the slow spiritual compromise that always begins with the giving in to the little sins first, which then give way to the greater sins. Thereafter. Again, the Puritans were so fabulous in helping us here. One of them wrote this, Sin is of an encroaching nature. It creeps on the souls by degrees, step by step, till it has the soul to the very height of sin. It's like the frog in the kettle. The frog is in the kettle and you turn the heat up just slightly, just incrementally. And the frog has no idea that he's being skewered to death. He has no idea how hot it is. Because it's only occurring by small degrees until he's completely incinerated. How about the next category? I call it the casual glance category. It's especially for you men like me, the casual glance category. Boy, what comes to my mind immediately was David's sin with Bathsheba, right? He was he was fat, dumb, and sassy on top of his kingdom. He actually, contextually, according to Samuel's historical writing, he probably should have been out to war with his brethren. Right? And yet he was on top of the world And he sees Bathsheba bathing down below. And he had to have her. And his whole life was wrecked All of those compromises, all because the casual glance motivated him to want what he saw. I think about that with the sexual harassment. The idea that if I see something, I've got to have it. It always starts with the lust of the eyes. Especially for us men. Do you remember the opposite example of David, Joseph? The Bible says that Potiphar's wife was looking at this beautiful guy, because the Bible says that Joseph was handsome in both form and appearance. He must have been a stud. And it says that Potiphar's wife, the only entity, the only person, the only object for which Potiphar, the head of the secret service in Egypt. The only thing that he said, you can have everything else. You can be in charge of everything else. You are the man in every other way. Just don't touch her. Right? Was Joseph true to that? Absolutely. Even in the midst, the Bible says, where she came to entice him, the Bible says, day after day. And we might say something like this, well what red-blooded American male could possibly withstand something like that? A godly man would. And Joseph was that godly man. Because the Bible says, and the Lord was with him, so that in everything Joseph did, the Lord made to prosper. And when he had the command of his superior, he said, I will by God's grace not touch her. And even if he ran out of his coat in the process, he said yes to God and no to the casual glance. That was a man who knew Satan's devices. Beware. Of the casual glance. That's why Job said in Job 31, 1, I've made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? I made a covenant. Here's the third category. I call it the it's no big deal category. Oh come on, you puritanical Christians. You're just always into the stuff you can't do. Come on. It's no big deal. Just a little bite. Just a little taste. Come on. Lighten up. What's the big deal? Come on. You are all about the no 's. What about the yeses? Come on, live a little. Sounds really good. Can be very enticing until the trap closes down on the ankle and you can't. get away. Remember Matthew 5, Jesus said, sin is a very, very big deal. And if your eye offends you, what? Pluck it out. If your hand offends you, cut it off. Get rid of it? Wouldn't you like to be in heaven without a limb or an eyeball than in hell with a full body? That's the choice. That's what you have. Packer says, sin lies so camouflaged. in the darkness of the mind, in the indisposition of the will, and in the worldliness of the affections, that no eye can discover it The best of our wisdom is to but look out for its first appearances. Boy, you gotta have your eyes open at all times. Sin is lurking right around the corner. And its desire is to master you and to bring you under its possessive spirit, right? How about the next category? The I can handle it category. Oh, this one. This one is a choice strategy of Satan. It's the puffing up of the pride so that someone says, hey, I got it! I got it! Leave me alone! I got all my wits about me. I got all the faculties working in harmony. I would never fall to such idiocy as you have. Take heed. Take heed. Lest you fall. Right? The very moment we say I got it, we ain't got it Because none of us are supermen. None of us think we got it all wired, and we do. We're leaking all over the place. And if we're honest with ourselves, we would admit it. I am one thin thread away. From losing it all. That's the mentality we ought to have, right? I'm one step away from slipping into utter disaster That's the mindset we gotta have. It doesn't matter if you're an inch from sin or a mile from it. The mentality is I could fall at any moment. If I'm not absolutely ready at every moment. 1 Corinthians 10, 12. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. You know, here's a here's another thing. It's not necessarily even like sexual temptation. Look at James chapter 4. This is a place, this is a context in which I don't think many Christians traffic. And this is this is a wise, wise warning in James chapter four. Look at verse 4. You adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Hostility with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Look at the middle part of verse 6. God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Boy, what sage advice. And it doesn't even have to be, as I said, something like sexual temptation. It could even be sort of financial. Or material. Look at the latter part of James 4. Look at verse 13. Listen to how James wisely warns us, come now, James 4. 13, you who say, today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist. that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, here's the wisdom, instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. In other words, here's the person who's just sort of leaving God out of the process. Hey, look, I'm going to engage in business. I'm going to work for this money that I need or want. And I'm going to Raise this up and I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna go here and I'm gonna conduct business here and I'm gonna make a profit and by the way I'm doing all this and somebody comes along like the Lord himself and he says uh hello Uh you are doing all of this? You remember the guy in the Gospels who built these these barns so that he can have all his produce in the barns and and he's he's making so much money hand over fist that he says ah here's what I'll do I'll build bigger barns For all of the amassing of my extensive wealth. And Jesus says, You fool, tonight Your soul is required of you. Now, who will own what you possess? In other words, you can't take it with you. You don't see a use carrying a U-Haul. Just can't take it with you. This is somebody who says, I'm gonna engage in business. I'm gonna do my own thing. And he says, look, you're just here for a little while. You're here today, gone tomorrow. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills. You know, the older Christians who knew Latin. They used to sign these Christians their letters. Deo valente. Deo valente. Deo God. Valente wills. If God wills. I'll see you tomorrow, Deo Valente. In fact, I think I used that in one of my texts to George. I'll be on the plane and be with you soon, Deo Valente. And guess what? God had other plans. And do you know what God's comment on this guy who wants to build the bigger barns or the guy who wants to go and have the little tryst on his business trip. That no one will see, no one will know. Whatever it is, verse 16 of James 4, as it is, James says, you boast. In your arrogance. That's not a good word. All such boasting is evil. That ain't a good word. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. Notice those four bad words, boast, arrogance, evil, and sin. That's not good. That's not a good thing And for the person who says, I can handle it. Don't worry. I got it all covered. It's all wired. Take heed, take heed. Or how about the next category? The I know myself only too well category This is the only acceptable one. This is the only right one. It's the only good one. Here's what you're saying. I know myself only too well. I know that if I have the casual glance, I know if there's the The I can handle it, any of those prior categories, we're toast if we think anything else other than I know myself only too well, and I can so easily slip into all kinds of sin if I'm not careful. Sin is a plague. Yes, the most infectious plague in the world, and yet how few are there that tremble at it, that keep a distance from it. Thomas Brooks and his wonderful book called Another Puritan. You ought to read this book. It's called Precious Remedies Against Satan's Devices. Now that's the shortened version of the title. The title's about a half a page long, which describes the contents of the book. And here's what he says, for eternity is where sin will be unmasked, its dress and robes will be taken off. And then you will see it, that is sin, for what it is, a vile, filthy, terrible evil, more evil than hell itself. That which formerly appeared most sweet will then appear most bitter. That which appeared most beautiful will appear most ugly, and that which appeared most delightful will then appear most dreadful to the soul. Man, if I knew that going into the sin, I wouldn't have done the sin. All that we're saying with these categories is this. If you want to be a living, holy, and acceptable sacrifice unto God, then here's Paul's plan. Do not allow the world to conform you to its mold. Right? Let's pray O Heavenly Father, we cannot, we will not, we should not, we must not see the world conform us to its mold. We have to work hard and diligently and preparedly and prayerfully To resist the temptations of the world. Oh, I pray for myself and I pray for my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ here. That whether we're talking about ourselves personally or we're trying to help others in the body, for discipling our children. If we're working our way through a group study, whatever it is, whatever context, we're always seeing sin lurk. Satan is always around, always willing and waiting to pounce upon us as a ravening wolf. seeking whom he may devour. A lion in the streets, ready to chew us up at any moment, at any time when he sees a weakness. And he seizes upon such a weakness, and he gains a foothold. We have to resist him. Standing firm. Resisting in the evil day. And this day is an evil day. And we ask, Heavenly Father, that if you want us to be a living, holy, and acceptable sacrifice, Which for us is our spiritual worship. We have to start out by resisting such a worldly conformity. Give us power. Give us strength. Give us your word. Give us your spirit. So that we would resist in the evil day. And allow us to be those who are refusing to be conformed to this world. Don't allow us to be schematized. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.