The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online. at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So uh well thanks again for for coming, uh for being here uh with us. Uh had a couple questions as uh as you were speaking and I know uh some of our uh our people here have had questions as well And we'll also try to get maybe a brief time after your message tomorrow to maybe do a little bit more Q<unk>A. But have one question based on your teaching from this morning. Uh what are the effects? Uh you spoke about the mercies of God. What are the effects of forgetting or diminishing the word of God in a believer's life? Or uh in other words, what What are the the dangers that we're in if we neglect to to meditate upon God's mercies? Great question. I think there's of course a good effect and a bad effect. The good effect, of course, is that we do have the mind of Christ based upon the mercies that have been extended to us. And so we have the ability now that we didn't have before, not in terms of the ability to think and be rational. But to do so now with the abiding Holy Spirit within us. That is huge. For instance, do we realize that in the Old Testament, unless it was a priest or a king or a prophet , that the Holy Spirit was not active in the way of the Old Testament as he now is in the New Testament age? Part of the New Covenant blessing, according to the book of Hebrews and several other places, even in the promises of the Old Testament. That the Holy Spirit would come and reside within us as the Church And within individual Christians in such a way that we have the Spirit of God resident within to teach us the truth of Scripture. And so that's what I meant by the Spirit of God and the Word of God working in concert with one another. In fact, I want to show you this. Turn in your Bibles to Ephesians. Chapter four excuse me, chapter five and I want to show you how, these are twin epistles, Colossians and Ephesians, and in Ephesians it tells us that according to What God is doing in our lives. In chapter 5, you know the section where it talks about being filled with the Spirit in Ephesians 5. 18? It says, backing up maybe to the context, verse 18, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery or excess But be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. So clearly, verses 18 and 19 are saying in Ephesians 5 that if you and I are filled with the Holy Spirit or controlled by the Holy Spirit, it will result in in the addressing of one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord with your heart And so the filling or the controlling of the Spirit of God is what he says there in Ephesians 5. Now turn over to Colossians chapter 3. In Colossians chapter 3, he has that same phraseology about singing with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You'll see it there listed in the latter part of verse 16, admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. But notice the change here. Look at the first phrase of verse 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms, etc. etc. So in one passage with these twin epistles, It's the Spirit of God be controlled by the Holy Spirit. In this passage of the twin epistle to the Colossians, it's not the Spirit of Christ controlling us, it's the word of Christ. controlling us. So in one context, it's the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ. In this context, it's the Spirit of the Word, the Word of Christ. And so I think Paul is telling both of these congregations in Ephesus and Colossae. that the two tools or instruments that God uses, one is a person, the Holy Spirit, and one is an inanimate object, the word, not a person. But even that word, according to Hebrews 4. 12, is living and active. Right? So you've got a person And an object or a tool. The person is the Spirit. The Word of God is this living and active agent whereby we're transformed in the renewing of our minds. So I would say that even unlike the Old Testament worshiper, in the New Covenant age, we actually have the resident truth teacher, the Holy Spirit, who takes his word. And he matures us in Christ. That's the good effect. The bad effect is that if I don't avail myself of the word, and if I'm not seeking to constantly walk, In the Spirit of God, then I'm going to be cranky and irritable and angry and upset And all the other sins that Paul talks about in his lists of sins, because I'm not walking in the Spirit, I'm not availing myself of the word of the Spirit. So the good effect, the Holy Spirit is inside me who is leading me to love his word. You say, his word? Yes, the Holy Spirit inspired the entire Word of God. Do you know that in Genesis 1, 2, the very second verse of our Bibles references the Holy Spirit, and the Spirit was hovering over the waters? So this Spirit, the Spirit of God, is actually for us so precious because in the New Covenant Age, he comes to reside within and he prompts us to love the Word of God. And when we are not availing ourselves of the Word of God, the bad part of that, the deleterious effects of that, is that I start to shrink spiritually. instead of expand spiritually. So that's kind of my message for the weekend. Our Christian mind in a mindless age will rise above the petty sins of the planet. So that we can be examples to others and that God draws others to us because we're the ones that are telling them where we found bread. The bread of life. Got another question for you. We uh talked about holiness and uh There's an an idea that's popular in Christianity that uh you can have people that are truly converted, you know, that are going to heaven but have no concern for holiness and you know something like this. It's you know it's Might be nice to tack on to an an already uh you know okay life. You know, we're we're we're already we love God, but you know, we're really not too concerned about you know growing in our our sanctification. Um uh how would you address somebody that that says, you know, hey, you know, all you need to do is just believe, you know, I believe in God, I love God. But I've uh as far as my life, you know, it doesn't really need to be examined and you know, don't judge me only God can judge me and you know uh You know, you guys are just uh too concerned about you know trying to dot every I across every T in your Christian life. How would you respond to somebody like that? My mind immediately went to Hebrews 12, 14. Holiness without which no one will see the Lord. If a person says they're a Christian But they're not pursuing holiness, however failingly, right? Because none of us are perfect in our pursuit of holiness, none of us. And I've heard others say, and it's true, it's not the perfection of your life that God is concerned with, but it is the direction of it. Now he's working in us to perfect us. So sometimes we'll take three steps forward and two steps backwards, right? But if our hope and our desire is for holiness, It means that the Spirit of God is continuing to work on us. And if there's a person, as Pastor George said, who's only concerned about the fire insurance , I've at least gotten out of hell, but I have no desire to be fit for heaven. Then you're not going there, no matter what you say. If a person says, I'm a Christian, and they're not growing , then that means that person's not a Christian. Regardless of what they say. Because without holiness, no one shall see the Lord. What God does when Christ comes into a life is to change that life. It's a package deal. Somebody who says, I can have Jesus as my Savior, but not as my Lord. is splitting the offices of Christ, His Saviorhood and His Lordship. And nobody who understands who Jesus really is, his mission, his preaching, his gospel. And what he does to believers, if they don't understand that you cannot split the offices of Christ, his saviorhood and his lordship, And you can say, I'll take one without the other, knows the true gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, in Mark chapter 1, the very first word of the gospel, as Jesus taught it, was repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The first word of the gospel is to repent. Repent means to turn. And it doesn't mean that that's a work in salvation. Christ did the work for salvation on the cross. But what he invites us to do is to believe and repent. So I place my faith in Christ and I turn from my sin, which means that for the rest of my life I'll continue to turn from my sin. Why? Because there's so much there. There's so much sin in my life that needs to be turned around. And that's what we mean by holiness. And without which I will not see the Lord. Hebrews 12, 14 Another question. I've got one more and we'll uh we'll take a break. But uh how do we maintain a circumspect lifestyle while avoiding the dangers of falling into legalism? So uh somebody could hear a teaching like this and, you know, that's right, you know, only the Bible, all the Bible, and you know, we'll be in church every time the doors are open. And uh if you're not, you know, you're not really following the Lord, uh so how how do we maintain a circumspect lifestyle that's striving to grow in our holiness while avoiding the dangers of legal eating? I think that legalism and license are two cousins. And they're both wrong and bad. If somebody is legalistically saying you've got to be in church every single time You gotta be there every time the door is open. You gotta do this, you gotta do this, you gotta don't do this, don't do this, stay away from that. And if their focus is on those things, to the neglect of others. They're creating nothing other than a Pharisee. So that what someone sees about that life is only the externals. On the other side of the road, there's a precipice on the other side, and that's license. That's somebody who believes that they're free to do anything. Just because they say I'm in Christ. I'm free in Christ. I have the liberty to do this or that. And usually that means that I'm involved in sinful practices and you can't tell me not to. So avoid those cousins at all cost. You say, well, how do I do that? Well, what you do is you get on your face before God and you say, I don't want to be a legalist. And I don't want to be licentious. Lord, you give me the middle road. You give me the middle path. And when you read your Bible with that prayer God will show you that legalism is wrong and being licentious is wrong, and I've got to find the middle ground, and your whole Christian life could be characterized. as always attempting to hit that middle place between the two extremes. I think those two extremes come from the same place, and that's satanic. Because people could measure our spirituality based on how many times we go to church, uh by how many books we've read, uh, by my daily Bible reading, if By my daily Bible reading, I'm checking a box. Right? Rather than saying in my heart I want to read God's Word every day, and it's because I want to have the mind of Christ, even if nobody else was looking. You know the essence of a person is who they are when no one else is looking? That's who they are in their hearts And if I knew only Christ as my audience, would I be who I am before him, even if nobody else figured it out? Now what God gives us, thankfully, is not just ourselves and Christ. He gives us each other. And so there are times when we're going to go down the legalistic trap. Where were you? Why aren't you serving? Why aren't you doing? And then sometimes we'll have some who say, hey, you can be involved in this. That's no problem. Enjoy. And in your conscience, you can't do that. So you always have to do your best to say, I've got to keep the main thing the main thing. And if I do that I'm gonna slip at times , into one or the other because we all do it. We all can judge other people for what they're doing or not doing And sometimes we do fall to the temptations that we see others doing or not doing. And so what we have to do is we have to say, I want to rely upon the Spirit of God, the Word of God, and the people of God. These three resources God has given me so that when I'm off base , I say, do you think I'm off base here? And if I am, mature godly people around me will help me figure that out They'll encourage me, they'll admonish me, they'll come alongside me and say, hey, brother, sister, I would encourage you to do it this way, and here are the passages that I think you should look at. And then you're helped If you have the opportunity to do it with them, you can help them by some of your seasoned wisdom. That's really what we're talking about. Biblical counseling, discipleship. Helping others in the body of Christ to be all that they can be, and then you availing yourself of their help when you're in need. That's why we've got to have each other. We've got to avail ourselves of each other and the collective wisdom, not just of pastors. You know that Paul said in Romans 15, 14 about the Romans. And remember I told you, he hadn't founded that church So it's not as though he birthed them spiritually and he's writing to them and he's visiting them and he's among them as their pastor. He was not. But here's what he said about them. Romans 15, 14. And I am confident, I have great conviction about this regarding you, that you are filled with all knowledge. You are full of goodness. That's moral goodness because you're now Christians. And you are now competent to counsel one another. Wow. He's not talking about the professional clergy. He's not talking about a guy who's gone to seminary. He says, among the believers in the fellowship. You are filled with all knowledge. That means you have the knowledge of the Word of God. You are filled with goodness. You have the moral rectitude to be able to be righteous in front of people. And you are able to admonish one another. Boy, what an opportunity in the body of Christ. Don't sell yourself short. Don't say, like some people say, well, I couldn't witness to others because I can't anticipate their objections. I'm not trained. I'm not ready. The Bible says that we are to be witnesses. even if we don't assume we're the greatest witness of all. Right? The Bible tells us that we need to know the Word of God In order to impart the Word of God. Well, I don't know that I know the Word of God enough to be able to tell somebody what they need to do. Look, I got problems in my own life. Right? I've got this splinter in in this log in my life, so I'm uh finding it difficult to look at the splinter in somebody else's eye Do not sell yourself short there. You probably have been so well taught from these brothers that you have well enough knowledge to come alongside brothers and sisters and to encourage them and to admonish them. We give ourselves far less credit at times than we really, really should have, and sometimes we give ourselves too much blame. When it's not our blame, it's what others are doing or not doing where we need to come alongside them. And if you came alongside, brothers and sisters, as a helper, even if you said something like this, look, I don't know a lot. But here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to tell you what I know, even if it's just barely above what you know. Because the what of what I know that's barely above what you know is what you currently don't know. Right? I mean just find somebody who knows less than you do and teach them what you know. And the reverse is also true. Find somebody who knows more than you do and ask them to teach you what they know. That's all discipleship is. That's all it is. I try to find out what I don't know by reading. I try to find out. You know, people say, man, you've got this massive library. You've got all of these books. And I say, it's only because there's so much I don't know. So I buy them so to know them by reading them so that I can turn around my whole life, all of my Christian life, from the time I was the first day of being a Christian until now. The Lord seems to have given me a ministry of telling people where they can find bread. Not just as a professional guy, just as a fellow Christian, fellow pilgrim. I mean George will call me on the phone or he'll email me or text me and say, give me a resource for X , X topic. And I'll see it as my bound duty to this brother to say, I don't know of anything right now, but I'll get back to you. Or I know of five books instantly. And I type them out for him and he buys them and he reads them or he gives them to others. And it's usually he has five for me. And it seems to be my ministry Seems to be one of the ministries of my life that God has given to me to be able to help believers with certain resources that explain the Word of God in really well instructed ways. It's a wonderful ministry, but I can't conduct it unless I know where they are. So I'm always searching and trying to find great resources, good readable books, so that people can say, hey, I'm really lacking assurance. Could you give me a resource on how to have greater assurance? Not only that Christ is mine, but I have greater assurance in terms of some of my doubts. All right, well here are five resources for you. And then you follow up with them. Did you read it? Sometimes they say, no. Then I say, were you really concerned about your assurance? Because you asked me, and I gave you the resources, and now you're saying you haven't read them. Maybe that's part of the reason why you're struggling with assurance. See? So if this brother, Pastor Matt, others are are asking you to be in a Bible study, asking you to be in a small group, asking you to be working with them in ministry. Man, jump on that with all force and say, I want to be involved because I found the greater ministry experiences you have. Is the greater growth you'll receive from God. Because people are counting on you to tell them what they don't know and they assume you know it. So work hard on your Christian lives so that by the time you're done, your kids, your grandkids, your friends, your fellow church members will say, They gave their all to me. I could not have asked for a better friend. They prayed with me, they taught me, they gave their all to me, and I'm so grateful to the Lord for a friend like that. Boy, what a great friend. A friend like that sticks closer than a brother, right? Praise God. Final question. How many books do you own? My wife says, according to our budget, too many. I don't know, probably fourteen thousand. My wife is so gracious that this house that we just moved into a couple years ago She was so gracious to move all of the stuff that would normally go in a garage into a shed behind the garage so that I could have a three-car garage library. So I bought literal library shelves from a good friend who is a library buyer. Who buys whole libraries. Like say a Bible college that goes out of business and they're looking to sell their library. He buys the entire library and then he sifts through it for all the best resources. And then he sells those those resources to a new school that's starting. It's a fascinating business. George knows who that brother is. And so I went to him because he's a friend and I said, I need library shelves. So I purchased, I don't know how many library shelves. And then I had some brothers, some friends who put them all together, and because we live in California, We have to tether them to each other and then we have to tether them to the to the top of the garage for earthquake purposes. And These brothers served me so well that if you walked into that garage, you would have row after row after row after row of library books So that when people come to me and say, what about a book on dot dot dot? I say, let me go to my library and I'll find you a resource. And some people have joked with me, have you read all these and sometimes I say some of them even twice? To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.