Uh thanks for setting us up well with uh talking about the uh uh the old man and that's actually one question uh that I had for you, the idea that uh Christians have both an old man and a new man. uh is a uh a popular concept. You know, a lot of uh you know popular teachers talk about you know the the Christian having both an old man and a new man uh as a as a redeemed uh person and uh you know often like the uh the illustration that's given is you know it's like you have the black dog and the white dog and whoever you say sick em two wins and right you know so you have the old man that's fighting against the the new man. So uh uh Two questions. Where where does that idea really come from? And uh what difference does it make uh that we as Christians understand that uh as redeemed people that we are now a new man and that the old man is is dead. Why do why does that make a difference? Yeah, I don't know if I can uh off the cuff thoroughly answer where that kind of old man, new man within us comes from thoroughly, but part of it is the misunderstanding of the New Testament language of the flesh. As if the flesh is some separate entity that's within us that's different from uh uh who we are, when in reality the flesh is just talking about our human weakness that is affected by our sinful thinking. And so really, as we saw in Ephesians 4, the issue is not that we've got the old man in us anymore. In fact, there in Ephesians 4, it's interesting. It says in verse 22, it says to put off your old self. A better translation would be, you have put off your old self which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires and and you have been renewed in the spirit of your mind. So so there the the apostle Paul describes it as that that old self, that old man is gone and what you have is not uh uh the old unbelieving identity within you in some kind of schizophrenic spiritual way, but what you have is just the residual ways of thinking, those patterns of thought that have been infected by and influenced by the sin. in your life. And so living in a fallen world, we're going to continue to to struggle with that. And I think a lot of times the uh the the desire to create this kind of dichotomy between I got the I got the demon on one shoulder and the angel on the other shoulder and it all depends on who I listen to kind of way of thinking through the Christian life I I think it's an unhelpful way of trying to describe this internal battle that we all understand. I mean when I talk about that internal battle Romans 7 kind of thing. Why do I do the things that I don't want to do? But the things I want to do, I don't do. We understand what Paul's talking about with that. Uh but here's the here's besides the fact that I think it's biblically accurate, here's uh an important implication of understanding we don't have that old man anymore. We might be influenced by old ways of thinking, but we don't have the old man anymore. And here's why it's important for us to recognize that. It's because it means we don't have to obey that temptation. anymore. What we just saw about the old man is he is completely enslaved, right? The old man has to obey sin. When sin comes a call in, the old man always picks up the phone. Uh we're new creatures in Christ Jesus. You might sin. Actually you do sin. I I don't know you, but I know you do, because I I do and the scriptures tell us we all do. But here's the thing that is wonderfully freeing and encouraging as we battle sin is You don't have to. You're not a slave to sin anymore. Old man, complete slave to sin. New man, free in Christ. You might revert back to those old ways of thinking. You might succumb to temptation. But the great thing is you don't have to. You don't have to. In a lot of pastoral counseling situations. uh I found that that people just wanna believers want to act almost as if they're old men, old women. And Yeah, wow, you know, the temptation was just strong, so strong I just had to do it. Well, okay, I know the temptation was strong, but no, you did not have to do it if you had the spirit within you. And um so I I think also it helps us if I always have if this idea of I always have the old man and I always have the spirit within me and always waging war and I exist in these two worlds at one time If that's my internal reality, uh then how how do I how do I beat that? How do I beat that? What you're gonna find through your study in this conference when when when Lance gets here is that the reality is it's the renewal of the mind that leads to our spiritual growth and and making us more effective worshipers of Christ. Christ. And that's because it's the old ways of thinking. And and those we can deal with those. We can inform those with biblical truth. If I've just got these two, you know, uh beings within me, old man and new man, and what what am I trying to do? Just kind of constantly quell this powerful old man all the time, it doesn't leave room for a lot of growth. And uh so to think of it as, look, our minds have been affected by this, these old patterns of thought that we've got to sanctify and deal with in this life that at least provides us with uh a biblical prescrip uh prescription for how to deal with that struggle that some people are trying to I don't know if that answers the question, but when you don't know the answer right off the cuff, you just keep talking long enough and hopefully uh I don't know about that, but let me tell you about what I do know. That's usually how it how it works. So um and that that actually kind of uh ties into my my next question. Um how does a person distinguish Whether or not they are still an old man and uh just kind of following the desires uh that they have and the kind of you know normal inclinations of their heart. How do they distinguish between that and a Christian who's genuinely struggling with, you know, sin and temptation? How do they know like am I an old man that's still following those old patterns or am I a new man but I'm still dealing with you know, temptations and the the the residual effects of of sin. How do they know which which side they're on? Yeah. That's uh I mean that's a that's a significant question in the life of a lot lot of believers and I don't think there's any pat answer because everybody's situation is a little bit different. Really what we're talking about is the issue of assurance. How can I have assurance that I am in Christ Jesus. And uh 1 John, of course, talks a lot about that, a lot about the fruits that you will see as a new creature in Christ Jesus. as a true son or daughter of God. And so you see 1 John work through that, so that's a great place to study through and go through 1 John. John. But assurance, salvation, the certainty of our salvation is , or I should say the basis of our salvation is the work of Christ. And there is no other basis. But as we more and more obey Christ, it doesn't improve our salvation, but it does increase our assurance. of salvation. And you know, if if you are battling with the issue of assurance, then uh it's an issue of increasing your faith and increasing your obedience if you want to see more. Assurance. Now you're not going to be more saved by believing more and obeying. If you put your faith in Christ, you're a believer. But the only way to examine that faith and see if that faith is genuine and true is if it's proven Over time and through obedience. And that's part of what Christ was talking about when he said you'll know them by their fruits. Over time and obedience, are you increasing in these new inclinations? Is your submission to the Lord? It will not be perfect, but is it progressing? Do you see fruits in your life that can only be characterized by the fruit of the Spirit? These are things that often take time and close pastoral uh uh encouragement and help and oversight. So I'm throwing a back on George to really work through these issues of assurance. But the only basis for salvation is if you're here and you're not a believer, you need to look to Christ and be saved. You need to put your faith in him. If you're here and you think you may be a believer, or maybe not, because you're battling some sin, you need to start fighting that sin. And if you go to war with that sin and you can't beat it, then maybe you're not a believer and you need to put your faith in Christ. If you go to war with that sin and you're seeing fruit and victory, then the only way that's possible is if you have the Spirit of Christ within you. So now all of a sudden you're growing in assurance. So a lot of times , here's a long answer again to a short question. A lot of times I see this in pastoral ministry. People will come to me and say, well, I'm not sure if I'm a believer or not. Okay, well what's what sin are you battling that makes you think that? I'm battling XYZ sin. Okay, let's go to war with that sin and see what happens. If there's no victory over it, then that shows us where we gotta go. You gotta repent and believe. But if you start seeing growth, then you're gonna have more assurance. And a lot of times the answer is Yeah, I I just don't know if I'm a believer. I don't know if I can battle that sin. I don't know if I'm not a believer or not. And really the issue is they just don't want to do that. They don't want to do it. So a lot of times Uh believers will hide behind the veneer of no assurance just so they don't have to do the hard work of battling sin. So a lot of times the only way to work through these issues of assurance is to go right after the cause. What whatever it is that's causing your lack of assurance, then you get with other m more mature believers You're pastors, you get in God's truth, and you go over it go after that issue. You go after that issue. We've got a guy in our church, he's actually an elder now, who is great on this issue of assurance. In fact, I wish he was here now. So I could pass this question along to him. George didn't say anything about a QA when he said, Hey bro, can he preach? Yeah. But what are friends for? That's right. But but he would actually say he struggled at one point in his life with assurance And he said, man, if you truly are battling with a lack of assurance, you'll go after that. Because if you think you might die and go to hell that very day, and and there's any spiritual life in you, you're going to want to go after that. You're going to want to go after that. So maybe if that describes you, lack of assurance, am I an old man or new man? Um don't let it fester. Don't let it fester. Whatever it is that's causing your lack of assurance, use Start going after that, praying through it, open up God's word to the truth, get pastoral counsel through that, and work through it to see what fruit the Lord produces Yeah, I love uh what Spurgeon said. He said I can understand a man not having assurance of his salvation. He says what I can't understand is a man who's comfortable with not having assurance of his salvation. He says, How can you give sleep to your eyes? eyelids. That's right. Knowing that you don't know the the condition of your soul before a holy God. So uh That's why sometimes I think either somebody who doesn't have a spirit is not a believer, that's why they can do that or somebody who doesn't have assurance it's because they kinda want to hide behind that so they don't have to give up that little pocket sin that they like to hold close to. So Yeah. So another question kind of on the uh we talked about uh the residual sin in a in a believer's life, um and you explained that as the uh uh the remaining or lingering effects of of sin. Yeah. Uh on the other side, how do you explain virtue in a non-believer's life. We can explain, you know, this is where you know sin comes from in a in a believer, but where do where do where do we find goodness and virtue? Yeah, you know, how do we explain that in a in an unbeliever? Yeah. Well uh you know, we we would of course uh affirm the doctrine of total depravity, but that doesn't mean that every unbeliever, every sinner is as bad as they possibly can it could be. It means that every part of a of a person is affected by sin. Uh so it's not total in the sense that you are totally doing everything as badly, as rebelliously as you possibly could. It's total in the sense that every part of you is affected. So that's that's part of it what we need to understand. But in terms of explaining, well what how do we explain when an unbeliever does something that is good or virtuous? Well, uh part of that is from common grace. The Lord will put a restraining grace even on an unbeliever to restrain them from doing wickedly, uh doing something wicked. I think of just on the top of my head uh with Abimelech when he took Sarah or was it Sarai at that time, I don't remember, but uh uh Because Abraham said, This is my sister. And the Lord, you know, as far as we know, restrained this pagan king from from acting on sinful what would have been sinful. And uh so the Lord can do a by his common grace restrain uh sin in the life of an unbeliever Uh that's part of what you see in Romans chapter one. You know, believer hand uh an unbeliever hands himself over to something and the Lord just affirms that and hands them over as well. So um so the opposite of that is the Lord can do uh a restraining work. Also, we we are created in the image of God. And the Lord did put as a part of what we would call general revelation, he did give each individual created in his image a conscience. Now, you know, a life of sin will sear your conscience and leave you calloused and hardened to sin. But every individual created in the image of God, which is to say every human being, who's ever lived, has received from the Lord a conscience to warn them of sin. Now, ultimately an unbeliever suppresses the truth that his conscience is trying to push him back to. and defiles his conscience and has a seared conscience. But the Lord can through that general revelation protect from sin and even lead to some virtuous acts. But I would add this one last point is that even a virtuous act done by an unbeliever is not ultimately good because it's not done in worship to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. It's not done in submission to Christ. It's done for some other uh motive. Um but on the outside it can look good and virtuous, and certainly we have good neighbors who are unbelievers who do kind things. And um um and and that that would be how I would explain that. Uh one more question. So the uh the idea of fellowship with God is an important concept and uh Uh you spoke about you know the the unbeliever being alienated uh from from God. Yeah uh so the the idea of of the believer having fellowship you know with God is an important concept. John talks about that a lot in 1 John, that idea of a fellowship with God, being the uh you know the privilege uh you know of a believer. But how do you explain, you know, maybe that that feeling of distance, you know, that a believer uh might have, you know, some You know, again, some people, you know, who aren't maybe as careful, say that, you know, your fellowship is broken with God because you've sinned. But um how how would you explain just the the distance that a believer might feel because they've indulged in a in a sin? Yeah. Well, there's a difference between being alienated from God and having a guilty conscience. You're either in Christ or you're not in Christ. And there's no, you know, tiptoeing back and forth between the two. Um and so as believers, we are in Christ. And nothing that's an that's an unbreakable union in our fellowship with God as we result is unbreakable. In fact, the end of Romans 8 makes this exact point. What can separate us from the love of God which is ours in Christ Jesus? Nothing. I mean there's a whole list that he gives You know, you know height, depth, and angel, you know, all those things. But at the end of the day, I'm summarizing, nothing. What can separate us from God? Nothing. Why? Because we're in Christ Jesus. And so for for God to cease Loving us, for the Father to cease loving us, he would have to cease loving the Son, which is never going to happen. Never going to happen. We're in Christ. And so nothing can break that union. However, you can feel far from God for a number of times. of reasons. One is weak faith. If you've ever been praying before and you just say, wow, that was an amazing time of prayer. Then you go back to pray another time and you're like, wow, that was was dry. Well the problem is is is not that God changed. God didn't change. God isn't farther from you. Really the the issue is In all likelihood, one time you went to pray and your faith was particularly strong that day and focused that day, and then the other day you went to pray and your faith was weak. And that explains that feeling that you had. Another thing that can make you feel far from God is a guilty conscience and sin. And sin. God will withhold the benefits and the blessings of fellowship with Him as a discipline when you're in sin. But that doesn't mean the fellowship is gone. That doesn't mean a fellowship of God. If he's disciplining you, it's because he loves you and because he's still in fellowship with you. And you can only be in eternal fellowship with God if if you're made holy. That's what he's doing now. with us. That's what sanctification is. So I I think the the last thing I would say to add to that is just your feelings don't tur determine reality. Your feelings don't determine reality. And whenever you're feeling something like that, you feel far from God. Rather than just say, I feel far from God, I guess I am far from God. What you really need to do is you really need to investigate those feelings because God has designed our feelings to be a fruit and an indicator of what's going on within us. So our feelings were never meant to be the drivetrain of our spiritual life. The feelings are are kind of the external fruits, if you will, even though there's an internal component to it. But you feel angry. Well, you need to explore that. Why do you feel angry? Well James 4 says because you wanted something and didn't get it. So explore that. You feel far from God. Well don't just Don't just say, well, I mean, I don't know, I guess I'm far from God. No, you you start going into your heart and saying, well, why why did I feel far from God? Why did I feel or you feel anxious? You feel anxious. Well, why did you feel anxious? You start investigating that. Don't just accept your feelings as determinative and unchangeable. God is deterministic and unchangeable. Your feelings are not. And he's giving you those feelings to be the really the the result of how you're thinking and how you're believing. How you're thinking and how you're believing will result in how you're feeling. Now, a lot of times what happens is it's so closely related that it happens so intuitively that we just automatically feel something. And so the feeling almost fe i it seems to be automatic because the thought and the belief system behind it are so ingrained in us that we just immediately went to that feeling of fear, anxiety, whatever it might be. But whenever you're in those situations, you've got to really stop peel back the heart of what's going on in your life and say, wait a minute, those feelings aren't self-generating. Those feelings are the fruit of something going on in my thinking and in my belief in my heart. And so I need to prayerfully and with God's word open before me start to dig through and And start to examine those feelings. Why do I feel far from God? And then try to pin those back to objective answers from the truth of Scripture. Amen. Well though the you can tell the well is deep over here. So uh uh one of the reasons I really enjoy talking with Paul, you know, we'll get on the phone occasionally and and talk through different issues. One of the reasons I really enjoy talking to him is because he's such a clear thinker and a clear communicator. So uh definitely thank you again, brother, for uh for being here with us. Honored. And uh I I can't think of a better way to spend a a Friday night than to gather together with the guys' people and hear guys' word, or I had a few others planned, but this was better. Yes. It was all It was if the family was here it would have been like the icing on the cake. It was gonna be futility and instead we got some renewing of the mind for me. So thank you for sanctifying me. Oh yeah, that that was gonna be the n thanks for the reminder. So if you guys are interested again, uh the book is called The Irony of the Cross The Irony of the Cross. You can find it on Amazon. And like I said, I was kind of thumbing through it today. Fantastic book. It's uh like I said, the chapters are really short. You can work through it as a devotional, maybe with your family. It's got uh questions at the back so you can work through and just kind of um drill the truth truth down even deeper into your heart. But uh uh fantastic book, The Irony of the Cross by uh Paul Shirley. So you can look for it on Amazon. And uh what I'm going to do is uh go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this time that we've had together. Uh Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. For those of us who are believers, Lord, we thank you that we're not the old man anymore, that you've uh created us anew , that we're a new people in Jesus Christ. uh that will never be separated from your love. And uh even as uh uh Paul shared tonight that uh the only way for uh God the Father to remove his love from from us Father, we thank you that we're we're secure in in our salvation because of what Christ has done, because of the indwelling Holy Spirit. And Father, we pray that uh we would no longer look back uh to the uh to the old ways of life. Uh Father, that those uh patterns of of life that we used to have, uh Lord, wouldn't linger into this uh this new life that we have now in Christ. Uh Father, that uh those of us who've been made alive, Lord, that uh that we wouldn't look back again to the to the weak and beggarly elements anymore, Lord, the things that uh we had no pleasure in, uh no no lasting pleasure in, Lord, the things that were of uh no lasting value. Father, I pray that we'd find our our true life, Lord, and the things that are the the most valuable Lord. And uh that our minds would be anchored to your word. Uh Father, we uh pray for the f fellowship that we uh have tonight, Lord, and uh look forward to uh the remainder of our conference tomorrow. And uh we thank you that Alliance uh uh made his way here safely, and uh pray that uh you would be glorified in all things. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.