The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Psalms? We're going to take a look at Psalm 91 and just in light of some of the things that our congregation is Enduring and going through, I thought it would be appropriate that we take a look at the psalm and direct our attention to it. This is a psalm That is a psalm of trust. It reminds us of who our God is. It reminds us of the place that we can go to for refuge. He is our fortress. He's the God in whom we trust. We dwell under his shelter and under his wings, and we're grateful that we have a faithful, faithful God that we can turn to. Uh a number of years ago we've uh heard the term shelter in place and I've often asked, you know, shelter, what shelter and in what place The place that we shelter in is in our God as believers. So let's just start by reading Psalm 91, and then we'll jump in to our text together. Does he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty? I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust. For it is he who delivers you from the snare of the trapper, from the deadly pestilence, he will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you may seek refuge His faithfulness is a shield and a bulwark. You will not be afraid of the terror by night, or of the arrow that flies by day, of the pestilence that stalks in darkness, or of the destruction that lays waste at noon A thousand may fall at your side and ten thousand at your right hand, but it shall not approach you. You only look on with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked For you have made the Lord my refuge, even the Most High, your dwelling place. No evil will befall you, nor will any plague come near your tent For he will give his angels charge concerning you, to guard you in all your ways, they will bear you up in their hands that you do not strike your foot against a stone. You will tread upon the lion and the cobra, the young lion and the serpent, you will trample down. Because he has loved me, therefore I will deliver him, I will set him securely on high. Because he has known my name, he will call upon me and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him with a long life. I will satisfy him and let him see my salvation Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, as we come to this text, Father, I pray that you would open up our understanding of these things Father, we're grateful for a word that is appropriate in every situation, every circumstance. Father, you know exactly what we need, and Father, we're grateful that uh your word is sufficient for every need. Now, Father, we pray that as we open up your word today, that you would give us understanding, and Father, that you would speak to us through it, and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen Let me just start by giving you an overview of this beautiful, beautiful psalm. Just take a look at some of the features of the psalm. Listen to the titles that are used to refer to God. God is called in verse 1 the Most High, the Hebrew term Elian, the one who is sovereign, the one who is master, who has lordship, authority over all the universe, over every individual. God is called the Almighty. He's called Shaddai. Some of you know that term, El Shaddai. We've heard that term before, but he's the all-powerful, he's the omnipotent God. He's capable of doing anything. God has called the Lord in verse 2, and that's the the covenant name of God, Yahweh, the covenant-keeping God, the one who is committed to relationship to his people, who has made promises to his people that he will fulfill He's called my God in verse 2. Elohim. That's the title that's used for God as creator. He's the supreme God, the only God, and the psalmist makes it personal and he says that he is my God. I'm personally related to him. I've trusted in him and in him alone. Listen to these pictures or illustrations that are used for God. In verse 1, he's called a shelter. We will dwell in his shelter. He is our protection from the elements. It also lets us know that we abide under his shadow in verse 1, which means that he's above us, that he protects us even from the scorching. He He's our refuge mentioned three times verse two, verse four, verse nine. He's a safety from our enemies who would pursue us He's our fortress in verse two, a protection from military attack. He's like a protective bird who defends us from the predators. He covers us with his pinions, with his wings. He's our shield in verse 4. He's our bulwark in verse 4, both speaking about defense against military attacks, both military ideas, and he's our salvation in verse 16. He rescues us from danger. And then listen to the kinds of dangers that our God rescues believers from. The snare of the trapper, verse 3. The deadly pestilence, verse 3. The terror by night, verse five, the arrow by day, verse five, pestilence in the dark, verse six, destruction at noon, verse six, recompense of the wicked, verses seven and eight. Evil, verse 10, the plague, verse 10, striking your foot against the stone, verses eleven and twelve, the lion, verse 13, the cobra, verse 13, the young lion and the serpent, all in verse 13. Like I said, this Islam is broad. It refers to all kinds of dangers, toils, and snares that the Lord protects us from. I remember that line from Amazing Grace, through many dangers, toils, and snares, I have already come. 'Tis grace has brought me safe thus far, and grace will do what? Lead me home. He will lead me all the way home. And listen to the ways that God protects his children. Verse 3, he delivers us. Verse 4, he covers us. Verse 11, he gives his angels charge concerning us. Verse 14, he sets us securely on high. Verse 15, he answers our prayers. Verse Also speaking in verse 15, he will be with us. He rescues us, he honors us. Verse 16, he satisfies us with long life and he lets us see his salvation. And this is the God that you've placed your trust in if you are a believer. This is the kind of God that you have. This is the kind of just broad-reaching God that you have, and there may be no better psalm to turn to. When you find yourself in a place of danger, then this psalm. This is like a one-size-fits-all kind of psalm. But sadly, there have been those who've made reference to the psalm who are completely unhelpful in their comments. And to borrow the language of the Apostle Paul, I would say that they've shipwrecked the faith of some. There's prosperity preachers who've taught that no danger can ever come near your household if you're a believer. If you just have enough faith, you can ward off any any kind of disaster that would approach you. I've listened to one teacher who said, no disease can even enter your household if you're a true believer. But is this what Psalm 91 is teaching us? Is Psalm 91 a promise that the believer will never experience disease or disaster or face death? Is that what Psalm 91 is saying? And maybe if you've read this Psalm in isolation from its historical and biblical context, maybe that's an interpretation you could walk away with. And you may wonder why isn't it right to interpret the Psalm this way? Number one, first of all, it wouldn't make sense of what we know historically. When it makes sense of what we know historically, many believers who have trusted in God and have made God their dwelling place still suffer greatly. We have a whole book of the Bible dedicated to one such believer. Job 1 verse 1, there was a man in the land of Uz, and his name was Job. An entire book dedicated to a believer who made God his dwelling place, who trusted in the Lord. He's known as a faithful man, but still he suffered greatly. Believers can suffer greatly. And out of all the believers who have ever lived, every one of them eventually died. Nobody went through life without having to suffer some kind of end and termination to their life on this side of eternity. Something took them out. Whether it was disaster or disease, they're no longer with us. Believers experience disaster, disease, and even death. It's also contextually not what this psalm means to say that true believers never experience any of these things. Doesn't make sense for uh in the immediate context. Let's take a look at uh Psalm ninety one again. Again, we mentioned that this Psalmist is broad. It it covers so much And we don't know who who wrote the Psalm. There's a tradition in the Greek translation of the Old Testament that says that Psalm 91 is a praise Psalm of David, but that's not included in the text itself. So we do have just some understanding of that this might have been a Psalm of David, but we're not sure. But what we do have is Psalm 90 and Psalm 91 are paired together. Psalm 90 and Psalm 91, and actually when you take a look at the way that the Psalms are paired together, Psalm 90 and Psalm 91 would have been the first Psalm that we would have reached in one of the sections of the Psalms. Historically, the book of the Psalms has been divided up into five sections. Psalm 1 through 41, 42 to 72. 73 to 89, 90 to 106, and 107 to 150. There was groupings of Psalms together, and they all ended with a similar refrain about blessing the Lord. May the Lord be praised forever and ever. There's a praise that comes on the end of every one of these Psalms, the sections of the Psalms. So Psalm 90 and 91 would have introduced us to a new section. If you look back at verse in Psalm 89 , it ends with this doxology, Blessed be the Lord forever and ever. Amen and amen. It's an ending of one section of the Psalms, and it starts into Psalm 90, and Psalm 90 introduces us to a historical context. Psalm 90, we do have a superscription. It's a prayer of Moses, the man of God. And what we find in Psalm 90 is that Moses is seeing a lot of death as he's wandering through the wilderness. Take a look at verse three. He says, You turn man back into dust and say, Return, O children of men You know, as we've said before, you know, ashes to ashes and dust to dust is actually a biblical term. It's estimated that some two million Israelites perished in the forty years of wandering through the wilderness. That's roughly 140 funerals every day. Moses is speaking out of the context of death, seeing people return back to the dust. People are dying all around him. But listen to what Moses says, even in the face of the death that he's experiencing in the wilderness. Take a look at verse 1. What does he say? Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Lord, you're our dwelling place. Even though we see so much devastation, even though we see so much death around us, Lord, you're still our dwelling place. Death does not change who your God is Just because you face disease or disaster or even death, it does not change who your God is that we can still find shelter under the wings of the Almighty And that's a good thing to remember because Psalm 91 opens up with the same kind of description of who God is. Verse 1: He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High. God is our dwelling place. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High. Psalm 90 and Psalm 91 belong together as a pair, and even if you find yourself wandering in the wilderness and facing many dangers, toils, and snares, it does not mean that God is no longer your dwelling place. But there's another connection that scripture makes between Psalm 91 and trials in the wilderness and the afflictions that we face. And for this one, flip over to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter 4. In the book of Matthew, we find Jesus in the wilderness. Jesus has just been fasting for 40 days, which really reminds us of the 40 years that Israel spent in the wilderness. And at the end of forty days of fasting, Satan tries to get Jesus to doubt the provision of his father. You know, make food for yourself. Why don't you make your own bread? Satan tries to get Jesus to doubt the protection of the Father. Let's see if the Father will really protect you. Why don't you jump off of the temple and see if he'll protect you from hitting the rocks? Satan tries to get Jesus to doubt the promotion of the Father. I mean, uh if you if you if you really want the kingdom, all you have to do is bow down and worship me and I'll just give it to you. I'll wait on your father to do that. I can do that right here and right now But Satan also quotes from Scripture to Jesus. I mean, this is like the worst move you could possibly make, is to try to quote Scripture to the one who authored Scripture. But here you have Satan, he's going to use Scripture against Jesus. Satan knows the Bible, by the way. He just uses it out of context. But Matthew chapter 4, take a look at verse 5. It says, Then the devil took him into the holy city and had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple, and he said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you. And on their hands they will bear you up so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Sound familiar? It's actually what we find in Psalm 91. To make Jesus question God's protection of him, he uses Psalm 91. And basically Satan is saying, you know, if God is really a provider and protector, what are you doing out here in the wilderness like this? Why doesn't anybody recognize you as the king that you say that you are? You know, if if if God is really going to protect you, why don't you test it out? See if he'll pick you up if you throw yourself down. See if he stops you from hitting against the stones. But is this how the scripture applied to Jesus that he was supposed to put himself in some danger that he would never face any kind of danger? I mean what we do what do we know about Jesus? We know about Jesus that uh he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Isaiah 53. Jesus would be betrayed into the hands of sinful men and crucified. We know that Jesus was right now in the wilderness, he's weak, he's hungry, he suffered from hunger, thirst, fatigue. Eventually Jesus would even die. So how did Psalm 91 apply to Jesus? Did Jesus avoid every danger? And I think that really what Matthew chapter 4 gives us is an answer to how is God a dwelling place? For us as believers, looking at how was he a dwelling place for Jesus Christ? Look at Matthew chapter 4 and verse 1. It says, then Jesus was led up by the Spirit. into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. How is Jesus here in the wilderness? He was there by the Provenance of the Spirit of God. He was led into this the wilderness by the Spirit. What Jesus endured was by the will of God. And if you find yourself in a trial right now, you don't need to doubt that God is still sovereignly in control of even that wilderness experience Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. And just because he was experiencing the afflictions of life did not mean that God was no longer his dwelling place. He was actually perfectly trusting in God even at this moment. Find another example of Jesus entrusting himself to his father in Luke chapter 22, verse 44, being in agony, he was praying fervently, sweat became like drops of blood falling to the ground. Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7, it speaks about this time of crying out to God. It says that in the days of his flesh, Hebrews 5 and verse 7, he offered up prayers and supplications with loud crying and tears to the one who was able to save him from death. And then he went a little beyond them, Matthew 26, 39, fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will, but as you will. Jesus provides us with an answer of how to understand Psalm 91, when Jesus prays not as I will, but as you will Jesus was recognizing that the only harm that it would ever befall him would be that which his father willed for his life He was trusting in his Father. He gave us an example of entrusting himself to a God who judges righteously. And we can rest in the confidence that any affliction we suffer is by the will of a good God. And the will of a God who judges righteously. For his entire life, Jesus found his dwelling place in the shelter of the Most High, who's protected from Herod. Jesus was able to sleep in the middle of a storm. Jesus was able to walk through a hostile crowd in Nazareth that tried to throw him over a cliff. Jesus was dwelling in the shadow of the Almighty, dwelling in his Father's care. But we also see Jesus hungering and thirsting in the wilderness, being a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and eventually submitting himself to the cross. And all the while still dwelling in the shelter of the Most High. It's dwelling underneath the shelter of the Most High that Psalm 91 really points us to. It does not promise that we will never experience dangers, disease, disasters, death, but it does remind us that any time that we have been delivered, there's only one God who's done that. And if we do find ourselves in any trouble, it's one God who's willed that. And we can trust in God during these times. God has never changed and will never change, and we need no other shelter but the one that He's provided for us. The theme of this Psalm is the shelter that we find in God. It's actually mentioned twice in this Psalm in verse 1, back in Psalm 91, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High. Again, it's mentioned in verse 9. For you, Lord, you have made the Lord my refuge, even the Most High your dwelling place. Same concept is found in Psalm 90. Lord, you have been our dwelling place And actually if you look ahead into Psalm ninety-two and verse thirteen, it speaks about being planted in the house of the Lord, they will uh those who are planted in the house of the Lord, they will flourish in the courts of our God. Again, it's speaking about God as a a dwelling place. But how is it that we dwell in God? When the Bible speaks about God as our dwelling place, I mean how do I how do I enter into that dwelling place? How do I abide in God? How do I know the location? You know, God doesn't have a zip code. It's not like I can use a GPS to find out how do I abide in God. But the psalmist gives us the answer to that question. In Psalm 1 and verse 2, it says, I will say to the Lord, my refuge, my fortress, my God, in whom I do what? Trust. It's my God in whom I trust. Actually, 91 verse 2. I will say to the Lord, my refuge and my fortress, my God in whom I trust. To take refuge in God. It's to trust in God. To dwell in God is to trust in God. And actually the Psalms use those concepts synonymously. If you flip over to Psalm 118. Psalm 118. Take a look at verse 8 of Psalm 118. Just see how the terms refuge and trust are used interchangeably here. Psalm 119, look at verse 8. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in man. It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to trust in princes. So refuge and trust are used interchangeably. It's like, do you take refuge in God or are you trusting in man? Basically, it's saying, where is your trust? Who are you trusting in? Are you are you trusting in uh those who are above you? Are you trusting in the authorities? Are you trusting in the Lord? To take refuge means to trust. And if you're trusting in the Lord today, this is where you already live. You're already abiding in God. You're already dwelling in God. You don't need to pull out a map. You already live there. You're dwelling in his shelter, you're abiding under his shadow, and all these benefits belong to you. Similar concepts we find in the New Testament about Christ. being our dwelling place that were found in Christ. 1 Peter 5. 14, peace be to you who are in Christ. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 1. Paul writes to the saints who are in Ephesus, those who are faithful in Christ Jesus. All the benefits that we have are found connected to Christ. We're united to Him. And this is what the psalmist does here. He speaks about all the blessings that belong to us because we're united to God. And there's uh three major movements or divisions in the psalm. First of all, in verses 1 and 2, the psalmist makes a personal declaration of praise. Praising this God who is his dwelling place. He uses the words I, my, uh, to speak about his personal trust in God In verse 2, he says, I will say to the Lord, my refuge, my fortress, my God, in whom I trust. Have you ever had anybody try to sell you something that they didn't use themselves? You ever been to a restaurant and you asked, you know, uh the the waiter, you know, hey, you know, what what what what's good on the menu? You know, what what what do you like here? They say, oh actually I don't eat here. Well, maybe I shouldn't be eating here. You know, you're working here and you don't eat the food? You know, or somebody says, uh, you know, if if I ever get sick, you know, don't take me to that hospital. And sometimes they work there. You know, don't take me there if I get sick, you know, because they're not personally trusting in what they're saying that they're endorsing. But but here you have the psalmist, he says, God is my refuge. I'm telling you to take shelter under the same place that I'm taking shelter. This is the God that is my refuge. So the psalmist is not trying to sell us something that he's not using himself. He says, this is where my confidence is placed. Next in verses 3 to 13, we have this promise of personal protection. The psalmist uses the pronouns you and your to now say that you can see God being your refuge as well. He can be your shelter. And verse 3, for it is he who delivers you from the snare of the trapper and from the deadly pestilence. You can find this rest in God. You can find personal protection in him. And then in verses 14 to 16, there's this personal pronouncement from God, because in verse 15, now God is like he picks up the pen and starts writing himself. He says, He will call upon me. And I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will rescue him and honor him. So now you have this personal pronouncement. From God Himself. So let's take a look at the first point here, the personal declaration of praise to God. Look at verses 1 and 2 again. Verse 1. It says, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. God is the dwelling place for those who seek shelter in him And the idea is that God himself is the covering that we seek shelter in. God is personally our protection. And just to bring out the significance of this idea, one commentator translated this verse Whoever makes his home in the covering of the Most High, in the shadow of the Shaddai, finds his lodging. The idea is that God Himself is the covering. God is the shelter. It's not that God builds a shelter somewhere and says, hey, you can go over here. God says, no, the shelter is me. I am the shelter. And that's the same idea that's brought out in verse 2. I will say to the Lord, My refuge, my fortress. God is the one who becomes the fortress. He becomes the refuge for us to dwell in. Same idea is actually brought out in verse 4. He will cover you with his opinions. Do you realize that it is God Himself who covers you? That God Himself is your lodging place, that you don't have to find a place to keep safe, that He is the place where you find your safety? What kind of security should we take away from that? If God is saying that I am your security, there's no greater security system than God. God is the most high. He's the one who's sovereign. He's the Almighty. He's the Lord. He's committed to keeping his covenant. He is the God, the one who's made the ends of the earth. There's no greater security that we can find than in God. And there's no greater intimacy that we can find than in the world. Than what we find in God, because He Himself is where we dwell in. You can't get closer to God than being in Him. Like we find our security in Him. You're never alone And that's just such a wonderful promise for us as believers, isn't it? That when we go through trials that you're not walking through that alone, that every step of the way that your God is with you That you dwell in him, that he never forsakes you, he never deserts you. God is personally your protection. But not only that, God is Your personal protection. He's personally your protection and he's your personal protection. What do I mean by that? In verse 2, as I mentioned earlier, the psalmist makes use of the first person singular pronoun, my refuge, my fortress, my God. He makes it personal. There's individualized attention here. Now he's not saying that nobody else can share the benefits, but what he's saying is that this benefit is for me, personally for me. The psalmist perceives God as his own personal dwelling place, just like God has provided him with his own personal security detail. God is his own personal bodyguard. He recognizes that this refuge is intended for him. Do you recognize that you're not an afterthought in God's mind? That when he says that that I am, that he is my refuge, my fortress, that that's a personal protection that he offers you, that it's individualized for you. That God had you on his mind. In Ephesians chapter 1, it speaks about how even before the foundation of the world that God chose you , God had had had had you and has an intention to be your specific shelter. It's like a shelter with your name on it. In Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse 5, God told Jeremiah, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you Isaiah 49, verse 1, it says, Listen to me, O islands, and pay attention, ye peoples from afar. The Lord called me from the womb. Isaiah 130 or Psalm 139, verse 16, Your eyes have seen my unformed substance. Galatians 1:15, Paul says, God set me apart even from my mother's womb. And I don't know if you recognize this how many times God says that He knew us even before we were born. From the womb, my unformed substance, from my mother's womb. There's a lot we could say about that, but you know, God's care for the unborn, but also God's intention for you, even before you recognized him. That God had an intention towards you, that He chose you personally, specifically, individually, chose you. So we're not strangers to this protection from our God. No, God had us specifically in mind. And that word for refuge that's used here is a word that's used in Scripture to speak about a place of safety when we're being pursued. And the law of God set up cities of refuge when people were fleeing from enemies that sought their lives unlawfully until they could find a proper judgment. There were places of refuge. And God says that that I'm that refuge. I'm that refuge for you. I'm a stronghold. I'm a fortress. This is a place where you can seek refuge from military attack. You'll be walled in and circled on every side. So whether you're seeking refuge from an individual or a whole army, we can find our refuge in God, and God deserves praise for that. That's why we find in Psalm 2, I will say to the Lord. Why is he saying that? I will say to the Lord, because I'm praising you for this. God, God, I recognize that you're my refuge, and I will say to the Lord, You're the God in whom I trust. And the tense for this verb is a repeated characteristic action. The psalmist gives God repeated, continual praise. He says, I will repeatedly, characteristically say to the Lord, You are my refuge and my fortress. Is that your repeated declaration? What does God hear from you characteristically? I'm not saying occasionally. I'm saying, what does God characteristically hear from you? Is he hearing from you, God, I trust in you. God, I know that you're my refuge. God, I know that you're my fortress. Even though I'm going through this trial, God, I know who you are, you haven't changed. Is that your repeated declaration? And this is what we have to remind ourselves of. We need to remind ourselves of who our God is. That step by step he'll lead me and I'll follow him all my days. God should hear your praise even in the midst of a crisis. Even in the midst of some of the afflictions that you're going through, that God should still hear your praise. God, I know that you're my God. It's a declaration of praise. This is what the Lord desires to hear from us. But not only do we have this declaration of personal praise, there's also a promise of personal protection. Take a look again in verse 3. It says, for it is he who delivers you from the snare of the trapper. He who delivers you. The you there, uh again, you could use the the you to refer to an individual or a group. The personal protection here, it's it's using the the word you in the singular. He's saying, I'm talking to you You know, you can talk to you as a group, or you can make it specific. It's like, no, I'm talking to you you back there in the black shirt, you know, you in the red sweater, I'm talking to you. And that makes it more specific. And that's what the psalmist does here. When he says that he will deliver he who delivers you, he's not saying just as a group. He says, no, I'm talking to you specifically. I'm pointing my finger at you. Do you know that this is who your God is promise of personal protection. And there's 16 dangers, toils, and snares that are mentioned here, but I'll group them in four categories just to keep us moving here. Uh but uh number one, there is no force that can take you out. Verses three and four. Take a look at it real quick. For it is he who delivers you from the snare of the trapper, from the deadly pestilence, he will cover you with his pinions and under his wings. You may seek refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and a bulwark. Snare of the trapper that's used here in verse 3. It was the tool of the professional birdcatcher. Uh this was uh before there were shotguns, birds were captured with nets that were spread on the ground, uh traps and snares that were put out for the birds, and sometimes bird catchers would even catch one bird. And then they tie that bird up and let the bird chirp until other birds came to try to rescue that bird, and then they capture the whole group of birds. So it's using this as like this kind of unseen danger. You know, the the bird comes in thinking it's getting a meal or you know a flock of birds might be coming in thinking they're protecting their friend, but instead of coming to get the meal, they end up being the meal, or instead of rescuing somebody, they need the rescuing themselves And God uses this specific word here to say that there are dangers that you don't even know are there. There's times when when you might be deceived, you're thinking that you're going for something that's good, but it's not. And God says, I can rescue you even from the things that you don't see. Unseen dangers. Deadly pestilence. It's another danger that we can't see it from the deadly pestilence in verse 3 uh word that's used for like a virus a pestilence something that you can't see it moves you know imperceptibly He says, I can deliver you from that as well. It's the same word that was used for the pestilence back in Exodus 9 and verse 3, where God sent the plague on Egypt. And God can protect you from the predators. He will cover you with his pinions. Under his wings you may seek refuge. This is a word that was used for You know, the the predators that would come down to swoop upon, you know, a flack of birds, you know, uh a group of chickens or I don't know what you call a group of chickens. What do you call uh a bunch of chickens? Flock flock of chickens, is it? Flack of chickens. I guess they're birds, yeah I just call them dinner, never mind. But anyway, as the this these birds are trying to seek refuge from like the predators that are flying overhead. And the idea again is that this mother bird scruns out her own wings so that her chicks can come underneath her to say that if anything is hitting anybody, it's going to hit me. Like I'm protecting you from this. I've read this article. It said mother chickens have this incredible maternal instinct where they puff up and hide their babies beneath them to ensure that not one single chick is taken from the brood. The brooded chicks. That's what this said anyway. We find cover in our God. That's the point. We find cover in our God. And finally he's a shield and a buckler or bulwark Personal defense in battle. You know, the the shield that's spoken up here was the large, tall body shield. It's not like just the little one you carry on your arm. It's the one that you stick in the ground and hide behind. That the God is the one that completely surrounds me. The the bulwarker buckler was used for a you know a wall that was placed around a city. He's a wall that can't be breached. And this is the kind of protection that God offers us. There's no foe, seen or unseen, that is able to penetrate the wall And that's why in Job chapter 1 and verse 10, Satan has to come to God and ask for what? Permission. Why? Because he's walled in, God. I can't get through to him. Have you not made a hedge about him? And his house and all that he has on every side? You've blessed the work of his hands, his possessions have increased in the land. Lord, I can't get to him. Can you give me permission? Can you take down the hedge so I can get in? So, if anything touches the believer, it's not because the wall is defective. It's not because there's poor craftsmanship in the wall. It's because God and his sovereignty has allowed something to cross through. It's not because God is somehow deficient or weakened. It's because God has willed it for a specific purpose. Number two, there's no fear that can take you over. No fear that can take you over in verses 5 and 6. Verse 5 says, you will not be afraid of the terror by night. So it speaks about the fear. Psalm 91 in verse 5 speaks about this fear, and if we're going to deal with the fear in our lives, we at least need to be honest about what they are, right? It 's like like like Lord, you know, I'm I'm I'm fearful, but help my unbelief, right? Like like Lord, I I do find myself afraid, but don't don't turn it into something that it's not like like admit what it is. Lord, I am fearful. Lord, as I'm approaching this difficulty, I'm finding myself shaken about it. But Lord, I know that you're a God that I can find my refuge in. That I can find safety in you. That you can even protect my mind and my heart in Christ Jesus. Like, Lord, I'm asking you to do what I can't do. And the thing about not being fearful, it's not because you have the strength in yourself. It's because the strength is found in your God. Like that's why I'm not fearful, because who's with me? Because thou art with me. It's because of you. It's not because of me. I'm not so strong that I can take it. It's because I find my strength and my security in you. Is that where you're finding your strength? Are you going to the Lord? Is He the one who's helping your unbelief? And what was it that they considered fearful? Verse 5, it says the terror by night. Actually a tradition in Judaism spoke of demonic spirits kind of taking over the night. In Psalm 139 and verse 12 it says, Even the darkness is not dark to you, the night is as bright as the day, darkness and light are alike to you. Why were they concerned about the darkness? Because they thought that the demons hung out in the dark. So we don't have to be afraid of the terror by night. The arrow that flies by the day, verse five, the arrow that flies by the day, the picture of warfare. The pestilence that stalks in the darkness, verse six. Speaks about that. One commentator translates this as the the epidemic which goes around in the gloom. Again, it's the things that can't be seen, undetected, dangers. And then lastly, in this section, there's the destruction that lays waste at noon in verse 6. The phrase was used for natural calamities, hailstorms, floods. Do you see how the description just goes back and forth from the day to the night to the day to the night? Like Lord, it doesn't matter what time it is. I find my security in you. And the shelter that we have is just as constant as the dangers around us. I mean, that's the idea. That the God is not taking a break, right? You know, that he doesn't slumber or sleep, that I can always come before the Lord and find him awake. You know, even in the middle of the night, that I can cry out to him. Is that where you find yourself drawing near to? When you wake up in the middle of the night anxious over something, fearful over something, disturbed over something, where do you go during that time? Do you go to the Lord and say, Lord, I know you're right here. I don't have to allow my mind to wander. Lord, you're with me. Lord, I can find my security in you. Lord, I'm turning to you. There's not a fear that can or should take you over. We're actually commanded not to fear. When it speaks about in verse 5, you will not be afraid, it's actually in the form of a command. It's uh the same kind of phrase that's used in Exodus chapter 20, you know, thou shalt not lie, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, it's thou shalt not be afraid. It's a command. Don't be afraid. I'm telling you, you don't have to be. And you shouldn't be. So we need to confess that for what it is. Lord, I find my heart drawn to fear. Lord, can you help me? Because I want to follow you in this. I want to find my security in you. Third, there's a force, no force that can take you down. Look at verse 7. It says, a thousand may fall at your side and ten thousand at your right hand. It speaks about the recompense of the wicked here, those who are falling down. Thousands may fall on your right, your left. And here God is making a distinction for his people, making a distinction here. God knows how to separate the righteous from the wicked in judgment. We find in verse 8, you will only look on with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked. For you have made the Lord my refuge, even the Most High your dwelling place. You find your satisfaction in him. You find your security in him. So no evil will befall you, verse ten, nor will any plague come near your tent. The evil is just a general word for misery, distress. Plagues, again, speaking about affliction that God sent for punishment, the purpose of punishment, God delivers believers from punishment. And then verse 11 and 12, it says that those who trust are even safe from striking their feet against the stones, which we looked at earlier in Matthew chapter 4. It says, For he will give his angels charge concerning you. To guard you in all your ways. They will bear you up in their hands that you do not strike your foot against a stone. So we have the angels here on foot patrol. Does that mean that you'll never bump your foot against the rock? You know, you bump your foot and say, oh, the what happened to the protection of God, you know You know, some of you need to pay your angels some overtime, you know, double time for what they have to do. What does it mean you don't strike your foot against the stone? It means, again, we're protected from what we can't see. And God sends his angels, plural, to look over you, singular. Multiple angels assigned to individuals. We have no idea. What's going on behind the scenes? The invisible world that's that the Bible speaks of, you know, the principalities and powers, and there's holy angels, thrones and dominions and powers Multiple angels here assigned to believers. And we're in their hands, it says. They will bear you up in their hands And if you ever experience any danger, it's not because, again, the God's security system has failed. It's because God has a plan for what He's allowed. But He has everything under His control. Nothing can come into our house. Apart from the permission of God. And that's the confidence that we have as believers. Again, in verse 9, it says, You made the Lord. my refuge, even the Most High, your dwelling place. So again, uh you have the author saying that what is personal to me is now also personal to you. You've made the Lord my God your dwelling place. Same declaration that he started out with. God is my God, and he says, and now he is also your God. If you trust in him, no foe, no fear, no fall, no failure. There's no foe that can take you under. We have these creatures that are mentioned in verse thirteen. You will tread upon the lion and the cobra The young lion and the serpent you will trample down. And in each case, the the believer is subduing these savage savage beasts, you know, rising up victorious. You tread them down, trample them down. The enemy beneath my feet And I believe that the psalmist actually had literal animals in mind when he penned this. Lions and serpents were real dangers in the ancient Near East. You know, a a a young, a drone line was wise and fierce, but the young line was in his prime and full of strength and dangerous. And if you take a look at Psalm 90, again, remembering the context of the wilderness, I mean these are real dangers that are out there And then when it speaks about the the serpents or the the snakes, like like it's talking about like these poisonous snakes. Often when you find snakes used in the scripture, Uh when whenever you find snakes used in the scripture, it's with the idea that they're all so poisonous, that there's there's a danger behind this, and it's no accident that Satan is called both a lion and a serpent. Be sober, be on the alert, your adversary, the devil prowls around like a roaring lion. 1 Peter 5:8 And it's also no accident that Satan is spoken of as a serpent, Revelation 12 and verse 9, the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old who is called the devil, Satan who deceives the whole world. But as believers, we have all-around protection from every possible disaster, even Satan himself, we have victory in our God Then we have the final point in verses 14 to 16, the personal pronouncement of protection from God Himself. Look at verse 14. I love this. Because he has loved me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him securely on high because he has known my name. It's like again I said that the God picks up the pen himself and completely moves the human instrument out the way. God speaks directly as in the first person to say, I'm taking personal responsibility here. He says, because he has loved me. The one that I'm talking about, the one who's dwelt underneath this shelter, he has loved me, and therefore I will deliver him. This protection is for those that love him. The word that's used for love is a rare word that's used for love in the Old Testament. It's a word that only shows up eleven times in the whole Old Testament. It's a word that conveys a strong passion, desire for God. Do you have a strong desire to know Him, to worship Him, to serve Him? James 1. 12 lets us know that there's a crown of life promised to those who love him. Ephesians 6. 24 offers the blessings of grace to those who love our Lord Jesus Christ. Blessings are given to those who love God, to the people who look for their benefit in God, protection in God. And it's those who not only love him, but but who know him. He says, Because he has loved me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him securely on high, because he has known my name. To know his name is a phrase that speaks about the covenant relationship with God. To know the name of God was to have a relationship with him. In Psalm 9 and verse 10, it says, And those who know my name will put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. And as believers today, we've entered into this kind of relationship with God. We know God and God knows us. I love what Jeremiah 9 says, verse 23. Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom. Let not a mighty man boast of his might, let not a rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this that he understands and knows me. I know God. I know him. I have a relationship with him. That I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth. For I delight in these things, declares the Lord. We know God. God knows us, and he takes care of those who are his own. And he sets us securely on high. And that's kind of like the image of putting something on the top shelf so nobody can knock it down. I'm going to put it up high so it doesn't get brushed up against. And finally, God says that this protection is offered to those who call upon him. Verse 15 it says, He will call upon me and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble, I will rescue him and honor him. With a long life I will satisfy him and let him see my salvation. Those who call upon him. God is personally promising himself to those who call upon his name. Do you call upon the name of the Lord? It's a reminder that God hears, that God answers, that God delivers. Do you call upon the name of the Lord? And those who call upon the name of the Lord are those who know Him. Over in uh Romans chapter 8, just really quick. Romans chapter 8. I'm looking forward to getting to Romans chapter 8, by the way. But Romans chapter 8, just such a great text. Starting at verse 31, what then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, yes, rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Listen to this. It's not saying that you won't face tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or sword. It's saying that even if you do face these things, that you're not be separated from the love of Christ. Like that is our refuge. That's where we find our security. It's in Christ. So who's going to separate you from the love of Christ? Tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, or sword? Just as it is written, for your sake, we are being put to death all day long. Christians, believers, one day you will die. One day it's going to be it. And when that happens, you will still not be separated from the love of Christ. You will never be separated from the love of your God. You will still be dwelling under his shadow. You will still be in the sheltered place. We still belong to God, even if we're being put to death All day long, considered as sheep to be slaughtered, but in all these things, all what things, all the things we just mentioned All the things that sometimes believers will face. And all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. Do you find your security in the love of God? Do you know that his love is an enduring love? Do you know that it doesn't matter what you're going through right now, that it does not mean that God loves you any less And so many times when believers go through circumstances, they feel that somehow God's love has been removed from me. Somehow He's turned against me. Somehow His favor is no longer upon me. But right here it lets us know that there's nothing that will separate us from the love of God. His love is an enduring, unbreakable love that he has for you. And I'm convinced of this. But neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Through many dangerous toils and snares I have already come. It was grace that led me safe this far, and grace will lead me home. That the love of God that surrounds me, he will never lose his grip on me. God loves you with an eternal love, a love that will not let you go. And we may experience tribulation, distress, but in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer, even through death. Why? Because our true life is hidden in Christ and in God. He'll protect us on this earth until it's time to bring us home. And that's the kind of hope that we have in Christ. I remember when uh my brother uh Lance Quinn Received the call that his wife had non -smoker's lung cancer and uh that the tumors had spread throughout her body and that she would not be likely to live for long. And I remember driving with him in the in a in a car. He was here for a conference, and I drove with him down to Dulles to try to catch a flight so he could make an emergency trip back home. And I remember as he was driving, we were driving in the car, he he called every one of his eight kids to let every one of his kids know the diagnosis for their mom. And through tears, just one child after the other after the other, like every call was another blow As he's explaining to his kids that your mom is not going to make it unless the Lord intervenes and does the miraculous, your mom is on her way to meet the Lord. And I'm thinking of what can I do to encourage this brother during this time? And the only verse that came to mind, and you know, the first verse that came to mind. Was he who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will abide under the shadow of the Almighty? I will say of the Lord, He is my God, my refuge, my fortress, my God in whom I trust. First verse that came to mind. And as I'm speaking these words to him, he's saying, Yes, that's right. That's true. God is my dwelling place. God is my shelter. That's true. In the midst of his trial, he's reminding himself of who his God is. And he's strengthening himself in this God in whom he's put his trust And believer, if you're going through a difficult time, you need to speak to your own soul and say that this God is my God, that this God is my refuge, that this God is my fortress, and I trust in him. He's my God in whom I trust. You understand the kind of protection that God offers us in these words, that He will never leave us or forsake us. That in our trial, that even in the trial, we're still in Him. That we've not been placed outside of him to be put into trial, that the trial that we face is actually still in him. That we're sheltered by him. And even though the earth may give way, that our God is our refuge. This is the kind of confidence that we have. There might be another person out here today who has not sought refuge in God. There was a whole nation that responded by rejecting Christ instead of finding shelter in Christ. It was the nation of Israel. I'll just end with these words over in Matthew 23 if you want to flip over there. But in Matthew 23, we find Jesus using very similar language From Psalm 91 and Psalm 91 to speak about the nation of Israel. And take a look at what he says in verse 37. This is Jesus speaking to the nation Israel, speaking over Jerusalem. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often? I wanted to gather your children together, the same way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling. Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. There are people who refuse Christ as their shelter. And Christ says, How often I wanted to gather you together as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings. And the sad reality is that those who reject Christ. And seek shelter somewhere else, will find out that their shelter will not hold up, but it will be too late when they find out. How often Jesus says, I wanted to gather you together. But you would not. Where where are you seeking shelter in today? Have you sought shelter in the God who is our refuge? Because if you haven't sought shelter in God, there is no protection from him. If you haven't sought shelter in God, there is no protection from Him. And the greatest danger won't be the trials of life. The greatest danger will be falling into the hands of the living God. But how often he wants to gather you together? Will you find shelter underneath the wings of Christ today? There's only one way to do that. Turn from your sins. Trust in Jesus Christ alone and find in Him eternal life and you can find Christ to be your shelter and be your Savior And we would pray that you would find that today. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are the God in whom we trust. Father, I pray that we would seek refuge nowhere else. Father, that when we are afraid that we will trust in you. And Father, even when we find that there are so many dangerous toils and snares that we endure in this life, Even facing the end of death, Father, I pray that you would remind us that you have not forsaken us, that you have not left us, that you're a God who is very near and present and a help in a time of trouble. Father, I pray for our members here who are facing end of life and the decisions and circumstances, Lord, that are outside of their control. Father, I pray that you would strengthen them, that you would cause them to stand, that they would hold on to you. Father, that they would find in you a place of refuge and a place that's stable. Father, we're grateful that we turn to a God who we can trust in, and that even though we we face uh all the trials of life, uh Father, that uh you've never stopped being the shelter that you've always been. Now, Father, that you are consistent. You're a God who does not change. Father, I pray that you would be glorified among your people, and that you would help us to uh strengthen and edify one another, that we would encourage them. Lord, even all the more as we see the day drawing near. Father, we have a God that gives us hope. So Father, we thank you for the eternal hope that you've given us in Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.