The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. We'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. This afternoon we have the uh uh opportunity to introduce uh to you uh Jim Stitzinger. Let me tell you a little bit about uh about Jim. Uh early Early two thousands uh uh went out to the shepherd's conference, uh went out for a for a number of times. Actually been to I think everyone since like two thousand two And uh when I first visited uh California, uh Jim uh Sitzinger was the uh pastor of local outreach, and I was actually doing outreach at uh Hope Bible Church and uh Columbia, our mother church in uh in Columbia And uh immediately Jim and I connected, we exchanged numbers, we you know had a number of conversations, emails and things like that, and uh had like these big dreams about you know me coming out to California when I went out to seminary of working in the local outreach uh office together. And uh the the year that I came in in two thousand six was the year that he was leaving out. So uh the Lord has a sense of humor and uh kinda you know, we kinda passed each other like ships in the night. It's like I was getting there, it's like, hey where's Jim? And it's like I think he's packed up and he's like headed out already. So uh Uh we never got to to work together in uh local outreach, uh but we definitely share a kindred spirit when it comes to uh evangelism. And uh one of the reasons that I wanted him to come here to speak to our congregation is because we're preparing ourselves for our outreach week at the uh end of July. I thought it would just be a perfect opportunity for him to come here and uh share a little bit of his heart and uh what the Lord has to say about uh evangelism and the the gospel itself. Uh Jim, he's a uh Uh he serves as the director of Bevan Missions Mobilization at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. Uh he was also a church planner, so he uh knows exactly what we're going through right here at uh Baltimore Bible Church. And uh it's uh definite joy to welcome you to our pulpit this morning. So uh and one more thing, he's uh connected some people that are really dear to us, uh John Stitzinger and Laura Stitzinger Uh this is uh uh Jim is John's brother, a little older brother. So uh we get to get to kind of share it all in the in the family here. So uh enjoying uh uh the time with uh family today. So come on, Jim, and minister to us. He's one of the my best friends in ministry that I never got to serve with. I tell you one of the saddest th days of my life was when he said he was coming out to California And we knew we were going to Mobile, Alabama. And I thought, we're gonna miss each other by about a week, it seemed like. And we just had this passing and uh since then always get to see what God has been doing with you. and thrilled. So thank you for the privilege of being with you. What a great day. What an exciting thing to be able to see God building his church. I hope that you are all encouraged. Long before Christ calls you to plant a church, he calls you to be his child, right? And when you become his child, it's that you can go out into the world and proclaim him. He gathers us together in his local church, and you are in the process of building a ministry. Planning a church is tough work, right? Yes? Okay. I want to make sure I wasn't the only one. We find we had the privilege of doing this in South Florida, on the west coast of Florida. Now that sounds great. until you realize that it is about a hundred and thirty percent humidity and a hundred and ninety degrees every day for about eight months out of the year. You've got about four months when everybody from Michigan comes down and the town swells by about 150,000 people And then they all go away and uh you're stuck with all the heat and humidity. That's where we planted, and it was a blast because we we rented a elementary school cafeteria fruit people on the black on the back wall, you know, the hardest benches in Naples, uh the town we were in. Um Sundays you'd come in and they were repairing ceiling tiles, so there'd be a scissor lift parked right in the middle You know, so it's like chair, chair, chair, scissor lift, chair, chair, chair. You know, just things air conditioners would not work and uh you know you obviously know the blessing of air conditioning. And the challenge of not having that and you know just you're sweating bullets, everyone's deodorant long since failed. And you're just you're just trying to stay awake and you know, you're preaching as loud as you can and hoping everyone stays engaged and just challenges of in doing ministry together. And yet there's a part of you that starts to want to complain, right? Am I the only one? There's a part of you that says, wow, you know, let's go to the place that has all the systems and procedures engaged and I mean you walk in, no one ever complains about child care. It's always safe, sanitized, and secure, and you know, every mom can go there and drop the kids off and everyone comes home having a great experience and You know, it it's never more than an hour and fifteen minutes, and it's always at this time, and parking's simple, and you know, it's just there's things about it that say, wow, let's just go do that. And you realize that that's not what God's called you to do. God has called you to one of the toughest tasks that you can be called to, and that's to go be part of a new church. It's not just so that you can rearrange town. If that's all we were doing, just reshuffling the deck inside the church and swapping churches, that we haven't done anything. But God's called you here to be part of this local body so that you can go out into the community, proclaim Christ, and see people who don't know Christ, come to Him in salvation, be discipled and be deployed in the life of the church, and then do it again One of the most exciting things for this church is the day when you all plant a church. And that's part of the thinking you have to have in mind right now That you're not only training and encouraging and strengthening and developing the ministries of this church right now, you're doing it because one day some of you are going to be sent up to go plant a church. And you're just practicing here, so you can make all of your mistakes now and then go do it right later on, right? So, yeah, not too many. No, but be encouraged. This is a great work. God is doing wonderful things in you and through through you and you're getting to have a front row seat on watching him actually build his church. And so I'm excited to get to see a little bit of it myself while we're here. Well, take your Bible to chapter two of the book of Colossians. Colossians chapter two is where I want to direct our thoughts for our time today. As you have been called by Christ, as you have been indwelt by his Holy Spirit, you have been bought with a price, you have been assembled here together. We then have a tremendous message to bring to others. As Romans 10 says, that how are they here without what? A preacher, guess who that is? That's you. How are they going to hear without somebody who's going to boldly open their mouth and proclaim Christ? Second Corinthians chapter 5 calls you an ambassador. Somebody who does not have your own native authority, but somebody who has a message handed to them, an audience before them, and something they must say. Not with their own force of influence or persuasive power, but accurately stating the message they were given. You and I, as brothers and sisters in Christ, as children of the Most High God are given a message that we are to proclaim. We don't have an option in this, do we? If we think evangelism is an option, then we are willfully engaging in sin. Presenting Christ to other people is not an option for Christians. It's a privilege of obedience. It's something that God gives us the ability to do. He gives us the opportunity to do. He gives us unbelievers around us, sometimes often in our own home. One believer proclaiming Christ to his spouse, to children, to parents, grandparents, cousins, neighbors, co-workers, fellow students, teachers, people we find ourselves surrounded by. And so we have a message to proclaim. That message is one that Paul summarizes in Colossians chapter 2. And I want to spend just a few moments this morning looking at this because it is the message Of the cross of Christ. It's a message that, as the Word of God unfolds, becomes more and more clear. When you look to the Old Testament, we hear about the mystery that is ahead. When we come to the New Testament, we see the mystery that's revealed. And so here we have in this text before us this mystery that Paul then presents. In fact, if you look at verse 2 of Colossians chapter 2, at the very end, Paul says, resulting in a true knowledge of God's mystery, that is Christ himself. That was not revealed in great clarity in the Old Testament is revealed in great clarity in Jesus Christ. He says in verse 6 of chapter 2, therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, So walk in him. We've received him as Lord. That's not a passive word. We receive a lot of things in our life that I don't want. Someone hands me a piece of paper, I don't want that paper And I receive it out of kindness or just acquiescence to their deliverance of it. The word receive there is an active word. It's that I Take Christ into my life. He invades my life. He comes in and he is established as Lord. And as the result of that is that I would walk in obedience to Him Verse 7 says, having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed, and overflowing with gratitude. And so he gives instructions now about how to walk in him. Take us down to verse 13, where Paul starts to then talk to us about what we have. In Christ. Let's back up. Back up to verse 9. We can't overlook this. He says, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. That this is Christ coming to earth who takes on full sinless perfection in the human flesh, that the two are brought together inseparably. Verse 10 says, and in him you have been made complete, whole, entirely complete. That it in him, in Christ, with him as our Lord, with him as our Savior, with him having paid the penalty for our sin, we are made complete. And he says he is the head over all rule and authority Total authority, total dominion. There's not a maverick molecule anywhere in the universe. It's all under his complete control. Verse 11, as we walk towards verse 13, verse 11 begins two different word pictures. One is what Christ removes from us. The second one in verse 12 is what Christ does through us. Verse 11 says, and in him you were also circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, and in the removal of the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. What he says is, this is what Christ takes from us. He takes away from us that heart of stone. He takes from us that hard heart that's indifferent to him. Verse 12 then says what he does through us, having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised up with him through faith. in the working of God who raised him from the dead. That's the heart of the gospel, right? That we were buried with Christ and raised from the grave with him, that he rose from the grave Conquering sin, conquering death, and is alive today. It's the picture of what he does through us and that we are raised up with him, that sin no longer reigns over us. That word picture brings us into the heart of this chapter, verse 13 down through verse 15, which is what we're going to look at this afternoon. It says this. When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. Having canceled out the certificate of debt, which consisted of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way. Having nailed it to the cross. When he had disarmed The rulers and authorities. He made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. This verse encapsulates the gospel. This section shows us the power of Christ to save sinners, and in it, verse 13 shows us Christ's power over our past. Verse 14 shows us Christ's power over our sin present. And verse 15 shows Christ's power over all of his enemies. Verse 13. The power of Christ over our past. I love this because every one of us has scars in our heart, in our soul, and some on your body as you look back at the past, right? Do you ever walk through your house or dig through an old box and find a photo album of you before Christ? You ever see those pictures and maybe you've got friends in your life who come back and you see them in a grocery store or a school setting somewhere and they say, Hey, I remember you. Remember when we And they fill in the details of things you wish the world did not remember. Maybe you look at yourself in the mirror and You see the effects of sin in your life. You see the impact of living in a Genesis 3 world all over you. And you remember that You know, for a moment, it's important to remember that, for a moment, because when looking back, we can see how far Christ has brought us from those days. Look how Paul does this in verse 13. He's speaking to the church at Colossians. He says, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh. When you were unsaved before you knew Christ, when your eternity was still destined for hell. When your heart was hard, your mind was blinded to the truth, your conscience is being seared by your constant sinful progression. We get a glance back and we remind of those days, living up the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, boldly, arrogantly proclaiming the boastful pride of life. You know, from our vantage point, we're not all that bad, right? Living in those days for a while, you try to do everything you can to distract yourself from the harsh realities of life, and we think, well, we're not that bad. I'm not that bad. I do good things. I work hard. I try to try to be kind to people and at least try to bounce out what I do wrong with some things I do right and try to work that way But yet, when we come to Scripture, we get an accurate assessment of who we really are. Romans 3:10, no one is righteous. Not one seeks after him. Romans 3. 23, for all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Jeremiah 17. 9, our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Not casually wicked, not occasionally wicked, but deceitful, meaning that it lies to me. It wants me to think I'm better than I actually am. It doesn't want my success, it wants chaos and ruin. Even in my own heart. Isaiah 53 6, we are like sheep that run after any impulse of our sinful heart, right? Isaiah 59, 2 says that our iniquities have made a separation between us and our God, and our sins have hidden his face from us so that he does not hear. It's that in my lostness, in my sinfulness, in my wickedness, in that condition, who I actually am, I stand before a holy God, and his holy eyes will not even look on me. All my good works are as Isaiah 64 says filthy rags. My conscience is defiled, meaning that I call good bad, and I call bad good. I mind's blinded that can't discern biblically between right and wrong. I'm burdened with guilt that I can't escape I'm helpless. I'm hopeless. Sin contaminates and works to destroy every relationship that I have. I look at scripture and I say, that's foolish. I mock it, I act arrogant when it's spoken to me, and eternity in hell waits for me, and I don't care. When you look at those old snapshots of yourself, you might remember what you were doing, but now as you know God's word, you remember what you actually were. Specifically, the text uses a couple words to describe us. Verse 13 says dead. Who we are spiritually. Dead. No response, no ability to respond, no life in us. Dead in our transgressions. This is sin. This is refusing to obey God's commands and insisting on doing what he forbids. It's not just that I don't do what he tells me to, it's that I intentionally insist on doing the exact opposite. Those of you who are parents, you live with this reality all the time. You have children that look at you and you say, Don't do that, and they not only do that, but they act like you said you didn't say anything. I see that often. I have the wonderful privilege of having twin 10-year-olds and an eight-year-old. We are moving through life at an absolute lightning pace with our three little girls. They are some of the most creative sinners on earth. I did not know how this could be. I thought I was the most creative sinner. And then I have three children. And I realized that they so far outpaced me. It's amazing. Transgressions, it's part of who we are. It's our DNA. But then the verse says, the uncircumcision of our flesh. It's a very graphic statement. That which makes us sinful has yet to be removed. It's still there. God has not removed that from us. Ephesians 2, 1 to 3 says, And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked. That's our lifestyle. It's normal for everyone. He says that according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit that is now working, the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. That's who we are before Christ. Paul's saying, has your mind gone so far that you don't remember what you've been saved from? Remember those days? He says the Church of Colossey, look back that you were dead. You were powerless to change that. You couldn't do anything about that condition. Dead men don't do surgery on themselves. They can't relieve guilt. They can't hide. They can't run. They can't administer any life-saving antidote. They never find hope. Dead men are powerless to do anything to their condition. And that's us, Paul says, entrenched in our sins, embattled with all the devastation that goes along with it. And Paul says, and here's what I love. Look back at verse 13. What's the third word you see there? When you what? Were. You know what that means? Past tense. It's over. That's who you used to be. That is a wonderful word because it means that something has changed, right? It means I'm not what I what I once was There's hope. There's hope, and that's what takes us into the end of verse 13 and verse 14. The power of Christ over our sin He says, when you were dead and in this condition, verse 13 says, He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt. Which consists in the decrees against us, which is hostile to us. He's taken out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. He says he made you alive together with him. I love it because he tells us who's doing it. He's not that he's not saying, hey, you did this. He says he did it. It's that God did this to you. He did something that changed the dead condition that we're in. Takes us from death to life. A great contrast. Dead without Christ, now alive with Christ. What's alive mean? Able to see, hear, interact, think, understand, process. A conscience that's being trained by Scripture, a mind that's being renewed day by day, a heart that's filled with hope and with peace. And with the joy of the Lord, lungs that breathe in God's word, a mouth that breathes out worship, increasingly loving what God loves for the reason God loves it, increasingly hating what God hates for the reason God hates it Galatians 2. 20. Mark this verse down. Come back to it later. I have been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live. But Christ lives in me. And the life which in and I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself what? Up for me. He gave himself up for me, a sinner. Ephesians 2, 4, and 5, but God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us. even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. Oh, this is amazing. What he's telling us over and over again is you were dead, and you could do nothing to change that. That he has done this. He has changed us. He has transformed us. He has done this work. He makes us alive. Look back at, or look over just at Colossians 3 verse 3. What's it say? For you have Died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Hey, what a great contrast. At first, I'm dead in my sins, and then he says, You died, your life is hidden with Christ, you're alive with Christ Dying to self, dying to the world. At that moment of salvation, we recognize that we have broken God's law We recognize how sinful we are. We just begin to see into that vast chasm of all my wickedness I've done against God. I recognize it by definition, but I start to see how deep the root goes When we come in humble confession saying, God, I'm hopeless. I'm helpless. I can do nothing apart from you. We repent of our sins. We believe in Christ and He makes us alive. How does that happen? How does it actually work? Oh, he tells us, look at this. Verse 13B here it says at the end. He made us alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. Having forgiveness all our transgressions, he takes us into this verse and breaks the whole concept of God's forgiveness of our sin into three little categories here. The first one is this thought, having forgiven us all our transgressions. He says, us. It's personal to Paul. He's drawing a circle around all the believers at the Church of Colossae, all of us today, and himself as well. He says we are all equally sinners. Transgression, same word you saw before. What held us in death has been forgiven by Christ. But then let me draw your attention to that little word there at the end of verse 13, having forgiven us what? All All. Now let's think about that word for just a second. Let's see what time it is. It's uh 3. 16. How many sins have you committed today? Alright, let's just, we're not quite to the end of the day yet. Still got a few hours left to go. Do a little math. Put a number on it. Let's just assume it's a full day, okay? Put a number on how many sins you think you committed. Share it with your neighbor. No, don't How many sins have you committed in one day? How many days have you lived? Assuming an average lifespan of seventy years or if due to strength, let's say eighty years. Over the overarching course of your life, multiply that out. How many millions of sins have you committed? Where are we? Can we get our minds around that number? How many sins does it take to rightfully, eternally damn us to hell? James 2. 10 says, how many? Just one. So how many are we talking about that rightfully condemn us? I mean, can we get our minds around the wrath of God that should rightfully be poured out on us because of how many times we have willfully, knowingly, intentionally broken his law? And yet it says he has forgiven us all our transgressions. Now let's jump into this word forgiveness for just a moment. He says forgiven. It's a wonderful word. It means to send away To get rid of, to pardon, to release. It involves two dynamics. One is the pardon, and second is the promise. The pardon is God saying that the penalty for sin will no longer be assessed to me. The pardon means that the penalty for sin is no longer assessed to me. It's not coming back to me. He gave it to Christ. Christ paid the penalty for my sin. It's not mine anymore. Psalm 25, 11. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity, for it is great. Is the pardon. But there's also a promise that goes along with forgiveness. A promise that he will never bring it back to us again. That he will never bring that sin back to our charge again. There's no boomerang with God. It's not coming back later on. Psalm 103, verse 12 says, As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. Psalm 32, 1. How blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Psalm 86, 5, for Thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive, and abundant and loving kindness to all who call upon thee Romans 4, 7 says, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven, and whose sin has been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. This is the forgiveness, pardon, and promise that God gives to his children. You can think on a horizontal level how hard it is to keep that promise and to make that pardon, right? We are told to forgive as God forgives us, to make that promise to someone else that I forgive you of what you have done. I'm no longer going to seek vengeance or be vindictive against you, and I will promise you to not bring that sin back to your attention. Oh, how easily we violate that principle of forgiveness and we say, I forgive you, and then we continue to bring back the past and bring back the past, violating that promise. We serve a God who makes that promise and keeps it. We serve a God who forgives us and it's over We see his promise here, verse 13, but then let's look a little deeper into it. Look at verse 14. How is it that he can make that promise to us? How is it that he can forgive us? How does that happen? Well look at where verse 14 introduces. He says, having canceled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us. You say, what's a certificate of debt? Now I don't know about you, but every month I get one of those. It's a credit card statement. It shows up. And I look at that thing and I think, how on earth did all that get on there? That certificate of debt shows up itemized, and I've got to scrutinize it to make sure there's nothing on there that shouldn't be on there Or if it was on there, that it's accurately stated. I'm extremely skeptical of that because I'm confident that whatever it was that was on there could not have been purchased by anybody in my house with a credit card God has a certificate of debt. Perfectly itemizing every sin you have ever done. Every sinful thought, every sinful word, every sinful action. Every one of them without exaggeration, without exception. Not a single thing overlooked, neglected, or unaccounted for. That ticker is constantly running, itemizing every single infraction of his law. Everything we have ever thought, said, or done that violates what he says tells us to do or refuses to do what he has told us. And it sits there and it just runs and runs and runs. That certificate of debt constantly is being expanded against us. What verse 14 says. Certificate of debt that is hostile to us. It doesn't just sit there and say, pay me now. It says, go to hell. Because the wages of sin is death. You get down to the bottom line where the total for all of those charges is listed and it says eternity in hell. The wages of sin, the price for this list is hell That's what that certificate of debt says. It's not our friend. It's not a reminder of good times past. It's not an inventory of things we now have in our possession. That certificate of debt is entirely a list of the evil which rightfully incriminates us It stands there beyond our reach. We can't tear it up. We can't dispute it. We can't argue back against it. There's nothing that we can do. But look at what it says That certificate of debt, consisting of decrees against us, is hostile to us. Back to the second word of verse 14. He canceled it out. Having canceled out the certificate of debt. He has taken it out of the way He took my certificate of debt, and verse 14 says, He nailed it to the cross. Brothers and sisters, in Christ, he personifies the certificate of debt into Jesus Christ. My certificate of debt is Jesus Christ that God nailed to the cross He took it out of the way because Christ died for me. Not just a spoken word. He didn't just say, erase those charges. He didn't just say, Set aside. No. He spoke creation into existence by the word of his power, right? He said, let there be light, and what happened? There was light, right? He says, you read through Job chapter 38 to 41, he says to the waves, thus far you shall come and no further. He says to the dawn, here's the dividing line between lightness and darkness. He just speaks those things and they happen. But for the certificate of debt to be dealt with, Christ had to die. He could have said, it's your problem, figure it out. But no. Christ left heaven, left the full expression of his glory, his power, came to earth Born as a baby, simplistic life, tempted in everything we are, yet without sin. And then God's eternal plan unfolded as Christ stepped from obscurity into the public eye And John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. And he pointed out Jesus in the crowd. And the crowd begins to turn around and look at Christ, who was standing with them, unbeknownst to them, that the Savior was in their very presence. And John identified him. And from that point forward, the full assault was on as Christ would then move towards the cross. God's eternal plan unfolded. He went to the cross to pay the penalty for what we had done. Second Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature or creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to Himself through Christ, and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, namely that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed us to the word of reconciliation. He has committed us to do this. This is what we do. Christ has saved us and he turns us around, gives us a message in our heart, in our mouth. Points us towards our unbelieving family and friends as the primary outpost of gospel ministry and says, go get them. Go proclaim to them the message that we have believed. That he made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. 1 Peter 2, 24 speaks of Christ, who says, Who bore our sins in his own body, that we having died to sin might live for righteousness by whose stripes you were healed. He became sin for us. He became our certificate of debt. God looks at Christ and sees all the wickedness that we had done, put him on the cross, he died there. And let me be quick to remind you that Christ died there, our sin died there, but only Christ got off the cross, right? Romans 8. 1 says, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because my sin was nailed to the cross. That certificate of debt has been canceled, has been taken out of the way because Jesus Christ died on the cross. That, my friends, is the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That He transforms us. He changes us. Christ came off that cross. Christ rose from the grave. And he takes sinners such as you and I. And transforms us into children. He takes fornicators, idolaters, adulterers, effeminate, homosexuals, thieves, covetous, drunkards. revilers, swindlers, liars, those oozing with immorality, anger, selfishness, bitterness, vengeance, jealousy, envy, divisive people. And he transforms us into sons and daughters. He takes them and he cancels out our sin. Paul looked out at the church at Corinth just like he spoke to the church at Colossae, just like the Word of God speaks to us today, and says that such were some of us, right? But we were washed, we're sanctified, we're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Spirit of our God. It's Christ who came off that cross. It's Christ who rose from the grave. It's Christ who declared that the war with sin has been finished. That he won the battle On our behalf. Well, verse 5 14 then leads right into verse 15, which then exalts him over everything. It says, when he had disarmed the rulers in authority, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. You have Satan the accuser. He brings accusations against believers all the time. He's the slanderer, right? We're never more like Satan than when we slander somebody. He's the slanderer bringing accusations against Christians. He did it against Job, he did it against Peter, accusing them, working to undermine their faith. Verse 15 says that when he had disarmed them Jesus Christ in his resurrection power takes the weapons of war out of the enemy's hands and they are no longer able to be effective combatants. He takes Satan, that roaring lion, and disarms him. Makes him unable to assault us. Protects us. Hebrews 2, 14 and 15 says that Jesus, through his death, he might render perilous him who had the power of death. that is the devil, and might free those who through fear of death were subject to the slavery all their lives. He makes them powerless. He makes him powerless. This is what Christ does for us. He triumphs over sin because he died for our sin. He rose from the grave. He's alive today. And he looks at us and he says, as my sons and my daughters go into the world to proclaim the gospel. Look, we do this not out of obligation. We do it not because it's something that's required. We obey joyfully because it is a greatest privilege that we have. Paul said in Galatians 2. 20, I've been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me. My question for you as you think about this passage is while positionally that is the life you have as a son or daughter of Christ. But in practice, is that the life you live? Is the world hearing from you the word of this gospel? For you, is it to live with Christ and to demonstrate that in a powerful way that others see you? And the first thing that comes to their mind is that Jesus Christ is alive in you. That he has so radically transformed you, that his gospel is breathing through you, that they see it visibly. I pray that it is. I pray that as you see this church grow and develop, as you see God continue to work in you and through you and strengthen you. as he steers and directs and guides you towards the place where you'll be anchored for, Lord willing, the entire life cycle of this church. As you see the clarity of the ministry start to develop and as you see unbelievers start to g be drawn to him in in hearing the gospel proclaimed. That you will always remember and look back to this and see this text as a place that your thoughts are anchored. That that certificate of debt on your behalf has been cancelled. All that Christ then says to us, very simply, is to go and proclaim that. He does that work for us, he does that work in us, and he has called us to do it faithfully. Amen? Father, thank you for your word that so clearly articulates and states who we are, who you are, and what you have done for us. Lord, I pray that as we study even this passage this afternoon, that we would always remember that you have paid it all, and all to you we owe. Lord, there's not a righteousness we have of our own. There's not a single thing that we can do that is our own. I pray, God, for these precious brothers and sisters that you would strengthen them. Lord, give them such great, strong convictions. Give them boldness. To proclaim your word and use them powerfully to see this city embrace you as Lord and Savior. In your name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.