The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So if you would, uh take your Bibles and open up to the book of Philippians, chapter 1. As we uh enter into another year, I thought it would be a good idea to remind you of uh what goals we have uh for this church, and I'm not talking about the goals for a building. or what new ministries we might be starting, but rather the kinds of goals that we have as a church to be faithful to him who called us. Because the true test of a church is not about how we begin, but about how we complete, how we finish, how we persevere. Our goal is not to be faithful for the next five, ten , fifteen years. Our desire is to be faithful until the Lord calls us home and we pass this church on to another healthy congregation. Passing it on to the next generation. And uh these are some of the truths that we find throughout scripture uh that uh we're persevering, that we're uh Making sure that we're standing in the same faith that the Lord has granted to us that we're standing in that same faith. We understand from the book of Revelation uh that by the time uh the seven churches of Asia Minor were written to, uh that one of those churches had abandoned its first love Two tolerated false teaching. One was considered dead, and one was just plain nauseating to the Lord that he spewed that church out of his mouth That was only roughly 60 years in the church history. Eyewitnesses of the Lord, those who had spent time with the apostles, were those who were considered dead, tolerated, false teaching, and spewed out of the mouth of the Lord. And my prayer for our church and this new year and every year that the Lord grants to us is that we'll be found faithful, doing the same thing that we've always been doing. Reading the word, praying the word, singing the word, preaching the word, and seeing the word practice in the lives of our members and in the ordinances of the church. And while I'm excited about the beginning of our ministry, I'm much more concerned about the end of it and the perseverance of our ministry. And I want to come to the end of my ministry personally as The Apostle Paul did in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 7, where he said, I have fought the good fight, I've finished the course, I've kept the faith. It's all about the final quarter, isn't it? It's not about making a good start, it's about making a faithful finish. I remember during my time at seminary, master's seminary, uh, that I would encoura encourage one of the brothers uh that I went to class with uh with the words no regrets. No regrets. You know, I wanted to remind him and also to remind myself that we didn't have to become a statistic, that we don't have to crash and burn in our ministries, that we don't have to fall prey to sexual sin or destroy our families or deviate from the truth that we could come out of the other end intact. And my message is the same for us as a church, that we can be faithful. We can be found faithful. That we can live without regrets of what we wish we would have done. We don't have to abandon our first love, tolerate false teaching. We don't have to be considered dead or nauseated to the Lord. We can come out of the other end of our ministry being found faithful, standing firm. That's what we want for all of us. Amen. And for that, we're going to turn our attention to the book of Philippians chapter 1, and we'll give particular attention to verses 27 to 30. Philippians chapter 1, 27 to 30. Why don't you follow with me as I read? So it's only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ so that whether I come and see you or remain absent. I will hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel, in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from God. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake, experiencing the same conflict which ye saw in me and now hear to be in me. Why don't you bow your heads for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, today as we always do, Lord, asking that you would open our eyes, that we may behold wonderful things in your word My Father, I pray that you would use these words to speak to our hearts. My Father, I pray that you would encourage us, Lord, towards faithfulness, commitment. Father, that we would follow faithfully after you. And Father, we're grateful that you've given us your word. Father, that we have your spirit and uh father that we've been given all the encouragement uh that we need and uh that it's because of you who is faithful Oh Lord, that we can be found faithful as well, that you will complete the work that you began in us. So Father, we pray that you would Uh open us up to the uh to the truths of this passage. Open our eyes, our ears, our hearts to what we read. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The Philippian church was probably only about 10 to 12 years old when Paul wrote the letter to the Philippians. Paul saw the first convert in Philippi around 50 A. D. That was Lydia in Acts chapter 16. And he writes this letter to this young church somewhere between 59 and 62 A. D. And overall, this was a church that was doing well The Philippian church was a solid church. In chapter 1 and verse 6, he says, I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. The Philippian Church didn't give Paul a serious cause for worry. They were not steeped in immorality as the Corinthian church was They were not embroiled in serious doctrinal controversy as the church in Colossae was. They didn't struggle with the gospel like the church in Galatia did. And they weren't confused about their theology like the Church of Thessalonica. Overall, this was a church that was doing well. They're on the right track. They were a church that was doing well. And you can tell Paul has a lot of joy over this church. The words for joy or rejoicing are mentioned some 16 times in only four chapters He speaks fondly of this church, chapter 1 and verse 8. He says, for God is my witness how I long for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus. Chapter 4 and verse 1, he says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, whom I long to see, my joy and my crown, this is the church that he had a fond affection for. This is the church that brought the apostle delight. And as this church is a church that brings them such great delight, he also has a great concern for them. And the concern that he had for this church was that they would stand firm, that they would remain in the same truths and the same direction that they had already been remaining in. He says, I want you to stand firm. I don't want you to be moved from your position. And in chapter 1 and verse 27, he says, whether I come and see you or remain absent, I want to hear of you that you are standing firm. And then he repeats it again over in chapter 4 and verse 1 where he says, so stand firm in the Lord, my beloved. And again, the message is you're you're off to a great start, but you need to stick with it. There already a church that was loving. But Paul says in chapter 1 and verse 9, I pray that your love may abound still more and more in real knowledge and all discernment. Keep going. There were already a church that was obedient, but in chapter 2 and verse 12, he says, My beloved, just as you have always obeyed, you've already been obedient Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence work out your salvation. They needed to hold their ground. They needed to press on. The Greek word that's used for for standing is a very familiar word. It's uh the Greek word staiko, it's uh used literally for for standing, but metaphorically it's used for being firm, resolute, steadfast. And the force of the verb that's used in chapter 1 and verse 27 that's used for this standing firm, it's not an isolated exhortation. In uh Corinthians, uh 1 Corinthians 16 and verse 13, it says, Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith. Galatians chapter 5 and verse 1. It was for freedom that Christ set us free, therefore keep standing firm. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 15. So then, brethren, stand firm. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11. Having done everything to stand firm, stand firm. There's this call throughout the scriptures to stand firm in your spiritual walk. There needs to be a firmness, a permanence, a consistency, a resistance to change. Or I like to call it spiritual backbone. You need to be somebody who's who's willing to take a stand for the truth and for faithfulness to Christ. And that's the issue that Paul wants to deal with, and that's going to be our focus today in these verses. Paul wants them to stand firm. Our goal is that we would persevere, that we would stand firm to the end, and successfully hand off whatever ministry the Lord has given to us to the next generation. So what's our goal for this year? Our goal is to be faithful. Our goal is to be faithful. Your goal needs to be faithful. This is a an endurance race. It's a marathon. It's not a sprint We're in this for the long haul. But how are we to do this? Back in chapter 1 and verse 27, he says, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So what does it mean to stand firm? It looks like conducting yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. How would Paul know that they're standing firm? that they're conducting themselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. And Paul's really emphasizing how important this responsibility is, and he chooses his words carefully. This is really a heavy verse. When Paul speaks about the kind of conduct we're to have back in verse 27, conduct yourselves. That word for conduct is a rare word. It's found over in Acts 23 and verse 1, but it's uh it's the Greek word palate Uimai. It's the same word that we get our English word politics from, police from. It's a word that means to conduct yourself as a citizen, to behave as a citizen. And the Philippians were familiar with this kind of terminology because the benefits of Roman citizenship was actually granted to the city of Philippi. So the Philippians would have taken great pride in being citizens of Rome. There's all these benefits that we have because we're we're citizens of of Rome. But Paul has the greater citizenship when he speaks about conduct yourself as a citizen It 's not just talking about conducting yourself as an earthly citizen of some worldly empire. Over in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20, he says, our citizenship is in heaven. Who do we represent? We represent heaven. You're citizens of heaven. This is the place from which we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The one who rules over this kingdom is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. And because of our true citizenship, we should conduct ourselves as citizens of that great and holy city. So conduct yourselves as citizens of heaven The next thing that Paul does to raise the bar in their minds of how important this is is he says, back in verse 27, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. That word for worthy, it's the Greek word axias, it's uh literally means to bring into balance, to bring into balance, to bring into equivalence. And it was used when you were comparing two things with with one another. Oftentimes in the ancient world, uh when you wanted to compare two different things, you'd you'd compare them by their weight. You know, on the one side you'd of the scale you'd put you know you know some precious metal and on the other side you'd you put what you thought was a precious metal to see if they equaled in weight. Determined by its weight, the value. And so what Paul is saying is on one side of the scale is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And I want you to conduct yourselves as those who understand the worthiness. The value of what's on the other side of the scale. Do you know what kind of gospel you were saved by? Do you understand the value of being saved from eternal hell? Do you know what the Lord has done for you? Why would you live in a way that doesn't recognize the value of what you've been saved from and who you've been saved to? We need to live in a way that recognizes the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And there's no way that we're going to match the gospel of Jesus Christ, but we should live in such a way that we understand the value of it. We understand the value of what we've been saved by. And Paul here is trying to stress the importance of walking in a way that understands the value of the gospel. And Paul also says, I want this to be the case whether I'm there or not. Don't don't do this just because of me. You know, it's like you know when the when the pastor shows up all of a sudden everybody, you know, might want to straighten up. I I heard this one story about uh about a you know a pastor making a visit to uh to one home and you know he's trying to impress the pastor and he tells the son, why don't you go and and grab that book that you see dad reading all the time? Why don't you go upstairs and And grab that book that dad's always spending his time in. And his son comes back down with the sports illustrated, right? It's like, look, don't do it just because I'm around, Paul says. It's not just because I'm here. I want to hear that you're living in this way, whether I'm here or not. Conduct yourselves in a way that's worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear of you that you are standing firm. This is what I want to hear about you There's two ways that Paul instructs us to stand firm or to stand in a worthy manner. Again, in verse 27, he says We're to stand firm how? Verse 27? In one spirit with one mind. Striving together. All of these speak about the internal struggle to preserve the unity of the church. That's the first thing that Paul wants to point out. You're to strive together as one, strive together in unity with one another. And the second way that we're to stand firm or in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ is we're to persevere against opposition that comes from outside of the church. Verse 28, in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is the sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. In verse 29, it speaks about suffering for his sake and experiencing conflict. So what Paul is doing is he's saying the way that you're to stand firm is on the one hand, you're to preserve the unity that you have in Christ, walking as one, and on the other hand, you're going to stand firm against that which opposes This firm stand in the gospel, don't be alarmed by your opponents, be willing to suffer for Christ and experience conflict if it comes So these speak about the two fronts that the church is constantly waging war on. We're attempting to proclaim the gospel while trying to preserve the unity of the saints, the unity and the bond of the Spirit. We're trying to preserve that, the bond of peace. But we're also standing against that which comes to oppose us from the outside. And we can't forget that while we're trying to preserve the unity in the church, that there are enemies outside of the church and vice versa. We can't just focus on what's coming from outside of the church, not recognizing that within the church there's issues that need to be dealt with. So let's take a look at the first one. Preserving the unity of the church. We're to preserve the unity of the church. It says that we're to stand firm in one spirit with one mind. And there's a false and superficial sense of unity that we can have and exist in so many different areas. I remember a while ago I saw a a newspaper uh article from the Baltimore Sun It was uh titled, The Spirit Moves Bromwell When the Minister Fails to Show. And in this article, it spoke about this clergyman who couldn't make it for uh in time to do the opening prayer for the Senate. So the duty fell to a Baltimore County Senator named Thomas Bromwell, a Roman Catholic, who proceeded to give what was probably one of the shortest yet most inclusive prayers in the chamber's history. Listen to this. He says, let's pray Lord, God, Yahweh, whatever your name is, whatever color you are, whatever gender you are, you know these people, you know that they're good. Pray for them. Thank you. And that was his prayer. Trying to give this kind of all-inclusive prayer. Let's all just kind of come together in unity. Don't really matter, you know, mind too much about the differences. We can all just get along, can't we? Whatever your name is, whatever gender you are, whatever color you are, you know these people. Pray for them and let's move on. It's a superficial unity that's not built around the truth. And so many times that's what people want. Like, let's just get along and forget about the truth. Throw the truth out the window so that we can have a good time together. But we're not able to do that That's not what we can do. As brothers and sisters who believe in the one who says he is the truth, on the way, the truth, and the life, you can't toss out the truth and expect to find true unity. No, unity is not built around falsehood. Unity is not built around the superficial kind of uh you know uh platitudes that people often often give. Unity is is deep, it's at the most fundamental level. And we share a unity between us that's greater and more essential than the unity of citizenship, friendship, or even family We share a unity around the gospel of Jesus Christ. Our union is with Christ. The basis of our union is Jesus Christ Himself. of the spirit who binds us together. And whether you like it or not, we're family for eternity. You can't get rid of us, right? If if you've truly trusted in Jesus Christ, there's nowhere else to go. We're all one. We're all in this together. In Mark chapter 12 and verse 50, Jesus says, Whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother and sister and mother. That's the true family of God, those that trust in Jesus Christ. So Christians are united on the deepest level. But even though Christians are united at the deepest level, we often don't act like that, do we? We often don't act like that. I I I love that one saying I heard, you know, it says uh to dwell above with the saints in love, oh that will be glory. But to dwell below with the saints I know. Now that's another story. But the saints below are all that we know, right? I mean, yes, we we we have to dwell with one another. I mean we we have to get along with with one another. And I'm talking about true Christians that can't find unity even though we we all claim Christ together and it's sad because it it hurts our witness. And Paul is not saying here that in order to walk worthy of the gospel We must preserve the unity of the church and um and and and just be that by any means necessary. You know, that's that's not what he's saying here. He's not saying throughout the truth, throughout conviction But he's saying that there should be a true unity and standing firm together around the truth. We have to preserve the unity of the church. And one of the ways that works out is in our attitudes. He says, uh Again, that I will hear of you that you're standing firm in one spirit. This is speaking about the the attitude that we have towards one another. When he says one spirit here, some Uh there there's some you know disagreement because the word spirit can refer to the Holy Spirit or the human spirit. Uh but because of its close relationship with one mind, one spirit and one mind, uh we would look at this as the the human spirit speaking about the attitude that we have towards one another. So Paul here is speaking about our our attitude or disposition towards other believers in in Christ. What kind of attitude do you have towards one another in the the body of Christ? How do you think about one another in the body of Jesus Christ? Do you think about one another as, you know, those that have been bought by the blood of the Lamb, those that I'm going to spend eternity with? Those that are truly my brothers and sisters in Christ? Those who have been forgiven? So you've been forgiven by Christ, but I can't forgive you? I mean, this this isn't the way that we're to look at one another. We're to have an attitude that really, truly seeks Unity, humbly seeks unity with one another, willing to put our desires down so that we can honor Christ in our relationships. Also, he focuses on uh on the mind that we're supposed to have, and we're united in in spirit and in mind. Uh the word for mind is suke. It's where we get our English word psyche from. Literally means soul. We're to be of one soul with one another. So in that sense, we're we're all soul brothers and soul sisters in here, okay? Uh the word soul and spirit used interchangeably in the in the Bible for the the inner part of who we are. So Jesus can say in John twelve twenty-seven, Now my soul has become troubled, and then turns around and says, I'm troubled in spirit. Or Mary can say, my soul exalts the Lord, and then turns around and says, My spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. You know, so so again, there's this true unity internally. And the parallelism shows that, you know, these two terms are used synonymously for the the inner part of man. So there's this emphasis on true wholehearted unity, devoted to one another and the body of Christ. So we're to be of one mind, one spirit, and next Paul says we're also to be devoted in our actions. Striving together for the faith of the gospel. The two words striving together, one word in the Greek soon, athleo. Uh the word athleto, it's uh where we get our English word athletics from, competition, engaging in conflict, uh, but it's not competition against one another. This is This is competing with each other that we're on the same team that we're competing with, together striving with one another side by side. As one man, we share a common goal. We're committed to seeing the spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ, defending the gospel of Christ. We have a common enemy, and the enemy is not one another. The enemy is not the unbeliever either. The enemy is the spiritual enemy of all of our souls. In Ephesians 6, verse 12, we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. It's the enemy who we can't see that we're really fighting against. And we have a common battle and a common fight, which is to stand firm for the faith. That's why over in chapter 4 of Philippians, Paul reminds the Philippians that their personal problems were not just personal problems. Their personal problems were actually corporate problems. And Paul involved the church in even personal disputes. The unity among believers was that important to him that he calls out Euodia and Syntheci in front of the whole church Like why why do that? That's something personal. Why can't they just work that out by themselves? It's like, no, their personal problems are actually a corporate problem Their problem is the problem for everybody. And you can't allow disunity to creep in, destroy the unity that exists within the body. We need to guard our hearts. Seek clarification, be quick to forgive, slow to take offense, and our ability to stand firm in the gospel depends on it. So not only must we preserve the unity in the church This is something we're called to do, but we're also called to persevere against the opposition outside of the church. And what does that look like? Take a look at verses 28 to 30. So in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from God. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. Experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me and now here to be in me. What Paul is saying here is this that the way that you stand firm And give evidence that you're walking worthy of the gospel of Christ is also by not being terrified of your opponents. The adversaries. He says, in no way alarmed by them. That word alarmed it's a it's a rare word Only found here in the Bible. It was used outside of the Bible to refer to timid horses who got startled and ran off even when there was no real danger. And the difference here is that the danger that we face as believers is sometimes real. You know, we're not just you know running from the boogeyman. I mean, there's there's real dangers out there. The gospel is not a welcome message in Philippi Paul and Silas were accused of throwing the city into confusion, and because of that accusation, they were beaten and thrown into jail. I mean, that was a real threat. Any message that could be seen as a threat to the peace of their fair city was seen as a threat to everybody. And there were many gods that were worshipped in Philippi. There were a Roman city, and the Romans worshiped many gods. And they were not interested in a religion that would condemn their beliefs and practices and say that there's only one God to be worshipped. And no doubt those that converted to Christianity were ridiculed by family members, friends. Many faced the possibility of being accused of the same crimes that Paul and Silas were accused of. Convicted of throwing the city into confusion, subject to punishment, imprisonment, possibly execution. And here are these Philippian believers with this kind of threat just hanging over their heads. And it would have become easy for Christians to be intimidated by their opponents and just keep quiet. Like, why say anything? But Paul here is giving them a word. If you wish to stand firm for the faith of the gospel, you can't allow yourself to be frightened by the opponents. You can't allow the opponents to silence your mouth. You can't take off like a horse that's just startled and take off, run off. If you want to walk worthy of the gospel, you can't be intimidated By those that would try to silence the gospel. And today, as we all know, there are people who want to silence the gospel. You know, sometimes, I mean, even during a season where we're celebrating Christ's birth, people are like, I don't want to hear that. It's like, what what do you think Christmas is supposed to be about? Like, I can't talk about Christ? You don't want me to talk about Christ? I mean it's like literally in the title. But the world doesn't want to hear about Christ. The world doesn't want to hear that mankind is a sinner. You know, don't call me a sinner. You know, I might be bad, but I'm not that bad. When Romans 3. 23 says, For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, people don't want to hear that there's only one true God and that the only way to get to him is through Jesus Christ. You know, are you telling me that this person over here who is so devout, so committed to their religion is lost for eternity? I mean, is that what you're saying? That this person in this other religion over here isn't getting to heaven because they just don't do it your way? Is that what you're telling me? Are you that narrow-minded? Well, Jesus does say enter by the narrow gate. It's a narrow way. And we just need to be thankful that there is a way. I mean, forget about wanting it to be a wide way in many ways. I'm just thankful that there's a way. And Jesus is the way. And that there's a path to the Father. There's a way to heaven. Can't we just be thankful that the Lord has granted us that when he could have just shut us all out? But God has given us the way to heaven and it's only through Jesus Christ, but the world doesn't want to hear that. We want many ways We want to come in our own way. We want to come to Jesus our own way, however, we might want to imagine Jesus to be. And people definitely don't want to hear that they have to repent and submit themselves. To the Lordship of Jesus Christ. But God is now declaring to men everywhere that they should what? Repent. Repent. I mean, talk about a message that cuts across the grain of society. There's only one way. You have to admit that you're a sinner, that you don't deserve it. And when you come, you have to turn your life over. And it's no more about you. Give your life up. Deny yourself and follow after Jesus Christ. Pick up your cross and follow Christ. The world doesn't want to hear about that. They can't stand a message like that. Public schools don't want children meeting for Bible studies. Workplaces don't want you talking about Christ. I mean, I I heard of one person who just had a Bible on his desk and that was offensive. Put that away. Like, but you can have any other kind of reading material on your desk. But put that thing away. Like, that's dangerous. Put that away. But you can't be intimidated Especially when we understand the results of standing firm in our convictions. When we stand unmoved, it's actually a sign. God is doing something Through your witness when you stand firm. Take a look at verse 28 again. It says, in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them. Why do you think people don't want you to take a firm stand for the gospel? Because it's telling them something. It's it's it's it's you know, we talked about this this last week, you know, John chapter 3. It's like the lights are shining. They don't want the light because the light reminds me that I'm in the dark. So turn the light off so I can continue what I'm doing in peace. But when you stand firm in the gospel, it's like a sign. It's like the lights are flashing in their face, like you're on the wrong road. The road's out. You're about to fall over the cliff. I'm trying to tell you you're on the wrong road. That's what your firm stand for the gospel does. It results in a sign of destruction for them. That I'm not heading in the right direction. But we can't be intimidated. When we stand unmoved, it's a sign to them. And the unbelieving world actually understands that there's something different about us. Real quick, flip over to 1 Peter chapter 3. This is one of the things that I often miss when I read through this passage. 1 Peter chapter 3. Makes the same kind of point. Starts out in verse 13. He says, Who is there to harm you if you prove zealous for what is good? So, for the most part, you know, you can you can get away with doing what's right without being harmed, but recognizing that sometimes you will be harmed even when you do what's right, even if you should suffer For the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not fear their intimidation. And do not be troubled. But sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense To everyone who asks you to give an account for, listen to this, the hope that is in you. I love that. This is one of the things that I often miss when I read through this verse because I was, you know, just so caught up in the apologetics, giving a defense But he says, give an offense to everyone who asked you to give an account for the hope that is in you. How did they see their hope? Because I'm not intimidated. Even though I'm being persecuted, even though I'm suffering, I know that I'm doing what's right. I'm trusting in the Lord. Christ is Lord over my heart. I'm not going to be intimidated. And because they're seeing that stand for the faith, they're saying, hold on here. Everybody else that we try to intimidate, you know, they cave in, but you're not doing that. What kind of hope do you have It causes them to ask the question: what kind of hope do you have so that you can give an account for the hope that is in you to everyone who's asking? They're asking because it's evident. You have something that I don't, but you're to do that with gentleness and reverence. It should be clear to the world around us that we have a hope that they don't. It's apparent, it should be apparent that there's something different about the Christian. And Paul understood the same thing in the book of Philippians. He understands that if believers are willing to take a firm stand, they're not intimidated by the world around them. That it shows the unbeliever that I'm on the wrong road and that this person has a hope that I don't have. And it would cause these unbelievers to recognize they're heading for destruction. It would also Show to the believers that their hope was real. He said it's a sign of destruction back in Philippians chapter 1. No way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. When you're willing to stand up for the truth, it's actually a sign that you're saved. It's a sign of destruction for the unbelievers, and it's a sign of salvation for the believers. It's a sign of salvation for you. And that too from God. There's something about being willing to stand up even in the face of persecution that says that something's real about my faith. If you remember over in the book of Matthew in chapter 13, in the parable of the uh of the soils uh that Jesus uh speaks about there. He speaks about the one soil that has no firm root. The seed is thrown onto it, but has no firm root in himself, but is only temporary. And when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he falls away? You know, that's the person who's not a true believer, the person who you know kind of falls uh among the uh the the rocky soil, no firm root. And as soon as the sun kind of comes out, like they just wither up and die. You say that's that's not a true believer. You know, this is what you know Matthew 13 is pointing out. But those who are able to face persecution, affliction , and still stand give evidence that I'm truly a believer. It's the opposite. So we're confirmed in our trust in the Lord when we're willing to make a firm stand. Real quick, we've and we'll get back to Romans, don't worry, okay? But real quick, Romans chapter five. Romans chapter five. This is the same thing that we we've already read in Romans, isn't it? I just love this about scripture, that it just confirms itself Like like you go to one passage that says the same thing, another passage says the same thing. It's like it's just, you know, just building on top of each other. I just love that about the Bible. But in Romans chapter 5, this is what we've we've talked about before in verse 3. It says, and not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations. Remember that? Knowing that our tribulation brings about perseverance. And perseverance, proven character. And proven character, what? Hope. And hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Through your tribulations, when you persevere through that, it shows that I have a proven character, that my character has been given to me by the Lord. There's something real about my character. And when my character is proven, what does that produce in my life? It produces hope. That I that I know who I've believed in. That I have my my my my my salvation is is being confirmed that I truly trust in him that I have a hope of of heaven it builds into my hope when I persevere through tribulations. So it it constantly builds upon itself. And that's exactly what Paul is saying over in Philippians. That when you endure persecution, intimidation by those who oppose the truth, and you stand underneath that, that it's a sign of salvation for you. It proves your salvation. And that for you is a gift. For to you, verse 29 says. It has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake. It's been granted to you to suffer for His sake. It's actually a gift when you suffer and you stand firm, because it proves your faith. Suffering for Christ is a gift. It's been granted. The Greek word charizoma. It's a gift. It's granted to you. Just as much as your faith is a gift. And Paul here, just by the way, he assumes that the Philippian church understood that faith was a gift from God. Isn't that what he says? For to you it has been granted, it's a gift to you, for Christ's sake, not only to believe In him, but also to suffer. So it's a gift to believe, and it's a gift to suffer. He assumed that the Philippians understood that. It's a gift for you to believe. It's been granted to you to believe. Over in Acts chapter 16 actually happened in Philippi. There's a certain woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira. Seller of purple fabrics, a worshiper of God. She was listening. And the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things. spoken by Paul. Paul spoke the word and the Lord opened her heart to believe. It was given to her to believe. It was a gift to her. It's the Lord's work to open her heart to believe. So faith is a work of the Lord. So Paul assumes that you understand that faith is a gift. I just want you to understand that something else is a gift. What else is a gift? Suffering. Suffering is a gift. And you want to say, like, excuse me? Like, really? You know, that's that's the gift you want to keep under the tree, right? You know, just keep that wrapped up, don't bring that out, you know, keep suffering over there. But he says, no, no, suffering is a is a gift. And again, when you consider that suffering, that through suffering, when I stand through suffering, that it actually gives evidence to my faith, that's a gift from God. How how precious is it to you to know that you're on your way to heaven? How precious of a gift is that to you to know that you're secure? Your eternal security. That like no I I know I'm going to heaven and it's and it's it's not just I'm imagining this. Just share a quick story. I remember a number of years ago when I was uh working doing HVAC. I was behind a temporary wall and you know I'm trying to change out a couple uh electric wires and I thought I turned the disconnect off But the the the the box was still hot. You know, there's still power going to the box. And I went to go switch out a a wire and uh thinking that that you know everything was off, I started to like kind of jiggle this wire and all of a sudden I felt like this kind of surge just travel down my arm and I started to shake. I'm on the top of a six-foot ladder, probably like second rung of a top of the six-foot ladder. Behind a wall where nobody can see me and I'm shaking and trembling and all of a sudden it's like I just black out. And I I remember the last thing that I said is I'm it's like my my my my hands are shaking. I'm about to black out I'm thinking, I'm about to die. And the last thing I remember saying is like, uh, all right, Lord, here I come. And the next thing I know, I was I'm I I wake up and I was on the floor, ladder tipped over And uh I'm still trembling. But uh but it's like, you know what, I really believe this stuff. It's not it's not just saying I believe, it's like I thought I was gonna die, and the the thought in my mind is like, okay, Lord, I guess this is how you're gonna take me home. But I had the confidence that I'm going home. What kind of confidence? What kind of joy should you have to know that you know? Not just to think that you know you're going to heaven, but to know that you know that you're going to heaven. And it's often through tribulations and the trials of life that you get that confidence that, like, Lord, I've been through the fire and I'm still here. I know that I know that I'm on my way to heaven. I know that I know that I believe because you've tested my faith. My faith has been tested and it's been proven to be the genuine thing. That's a gift to the believer that you know, that you know that you're on your way to heaven. And that's how the apostles understood their trials. Flip over to the book of Acts, Acts chapter 5. Acts chapter 5, we find Peter and the apostles proclaiming the gospel, healing diseases, much like Christ did in his earthly ministry. And the religious leaders opposed them, much like they did Christ in his earthly ministry. But I love what happens here. You're familiar with the story, but it's great just to read it again. Acts chapter 5, take a look at verse 17. It says, but the high priest rose up along with all his associates, that is the sect of the Sadducees. And they were filled with jealousy. They laid hands on the apostles and put them in a public jail. But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the gates of the prison, and taking them out, he said, Go stand and speak to the people in the temple the whole message of this life. You know, basically stand firm. You know, keep standing. Don't be intimidated by your opponents. Stand firm. So what do they do, verse 21? Upon hearing this, they entered into the temple about daybreak and began to teach. You know, and after all of this, they were brought back to the council again. Just to shorten the story here a little bit, and they're questioned again by the high priest, but look down at verse 27. Verse 27. It says, when they had brought them, so here they are again before the high priest. When they had brought them, they stood them before the council. The high priest questioned them, saying, We gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name. And yet you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man's blood upon us? But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men. That's the way not to be intimidated, right? Because you sanctified Christ as Lord in your hearts. I need to obey God. I can't just cave in. The council was so furious they wanted to kill them, but taking the advice of a respected Pharisee named Gameliel, they chose to release them. But before they did that, they gave the apostles a good beating. Apostles went on their way from the presence of the council. But how do they respond? Verse 41. It says, So they went on their way from the presence of the council, doing what? Rejoicing. That they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. Lord, Lord, you've considered me worthy to take upon myself some of the reproach that fell upon you. And it actually confirmed their faith. You've counted me worthy, Lord. I rejoice in this. And every day in the temple and from house to house, they kept right on teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. That's the right attitude about suffering, isn't it? In fact, Peter says in his letter to the scattered saints in 1 Peter chapter 4, he says, to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing. To the same degree that you suffer, to the same degree you should rejoice. Because you've been counted worthy to suffer for the name of Jesus Christ. Rejoice with exaltation Our sufferings for Christ, just give us one more reason to rejoice when we stand before Him on the last day. Like it's another badge. But you were counted worthy to suffer. You suffered for me. You were counted worthy to suffer for me, that you stood firm even under the pressure. It proves our faith. It's a testimony to unbelievers, and it brings us eternal joy. We should appreciate the gifts that the Lord gives us. We should appreciate the gifts that the Lord gives us. I know I don't all the time, but we should appreciate it. When we suffer for the name of Christ, you should say, Lord, I I understand what this is. This is an opportunity for me to stand for the name of Jesus Christ. And I want to be found worthy in this situation. Like I said, during the holiday seasons, when it should be easy to talk about Christ, it can become a hostile environment But we shouldn't be intimidated or alarmed by our opponents. We need to continue to stand firm for Christ. Stand firm for your faith. And lastly, Paul reminds them of the example that they had before them. They're not in this struggle alone. Back in Philippians chapter 1. Says, you're not in this alone. Verse 30, he says, You're experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me. And now here to be in me. You're experiencing the same thing that I've experienced. They saw what Paul went through in Philippi for the sake of the gospel. The Philippians knew of the bruises and the wounds that he suffered at the hands of the Roman soldiers. Paul Paul wasn't a sideline Christian, you know, the the armchair coach, you know, telling everybody what to do from the screen, from the comfort of your living room, you know, with your coke next to you, like, oh, you should have run this way, you should have gone through that way But never stepping foot on the field. That wasn't Paul. Paul isn't telling everybody what to do from the bleachers. Paul says, I'm in the game. I'm taking the hits. You've seen the conflict that came to me. You know what I've been through. Like you saw the bruises and the wounds that I've received. I've experienced the same conflict that you're going through now. You're seeing the same, you're experiencing the same thing that you've seen in me. I know what it's like to go through it. And this is an interesting word that he uses for conflict when he says you're experiencing the same conflict. He uses the Greek word agone. That's where we get our English word agony. You saw the agony that I went through? You saw the struggle, the fight, the battle? And this is true for all Christians. We can't get away from the fight. We can't get away from the conflict. Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Jesus Christ will be persecuted. And as this year starts off , we need to remind ourselves of our resolutions as believers. What are we resolved to do as believers this year? We need to stand firm. And what does that look like? That looks like preserving the unity that God has granted to us right here in the body of Jesus Christ. Being quick to forgive, slow to take offense. Slow to speak. We need to make sure that we're seeking to understand one another and viewing one another the way that Christ tells us to view one another. We're part of the same body. We should be of the same mind. Have the same kind of love for one another. Same spirit. We're striving together. We're all in this together We're all taking the hits together, like we need to encourage one another. Recognize that we're all one body in Jesus Christ. Preserve the unity of the church. And also we're to persevere against the opposition from outside of the church. Don't be intimidated. When you suffer for the sake of Christ, look at that as a badge of honor. Like, Lord, you you can't considered me worthy to take a stand for you here. And Lord, I'm not going to keep my mouth silent. I'm not going to run off afraid. Lord, I want to stand because I know that the gospel is worthy of being stood for, right? The gospel is worthy of it. And my prayer is that if the Lord doesn't return in this next year, or in the next 50 to 60 years, That our church will be right here doing the same thing that we're doing today. That we're standing firm for the faith of the gospel because the gospel is worthy of it. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh your word. We pray that you would speak to us through this text. And uh Father, we thank you that you've given us all that we need for life and godliness in your word. Father, I pray that you'd help us to submit ourselves to your truth. And Father, that we do this because we know that the gospel of Jesus Christ is worthy of it. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.