The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Today as we turn back to Romans chapter 8. I'm not sure if you have a a place in the Bible that, you know, like when you open up your Bible, your your Bible automatically falls there. I think Romans eight is going to be that for me after we're we're done here. But uh yeah, Romans chapter eight has just been such a a blessing uh to me personally and uh just from conversations with uh uh with some of you. I know that the Lord has been uh using uh this text in your life as well. Romans chapter 8, we uh uh turn back to this book and uh we're in a section of scripture uh that focuses on the security that the believer has in Christ Jesus. And the specific idea that's being developed in Romans chapter 8, verses 1 through 11 is in the statement uh that we find in the first verse in Romans chapter 8 and verse 1, uh that therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. The word condemnation is a judicial term that speaks about both the sentence for sin and the punishment for sin One resource says it's a judicial term referring to the act of passing and executing a sentence on one found guilty. And for those in Christ Jesus, the sentence for sin and the punishment for sin has fallen upon a substitute. We stand today as those who are justified because there is one who stood in our place, who took what we deserved. And the rest of the passage develops this idea of freedom from condemnation and provides us with a further explanation of why this is true. Because Paul is not satisfied with simply making the statement that there is no condemnation in Christ. He wants to expand upon it. He wants to explore it. He wants to explain it. And Lord willing also excite our hearts with this same truth. But there's also a very practical and pastoral concern because the ones who need to be reminded the most that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus are the ones who are the most tempted to feel that they are under the condemnation. And the believer who's battling indwelling sin recognizes what Paul says in Romans chapter 7 and verse 21. Where he says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. And that's the person who needs this reminder the most. One author I read this week was quoting C. S. Lewis and he said this, at this very moment, you and I are either committing sin, about to commit sin, or repenting of sin. It's like the cycle that we're in. That's a cycle of battling, indwelling sin. We're either committing sin, about to commit sin, or we're repenting from it. And we just keep going through that cycle until we reach home C. S. Lewis illustrates it this way. He says, when we wake, we try to lay the new day at God's feet. We tell God, this day is yours. But before we finish shaving, it becomes our day. And God's share in it is perceived as a tribute which we must pay out of our own pocket, a deduction from the time which we feel to be our own. You know, you start out, this whole day belongs to you, Lord, and then before long it's like, well, let me see if I can spare you some change over here, you know. It's like, is this really the Lord's day or is this this your day? And that's how we go through our days. It's like we start out with just like the greatest of intentions. You know, I want to honor the Lord. I want to just dedicate this day to Him. And then before long, we're about to commit sin, we're committing sin, or repenting from the sin that we just committed. And we realize, like Paul, Romans chapter 7 verse 19, for the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. And we need the reminder, all of us need that reminder, that there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. That doesn't mean that there's no conviction for sin, because there is conviction for sin. That doesn't mean that there are no consequences for sin, because there is, there are consequences Pren But it does mean that there are there's no condemnation. No condemnation. The sentence and the punishment have been removed for us as believers. So let's jump back into our text, Romans chapter 8. Starting at verse one. Romans chapter eight, starting at verse one. Says therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh And as an offering for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the spirit For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace. Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God. For it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. However, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Let's go to our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for another day that you've given us, another Lord today, another opportunity, Lord, to look into your word, to be encouraged by your truth And Father, I pray that you would use this text in our lives, that this text that reminds us of our security that we have in Jesus Christ, Lord, that this would be a text and a truth that we return to often. Father, that you would encourage our hearts as we continue in this battle against indwelling sin. Father, I pray that uh you, Lord, would be uh glorified and honored, Lord, even in the the delivery of the message today. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This text before us provides us with a series of explanations to help us to understand why there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus And most of these explanations are preceded by that little word for. And this lets us know that the Apostle Paul is building on an argument. He's expanding on this idea that there is no condemnation. And the first explanation comes in verse two, where it says, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death The law of the Spirit has set you free. We've been released from the law that condemns us, placed under a law that sets us free. Under the law of Moses, mankind was sentenced to death. And even apart from the law of Moses, there's still the law that's written on our hearts. Even if I never read Exodus chapter 20, I've never read the Ten Commandments, there's still a law that's written on my heart that lets me know that I'm guilty before Almighty God. That's why in Romans chapter 2 and verse 12 it says, All who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. You're not safe just because you don't read your Bible. You know, everybody's under the condemnation of sin. And we're all heading, apart from the grace of God, towards eternal death. There's enough of the law written on your heart to bring you under condemnation before God, even if you never read a Bible a day in your life. And that law is only enough to condemn you. It can't save you. It can't transform you. It can't change you. And the law of sin and of death, that principle of sin that drags us down, brings us underneath the condemnation of that law. So we need a law that will set us free. We need something else. We need another law. And that's what the Spirit of God offers to us. He sets us free from the law of sin and of death, and he grants us life. In 2 Corinthians 3. 6, it says the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. The Old Testament prophets predicted that there would be a new covenant ministry of the Spirit. Where he would give us a new heart, put a new spirit within us, and that's what God has done for us in Christ Jesus. So why is there no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus? The law of the Spirit. The law of the Spirit of life has set us free. And we've covered that already. But there's another reason that there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And it's found in verse 3, and here's that word for again. For What the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. Why is there no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus? Because God condemns sin in the flesh of his Son. And if God again is going to maintain his holiness, he has to condemn sin. He can't just brush sin under the rug and wink his eyes and pretend that it doesn't exist. God has to deal with sin if he's going to maintain his holiness. Otherwise, God himself would be a liar Because he says that sin is worthy of condemnation and then he gives no condemnation. We can't take his word seriously if God doesn't follow through with what he says he's going to do. But God does condemn sin, and how does he do that? By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh as an offering for sin. He condemns sin in the flesh. And as Galatians chapter 3 and verse 13 says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. And how did he do that? By becoming a curse. He became the curse in our place. And every sin of every person who would ever believe was placed upon Christ, and he took the full brunt of the Father's eternal wrath and hatred against sin. In his classic commentary, Haldane says this, nowhere else is sin so completely judged and condemned. Talking about Christ, that nowhere else but in Christ is sin so completely judged and condemned. Not even in hell Are its guilt and demerits so fully manifested? What is he saying? What does he mean by that? That sins are never even completely judged, even in hell. Why is that? Because it's going to take forever to pay for it. I mean being on a payment plan forever, and you never finally say it's done. Do you know for the people in hell there's never a day when God says, you know what, that's enough? There's never a time when God says, it is finished. For the people in hell. Never. It's only on the cross that Jesus can say, it is finished. Only on the cross. Not even in hell. He's the only one who can condemn sin in the flesh, and it happened in the the flesh of his son Jesus Christ. And we didn't cover this last time when we were together, but in verse 4 it introduces us to a an interpretive issue and the the question is In verse 4 where it says, and actually starting in verse 3, he condemns sin in the flesh so that, here's the purpose, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. And here's the question. Is he saying, is Paul saying that we are the ones who fulfill the requirement of the law? Does Jesus condemn sin in the flesh and then give us the responsibility to fulfill the law? There's actually more to consider here, and I'll go ahead and lay this out for you, but I'll let you know where I land. First of all, it's obvious that none of us could fulfill the law perfectly, which is why this passage exists in the first place. Why was he saying there's no condemnation? Because there was condemnation. There was condemnation. And we're being reminded here that there's no condemnation only in Christ, because there's plenty of condemnation outside of Christ. And Jesus had to offer himself for our sin in order to release us from that condemnation. He condemned sin in the flesh. And we cannot perfectly fulfill the law, which is why we need a sacrifice. To condemn the sin in the flesh. But there are interpreters who will point out that later on in the book of Romans, believers are said to fulfill the law And our love for one another. Why don't you flip over to Romans chapter 13? Romans chapter 13. Take a look at verse 8 Romans chapter 8, uh 13, starting at verse 8, it says, owe nothing to anyone except to love one another. For he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law. For this you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet. And if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this saying, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor, therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. Flip over to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter five. Take a look at verse fourteen Starting verse 14, it says, For the whole law is fulfilled in one word in the statement, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not consumed by one another, but I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. Flip over to James chapter 2. James chapter two, take a look at verse eight Says, if, however, you are fulfilling the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. And then of course we have what Jesus says himself over in Matthew chapter 22, if you want to flip back there, Matthew chapter 22 Take a look at verse thirty-seven. Matthew twenty-three, verse thirty-seven. It says, and he said to him, Ye shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and foremost commandment. The second is like it You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend the whole law and the prophets. So when Paul says that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us , He could be saying that the Spirit frees us to love one another, which is the summary of the law. And it's been pointed out that the word for requirement is actually in the singular back in Romans chapter 8. So it could be talking about the single requirement to love. In addition to that, it's also pointed out if you want to flip back to Romans chapter 8. When it says in verse 4, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled, that word for fulfilled is the Greek word plyrao. And it doesn't necessarily mean 100% complete or perfect fulfillment, but it could be talking about reaching an intended goal. So Paul could be saying, God condemns sin in the flesh with the purpose that you would reach this goal of loving one another. And then finally, this fulfillment of the law is said to be true for those who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. So Paul points to the practice of the believer, and it's because of these reasons that there are interpreters who believe that Paul is talking about the believer fulfilling the requirement of the law. And that law being the law of love. And that's how the law is fulfilled in us. But I would argue that there's good reason to see the fulfillment of the law here as what God does for us in Christ. rather than what we do before God and before others. First of all, that statement is found in a judicial context when it says, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. What have we been talking about? We've been talking about no condemnation, legal terminology. There's a declaration that's being made that you have been set free from the law. It's about what's been done for you, not what you are doing yourself And the law of love doesn't show up in this context. There's nowhere in Romans chapter 8 where we're seeing that we're fulfilling this law of love. Also, in verse 3. Verse 3 of Romans chapter 8. It also communicates that what God is doing, he's accomplishing apart from the law. He's doing what the law could not do. Verse 3, for what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did. So here he's talking about something that is apart from the law. It's not us keeping the law. It's something that the law could not do. So why would Paul now turn around just after saying that the law was weak because of the flesh, turn around and say that the requirement of the law can be accomplished by you Also, God's work is being highlighted in this context. The subject of the sentence is God. For what the law could not do, weak as it was. Who did? God did. The end of verse 3. He condemned sin in the flesh. That's talking about what God did. And verse 4 is built off of that. work of God, that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. So speaking about something, again, that God is doing. And also, if we're in a judicial context, we're talking about no condemnation, we're talking about the fulfillment of the law. If the law is going to be fulfilled, it's not just going to be in the direction It's not going to be incomplete. It would have to be a complete fulfillment of the law in order for God to say, there is no condemnation. There has to be a complete fulfillment of the law, and there's only one person who's completely fulfilled the law for us. That's Jesus Christ. Jesus says himself in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 17, do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to do what? Fulfill. Who's the one who fulfills the law? Jesus fulfills the law. Jesus does what we can't do. Jesus does what we do imperfectly. Jesus does perfectly. And the religious leaders desperately wanted to find something that they could accuse Jesus of, and they always came up empty. Because Jesus always fulfilled the law Matthew 26, verse 59, the chief priest and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death. Here they are, they're highly motivated. It's like let's find something, some way that he's violated the law and the ideas, and everybody's coming up empty. Even their testimonies are contradicting one another because they can't come up with anything that Jesus has done. They can't find a charge against them. On one occasion, Jesus says in John 8, 46, which one of you convicts me of sin? Don't you wish you could say that? Who here can convict me of sin? If I speak the truth, why do you not believe me? Jesus put himself out there. Like if he can find anything that I've done. I if you can just tell me one violation of the law of God, I mean bring it. You know, you you you know my words, you've seen me I mean I didn't do this in a corner. So Jesus puts himself out there and they can't bring up one charge against Jesus. In James chapter 2 and verse 10, it's lets us know that whoever keeps the whole law and stumbles in one point has become guilty of all, and Jesus did not stumble in one point. One point. In him there is no sin. And that's why Christ and Christ alone can be your substitute. Which gives us the fullest meaning of that word fulfillment. But Jesus completely fulfilled the law. He filled it up. to the extremities. And that's how the requirement of the law is fulfilled in us. It's fulfilled in us because we are found in him. That's how it's fulfilled in us. We're found in him, and that's what Romans chapter 8, verse 1 starts with. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for who? For those who are in Christ Jesus. And because we're in Christ Jesus, not only is our condemnation taken care of, the requirement of the law is taken care of. We're completely covered. The sentence and the punishment for sin, that's taken care of in Christ. The righteousness that's required, the gift to God, that's taken care of in Christ. And it's in our union with Jesus that all of this is accomplished. All the benefits and blessings come to us through Jesus Christ in our union with Him That's why in 1 Corinthians 1 and verse 30 it says, But by his doing you are in Christ, who becomes to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that just as it is written, let him who boasts, boast in who? Boast in the Lord. Boast in the Lord because he's the one who's accomplished it in your place And it's important to point out that this is Jesus' righteousness that we're talking about, because again, we're in a section of scripture that's talking about the security of the believer. What kind of security would I have if I'm looking constantly at my own righteousness? There's no security in that. My righteousness is found outside of me. It's Jesus' righteousness, and I'm looking to him. I look to Jesus Christ. That's where my righteousness is found. There's an old catechism, the Heidelberg catechism, and it says this, although my conscience accused me, that I've grievously sinned against all the commandments of God, and I've never kept any of them, and that I'm still prone always to all evil. Yet God, without any merit of mine, of mere grace, grants and imputes to me the perfect satisfaction, righteousness, and holiness of Christ. As if I had never committed nor had any sin. And had myself accomplished, as if I had accomplished myself all the obedience which Christ has fulfilled for me. For if I accept such benefit with the believing heart , that God would treat you as if You had completed yourself all the obedience of Christ. I mean, hallelujah, what a savior, right? That God would treat me as if I personally committed all the acts that Christ committed. That I'm the one who actually was able to give him perfect righteousness, that God would do that for me. Hallelujah, what a savior. John Calvin says, it was impossible for the law to confer righteousness upon us. It hence follows that more is required by the law than we can perform. For if we were capable of fulfilling the law, there would have been no need to seek a remedy elsewhere. If we could do it, like why are we coming to Christ for? Right? No, Jesus has to do it. And my salvation is secure because I find my security in Jesus Christ. I may need to grow in my assurance And my obedience can help me, as far as my assurance is concerned, to be assured that like I really trusted in him. But my security is firm and fixed because it's found in Jesus Christ. So yeah, I might need to grow in my in in my trust, need to grow in my dependence, I need to grow in obedience so that like I'm I'm walking according to the way that he's asking me to walk. I need to grow in those ways to make my calling and election sure as far as as my my uh apprehension of those things, but as far as like the security, it's already there. And my security is found in Jesus Christ. So I can doubt my assurance when I lack obedience, but my salvation is secure because it's found not in myself, it's found in Jesus Christ. And what I find so interesting about this passage in Romans is that we're not commanded to do anything here. Look again. Look again at verse 4. It says, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Do you see a command in there? No, you don't. No, you don't. It's just describing somebody I'm describing those who have this kind of security. I'm not telling you to do anything. I'm not saying, now you know, you just need to walk according to the Spirit so that you can get this That's not what he's saying. He's saying those who have this are those who do walk in the Spirit. He's describing those people who have this kind of security. So Paul is just stating what's true about us as believers Even when he talks about walking according to the Spirit, it's not a command. He's not saying that the law is fulfilled if you do this. He's saying the law is fulfilled in you who do this. So it's it's it's just stating a fact, it's granting security, again, to the believer. He's saying the law is fulfilled in you, and then he gives a description of who he's talking about. And who are those who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit? Who are those? The word for walk that's used here, you know, walk according to the to the uh to the spirit. Uh the word for walk, it's the Greek word perikateo. It's one of Paul's favorite terms to describe the life of the Christian. It's a key image for the Christian life. It's like the step-by-step progress that we make in the Christian journey, you know, the pilgrim's progress. But not just the description of the goal at the end, it's also the description of the path that we're on. I'm now placed on the road to the celestial city. Like that's where I find myself I'm on this road and I'm putting one step in front of the other. I'm not on the road to destruction. I'm on this road to the celestial city and I belong to a different city and a different master now And I know it might be difficult for you to keep some of these categories clear in your thinking, but listen to this. The believer can no longer walk according to the flesh. You no longer live as a believer according to the flesh. You have a new identity now. You're a new person. You no longer are part of that old kingdom. You're part of a new kingdom. You no longer set your mind on the things of the flesh. You set your mind on the things of the Spirit. It's a description of who we are. And I know that might sound strange, but just let Paul explain himself, okay? All right, just let Paul explain himself. Now let me tell you what that does not mean. That does not mean that we still don't have indwelling sin. We already covered that, okay So so we still sin, like I said, we're either you know sinning about the sin or just repenting from a sin, right? So so yes, as believers, we still deal with sin. So Paul's not saying that, hey, once you come to Christ, you're sinless You don't have to worry about sin. That's behind you. You know, you're just walking steadily onward, forward. Like that's not what he's saying. He's not saying that we don't still deal with indwelling sin. No, that is true of us as believers. It doesn't mean that sometimes I still don't respond in fleshly ways. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 3. Paul says, for you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly? Are you not walking like mere men? There are times when we can respond in fleshly ways. And we're also limited by this body of death, like Paul says, that we still dwell in. We still live in this mortal flesh. Like it still drags me down. 2 Corinthians 10 and verse 3, Paul says, For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh. So I still have this body. So that's what he's talking about When he says we walk in the flesh, like I still have this body that I have to deal with. But as a believer, I no longer walk or live or think. according to the flesh. That's part of the old fleshly self. And that's what's important for us to point out here. We live in an entirely new category. As believers, you've been placed into a new reign, a new domain, okay? As believers, you're somebody different. And Please don't undersell or undervalue or belittle what you have in Christ. So many of us like just we shortchange ourselves when it comes to our Christian experience Like we just, hey, you know, I'm just hey, I'm just of the flesh, just walking in the flesh, living in the flesh. Like, no, that's that's not how you're to think. That's not how you to think. As a believer, my walk is new. My life is new. My mind is new. The kingdom I belong to is new. Second Corinthians 5. 17 says, therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's a kind of old creature. No. He mostly new creature. No. He's a new creature. He's a new creation. You're somebody new. The old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. We're somebody new. Romans chapter 6 verse 4. It says, therefore we've been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in oldness of life. That's not what it says. Does it say that in your Bible? It doesn't say that in mine. Newwness of life. We walk in a newness of life. What do you think happened when you were born again? Do you think that you were left with the same old life that you had before conversion? You may look the same. You may sound the same. You may smell the same, you know, using the same cologne or whatever you're using. You may have all the same memories, the same history. But you are really a new person. You've been made a new creation. Spiritually, you're made new One theology describes this regeneration work as the act of God by which the principle of new life is implanted in man and the governing disposition of the soul is made holy. There's something different about who you are. What does that mean? There's a life that's in you that wasn't there before. If you've given your life to Jesus Christ, there's a life in you that did not exist before. There's a spiritual awareness. But you now have a spiritual sensitivity to God that wasn't there before. You have a new understanding. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Actually, you can just flip over there. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Take a look at verse 14. First Corinthians chapter two, verse fourteen. It says, but a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. And he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. But he who is spiritual appraises all things. What happens when you come to Christ? You've been given a new way of thinking, new understanding. I have a new way that I now relate to God that I didn't have before. You also have desires that didn't exist before. I won't make you flip to all of these. Philippians chapter 2 verse 13. For it is God who is at work in you. Both to will and to work for his good pleasure. God is at work in you to desire the right things Matthew chapter 5, verse 6, it speaks about the blessings that we have in Christ, you know, all those beatitudes describing the believer. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. We've been given new desires. That's why Paul can say back in Romans chapter 7, it's like I I want to do the right thing. Why? Because I've been given new desires. Now I desire to do the right thing. That wasn't there before. Now I have righteous desires. I'm hungering and I'm thirsting for righteousness. That didn't exist before. Now I have a love for Christ where that love for Jesus wasn't there before. 1 Peter chapter 1 verse 8. Again, this is just the description of the believer. This is what Peter says. He says, and though you have not seen him, you love him. How does Peter know who you love? Because you're a believer. If you're a believer, this is how he can describe you. You love them. Even though you haven't seen them, you love them. And though you do not see him now, but believe in him, you greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. For the believer, he loves Jesus Christ. Something's new inside the believer. That's just a description of who we are. And even though my faith can in some measure be mixed with doubt. And my obedience is imperfect and incomplete. There is something that's still genuine that's there. Something different is there. My faith may be the side of a mustard seed, but it's It's a real faith. There's something there. There's something that's genuine that's there. And it's not in perfection. My obedience is not in perfection. But it's not the perfection of my obedience that determines the reality of my faith. It's whether or not it's genuine. Whether or not it's the real thing. That's why we love Peter, don't we? We love Peter. He wasn't perfect, but he was genuine. That's why I love in John chapter 21 and verse 17 where after Jesus said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? It's like, Lord, how many times are you going to ask me this, right? Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? The third time. Peter, do you love me? And it's like, Lord, I'm grieved that you have to ask this again. But what does he say? He says, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Like like Lord, I I know that I messed up, I fell on my face, I tripped up, but Lord, you know that there's something genuine in there I have a real love for you. Something's different about me. I can't claim the strongest love for you, but I can claim a real love for you. And here's the third reason why there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Again, it's indicated by that little word for. It shows up twice in this section. Romans 8 and verse 5, for those who are according to the flesh set their mind on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the spirit, For the mindset on the flesh is death, but the mindset on the spirit is life and peace. I have a new mind. As a believer, something is different about who I am. And we'll just Try to walk through these. We're not going to get through all of this, but we'll we'll make a start at it, okay? The mind of the spirit is life and peace. As believers, we've been given a new mind. We have a new walk. We have a new life. There's something different about who you are. And what Paul is teaching us here is that those who belong to the category of the Spirit as opposed to the category of the flesh, are those who have spiritual life and no condemnation for people who are included in this category. And this is meant to strengthen your faith, okay? So number one Do you have a new walk? Do you have a new walk? Take a look at verse 4 again back in Romans chapter 8. Do you have a new walk? It says, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. 2 Corinthians chapter 6, it warns us against making spiritual partnerships with unbelievers. Verse 14 it says, do not be bound together with unbelievers, for what partnership have righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship has light with darkness? What harmony has Christ with Balal, or what is has a believer in common with an unbeliever? What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. When he says, do not be bound together, it's in some of your translations, do not be unequally yoked. Unequally yoked. It's a Greek word, uh hetero zugeo, it's a word that's translated uh an equally yoked, heteros differently, zugeo, yoked or bound together. And the idea is that you don't put two different kinds of animals together under the same yoke because a mule and an ox are going to walk differently. And they'll be fighting against one another instead of pulling together. Why? Because they have different walks. Different walks between them. You and an unbeliever don't have the same kind of walk. You don't And this is often applied to marriage, but it's speaking about any kind of spiritual union. As a believer, your way of life is going to be different. Romans 13, 13 says, let us behave or walk properly, as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness and sexual promiscuity, sensuality, not in strife, jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lust. Ephesians chapter 2 speaks about our former way of life. You were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked. That's how you used to be, according to the course of this world, the Prince of the Power of the Air, the Spirit that's now working in the sons of disobedience Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as of the rest. And again, it's describing the unbelievers' walk. It's a habitual pattern of life. And what Paul is saying is that if you're a believer, that kind of life is impossible for you now. You don't walk like that anymore. I'm not saying that you don't sin, that you don't fall, that you don't stumble, but you don't live like that as an unbroken pattern of life. Because that can't be true if you're a new creation. You don't walk like that It's against your nature. You're not a goat. I read an interesting article in the BBC Science Focus magazine about goat man. Goat man. There's a name, this guy by the name of Thomas Thuates, I think is how you pronounce his name. Spent a week in the Alps living as a goat. earning himself the IG Nobel Prize, which is an annual award celebrating unusual, imaginative, humorous, scientific research. But listen what he what he said, listen to this. He says, I wanted to take a holiday from being a human and see the world through the animal's eyes. I wanted a costume that would make me move and feel like a goat. So I had a set of four prosthetic limbs made. They're made from fiberglass, carbon fiber, and rubber, and had joints that could lock and move, and they were designed to put 60% of my weight on my front legs, just like a goat I found I could trot on flat surfaces, but it was terrifying going down steep slopes. Wonder why. My goal was just to eat grass. So I wore an artificial stomach-like bag to partially digest food. I'd pick grass up with my mouth, chew it, then spit it into the silicone bag where it would ferment, and then I'd suck it out through a straw. Goat Man. I couldn't eat enough to keep me going. I couldn't keep eat enough to keep me going, so I had to eat the odd Mars bars from my friends who outstretched their hands As ridiculous as that sounds, it's just as ridiculous as a believer trying to live like an unbeliever. You're not a goat. You might be a sheep, but you're not a goat. Eventually you can't continue to live like that. You you can't continue to live like what's not part of your nature anymore. Like at some point I gotta get up, you know, and I can't keep eating this grass down here. Give me give me a candy bar or something And believer, you may you may walk wobbling, but praise God that you're still walking. Praise God that you're still walking. You know, like uh, and every parent does it, you know, when their baby starts taking a few steps, what do they call their family and friends and say? He's walking! He's walking, she's walking, you know. Takes two, three steps and then down on the ground, but they're walking, they're walking now, you know. More time on the ground than they do standing up, but as soon as they start taking some steps, they're walking. And and some of you you you might fall down more than you're standing up, but it's like, but if you're walking, if you're pursuing after Christ, it's like, hey, that's still a W, okay? That's still a win. You're you're walking. You're on your feet. You're taking steps. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10 says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. As believers, you have a have a new walk. Maybe wildly, but I'm walking. And I can look back to that and say, you know what? Praise God that He's done that work in my life. Because I can't do that on my own. As believers, we also have a new identity. Verse five. Verse five. It says, For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the spirit. And what does it mean to be according to the Spirit? It means that I'm part of a new humanity now. I'm characterized by the Spirit. So the preposition according to I can carry the meaning corresponding to, in accordance with. It's something that's fitting. So those who are according to the Spirit, they have a new life that matches their identity. They are, according to the Spirit, they're a new category of of people. There's no such thing as a purely carnal Christian. Christians can act fleshly, Christians can be immature. But but there are no Christians that are just purely carnal Christians. Over in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 where you know many get this from in 1 Corinthians 3 and verse 1, it says, And I brethren could not speak to you as to spiritual men. But as to men of flesh, as to infants in Christ, I gave you milk to drink, but not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it Indeed, even now you are not yet able, for you are still fleshly. So Paul is talking to these Corinthians who are immature, they're infants, but guess what? They're still drinking milk. They're still drinking milk. They're still moving forward. He's dealing with immaturity, but he's not dealing with those who are purely carnal, who have no appetite at all for the things of God. What Paul is dealing with in Romans is not a person who's just spiritually immature. It's a person that he's wondering, you know, is there a pulse here? Is there life here? You know, is their chest moving? Like, are they breathing at all? Like, I'm not sure if this person is alive. No, but if but if you have a true spiritual appetite, you're moving forward, you've been given a new life. Now you have a life that's according to the spirit. You have a new identity. And uh just real briefly, like I said, we can't cover all this But you have a new mind. You have a new mind. Again, it says for those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh But those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit, and what's implied there is that they set their minds on the things of the Spirit. So the question is, is do you have a new mind? And what Paul is talking about here is not two kinds of Christians, you know, one Christian who sets their mind on the things of the flesh, another kind of Christian who sets their minds on the things of the spirit. It's not two kinds of Christians It's one is a Christian and one is not. One is a Christian and one is not. He's talking about two categories of people. And you know that he's talking about two categories of people because of what the results are Take a look at verse 6. For the mind set on the flesh is what? Death. But the mind set on the spirit is life and peace One person has life, the other person has death. We're not talking about two kinds of Christians. One Christian who dies eternally and another Christian who lives eternally. We're not talking about two kinds of Christians. We're talking about one who's justified and one who's condemned. Not Christians who are condemned because there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We're talking about two categories of people. And when we talk about the mind, it's talking about the orientation of our minds. And for us as believers, we're oriented in a different kind of way. And uh we won't, like I said, we won't go through all of this today, but Here when we think about you know what is it to have a mind according to the to the spirit, and we'll take a look at this next time. The text actually doesn't give us a whole lot of description of this, and we'll we'll dive more into this next time we get together. But the text doesn't give us a whole lot of a lot of description about what this looks like to have a mind according to the Spirit. But it does tell us the opposite. What does it look like to have a mind according to the flesh? Just really quick, look at this. Drop down to verse 7. Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God. For it does not subject itself to the law of God. For it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Four words, and we'll look at this next time. Four words. The mind set on the flesh is unfriendly toward God. Apart from the grace of God, we're at war with God. Set on the flesh, hostile toward him. The mindset on the flesh is unsubmissive to God. Doesn't subject itself to the law of God. The mindset on the flesh is unable to subject itself to God. Totally depraved, and we'll look at this next time, totally unable. There's an inability. Not even able to do so. And the mindset on the flesh is unpleasing to God. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. No ability to please God. The Lutheran commentator Lensky says every thought product of the flesh Rebels against God's law. God and his law are in its way and it hates them and wants them removed from its path. Often the very existence of God is denied, new moral codes are invented. And amorality is set up in order to allow the flesh all the indulgence that it wants. And that's the unbelieving mindset. And you see it all the time. You know, people who want to pursue their sins All of a sudden it's like, you know, well, I've got a problem, you know, with with that part of the Bible. You know, I I believe the Bible, but just, you know, I I think that this was, you know, that's your interpretation. That's how they start. I I think that that can be interpreted differently. And then all of a sudden it's like, well, I don't know if I really believe the Bible at all. You know, how how do we really know? You know, I still believe in God, but I I'm not sure if I really believe in in the Bible. And then where does it go after that? I'm not sure if I believe in a God at all. It's just like this the step, constant step, further and further away. And why does that happen? Because God keeps getting in my way. That's what's going on. As they're reading the scriptures like they they you know they're they're good with all the stuff about God loves me and you know people should treat one another kind and do unto others as you would have them do unto they love those. But then as soon as it you come across a text that's like like pointing in your chest and pointing out your sin, it's like, I 'm not sure if I agree with that one Now all of a sudden I've got a problem with the the Word of God. And then it's like, well, you know what, there's other passages that are saying the same thing, and I'm finding that elsewhere. I'm not sure if I'd I mean just Paul. It's like just get rid of Paul, you know And then before you know it, I don't I don't need the Bible at all. You know, I've got my own path to God. My own all roads lead to God. Many roads up the mountain. And before you know it, it's like I don't believe in a God at all. That's the way it goes. But but what what is it? It's the unbelieving mindset. It's the unbelieving mindset, it's hostility against God because God keeps getting in the way. I've often described it like this. For the believer, it's like God is at the other end of the room. You know, holiness, righteousness, it's at one end of the room. And as you're pursuing after God, it's like, you know, sin trips you up and temptation trips you up and you know all the trials of life are tripping me up, but it's like I'm steadily moving forward because what I really want is God. And these sins are what's getting in my way. Well for the unbeliever it's like the room's switched around and it's my sin that's at the other end of the room. And it's believers that are getting in my way, and scripture that's getting in my way, and every reminder about who God is, like that's in my way, like God, can you just get out the way so I can pursue what I really want? And my question for you is where are you? For the believer, we've been given a new mind, a new direction that's pursuing after God. Because that's what we really want. And it's the sin that keeps tripping us up, this indwelling sin, oh wretched man that I am, because what I really want is that. I really want God, I really want holiness. For the unbeliever, it's the opposite way around. It's God that's in my way. And they're hostile against God. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. But you know what the blessing is for you? Drop down to verse 9. However, you are not in the flesh. That's the blessing. You are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. But we do belong to him, right? And if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the Spirit is alive because of righteousness, and that's true for us as believers. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you and he does, if you're a believer He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through a Spirit who dwells in you. And praise God, one day we will also experience that resurrection life where the body of sin is going to be done away with. That's what's coming for us as believers. Uh we we've we've read the end of the story in in and Christ wins, right? And we know where we're going to be at the end. And for us, for those of us who've trusted in Christ, as the hymn says, the vilest offender who truly believes, that moment from Jesus a pardon receives. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and uh Father, we're so grateful for your word and um Father, Romans 8 is uh uh just such a rich text. And uh Father, we pray that as we continue to work our way uh through this, uh Lord, that you give us understanding. of these things, that you help us to apply these things into our lives. And Father, we uh pray that we would rejoice in the salvation that belongs to us Father, we've been given security in Christ, and because of Jesus and his uh righteousness, because of his sacrifice. We have our condemnation that's already been taken care of in him. We have our the righteous requirements of the law that have been taken care of in him. And Father, we can look forward to the future with anticipation. Not because we find perfection in ourselves, but because we find perfection in our Savior. So Father, I pray that we would rejoice in Him and that He would be glorified in us. and that we would pursue after you because that's what believers do. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.