The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, I want to take your Bibles and uh turn with me to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 8. Uh today we're going to continue our journey uh through the book of Romans, and it's probably a a good idea uh to remind you of where we've been in Romans. And uh for those of you who haven't been with us for a while, this will give you some context to where we are Because there's definitely an an order and a progression in this book, in the book of Romans. Just to remind you where we've been, in Romans chapter 1-3 , Paul dealt with the condemnation of all men under sin. Chapter 1, we learn that the Gentile unbeliever without the law is condemned under sin. In chapter 2, the Jewish unbeliever who has the law is condemned under sin. Chapter 3, the entire world is indicted and condemned under sin. So Romans chapter 1 through 3 speaks about this condemnation that we have before God under sin. Then beginning in the end of Romans chapter 3, particularly at verse 21, all the way through chapter 5, Paul defines for us the great salvation that we have. What answers this condemnation of God is the salvation of God and specifically justification by faith alone in Christ alone. It's for Jesus Christ that the condemnation of sin is taken care of, and as we sang earlier, it's the rock of ages. And that most central doctrine Of the doctrine upon which the Church stands or falls, the doctrine of justification is described in Romans chapter 3, 4, and 5 Romans chapter 3. 21 says, But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. It's through faith that we're declared righteous in the sight of God, and that doctrine is explained there in Romans chapter 3. In chapter 4, Paul defends this idea of salvation by grace alone and faith alone. He demonstrates that by showing us that even the Old Testament saints were saved by grace through faith. Abraham was saved by faith. David was saved by faith. And then in chapter 5, Paul goes on to describe the benefits that we now have because of our salvation, this display of our justification, that we have peace and grace and joy and hope and love. And then beginning in chapters 6, chapters 6 through 8, Paul addresses the believer's progress in salvation, or sanctification, it's called Chapter 6 through 8 deals with the believer's growth in salvation, the pursuit of holiness, Christ's likeness. In chapter 6, he describes the freedom that we have from sin. In chapter 7, the struggle that we have with sin. And then in chapter 8, he brings us to the triumph that we have over sin and ultimately goes to our final glorification. And as we shared last week when we were here together in Romans 7 to 8, Romans 7 and 8 are connected by that connecting word that we find at the beginning of verse 1 in chapter 8, where Paul says, therefore Paul is building upon his previous discussions, and that previous discussion would include, I would argue, this struggle of the believer in chapter 7. It was Charles Spurgeon who said, I've once heard a friend say, I've gotten out of the seventh chapter of Romans, I'm now into chapter 8. And Spurgen says, nonsense. There is no getting out of one and into the other. Because they are one. The field is not divided. I thank God with all my heart that since my conversion I've never known what it is to be out of chapter 7 and into chapter 8. Or out of chapter 8 and into chapter 7. The whole passage has been solid truth to my experience. Because I've experienced the struggle with sin, inward sin, and I've also rejoiced completely in the justification at the same time. And that describes our experience, doesn't it? That we still have this ongoing struggle with inward sin, but we still rejoice in our justification that I'm declared innocent in the sight of God by faith. There's a triumph over sin even while we're still struggling with it. And there's a number of interpreters who who struggle with the logical connection between chapter 7 and chapter 8. Because in many minds there doesn't seem to be a logical connection. Why would Paul speak about this struggle with sin and then say, therefore we have no condemnation? What's the connection between battling with sin and being convinced that there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus So a number of commentators skip over the struggle at the end of chapter 7, and they say, well, what Paul's really talking about is chapter 7 and verse 6, if you look at chapter 7 and verse 6, where he says, but now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in the newness of the Spirit, not in the oldness of the letter. And they would connect verse six with chapter eight. And that is a possibility. There's some interpreters who do that. There's others who would say, well, no, he's not just talking about chapter 7 and verse 6. He's actually including chapters six through eight. He's talking about all of six through eight, you know, the the whole idea of sanctification of the believer. Everything is kind of connected together. So six and seven are what he's referring to when he says therefore. So we've got to include six and seven. And then there's other interpreters who would say, no, he's not just talking about six and seven. He's talking about chapters one through seven. You know, so that therefore refers to the entire book of Romans. And in some ways you'd have to say all of that is true because he's building on top of the argument of what he's already said Chapter 1 through 3, the condemnation, chapters, the end of chapter 3 through chapter 5, our salvation, our justification, and then chapter 6. into chapter 8, our sanctification. I mean Paul's building on all of that. And I would say, yeah, yeah, that's true. He's building an argument. But I would also say That looking at chapter 7 and seeing a connection with the struggle with sin in chapter 7 actually gives the promise in chapter 8 its greatest meaning. It's its most important significance. Because the placement of that promise that there is now no condemnation answers the burden of chapter 7. Because in chapter 7 we see the struggle, and in chapter 8, we see that there's a solution for this. There's coming an end to this. I would actually argue in many passages of Scripture that the promises are answering the difficulty or the trial that comes before it. So, for example, when the Lord tells Joshua, be strong and courageous. What was that built on? It's because Moses, the servant of the Lord, had just died. You know, now now he's being told to go and enter into the promised land. And you know what? I'm not really feeling too strong and courageous right now. So so he's given this this this command, be strong and courageous. Why? Because I'm going to be with you I'm going to be with you. So so it's it's built off of what just came before. Even the struggle that Joshua had before, you have this encouragement that's built off of that. When Jesus tells his disciples in John 14 and verse 1, do not let your heart be troubled. What was the context of that? He had just told his disciples, where I'm going, you cannot come. I'm going away, you won't be able to find me. As I said to the Jews before, I'm now saying to you, where I'm going, you can't follow me. And then he gives this this encouragement, but don't let your heart be troubled. That I'm going to prepare a place for you. That where I am, that there you may be also. So the encouragement fits the context And I would also argue that where we have this encouragement, this promise that there is therefore now no condemnation, it's found in the context of temptation and fear. Back in Romans chapter 7, verse 21, it says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man, but I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. Oh wretched man that I am That's the difficulty. Lord, Lord, I I I know I'm I I want to do what's right, but it's like sin is always right there behind me It's like I can't get away from it. And it's the believer who struggles with indwelling sin who can be tempted to believe that, you know what? I think I'm also going to be condemned for this I'm struggling with an assurance of my salvation because I'm struggling with these these sins. And even in the best that I do, I still find those temptations are present with me. John Owen, in his work, Indwelling Sin, he writes, it's the believer's business to resist the incitement to turn away from the thoughts of sin. Yet the very occurrence of sinful desire or impure feeling harasses a delicate conscience. And the believer may be led to suspect or doubt his interest or his share in the promises of Christ. When he is made to perceive that there is in him still so much of what's incompatible with godliness. Lord, I look at my life and I still see so much that's incompatible with godliness. What's he saying? He's saying that it's it's the believer who's struggling with indwelling sin who needs to be reminded of the promise of Christ. But there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's the believer who's struggling, who's fighting. I'm not talking about the false professor who's just floating down the stream of sin. I'm talking about the believer who's fighting against it But that person needs to be comforted. I love what the Puritans say used to say. They said, you know, Lord, afflict the comfortable and comfort the afflicted. You know, for those people that are out there just feeling comfortable in their sin, afflict them. But for those people that are struggling with their sin and they're feeling afflicted because they're in the battle, Lord, can you bring them comfort? And it's it's just trying to find that that balance of who am I talking to here. Lord, you know who they are. And if if you're if you're out there, you're a believer, you're fighting, you're in the fight, you're in the ring, but you trust in Christ. I want to let you know that there's no condemnation for you if you're in Christ Jesus. Spurgeon says, the man who never strives against the sin which dwells in him, who indeed is not conscious of any sin to strive against. That is the man who may begin to question whether he knows anything about the spiritual life. If you don't think that sin is a battle at all, maybe you need to go back to the basics, right? You know, if you think there there's no sin in my life, I mean I I don't know what you believe you're talking about here. You know, talking about indwelling sin, I don't I don't have anything. You're a liar and the truth does not dwell within you. You know, if you don't think that you have any problems with sin, like sin's not an issue for me. In other words, if you think you're just living at such a high level of spirituality, you're the person who needs to be the most fearful. Because you don't understand what sin is in the first place. On the other hand, it's the true believer who's groaning and longing for deliverance is the person who can actually find confidence. That there's something going on in my life, that the Lord has made a change. I'm not the same person I used to be. Spurgeon goes on to say he says the souls that sigh for holiness are not condemned to eternal death, for their sighing proves that they are in Christ Jesus. Because they're longing for that change to come. And it's my struggle with sin that proves that I have a new life. And until we reach heaven's shores, there's going to be sighs and groans. Because we long for the work that has begun to be complete. Now God has started a good work in us, but it's not yet finished. And we're longing for that finish of that work that God has started. So it's those who are harassed by a delicate conscience Who may be led to doubt the promises of Christ, who need to be reminded there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. In Romans chapter 8, verses 1 through 11 gives us a defense of that statement and several reasons why that's true. So let's jump back into Romans chapter 8 and we'll pick up where we left off. Romans chapter 8 starting at verse 1. Since therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. So that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who are according to the spirit, the things of the spirit, For the mind set on the flesh is death, but the mind set on the spirit is life and peace. Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. However, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. If Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. Through his spirit he dwells in you. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. We're grateful for every opportunity we have to gather together to hear your word. And Father, I pray that you would speak to us today through this text. Father, there are so many riches in this text. And Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to understand. Father, that we would rejoice in what you've given to us, what you've revealed to us in your word. And our Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned last week, the words, therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That phrase should ring the innermost depths of our spirit, you know, like bells should be going off. Just joyful sounds that there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. But the reason that those words don't have the impact on us that they should is number one, we don't have a true sense of the majesty and holiness of God. And also, we don't understand the gravity of our sin and the reality of God's wrath that's due to sin. When Paul says that there is now no condemnation, he's making a distinction Between what we have in Christ and what was true of us apart from Christ. Because apart from Christ, there is nothing but condemnation. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 3 says that we were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Romans 2. 5 says, of the unbeliever, you are storing up wrath for yourself. In the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Job chapter 21, verse 30 says, For the wicked is reserved for the day of calamity. And Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 31 says it is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. The word condemnation refers to both the sentence and the punishment that follows. It's God sentencing you and then following through with the punishment for that sentence. One lexicon says it refers not merely to the divine sentence, but also to the actual results. So you're not just found guilty. You've received a sentence that is to come. That's where you're heading. Death row. But now. But now there's no no no condemnation. For who? There's a condition What's the condition? It's for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the condition. It's a word that speaks about this logical connection between those who are in Christ having no condemnation. It's only in Christ. That you can claim that there is no condemnation. So that's the only requirement. Are you in Christ Jesus? And then in verse 1 If you're reading the King James Version or New King James Version, if you're reading those versions, it adds the words, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. We don't want to get too lost here in textual criticism, but those words are not found in the earliest and most reliable manuscripts of the Bible And if you're reading a Bible that has study notes, you're reading a New King James that'll have a study note, you can actually follow that study note and see that this is not contained in the earliest manuscripts, including the Alexandrian, the Western text. Those words aren't found. Now it's true that those who are in Christ Jesus are also those who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. But those words are found in verse 4. In verse 1, it just says, just for those who are in Christ Jesus. So when we're we're thinking about who no condemnation is for, what Paul first of all wants to remind us is that it's it's for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's a legal declaration. No condemnation. It's talking about a a a judge that's saying there's no condemnation for you. It's a legal declaration. He's making a statement about you. He's not at that point worried about like, well, you know, how are you walking and everything else? No, it's a legal declaration. The moment that you place faith in Christ, guess what? There's no condemnation for you. Before you've done anything, the moment that you believe, the moment that you trust, the moment that you give your life over to Jesus Christ, there's no condemnation for you. Now, does that mean that there's a change that happens in your life? Yes. You know, so so you will not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. But in verse 1, it's just talking about that legal declaration. There's no condemnation for you now So that's the condition. I love what Spurgeon says. He says, there have always been many theologians who have been afraid of the doctrine of free justification. They've been half afraid that sinners should get comforted by faith and should not see the necessity of a changed life. They've questioned the wisdom of ascribing salvation wholly to a man's being in Christ. So they've guarded the more open passages whenever they've seen a chance of doing so. And so doing they've stated a truth. So he's saying, yes, you know, it's true that we will have a changed life, but here they stated it out of season He says it might have been allowed to remain in order to guard the truth of the antinomial tendency that would separate faith from good works, but we are greatly obliged or thankful to the revisers for leaving out the sentence since it should not be there, and without it the doctrine of justification in Christ is made more clear. What's the point? That it's only by being in Christ that you can say, I have no condemnation. So that's the question. Are you in Christ? And again, how do you get in Christ? We've already covered this, but how do you get in Christ? How am I united with Jesus Christ? How do I know that I'm I'm found in him? Romans chapter 3 verse 22. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. It's through belief. Romans 4. 8. Blessed is the man who sinned. The Lord will not take into account. And the context is that this happens by faith. The Lord will not take your sins into account if you've trusted in Christ by faith. In Romans 5. 1, therefore having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. It's because we're united to Christ by faith that we're united to him. And we face no condemnation. And that's what Jesus himself taught. Remember in John chapter 3, verse 18, it says, he who believes in him is not judged He who does not believe has been judged already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. How do I get into the category of those who are not judged? I believe in Christ. He who believes in him is not judged. He who believes in Christ has no condemnation. Not judged. No condemnation for those who are in Christ. So it's in our union with Christ that we're freed from this condemnation. So that's the most important question for you to ask. The question is not, are you in church? The question is not, were you in Sunday school? It's not, are you in a Bible study? The question is not, are you in a Christian family? The question is not, did you get into the water of baptism? It's not the question. It's not about have you found yourself in good works. The question is, are you in Christ? Are you in Christ? I love the text in Philippians 3. 9. It says, that I may be found in him, Paul says, may be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. How do I get in Christ? It's through faith. That I trust in him and now I'm found in him. And the righteousness I have is not my own, it's the righteousness of Christ. Righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. I mean that there can't be a more clear statement. That I received the righteousness of Christ outside of myself, the righteousness of God, his righteousness is given to me on the basis of faith. Now it's true that there's going to be an evidence of your faith, but that's not what justifies you. It's that I have true faith in Christ, and the troubled soul who's tempted by condemnation needs to be reminded of that. There's a story about uh John Bunyan, the author of The Pilgrim's Progress. He wrote an autobiography. The biography was titled Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners. You know, just to give you an idea of what he thought about himself. Grace abounding to the chief of sinners. And listen what he says in this biography. He says, one day I was passing in the field, and then some dashes came upon my conscience. Now I began to fear that all was not right. Suddenly this sentence fell upon my soul, thy righteousness is in heaven. And I saw with the eyes of my soul, so he's imagining this, Jesus Christ at the right hand of God. And he says, there I say is my righteousness. So wherever I was, whatever I was doing, God could not say to me, He wants my righteousness, for that was what was just before him. Meaning that Christ is there in heaven. And every time he looks at Christ, what is he saying? He's saying my righteousness. Because my righteousness is in Christ. And he says, I saw moreover that it was not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better, nor my bad frame that made my righteousness worse. You can't be any more justified than you are right now. The righteousness of Christ, I mean it can't get any better than the righteousness of Christ, right? Now you can grow in your sanctification and your walk with the Lord, but your justification, it can't get any better than that. It's the righteousness of God that comes to you by faith. And that's just another way to say that there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And what a comfort that is to a battle-wearied soul. That that Lord I have everything that I need in you. And yes, Lord, I I know that I I try and I struggle and I fail and I fall flat and I get back up and I'm putting one foot in front of the other. But Lord, you don't cast me away because I fall. You don't cast me away because I struggle. And Paul wants to support and strengthen our confidence. That there's no condemnation for those that are found in Christ. In verse 2, and this is the first point Well the law of the Spirit has set you free. The law of the Spirit has set you free. Look at verse 2 again. It says, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. We have a law that sets us free. And that's good news because so far in the book of Romans, we've been told that the law brings condemnation. The law brings wrath. The law brings imputation of sin. The law increases transgression. Chapter 7, verse 9, he says, I was once alive apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin became alive, and I died, and this commandment which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me. I mean, you know, hearing about the law doesn't say anything about being freed by the law No, the law is what kills me. It brings about my death, but the law doesn't have the power to set me free. Not because there's a problem with the law, but there's a problem with me Because I'm a flesh. The law is powerless to set me free. Romans 8. 3 says, weak as it was, threw the flesh. The law is like an x-ray of the soul, but it can't perform a surgery. It can show you what's in there, but it can't do the surgery. The law can pronounce you to be dead, but it can't give you life. The law can declare you guilty, but it can't break your chains and set you free. So what we need is another law. That's what we need. And the law that's provided in verse 2 is the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus That has set you free from the law of sin and death. And in this chapter, chapter 8, Romans chapter 8, it's a primary section on the work of the Holy Spirit. One commentator observes this. Conspicuous by absence so far in Romans has been the Spirit of God. Paul mentions the Spirit only four times before chapter eight. Some would say only one time. But he now makes up for that absence and uses the word spirit twenty-one times in Romans chapter 8 alone. You know, what what what is setting us free? Who is setting us free? It's the Spirit of God who is setting us free. And what the Spirit does is he mediates to the Christian life and hope and all the blessings of chapter 5. It's through the Spirit that we enjoy life, spiritual life, that we've been rescued from condemnation. It's through the Spirit that we learn how to be pleasing to Him. Through the Spirit we're to kill the old lifestyle of sin, enjoy the life of God. So when Paul proclaims that those who are in Christ Jesus have no fear of condemnation, Paul explains this by way of the work of the Spirit, because the law of the Spirit of life has set you free. And before we examine this this work of the Spirit, I just want to point out, and uh this is this is uh uh just a significant point here, but I want to point out this, that But did you know that every member of the Trinity is involved in your rescue and redemption? Every member of the Trinity is involved in this When when Romans chapter 8 verse 1 says that there is no condemnation, who does the condemnation come from? It doesn't say explicitly. Like who's doing the condemning? It says there's no condemnation. Well who would be the one who would condemn You know, it's it's implied the the answer is is God. God the Father would be the one who would condemn us for our sins. And if you have any question about, you know, is it God who condemns, you just have to ask, is it God who justifies God is the one who justifies. And Romans chapter 3, 25 speaks about Christ whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in the forbearance of God, he passed over sins previously committed for the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So God the Father is the one who justifies. God the Father is the one who condemns So it's the Father who is saying that there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ. So God the Father is involved in this. What about the Son? It's the Son who purchases our freedom. It's because of his sacrifice. And we already read it in chapter 3. He was displayed as a propitiation in his blood. His life was given to free us that the satisfaction of God's wrath would fall upon him. It's the Son who paid the price for our freedom. And we'll get to this a little bit later on, but in in chapter 8 and verse 3, it says, For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did sending his own son. So it's it's the son who became the payment for our freedom. And what does the Spirit do? The Spirit applies that work to the believer. The Spirit applies that work. He's the one who gives us life. And for, again, for the struggling believer, do you ever consider that it's the entire Trinity that's at work in your salvation? You know, sometimes we can convince ourselves that God is out to get us, you know, the first opportunity again. You know, the God is out to get us. And the the son has to, you know, kind of reach out his hand to stop the angry father from coming down upon us. You know, and sometimes that's how how people you know, explain the gospel. You know, God is just this angry, vengeful God and, you know, but the Son is merciful and, you know, almost like, you know, the Father and the Son are in this tug of war. You know, the Father's saying, I want to get him. He's like, no, no, please, the Father, please don't do it. That's not what we have in our salvation. Actually, uh Martin Luther in a biography that was written about Luther describes his day. And what was really common for Roman Catholicism in that day, and I would argue today as well, but it describes God as the wielder of thunder, but he might be softened by the intercession of the Son. But sometimes the son can also be uh uh uh a a hard person to deal with, but he can also be calmed down by his mother. Well, so you go to Mary to make sure that Jesus gets on your side so he can bring it to the Father. But sometimes Mary is hard to get a hold of. She could be remote. So then you can enlist the help of Mary's mother, Saint Anne. So it's like, you know, you you go through all these channels, it's like somebody please like get God to listen to me and get them on my side. But God does not have to be convinced to save you. Because it's his idea in the first place. It was his idea to say. Romans chapter 8, verse 31. It says, what then shall we say to these things? If God listen to this. Just look at it. Romans chapter 8, verse 31. You've got to look at it What then shall we say to these things? If God is what? For us. If God is for us, who is against us? God is for you in salvation. It's God who takes the initiative in your salvation. He is for us. He who did not spare his own son. But deliver him over for us all. How will he not also with him freely give us all things? Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. He's not the one who's bringing the condemnation. He's saying I'm the one who brought the justification. I'm the one who who gave my son to you that you might find life Who was the one who condemns Christ Jesus as he who died? Guess rather who was raised, who was at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. And we can also add to that, and it's the Spirit who brings us freedom in life. Back in verse 3, the Spirit is specifically called the Spirit of Life because he's associated with life in the Scriptures. Our physical life comes from the Spirit of God. Job 33 verse 4, the Spirit of God has made me, the breath of the Almighty gives me life It's the Spirit of God who will raise us up again physically after we die. Romans 8. 11, but if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. It's the Spirit of God who's involved in your resurrection. And it's the Spirit of God who also gives us spiritual life. In John 6, 63 it says, it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words I've spoken to you are spirit and our life. We're brought spiritual life by the Spirit of God. And isn't that what John 3 talks about? You know, the wind blows where it wishes, you hear the sound of it, you don't know where it comes from, where it's going. So is everyone who's born of the Spirit. It's the Spirit who gives life. The Spirit's responsible for the work of regeneration. He gives you spiritual life. And this is the ministry that was actually promised from the Old Testament. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and uh flip over to the book of Ezekiel? Book of Ezekiel. Ezekiel was one of the prophets he ministered before and during the Babylonian exile. And during his day, the nation of Judah was devastated because of the sins of the people. One author writes that the prophet Ezekiel's day, it was clear that Israel was dead. The kingdom of had been divided, the north fell in 722, the south fell in 586, the temple in Jerusalem was in ruins. The population of the South was in exile. The people of God had been judged for their sins, and the psalmist could only lament by the waters of Babylon. There we sat down and wept, and we remembered Zion. Israelites were in exile, and according to them, it seemed like all hope was lost. Like the exile was a catastrophe. Listen to this. It was because God was faithful to his covenant that Israel was even experiencing the captivity. Why were they in captivity? Because God promised, according to the Mosaic Law, that if you disobey me, this is what's going to happen to you. I'm going to kick you out of the land. So God was faithful to the Mosaic Law, and the Mosaic Law could not help them. All it could do is what? Condemn them. That's what the law did. The law condemned That's why they're in Babylon. So Ezekiel is witnessing the devastation that was brought about because of Israel's unfaithfulness, and the law was bringing the condemnation. So what does God promise? Look at Ezekiel 36, starting at verse 22. He promises that he's going to give another another covenant. Verse 22 It says, Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord God, It's not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I'm about to act, but for my holy name, which you've profaned among the nations where you went. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you've profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when I prove myself holy among you in their sight. For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, bring you into your own land. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you And cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances. You will live in the land that I gave to your forefathers, so you will be my people, and I will be your God. The Mosaic law could not accomplish that All the Mosaic law could do is say, no, you sinned, and this is the punishment. You sinned, this is the condemnation. The law doesn't offer any help. So God says, I'm going to offer you something different. I'm going to put my spirit in you. I'm going to remove your heart of stone and put into you a heart of flesh. I'm going to change you from the inside out. That's what the Lord promises. Over in chapter 37, he changes the metaphor. He speaks about a valley. And many of you know the s the the the story you've you've read it before, the Valley of Dry Bones. Look at chapter thirty-seven, look at verse one He says, the hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out by the Spirit of the Lord, and set me down in the middle of the valley, and it was full of dry bones. He caused me to pass among them round about, and behold, they were very many on the surface of the valley, and lo, they were very dry. He said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? I think he'd answer like I'd answer. Oh Lord, you know. Like, what are you asking me for, Lord? You know. Lord, you know. Again he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, that ye may come to life. I will put sinews on you, make flesh grow back on you, cover you with skin, put breath in you, that you may come alive, and you will know that I am the Lord. God right here is promising that there's going to be a future for Israel. There's going to be a future for Israel. We're the nation that has turned from God, rebelled against God. They suffered the condemnation of God that there's going to come a time in the future where they will live. They will receive their Messiah. They will turn to their Messiah. That's not today. That's not the days that we're living in, but that is a future day that they will receive the Spirit, that they will turn to the Lord, that the dry bones will live again. So that's a promise for the future, but that does not mean that we as the church don't benefit from that right now. That we're those who receive of that ministry of the Spirit. That we've been our dry bones have started to live You know what what did you think you were before you came to Christ? You a bag of bones. Like there was no life in you. And it was the Spirit of God that breathed life into you, that caused you your heart to beat again It's God that did that work in your life, and that's the ministry, the new covenant ministry of the Spirit. Flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 Take a look at verse verse seven 2 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul's talking here about the being a minister of the New Covenant. He speaks about how the new covenant surpasses the old Mosaic covenant. And he's not denigrating the law of Moses. He's honoring the law of Moses. He says the law of Moses came with glory. But I'm telling you that the new covenant comes with exceeding, surpassing glory. There's something different that this new covenant brings to us. What's that difference? Take a look at verse 7. He says, but if the ministry of death And letters engraved on stones came with glory so that the sons of Israel could not look intently at the face of Moses, because of the glory of his face, fading as it was. How will the ministry of the Spirit fail to be even more with glory? For if the ministry of condemnation has glory, much more does the ministry of righteousness abound in glory. What did the law of Moses do? It condemned us. But this is the ministry that brings us righteousness. One condemns, one justifies. For indeed, what had glory in this case has no glory because of the glory that surpasses it. For if that which fades away was with glory, much more that which remains is in glory. Therefore, having such a hope we use great boldness in our speech and are not like Moses, who used to put a veil over his face so that the sons of Israel would not look intently at the end of what was fading away. But their minds were hardened until this very day, at the reading of the old covenant, the same veil remains unlifted. because it is removed in Christ. It's only in Christ Jesus that you find life. But you find this ministry of the Holy Spirit. It's only in him. What is this? But to this day, whenever Moses is read, a veil is over their heart. But whenever a person turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's what? Freedom, liberty. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord to Spirit We come to the Lord by faith, and we're transformed as a result of coming to Him and beholding His glory, transformed from one image of glory to the next And it's the Spirit of the Lord who sets us free to walk on that path. It's the Spirit of the Lord. Because he's the one who gives us life. It's only by the Spirit of the Lord. The letter kills, the Spirit gives life. Turn back to Romans chapter eight. We'll try to try to wrap this up. Every time I I get into Romans chapter eight, I think I'm gonna get a lot further along than I do. Romans chapter 8, again, verse 2, it says, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. The law of the Spirit, again, is not the same as the law of Moses. This is the law that sets us free. The law of the Spirit, the law of Moses could only condemn. The law of the Spirit is liberating And it's the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. What does that mean? It means that we're now under a new dominion. We're now dominated, controlled, placed under the authority of Jesus Christ. It's in Christ Jesus, the law of the spirit of life. And where is it found? It's found in Christ Jesus It's in union with him. That word law can refer to a dominating, controlling influence. And we've been placed under that dominating influence of Jesus Christ. And it's because we've been set free by the Spirit of God that we can now follow after Him. And the question is, well, you know I understand you know what it means to to be brought under under him, under Christ Jesus, united with Christ, the law of the Spirit of Life. He's given me life, he's united me with Christ. But what is this law of sin and and death And some would say, and there's a good argument for this, that the law of sin and death could be a reference to the law of Moses. Because it's the law of Moses that brought me death. 2 Corinthians 3. 6, the letter kills. That's the law of Moses. But it's the Spirit that gives life. And there's a question, it's like, is that what Paul is saying here? In in one sense, yes, the law brought that condemnation, but I'm not sure if that's Paul's emphasis here. Because while it's true that the Mosaic Law condemns Paul in this place is making it clear that sin is the villain. Sin is the one that brings me death. Chapter 7, look at chapter 7, verse 13. He says, therefore, did that which is good, and here he's referring to the Mosaic Law, did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be, rather it was sin in order that it might be shown to be sin, by affecting my death through that which is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful. And I really think that the context has to determine what we say about this. And if you look back at chapter 7, I think it makes makes the connection here. Look at chapter 7, verse 21. He says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good, for I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man, but I see a different law in my members. What's that law that he's talking about? There's a different law. I'm not talking about the law of Moses. There's this different thing that's going on in my body, in my flesh. A different law in my members, waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. There's something else going on in this wretched body of mine that's dragging me down. Every time I'm trying to put one foot in front of the other, it's like it's pulling me back. It's dragging me down. MacArthur says this is so universal and powerful that sin Uh that the scripture calls it a law. This this continuing presence of evil within me that's pulling me back. Like the the law of gravity, it's always bringing me down to the earth. Like the undercurrent that pulls you away in a river. John Owen says that the law here is an inward principle that moves and carries us to its own ends. It's a law because it threatens you with punishments and it entices you with rewards. It's constantly moving, constantly working. It's powerful, effective, and what makes it worse is that it's on the inside of us. John Owen in his book, In Dwelling Sin, he writes this. I mentioned this before, but he says it's it always abides in the soul. It's never absent. The soul is its home. Wherever you are, whatever you're about, whatever you're doing, the law of sin is always in you. In the best that you do and in the worst that you do. He says a roommate may dwell in a house without interfering with you, but not sin. Do you wish to pray? Sin is there. Do you wish to hear? Hear the word of God? Sin is there. Do you wish to give alms? Sin is there. Do you wish to meditate? Sin is there. Do you wish to engage in a duty requiring faith and love toward God? Sin is right there. Resisting this troublesome, perplexing indweller. He's always there. So present so that you cannot perfectly and completely accomplish what's good. It's like, can there just be like one time when I can do it right, you know? It's like everything that I do. It's like you know the the the as soon as you think that you know I was I was pretty humble today, wasn't I? And it's like you already you already lost it, you know. It's like ah gosh, you know It's like it's just always there. Doesn't leave you alone, dragging you down, holding you back And you know what? Some of us as believers with a tender conscience could start to feel like we're condemned because of that. Like I just can't get rid of this. I'm in the battle with this law of sin, this propensity to pull me back, and I'm dealing with this indwelling sin in this body of death. And that's why he cries out, Lord, who's going to set me free from the body of this death? It's in my flesh. It walks around with me. Everywhere I go, it's right there, like Lord, who's going to deliver me from the body of this death? So he talks about the law of sin, he talks about the body of this death and what As Paul saying in verse 2, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. I could assume that I'm condemned because of this, but what does the law of the Spirit let me know? No, there's no condemnation for you. You know why? Because you're in Christ Jesus. Because you've trusted in Jesus Christ. Because the righteousness that God is looking for at His tribunal is not your righteousness. He's looking for the righteousness of his Son. And do you have Jesus Christ? If you have Jesus Christ, you have all the righteousness that you need to meet your God in peace. But peace has been made between you and God. So what am I to remind myself of? I'm to remind myself of the righteousness that stands in the presence of the Father. At his right hand, my righteousness is right there. And it's because of the Spirit of God that I've been united to that righteousness of Jesus Christ. So now I know that there is no condemnation for me. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ has set me free. Set me free from what? I don't have that condemnation anymore. I'm set free from that. So my sin is not able to condemn me when the Spirit of God has given me life. And this really becomes a verse about the security of the believer. Look down at verse 15, Romans chapter 8, look at verse 15. This is what he says. I love this. For you have not received a spirit of slavery. Leading to fear again. You don't have to be fearful. If you're in Christ Jesus, if you've received the Spirit of God, you don't have that spirit of slavery to lead to fear. You've received the spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, Ah the Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children were heirs, heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ, what belongs to him belongs to me. If indeed we suffer with him, so that we may also be glorified with him. Think about that. The Father will never put to death the same person who the Spirit has given life. Will the Lord can find the one who the Spirit has set free. The Spirit guarantees our hope until redemption is done. And the man who never strives against sin that dwells within him may be the one who really needs to question whether or not he knows anything about a spiritual life. Because this this is this is where we live. And thanks be to God. Thanks be to God that there is no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ Jesus. Amen. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity that we've had. To be together, Lord, to think about these things. We thank you for the promise of the Spirit, the hope that's been given to us. Father, that we've been given life, that we've been given freedom. Father, that our righteousness is not because of us, it's because of Christ, that it's his righteousness that belongs to us. Father, that we're united to perfect righteousness. And that righteousness comes to us not because of what we do, but because of who we believe in. We've trusted in Christ by faith, and it's through him. Father, that we have all that we need. So Father, I pray that you would remind us of the security that we have in Christ because of the Spirit who dwells within us, that we're now heirs, joint heirs with Christ. And uh Father, that uh you would receive all the glory. In Jesus' name you praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. C Ds and digital files