The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the Book of Romans? We're going to be back in the Book of Romans, chapter 8 This is a chapter that I've been personally looking forward to since we started the book of Romans. I once heard that there was a survey taken among preachers, and uh the question was asked, if you had one book to spend the rest of your life in, you know, only one book that you could have for the rest of your life. What book would it be? And the answer came back, of course the Bible And then the the next question was, you know, well what book in the Bible, if you only had one book in the Bible to spend the rest of your life with, what book would that be? And the majority of the preachers said the book of Romans And then the question was asked, if you only had one chapter in the book of Romans, what chapter would that be? If you had to spend the rest of your life in one chapter in the book of Romans, what chapter would it be? And the majority of preachers came back with Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8 is where it will be today. It's regarded as one of the best-known, best loved chapters of the entire Bible. One commentator has written about Romans chapter 8 and says, if the epistle of Paul to the Romans rightly has been called the cathedral of the Christian faith. Then surely the eighth chapter may be regarded as its most sacred shrine, high altar of worship, of praise, and of prayer. Its splendors are all the more striking because as readers We have just emerged from the darkness and the terror of Chapter Seven, with its experiences of moral failure and defeat However, as we were leaving that dark chamber, there fell on us a dazzling ray of heavenly light, promising deliverance through Christ Here we stand in the full liberty of the children of God and enjoy a prospect of that glory of God, which someday we are to share. It's been said that this chapter begins with no condemnation in Christ Jesus, and it ends with no separation from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Starts out with no condemnation, ends with no separation. We're set free from the judgment at the beginning, secure in God's love at the end. And the triumph that we find at the end of Romans chapter 8 is unparalleled in Scripture. Romans chapter 8, look at verse 38 and 39. For I'm convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come. nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And all God's people said Amen. As another author said, this is the high and holy ground for the Christian. So let's go ahead and uh start. Let's dive in at chapter 8, verse 1, and uh I'll read 1 through 11 for the sake of context Romans chapter 8, starting at verse 1. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. So that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For the mindset on the flesh is death, but the mindset on the Spirit is life and peace. Because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. However, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you, but if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. If Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness. But if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies Through his Spirit who dwells in you. Aren't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do come before you, Lord, as we do every Lord today, every time we gather together. Asking Father that you would open up these words to us. Father, we look at this chapter and Father, the doctrines are so high and lofty, and Father, we are so weak. Father, I pray that you would help us to understand these things. Father, that you help us to not only understand these things, Lord, but that we would allow these truths to make a difference in our lives. Father, that it would change the way that we think, that it would change the way that we act. Father, that we would not look at this perfect Word and walk away unchanged. So, Father, I pray that you would use this word, Lord, to encourage our hearts, that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. John Murray in his book, Redemption Accomplished and Applied, writes, We are all wrong with God. We are all wrong. And we are all wrong with God because we all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Far too frequently we fail to entertain the gravity of this fact. And hence the reality of our sin and the reality of the wrath of God upon us, for our sin do not come into our reckoning. This is the reason why the grand article of justification And I'd add to that what we read in Romans chapter 8 and verse 1, that there is no condemnation, does not ring the bells in the innermost depths of our spirit. And this is the reason why the gospel of justification is to such an extent a meaningless sound in the world and in the church of the 20th century, and you can add to that the 21st century. We are not imbued with the profound sense of the reality of God, of his majestic holiness, and sin, if reckoned with at all, is little more than a misfortune or a maladjustment. If we're to appreciate that which is central in the Gospel, if the Jubilee trumpet is to find its echo again in our hearts Our thinking must be revolutionized by the realism of the wrath of God, of the reality and the gravity of our guilt and the divine condemnation. Why is it that we hear these words? Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus And we don't hear those words, and the bells in our hearts go off because we're just so thrilled to the innermost depths of our spirit that there would be no condemnation for us. It's because we failed to grasp the reality of our sin. We failed to grasp the reality of the wrath of God that was due to us for our sins. And we think of sin but lightly. We fail to grasp the reality of our sin. That's why Paul's cry of anguish in verse 24 seems foreign to some of us. Oh, wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? It's like, you know, Paul, lighten up, you know, is it that serious? I mean, wretched? I mean, really? I mean, is Paul even a believer at this point? You know, calling himself wretched? Why would he view himself like that? But when you understand, as Paul had that your sins are not just external but internal. That they're of the heart, you realize just how far you fall short of the glory of God. Back in Romans chapter 7 and verse 7, Paul says, I would not have come to know sin except through the law, for I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, Ye shall not covet. The hidden darkness that no man can see, the covetousness of the heart. Even the internal desires of the heart, Paul says, are on full display before the holiness of God. Our attitudes, our motives, our desires on full display before His Majesty. Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 13 says, there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. That covers the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Psalm 90, verse 8 says, You've placed our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. God sees and knows everything. And how could you imagine that you would be free from sin in this life? Sin is an ever-present reality. Psalm 51, verse 3 says, For I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. It's like I can't get away from it. It's ever before me. And the confession of the true believer is not how righteous I am, but how wretched I am. Because I see my sin for what my sin truly is. It's like Isaiah in Isaiah chapter 6 and verse 5. He says, Woe is me for I'm ruined. Because I'm a man of unclean lips and I live among a people of unclean lips. This is a prophet. I'm unclean. It's like I don't even deserve to be out in the public, unclean, unclean. Or like Peter in Luke chapter 5 and verse 8, when Peter fell down at Jesus' feet and says, Go away from me, Lord, for I'm a sinful man. Woe is me. So Romans chapter 7 is very much the cry of a believer. Wretched man that I am. But one day, as we saw in Romans chapter 7, that fight is going to be over. Because we're going to be set free from the body of this death. There's one who will set us free, and our glorified bodies will be saved to sin no more. Praise God and hallelujah for that. So these words, therefore, there is now no condemnation, should ring the bells in our hearts. Should sound the trumpet, the trumpet should echo in our hearts, that there's no condemnation left for us. We'll never see condemnation because of our present struggle with sin. In addition to that, we'll never see condemnation for our sinful past. One of the major themes of the book of Romans is the wrath of God. Remember that? Romans chapter 1, verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. Romans chapter 2, verse 5, but because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Romans chapter 3, verse 5, the God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I'm speaking in human terms, may it never be, for otherwise, how will God judge the world? God is going to judge the world in his wrath. And scripture is clear that there's going to come a final judgment of the unbeliever, at the great white throne judgment, where the books will be opened and a complete record of every deed that is worthy of the wrath of God will be exposed. Revelation twenty verse twelve, and I saw the dead, the great, the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books according to their deeds. It's a fearful and terrifying thing to stand in the presence of the living God. Psalm 130, verse 3 says, If you Lord should mark iniquities, oh Lord, who could stand? And the reality is that God is marking iniquities for those who are not in Jesus Christ. But your iniquities are being marked down. And apart from the grace of God, you have to answer for every one. We'd be crushed into powder in the presence of God if it was not for Jesus Christ. And that's what makes the declaration of Romans 8, verse 1, so remarkable. There's no condemnation. Because it's not like we don't have enough sin to be condemned for. We're actually guilty of the sins. I remember watching this documentary one time about a man who was arrested in LA uh for murdering a 16-year-old girl and the only evidence that the law enforcement had was a a composite sketch and what they felt was a motive And he was actually eligible for the death penalty because of this crime. And in his defense, he provided tickets to a Dodgers game that he attended the night of the murder. With his six-year-old daughter, where and he also had a cell phone record to say that, hey, I was actually here at the game. But the phone record wasn't sufficient to prove that he didn't have enough time to commit the murder. And by the grace of God, there was a television show being filmed on that same night in the same section, in the same row, and happened to catch him as he got up. To identify that no, he was actually there. And there was no way he could have committed this murder. And he was proven to be innocent. And they released him because he wasn't guilty. Brothers and sisters, that's not our story. That's not our story. When you rewind the tape, we were actually there for the crime. Like that's that's our story. We're not innocent of the sins before God. We're guilty of the sins We're we're not like Joseph in prison who's just waiting for somebody to tell tell Pharaoh that I I didn't I didn't do anything wrong. Get me out of here We 're not like like Joseph. We're like the prisoners who deserve to be there. And that's what Paul admits. Romans 7 25, on the one hand I myself with my mind am serving the law of God, but on the other with my flesh the law of sin. What is he saying? Lord, I I know I'm guilty. I know I've sinned I've served the law of sin and I hate it, but it's true. But still, for me who has committed sin and transgression, there's no condemnation for me. And the reason there's no condemnation isn't because there's just no condemnation. The reason there's no condemnation is because somebody has taken that condemnation. You understand that? If if it just ended there, if it just says, Yeah, hey, there's no condemnation, nothing to worry about. Spurkin says that would be the gospel according to Satan. He says the serpent promulgated this gospel in the Garden of Eden when he said, Ye shall not surely die. There's nothing to worry about. There's no condemnation. The doctrine of no punishment for any sin is popular at this day, Smirton goes on to say, and how much more in our day? He says, generally it comes in the serpent's favorite form of honest doubt. Yea, has God said Can it be so? Is he not far too merciful to allow condemnation to fall upon you? Is it possible that a God of love should condemn and punish his creatures? The denial of the penalty attached to sin comes out in different ways. But when put in a nutshell, it amounts to this, Virgin goes on to say , There is therefore now no condemnation to any man, however he may live. Some teach that ye may live in sin and die unrepentant, but it will not matter. For a death you will come to an end, but there is no condemnation for you. He says others will tell us that if we die unforgiven, it will be a pity, but you will come around in due time after a purgatorial period. You may take a little longer road, but you will come to the same end in the course of time. This is the gospel according to Satan. A gospel which has already ruined thousands of souls and is now sealing up myriads in a stony-hearted unbelief, which enables them to sin without fear. Because they feel there's no condemnation. There's nothing to worry about. Though these evil doctrines have done incalculable mischief in many places, yet some professed Christians would move heaven and earth To spread these same delusions. Even Christians want to do away with the wrath of God. Seems like every couple of years there's a new book or a new movement that attempts to do away with the doctrine of eternal conscious torment in hell Even recently some of you have seen that uh Kirk Cameron, who's done a lot of good work with Ray Comfort and Way of the Master, was questioning eternal conscious torment and arguing for the position of annihilationalism. Which says that unbelievers just simply cease to exist. But if that was true, there would be no reason to fear God. Luke chapter 12, actually flip over there real quick. Luke chapter 12 Look chapter twelve, take a look at verse four. Look chapter twelve and verse four These are the words of Christ. Luke chapter 12, verse 4. He says, I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body. And listen to this. And after that have no more that they can do. If annihilationalism was true, if annihilationalism was true, there would be no reason to fear God. Do you know why? Because after death, there's no more that he can do. Because you just go out of existence. You know, you die and you're done. But in verse 5, what does it say? But I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who, after he has killed, has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. The punishment for sin is an eternal punishment. It's after you die that the punishment begins. It's called the second death in Revelation 20 and verse 14. Since then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. And those who are tormented there are tormented day and night forever and ever. And that's the condemnation that we've been rescued from. That's it. That's the condemnation. There's a reason why we're not facing that condemnation. It's not because there's no condemnation to suffer. Why are we The ones who escape that condemnation. Look back at chapter 8 and verse 1. Therefore there's now no condemnation for who? For those who are in Christ Jesus God does not deny our guilt. God does not look the other way when we sin. God does not pretend that our sins never happened. God doesn't switch a flip-flip a switch and turn off his omniscience. Like he doesn't know anymore. He knows your sins infinitely more than you do. So what does God do? Even though we have committed transgression against the Lord, he does not pass down the judgment to us. Because we're found in Jesus Christ. It's because of Jesus that God sets us free and declares us innocent in the eyes of his court. The word for condemnation, katakrima, means to give a sentence against, is to pass down the judgment. And God does not pass down the judgment sentence against us, even though we're worthy of it. And how does that happen? Proverbs chapter 17, verse 15 says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. Proverbs 24:24 says, He who says to the wicked, You are righteous, peoples will curse him, nations will abhor him. So how can God declare us to be righteous and it not be an abomination? You can't set wicked people free and declare them innocent in the sight of the law. That's a miscarriage of justice. It's an abomination. It can't be denied. But here you have God justifying not the godly but the ungodly. Romans 4:5, but to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteous. John Murray says this. He says, if man were to do this, it would be an abomination in God's sight. Man must condemn the wicked, and he may justify only the righteous. God justifies the wicked, and he does what no man may do. Yet God is not unrighteous. He is just when he justifies the ungodly. And what is it that enables him to just justify sinners? In God's justification of sinners, there's a totally new factor which does not hold in any other case. The righteousness of Christ is imputed to our account, and we are accordingly accepted as righteous in God's sight. When we think of such an act of grace on God's part, we have the answer to our question, how can God justify the ungodly? What does God do? He applies the righteousness of Jesus Christ and his perfect obedience into our account. God cannot accept, God cannot but accept into his favor those who are invested with the righteousness of his son. So he's declaring us righteous. Why? Because righteousness is there. He's declaring us righteous. Why? Because it's his son's righteousness that is there. And now he declares us righteous in his sight because of his son's righteousness. That's what Philippians 3:9 says. That we may be found in him, not having a righteousness of our own, Paul says, not having a righteousness of my own, derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. And it's because of our union with Jesus Christ that we're united to him, that we're found in him, that his righteousness becomes our gift. And it's also because of our union with Jesus Christ that our condemnation, the condemnation that we deserve, is laid upon him. In my place, condemned he stood. Sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah, what a savior, right? And much more than, Romans 5. 9 says, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God in him. We 're not just justified because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ. We're also justified because of the blood of Jesus Christ. His righteous life Stood in our place. And then his substitutionary death stood in our place. So we're justified by his righteousness and we're justified by his blood. And by using the term blood, Paul is calling to mind the violent death of Jesus Christ. It's not just that he was cut and spilled some blood. He gave his life unto death. And if Christ would save us, it must be by taking death for every sinner. Every man who's found in him, it's Christ's death that stands in his place. And what happened on the cross was the divine being, God the Father, reacted against his own son. All of the hatred is directed towards his son. All of his anger and wrath against sin is now directed towards his son, and he on the cross became sin for us. So that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And it's in our union with Jesus Christ that this amazing miracle takes place. I take his righteousness and he takes my sin And it's because of that that Paul can write, there is now no condemnation. Now no condemnation. Do you understand what that means for you as a believer? Number one, and within this context, it means that the believer's battle with indwelling sin does not cut him off from the grace of God. The word therefore that we find at the beginning of chapter 8 points us back to the previous context. And what was going on in the previous context? It was talking about the believer's struggle with indwelling sin, right? That's what chapter 7 was about. Lord, I'm doing what I don't want to do. Like, who's going to save me from this? Oh, wretched man that I am. I'm struggling with the sin. I love what Spurgeon says. Spurgeon says the division between Romans 7 and Romans 8 is as roughly divided as if a woodman had taken an axe and chopped the book into pieces. It was a very unfortunate thing that the acts dropped down just here so as to divide a passage which ought to have been kept entire. He says, I've once heard a friend say, I have gotten out of chapter 7 and into chapter 8. He says, nonsense. There is no getting out of one and into the other The field is not divided. I thank God with all my heart, he says, that since my conversion I have never known what it is to be out of chapter 7 nor out of chapter 8. The whole passage has been a solid truth to my experience. I've struggled against inward sin, and I've rejoiced in complete justification. At the same time, like the Lord, I'm struggling, but I rejoice that I'm still in justification that I have no condemnation because of my sin. He said it's glorious. It keeps it together like Lord I sin, but thank God that I'm not receiving any condemnation because of Jesus Christ and I'm in Jesus Christ The true believer finds himself in this vicious battle with end-blowing sin. Romans 7 teaches us that the true believer does not love his sin, he hates it. He does not make a home for a sin. He fights it. He does not agree with the sin. He doesn't understand it. But he still finds himself falling into this trap of sin. But what Romans chapter 8 teaches us is that the true believer is not condemned because he's battling against his sin. He's not cast away because he's battling his sin, because he's found in Jesus Christ. We're working from the position of being united with Christ in our battle against sin and temptation. I'm in Christ, but I'm fighting this. And again, we're not working for our salvation. We're working from our salvation. We're working it out of us. Philippians chapter 2 verse 13 says, For it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. God 's at work in you. God's at work in you to will and to work for his good pleasure. But it's not working for salvation, it's working it out in fear and trembling, right? Philippians 1. 6 says, I'm confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. So we're doing battle, but we're doing battle as saints, as justified saints, not condemned sinners. And the battle with indwelling sin does not cut you off from the grace of God. Number two Knowing that there is no condemnation in Jesus Christ also means that you can put your past in its place. As believers, we look upon the sinful choices that we've made in the past with shame. And that's a biblical response. That's a right response to looking at your past sin is in shame. We don't look back at our sin in pride, do we? We don't look back at our sin with some kind of delight, secret enjoyment. We look back at our sin and we hate it. Like Lord, I can't believe that was me. It's like Romans chapter 6 verse 21. Therefore, what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? He says, I'm now ashamed of those things that I see in my past. Paul doesn't say, no, don't be ashamed of that. You know, you should be ashamed of that. Not to be ashamed of it would be to minimize your sin. So we rightly look at our past sins with hatred, with disgust, with a sense of shame, because sin itself is a dishonorable thing. The Greek word for shame was also used for what is ugly, what's marred. We're rightfully ashamed of our sins, but that does not mean that we're condemned. for it. We're not condemned for it. You can put your past in this place. Flip over to Matthew chapter 26 really quick. Matthew chapter 26. Take a look at verse 31, Matthew 26, verse 31. Jesus speaking to his disciples on the night of his betrayal, he says, Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I have been raised, I will go ahead of you to Galilee But Peter said to him, even though all may fall away because of you, I will never fall away. You never say never when the Lord says like I mean He says you will all fall away. Never, Lord. It's like you should have learned this lesson from last time when Jesus called him Satan. Get behind me, right? Peter says, even though all may fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly I say to you, that this very night before a rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Peter said to him, even if I have to die with you, I will not deny you. All the disciples said the same thing too, just bobbing heads right there. Drop down to verse sixty-nine, same chapter. It didn't take long. Verse sixty-nine. Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard and a servant girl came to him and said, You too were with Jesus the Galilean. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you're talking about. But when he had gone out to the gateway, another servant girl saw him and said to those who were there, This man, this man was with Jesus of Nazareth! And again he denied it with an oath, I do not know the man. A little later the bystanders came up and said to Peter, Surely you too are one of them. For even the way you talk gives you away. Then he began to curse and to swear, you know, trying to hide his identity, you know, using a little little foul language here. And the curse and the swear, I do not know the man. And immediately a rooster crowed, and Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, Before a rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Peter was rightfully ashamed of his sins. He grieved over his sins. But that did not mean that Peter was to walk in condemnation because of his sins. The Lord told Peter that he would deny him, but the Lord also said, After I have been raised, I will go before you to Galilee. You know what that means? Peter, you're still in You're gonna fall, Peter, but I I'm not gonna abandon you because you fell. Like you're still one of mine, Peter. You still belong to me. I'm gonna go ahead of you to Galilee. Luke chapter 22 and verse 31 it says uh as Jesus is talking to Peter, he says, Simon Simon. It's always when you know he's walking in his old ways. Simon Simon Behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And you, when once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Peter, you're going to come back. That's the message. Peter, you're going to come back. You're going to turn again. And when you do turn back, strengthen your brothers. I've still got work for you to do. Peter's past did not condemn him and did not prevent him from being used in the future by the Lord. And I find it interesting that there's only two places in the New Testament where a charcoal fire is mentioned. Charcoal fire, only two places in the entire New Testament. The first is in John 18, 18, where Peter warmed himself around the charcoal fire as he was denying the Lord. And the second time is in John 21, verse 9, where the Lord met Peter by the Sea of Galilee and made breakfast for him on what? A charcoal fire. It's almost as if the Lord wanted to give them a new memory. I know the last time you were around a charcoal fire, you were denying me. But this time you're going to be around a charcoal fire and I'm going to affirm you and you're going to say that you love me It's like I want to give you new memories, Peter. Like don't walk around in your past. Instead of thinking about your past failures, I want you to think about my present forgiveness. Peter, Peter, you're you're mine. I know you love me, Peter. I know you love me. Feed my land. Feed my lambs. Feed my sheep. You're you're useful to me, Peter. So so what does it mean when we understand that we have no condemnation? It it means that our our past failures shouldn't hold us back. Our past failures shouldn't define us. That we don't have to live in the past. We can put our past in its place. Number three, another way we could apply this in our relationship with others It's what we find over in First Corinthians chapter thirteen. Flip over there real quick. First Corinthians chapter thirteen. Take a look at verse 4, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 4. We all know this one, right? Love is patient, love is kind, is not jealous, love does not brag, is not arrogant, does not act unbecomingly, it does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered. Does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Verse 5 has been translated that love does not keep a record of wrongs. And that doesn't mean that I don't remember that somebody wronged me, but I'm not going to hold it against them. That's what it means. We can recognize wrong without keeping a record of it against a person. And and do you do you understand, Church, that that we here in the body of Christ that the sins that we commit against one another and we seek forgiveness for, that those sins are taken care of? That there's no condemnation for that person that just sinned against you as a believer? That they're not condemned before the Lord? Because there's no condemnation also for them, because they're in Christ Jesus? So knowing that there's no condemnation for them in Christ Jesus, why would I be the one to hold the condemnation over them? Why would I keep the record of wrong against them? A great example of this would be Joseph. Remember Joseph in Genesis chapter 50? Think about Joseph. He would have been a teenager when he left Canaan. And according to the biblical timeline, Joseph was sold at age 17, Genesis 37, verse 2. By the time we get to Genesis 50, when his father Jacob died, it was 39 years later. 39 years. From the sin to the time when his father died, 39 years in between. And actually, let's just take a look at it. Genesis chapter 15. Look at verse 15. Genesis chapter 50 verse 15. This is 39 years after his brothers sold him into slavery. And look at what they're doing. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph bears a grudge against us? 39 years later And pays us back in full for all the wrong which we did to him. So they sent a message to Joseph saying, your father charged us before he died, liars. saying, thus you shall say to Joseph, please forgive, I beg you, the transgression of your brothers and their sin, for they did you wrong. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him. Then his brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants But Joseph said to them, Do not be afraid, for am I in God's place? As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result to preserve many people alive. So therefore do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. So he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Joseph didn't forget that his brothers did him wrong. Joseph, Joseph, Joseph still had a had a memory. But he wasn't going to allow their sins to be held against them. I'm not going to hold you accountable anymore. I'm not going to hold that record of wrongs against you. We need to take an example from Joseph. Anyone know what a gunny sack is? The word gunny is an old Indian word that meant coarse fabric. It's a word that was used for a large burlap bag, a gunny sack. Large burlap bag, coarse fabric that was often used to carry agriculture. You know, uh used in agriculture, it was used to carry potatoes, grain. Typically these bags could hold up to like 50 to 100 pounds of weight. So there's these big bags, strong enough that they could, you know, store a lot of stuff in it And this image came to be used for people who hold grudges. And they they they they have like a large, it's like you know, figuratively, they have a large sack that they store away every hurt, every offense. Every time you ever did me wrong, it's like, you know, I gotta store that one away, gotta store that one away. And the idea is that they keep throwing every new offense into this bag until it just becomes too much, too heavy And then the next offense, it's like the bag just explodes. It's like I'm gonna just empty this gunny sack. And how many times is it like that in relationships? No, you you did that to me, you did this to me. It's like I'm not gonna say anything. I'm just gonna store that one away. Oh oh that one too? Yep, let's put that one in there. You just keep storing it away, storing it away And then all of a sudden somebody does something small, it's like, that's it. You just like throw it all on them. You know, all these rotten potatoes you've been storing for years, it's like, that's it, that's enough. You're gonna get it all right now It's like, you know, the straw that broke the camel's back, you know, got all these different sayings, you know, walking around with the dunny sack, the straw that broke the camel's back I remember one time, uh just as an example of somebody who was storing stuff away, I had no idea. But uh I was in an in an accident, I got rear-ended one time and had like this like severe pain in my neck and my wife is already going to a chiropractor and she says like it's been helpful for me so I was like well let me try you know went to a chiropractor And not only did my neck hurt after the chiropractor, now my back hurt after the chiropractor. So I was like, you know what, I need to see somebody else. And, you know, started going to a physical therapist and, you know, helped me out. And uh the chiropractor called me It's like, hey, I haven't haven't seen you in a while. It's like, well, you know, I I I wanted to get another opinion and you know started seeing a physical uh therapist. He says, Yeah, you're just like everybody else. My dad, they called him a quack, they called my grandfather a quack. They don't believe in chiropractors. I'm like, hold on, I I don't know you, your dad, your granddad, like like what what's going on here? It's it's just like he he had this gunny sack he's just carrying around. It's like all of a sudden it's like, yeah, you're gonna get it. You think this about chiropractic? I said, hey, this is my first time seeing you, bro. Well all of a sudden it's like he brought his whole family in. Sagani said, I'm carrying around this record of wrongs. These offenses. But how many times do we do that as Christians? We carry around offenses and we can't let it go. Can't let it go. But love keeps no record of wrongs. I'm not going to hold it against you. That's what love does. Keeping a record of wrongs, you know what it does? It puts you in the place of God. Because God says that never take your own revenge. Romans 12, verse 19. Beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repent. If somebody needs to be repaid, don't worry about it. I'll repay them. You don't need to be the one to repay them. You're not in the place of God. Keeping a record of wrongs puts you not only in the place of God, you know what else it does? It puts you in the place of the devil. Put you in the place of the devil. Satan is called the accuser of the brethren. Revelation 12:10. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God. and the authority of his Christ have come, for the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before our God day and night. The Greek word for devil, the oblast, it means slanderer, the false accuser, the one who's bringing accusations against us. It's like, why would you want to take the place of Satan? And bring up accusations. You know, let me let me remind you of what you did. Titus chapter two verse three uses the same word. It's translated malicious gossips. Titus chapter 2 verse 3. Older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips. Do you know what that literally says? Not devils Don't be the slanderer. Don't be the malicious gossip. And keeping a record of wrongs reveals a deficient understanding of the gospel. Why? Because Romans 8. 1 says there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's no more condemnation. Do you truly believe that those who are in Christ Jesus are no longer condemned? And if that's the case, we can release them from our condemnation. You know, just feel the freedom to release it I don't have to hold this against them. If that brother or sister is a believer, that brother or sister is in Christ, and Jesus' blood is paid for their sins. Don't put your brother or sister on your payment plan. Don't put them on your payment plan. On the cross, Jesus says, it is finished. It's finished. They don't owe you interest It's not like you know Jesus paid the principal, but you know they gotta pay me the interest. It's like no, it's it's all been paid. In Matthew 18, verse 32, The parable of the unforgiving slave, he says, then summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you? I love what Joseph says. Don't be afraid, am I in God's place? I'm not in God's place. Now that doesn't mean that there aren't consequences for sin. Proverbs 1919 says, A man of great anger will bear the penalty, for if you rescue him, you'll only have to do it again. There's a place for jail time. A man of great anger will bear the penalty. Don't keep rescuing him. You know, let him pay the penalty. A person can be forgiven and still disqualified from ministering. 1 Timothy 3. 2, an overseer then must be above reproach. You can forgive somebody who disqualifies himself, but it doesn't mean he goes back into his position. But you can forgive him, but there's consequences. It doesn't mean that you don't have to earn trust. Proverbs 14, 15 says, the naive believes everything, but the sensible man considers his steps. And in Proverbs 22 and verse 3 it says, The prudent sees the evil and hides himself, but the naive go on and are punished for it. You know, if if you've been caught embezzling money, it's not wrong for us to say, you know what, you're not going to serve on our finance committee. Yeah, I I can I can forgive you, you know. I'm not holding it against you, but I'm not gonna like open up this door of service now. And if you seek my forgiveness, what the scripture calls to do, to forgive. To forgive. How often? Jesus says. 70 times 7. And that doesn't mean you keep a record of forgiveness either. You know, 490. That's it. That's it. I've been waiting for that number. I've been counting that up. Kept a record of forgiveness. We don't keep a record of forgiveness either. And maybe you're here today and you've been keeping a record of your own wrongs. Your own wrongs. And you're paralyzed by your own shortcomings. And I really believe that this is the primary application of the text before us, because again, in the previous context, he's talking about wrestling with indwelling sin. Verse 18 back in Romans chapter 7. It says, for I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh. For the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I'm doing the very thing I do not want, I'm no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. It's like like Lord, I I I don't want to do what I'm doing. You ever heard that phrase? You know, I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired You know, I try and I fail and I'm frustrated. It's like, oh wretched man that I am. Who's going to set me free from this? And maybe you even wonder if you're condemned because of it. And what does Romans 8 remind you? There's no condemnation. There's no condemnation. Keep striving, keep fighting, keep struggling, but don't feel condemnation. And this this is the first section of Romans chapter eight, and believe it or not, and David will know this. I I thought I was going to get down to verse eleven, like just as an overview. I'm not even out of verse one. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And the rest of verses 1 through 11 are going to expand on this idea, and we'll get into this in the weeks to come. But why is there no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus? This is where we're going. Because the law of the Spirit of life has set us free. Verses 1 and 2. Because the Son has condemned sin in the flesh, verses 3 and 4. Because the mind of the Spirit is life and peace in verses 5 and 6. Because you are not in the flesh, but you're in the spirit, verses 7 to 9. Because the spirit of Christ dwells in you, verses 10 through 11. That's where we're going. But there's no condemnation for us. And we'll explore just the glories of our justification in the weeks to come. Charles Spurgeon he heard this story once, he said he heard it from D. L. Moody, about a man who was in a French war, who was uh during the French War was drafted to become a soldier, uh, but a friend stepped in and was accepted as his substitute. He offered to go into war instead of his friend. And that substitute served in the war until he was slain in the battle. And the man for whom he served was drawn a second time, drafted a second time. But he declined to serve because he says, I've already served. He says, my name's already been drawn, and and somebody served in my place as my substitute. So I need to be regarded as dead at this point. I'm dead because my representative was killed. And he pleaded that his substitute service was practically his service. And it said that the court allowed his plea. Somebody has served for you, somebody has died for you. You don't have to come and serve again. And believers, Jesus died in our place. He took our condemnation so that we have no condemnation left. Amen. All of our condemnation was placed upon our substitute, our gracious representative. And the full vials of divine wrath against our sin were poured upon him so that we could go free. And now there's no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ Jesus. Amen. Down at the end of Romans chapter 8, verse 34. It says, who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died. Yes, rather, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Just as it is written, For your sake we are being put to death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. For in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us For I'm convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor heights nor depth nor any other created thing, and that includes you will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus. And that's why the hymn writer says and we sang it earlier, no condemnation now I dread. I'm not fearful of any condemnation. Why? Because Jesus and all in him is mine. Everything that belongs to him belongs to me. His righteousness is mine. All in him is mine. And I'm alive in him, my living head, and I'm clothed in righteousness divine. And what does that result in? Now bold eye approach the eternal throne. And I claim the crown through Christ my own. I can come boldly before the throne of grace because Christ has done everything that's necessary to secure my pardon. That I might stand before Him and be able to declare that there is no condemnation because I'm in Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, once again for your word. Now Father, we thank you for just this one verse. Now Father, that there is no condemnation for us who are in Christ Jesus. And Father, I pray that that would be a comfort to us, Lord, as we continue to battle our sin, as we fight against temptation. Father, that we would be reminded that that even though we we struggle, that we struggle as saints. That we don't struggle as condemned sinners. That we're no longer on death row. Father, that we've been set free. And it's not because there's nothing to be condemned for. We have plenty to be condemned for. But the reason we can say there's no condemnation is because somebody took our condemnation in our place. So Father, we thank you for Christ. We thank you for what He's done for us. And Father, I pray that we would apply these same truths, Lord, to those around us as well. Well, Father, that we would not walk around with condemnation in our hearts towards our brothers and sisters. Because if they're in Christ, But their sins are also covered by the same blood that covered ours. So Father, I pray that you would be glorified and honored in this church. For your glory we pray. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.