The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. I want you to take your Bibles and open up to the book of Romans. We're back in the book of Romans, Romans chapter 8. As we continue, we're continuing in a series of messages that addresses the believers' security in Christ. And as we mentioned last week when we were together in Romans chapter 8, that the placement of Romans chapter 8 is strategic to come after Romans chapter 6 and 7. If Romans 8 was an isolated passage, a standalone chapter about the security of the believer, it would be a powerful declaration on its own. If you were on a deserted island and all you had is Romans chapter 8 to encourage your weary soul, Romans would be enough to provide you with encouragement. But the declaration of Romans chapter 8 is made even more powerful because of the context that we find it in. And as we shared last week, Romans chapter 7 and chapter 8 are connected by that word. Therefore And Paul in some way is building upon his previous discussion. And as Virgin says, I've never known what it is to be out of the seventh chapter of Romans. and in or out of the eighth chapter of Romans, but the whole passage, chapter 7 and 8, has been solid truth to my experience. And in Romans chapter 7, what we learn about is the believers battle with indwelling sin. As John Owen in his book, Indwelling Sin writes, it is the believer's business to resist the instigations of sin, to turn away from the thoughts of sin. Yet the very occurrence of sinful desire or an impure feeling harasses a delicate conscience, and we may be led to doubt our security and the promises of Christ. When we're made to perceive that there is still in us still so much of what is inconsistent with godliness. As we look at our lives, we we don't see, you know, just you know, just abounding righteousness out of our lives, you know, perfect righteousness. I mean, I don't think there's ever been a day when you've lived without sin. Well let's scratch that. I don't know if there's five minutes that you've lived without sin. Without something that you know that that could have been improved. I could have done that better. I could have thought this differently I mean, it's just always clinging to us. And especially as you expose yourself to the Word of God. I mean, how many times do you open the book? And recognize that no I'm not doing that, I'm not doing that, like I need to improve there, like we're always wanting to grow. I mean that's the Christian life, isn't it? That we're always seeking to grow in Christ's likeness because we know we're not there yet. But we desire to be, we we desire to be all that God wants us to be. So for the believer that's that's battling with indwelling sin, what a relief. It is to read Romans chapter 8 and verse 1, where we read, There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And it would have been a welcome relief to those that are battling with the weight of indwelling sin and might have been struggling with the fear of condemnation because of their sin. So it's the believer who struggles with indwelling sin Who needs to be reminded of this promise? This is the sweetness of the promise of Romans chapter 8. I love what Spurgeon says. He says The man who never strives against sin, which dwells in him, who indeed is not conscious of any sin to strive against, that is the man who may begin to question whether he knows anything at all about the spiritual life. If if you don't think that you have anything, you know, any problems at all with indwelling sin, you may need to question whether or not you have a spiritual birth certificate Have you truly been introduced to the spiritual life if you see nothing in your life of a struggle with indwelling sin? The promises of Christ are not for those who know nothing of the spiritual life, who know nothing of the struggle with sin. The promises of Christ belong to those who are in the battle in the battle with sin. So let's remind ourselves again of the promises that we have in Christ, starting at Romans chapter 8, starting at verse 1. It says, therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. Father, we thank you for the encouragement that you bring to us for your word. For the precious promises that we cling to as believers. Now Father, we're grateful that you don't leave us, Lord, on our own to wonder, to be in doubt, to struggle. But Father, that you bring to us the sweet encouragement of your word. And not only is there the indwelling sin that we struggle against, but there's also the indwelling spirit. The Holy Spirit, He dwells within us, who yearns for holiness. So Father, we 're grateful, Lord, for these encouragements that we have of our eternal security, that you're a God who's loved us everlastingly. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The promises of God that we find in Romans chapter 8 verses 1 through 11, as I said, are just sweet promises Last week we learned that we have a law that sets us free in verses 1 and 2, which may seem to be a contradiction, you know, to have a law that sets you free, but that's exactly what we have. In verse 2 it says, For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. And that's a welcome relief because so far in the book of Romans, we've been Told that the law brings about condemnation, the law brings about wrath, the law brings about the imputation of sin, the law increases transgression. Then over in chapter 7 and verse 9, Paul says, I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin became alive, and I died. And this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me. The law killed me. It brought about my death, my condemnation. The law has no power to set me free. And then on top of that, Paul says back in chapter 7 that there's this other law that's also working against me, dragging me down, fighting against the good that I want to do, and it's this power of indwelling sin in my life. So there's the law of God that I try to strive for and I can't reach. And then there's this law within my members that's constantly pulling me back. Chapter 7, verse 21, he says, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. But I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin, which is in my members, wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death. So what would be the great concern in this context? If breaking the law brings about condemnation, well maybe I'm condemned too. You know, dealing with the sin, I can't get rid of it, am I also condemned because of that? If sin brings about condemnation, and I know that I can't completely eradicate sin from my life, maybe that means I'm condemned too But what does Paul say? Verse 2, for the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and of death. The law of the Spirit is not based on my performance. It's based on faith in Christ Jesus. There's a righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith. And here's the law of the Spirit. If I'm in Christ , If I'm in Christ, if I've truly been given over to him, I'm found in him because of faith. I've placed my faith and trust in him, and I'm united to Jesus Christ. If that is true of me, I'm free from the law of sin and death. That's not going to bring me down all the way into hell. That principle of sin in my members that prevents me at this time from completely obeying the law of God will not also bring me into condemnation before God. That I will not experience his wrath. Through the Spirit of God I've been connected to life. The life of the Spirit, and that comes through Jesus Christ. It's in Jesus Christ that I find true spiritual life. So the Spirit of God is responsible for this work of regeneration. He's the one who gives me spiritual life. He's the one who places me into the body of Christ by faith. And those who are in Christ Jesus are set free from condemnation. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So why is there no condemnation? He gives the first answer to that. We already saw that, that the law of the Spirit has set you free. We've been given life. We've been regenerated. The spirit of life is what he's called. Has set me free from the law of sin and of death, so that's the first answer, but Paul's not satisfied with just giving us one answer He wants to continue, like from multiple angles, to convince us that no, you really have no condemnation. I want you to be convinced of this. And he built this argument, and that's what we're working through in this series, Paul's arguments about this. So why is there no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus? Point number two, God has condemned sin in the flesh. God has condemned sin in the flesh in verses three and four. Take a look at verses three and four with me. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. So that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. And there is so much contained in these simple two verses, but I don't want you to miss the point. What's the main point? What the law could not do, God did. What the law could not do, God did by sending his son. So not only does the Spirit set us free, but the Son sets us free. And if the Son makes you free, you're free indeed, right? And there are three main ideas that I want to give you, just to give you a handle around these couple of verses. Number one, uh the weakness of the law, speaking about what the law could not do. the greatness of the Son and God sending his own son, and then the holiness of the Father, that uh that the laws can uh that uh were not condemned. that sin is condemned and that the requirement of the law is fulfilled. So let's take a look at these together. And these are just kind of some subpoints underneath the second main point, but here it is. Why is there no condemnation? Because God did what the law could not. The weakness of the law. The weakness of the law. Why do we need another law? Why do we need the law of the Spirit to set us free from the law of sin and death? Verse 3 gives us the answer. Because the law of Moses was not able to do it And here the law being referred to as the law of Moses. What the law could not do, that law being the law of Moses. The definite article is used here to point to a specific known law, which would be the law of Moses here And what Paul is saying is that the law that God gave, although it was holy, it was righteous, it was good, that it also had certain limitations. And abilities. Actually, the word that's used here in the Greek is Anuat uh Adunatas , the word uh for the lack of ability, the lack of strength. Now the word for ability, you know, dunami or dunitas uh is negated here. And it's saying that the law was unable. It had an inability. It lacked strength. And this is not to attack the law. It just means that there are certain things that the law was not designed to do. You know, just like you read in in Psalm 19 that the the heavens are telling of the glory of God and the the expanse is declaring the work of his hands. I mean you look at the the the the beautiful sunset. And you just look and say, God is glorious. He's putting himself on display, right? So looking at the sunset is enough to let you know there's a God and you should be worshiping him. You know, basically get on your face before him, right? That's that's enough. I mean just looking at the the sky is enough to tell you that, but it's not enough to tell you how to get saved. It's enough to condemn you. It's enough to condemn you that there's a God that you're not following, that you're accountable to this God who created the world and all things in it So so looking at creation, it's enough to bring you condemnation, but it's not enough to bring you salvation. Because it wasn't designed to do that. There's something else that was designed to bring you salvation, and that's the gospel of Jesus Christ. So the beauty of a sunset Can't save you because that's not the purpose of the sunset. It doesn't have the power to do that. It's not its design. And the law of God is not designed for your salvation. It's designed to bring you to God. It's designed to bring you to Christ. It's designed to give you a conviction of your sins. But the law can't transform you. It can't save you. The law can't be obedient for you. You know, just like an umpire, he can call you safer out, but he can't go up the bat for you. He can't run the basis for you. He can't hit a home run for you All she can do is just make the call. No, you're safe. Or no, you're out. But he can't do your job for you. That's not his job, and it's not the role of the law to transform you The mirror on the wall can tell you what you look like, but it can't dress you and it can't brush your teeth. The law has an inability. It cannot change you. And because of that, the law is considered weak. Not unnecessary, but weak. The weakness of the man in the mirror is the man in the mirror. And you can ask him to change his ways all you want, right? But the man in the mirror can't do anything. Looking at that mirror isn't gonna change you. The flesh is weak. And because the law depends on people to obey it, the law is weak. Because you're weak. You could have the best coach in the world, but if the team can't perform and can't execute the plays, the coach It's still going to be on a losing team. The law can't obey for you. The law is limited because of what it has to work with. And some of our more seasoned members here can relate to this illustration more than others, you know, because sometimes in your minds, you know, you're still in your 20s and 30s. You still think you can do it. Your mind is telling you to go there, but you know your body is telling you something else. You know, in your in your mind I I made that step. In my mind I I I know I had it, but my body is telling me something different. I can't climb those stairs. I can't hit that ball. I can't hop that fence. Something as simple as getting my feet over the curve. Sometimes it doesn't even do that. And as much as the law can tell us to do the right thing, the law can only work with what it has. It's been made weak. How? Through the flesh. It's because of us. The word for weakness here is a word that means weak, sickly, feeble, without strength. The law is unable to do anything to change our condition. That's the weakness of the law. But it doesn't leave us there. The law is weak We understand that, but this is where the greatness of the sun comes in. Look at verse 3 again. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. What was the law unable to do? The law was unable to free us The law was unable to declare us innocent. The law could not fulfill the righteous requirements of the law. But what the law could not do, God did through his son. And there's so much here that's declared about the greatness of the Son in these brief statements. And again, we're just scratching the surface here, believe me. But here we find that God sent his son. God did. God did this by sending his son. If you are sent, that means that you had to be in existence before you were sent. Before Abraham was born, Jesus says, I am. And for Jesus to be sent in the flesh meant that he had to exist before he came in the flesh. And this is a brief statement about God sending the Son, but we have a declaration about the Son's pre-existence The eternal word, as John 1 in verse 1 describes in the beginning, was the word. The word was with God. The word was God. This same word became flesh. So he existed before the flesh, and then he came in flesh, and he dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And the scripture is clear about where the Son has been sent from. It's not just that he was sent on a mission or he was sent from Nazareth. He was sent from heaven. John chapter 8 verse 23, it says, and he was saying to them, speaking about Jesus, you are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. I existed before this world. And I entered into the world. But I'm sent from above. I come from a different planet. Not even a planet. I'm the one who created the planets, right? Like I'm not from here. So when the Bible speaks about Jesus being sent, it means that he was sent from heaven. And he comes into this world. John 3. 31 says, He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. He was sent from heaven. He comes from outside of us. John 7, 33, therefore Jesus says, For a little while longer I'm with you, and then I go to him who sent me Jesus is not from this world. He was sent from above, which assumes his pre-existence. And as one theologian says, it's not possible to speak of the incarnation of one who had no previous existence. The sun had to exist before the flesh in order to be set in the flesh. As Galatians 4, verses 4 and 5 say, but when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons, the pre-existent. Son of God, ascends human nature, takes to himself human flesh and blood, a miracle that passes our limited understanding. The word became flesh. And the text of Romans 8 makes an additional point about the Son. When it says that God sent his own son The Greek text doesn't just say his son, but his own son, the son of himself, the son from himself. There's an emphasis here to show the special relationship that the son has with the father, special relationship. Like in John 1 in verse 18, it describes this special relationship by saying this, No one has seen God at any time speaking of the Father. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. It speaks about the relationship that the Son has with the Father. This intimate relationship. It's a word, the word bosom is a word that's used for the closeness of marriage the closeness of a mother with her child or the closeness of God with Israel. God's described as the one who pre-existed. the one who existed before all things, and Jesus is described as the one who pre-existed before all things. And he's in this face-to-face relationship with the Father. In John 1 and 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God. And it uses a preposition which means face to face in communion with Him. Matthew 11, verse 27, Jesus says, no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son. Like there's this intimate communion relationship that we have with one another that nobody else shares. Special relationship. And the son is also sinless. Sinless. Again, take a look at verse verse 3. For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. That's a carefully worded. statement in the likeness of sinful flesh. The scriptures do not teach us that Jesus came to us in sinful flesh. Jesus was not contaminated by the curse of sin or by the nature of sinful men. Jesus was completely pure and free from sin in his nature or in his practice. Even from the time he was born, Jesus was born as the holy child of Bethlehem. Luke chapter 1 verse 35. When Gabriel came to Mary, The angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God, the Holy Child. From the time of conception, he was known as the holy child, protected from sinful nature and sinful nature of humanity, considered a holy child from the very beginning, from his birth. And then he maintained that purity throughout his life. In John chapter 8 and verse 46, Jesus speaks to his critics. I love what he says. You know, which one of you convicts me of sin? I I love that. It's like, you know, just standing in front of the the mob. Which which one of you tells me I've done anything wrong? Who can convince I mean even at the end of his life when they're trying to come up with some kind of accusation, they had to lie about the accusation. Because like we can't think of anything that sticks on this guy. They don't even agree with one another as they're trying to accuse Jesus Christ because he's done nothing wrong. And the only thing that they could say is like, oh, he said he's going to destroy the temple and in three days he's going to raise it up again. Yeah, and he's going to do it. It's not like he said anything that was wrong about that. Now you even misinterpreted that because he wasn't talking about the physical temple. He was talking about his body. So Jesus has done nothing wrong. There are no files on Jesus There are no skeletons in his closet. There's no dirty laundry to air. Jesus says in John 14 and verse 30, the ruler of this world is coming and he has nothing in me. Nothing. The accuser, Satan himself, he has nothing in me. Because he knew no sin. I've been tempted in all things and yet without sin. 1 Peter 2. 22 says he committed no sin. 1 John 3. 5, in him there's no sin. There's absolutely no sin in Jesus. But that does not mean that Jesus was not 100% human You ever heard that statement, you know, to err is human? You know, not when we're talking about Christ. He was human and he never erred. No sin in Jesus Christ. When Romans chapter 8, verse 3 says that God sent his Son in the likeness or the resemblance of sinful flesh, it means that Jesus shared all the aspects of our humanity except for sin. He truly became flesh. He truly walked among us. And then, because of this sinless perfection of Christ, that sin was also condemned in his flesh And this here just, again, it's a defense of the true humanity of Jesus Christ, that he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. Jesus didn't just appear to be human. He was truly human. You know, there's false teachers who've said that Jesus only appeared to be human, but you know, it was really a spiritual presence, you know, not a physical presence. There's a a Greek term decao, you know, that uh to appear or to pretend to be. There's a teaching known as doceticism or uh docetism, which is this idea that Jesus only appeared human but he really wasn't. For example, the Apostle John combats this in 1 John 4. 2. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come into the flesh is from God, in order to truly confess Jesus Christ. You need to confess that he's also come in the flesh. He has come in flesh. Came in a real body? And just this let me just explain a little bit about this. If Jesus didn't come in the flesh, we don't have a representative. If Jesus Christ did not truly come in the flesh, we don't have a representative. Back in Romans chapter 5, we learned that Jesus was our representative, and where Adam failed, Jesus succeeded. But if Jesus didn't truly come in the flesh, we have nobody who can represent us. Who is the true and better Adam if Jesus did not come in the flesh? Humanity would still be without a righteous representative. Nobody can stand in our place. We have no substitute. If Jesus also didn't come in the flesh, we don't have a ruler. Just flip over to Hebrews chapter 2 real quick because this is a point that you might not think about. But in Hebrews chapter 2, we learn that the world was not to be made subject to angels But to man. Hebrews chapter 2, look at verse 5. It says, For he did not subject to angels the world to come concerning which we are speaking. But one has testified somewhere saying, what is man that you remember him? Or the son of man that you are concerned about him You have made him for a little while lower than the angels, you have crowned him with glory and honor, and have appointed him over the works of your hands. You have put all things in subjection under his feet, for in subjecting all things to him he left nothing that is not subject to him But now we do not yet see all things subjected to him. You know what that means? As you look around the world, do you see this world like in subjection to mankind? No, you don't The world is like out of control. I mean, if you have a problem with that, just look at the leaders that are in place, right? It's like we have a world that's spinning out of control because we don't have righteous men ruling over it. And out of all who were born, there's nobody who truly had the right to rule. We don't have a righteous ruler among us. Which is why we needed a righteous ruler to come from outside of us. In Revelation chapter five, when the angel proclaims with a loud voice and says, Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals? Do you know what he's saying? Like who who out here can rule the world? Is there anybody who can do it? Because the world was to be given, to be placed under the dominion of man. God gave man the right to rule, right? That under under him he was to have it was to have dominion over the creation. But because mankind sinned, who did he give that rulership over to? Satan, the small g god of this world, right? The one who is now like the one that men are following after, like their father, the devil. So it's like the angels are saying, like who who is worthy? Who who among men are is worthy to open the book, to break open the seals? Who is worthy to rule over the earth? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the book or look into it Then I began to weep greatly because no one was found worthy to open the book or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me, Stop weeping, behold the lion that is from the tribe of Judah. The root of David has overcome so as to open the book and its seven seals. This is the one who has the right to rule. This is the one who can open up the title deed for the earth and rule over it because he is the one. Who's lived a life that's perfectly underneath subjection to his father? Every other man has failed and Christ succeeded. He is the one who's worthy. Who is worthy? He is. He is, right? If Jesus did not really come in the flesh, humanity would also be without a redeemer. Without a redeemer. If Jesus did not come in the flesh, then he would not have been able to die. We wouldn't have a redeemer if Jesus never came in the body. And how else would the wrath of God be satisfied? Romans chapter 3, verse 25 says God displayed Jesus publicly as a propitiation. in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness. A phantom or a ghost cannot shed their blood for you. We needed one to come in a body, in flesh. Hebrews chapter 10 verse 5 says, Therefore when he comes into the world, he says, sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but a body you've prepared for me. We we have one who's come in a body who would give up that body as an offering for sin. If Jesus did not come in the flesh, we'd also be without a resurrection as well. Because if he never really died, he never really rose. And if Jesus didn't really rise, then we will never truly rise. Romans chapter 8 down in verse 11 when we finally get to it. It says, but if the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies Your future resurrection depends on Jesus' past resurrection. If he did not rise, you will not rise. And as 1 Corinthians 15 says, you're still in your sins. Like we have no hope if Jesus didn't really come in a real body and really rise again from the dead. If there are no first fruits, there are no second, third, fourth, fifth fruits. But he's the first fruits of those who would follow after him. Came in a real body, not just in the likeness of a body. He came in a real body. But it's he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. In the likeness of sinful flesh. And what does that mean? That he's in the likeness of sinful flesh. It means that when Jesus came to this earth, he did not come in a heavenly, glorified body. That's not how Jesus came. Jesus came in a real earthly body that resembled our sinful frailties. Jesus still had to eat, still had to sleep. He still became weary. He became exhausted. Jesus suffered. Jesus cried. Jesus felt pain. Burkhoff in his systematic theology he writes this. Men have sometimes forgotten the human Christ in their reverence for the divine It is very important to maintain the reality and integrity of the humanity of Jesus by admitting his human development and human limitations. The splendor of his deity should not be stressed to the extent of obscuring his real humanity. Jesus called himself a man. His most common self-designation, how did he often refer to himself? The Son of Man. Moreover, it is said that the Lord came or was manifested in the flesh. The Bible clearly indicates that Jesus possessed the essential elements of human nature, that is, a material body and a rational soul. There are also passages which show that Jesus was subject to the ordinary laws of human development, to human wants, to human sufferings. Like I said, he hungered, he thirsted, he was tired, he became troubled, he became sad, he suffered, he cried. And then he eventually gave up his life and he died. Burkhoff goes on to say that we're often inclined to think that the final agonies constituted in the the constituted the whole of his sufferings, like all of his sufferings were just, you know, towards the end of his life. Yet his whole life was a life of suffering. It was the servant life of the Lord of hosts, the life of the sinless one in daily association with sinners. I mean, just living amongst men. was enough suffering among men. You know, like often even with his disciples, like, how long am I gonna put up with you, right? And those are the people that followed him, much less those that were his enemies. He lived in the sin-cursed world. He suffered from the repeated assaults of Satan, from the hatred and unbelief of his own people. From the persecution of his enemies, he trod the wine press alone. His loneliness must have been oppressive, his sense of responsibility crushing. His suffering was concentrated suffering, increasing in severity as he approached the end. The suffering that began in his incarnation finally reached its climax at the end of his life Then all the wrath of God against sin bore down upon him. When we think about Adam, he lost his battle in a perfect garden. But Jesus won the battle in a sin-cursed wilderness. Jesus doesn't come in the body of an angel. He doesn't come as a glorified human to defeat sin. He comes in the likeness of human flesh, the likeness of sinful flesh, with all the handicaps and limitations of a human body. And Jesus was still able to do what a perfect human was unable to do. And here in the connection, here's the connection in the text: for what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. The weakness of the sinful flesh, the likeness of the sinful flesh, was not a great enough obstacle to stop Jesus Christ. I remember back in the 80s I used to watch the show called MacGyver. Secret agent, never carried a gun, but he could take like a paper clip and some duct tape and do damage, right? And Jesus picks up this this likeness of sinful flesh and he still defeats Satan with it. He doesn't come in the perfection of the garden. He comes in the the likeness of sinful flesh in the wilderness and still takes Satan down. Our representative in the likeness of sinful flesh is able to defeat sin in the flesh. He doesn't need a glorified body to defeat Satan. Back in uh 2018 there was a world-class track and field event. It's called the Diamond League, the Diamond League in Zurich, Switzerland, where Olympic athletes compete. And one of the events is what's called the steeple steeplechase race. 3,000 meter endurance race where the athletes have to jump over hurdles. clear water hazards and and early in the the competition uh there's a competitor from Kenya consul consult consensus uh capruto lost his left shoe And he ran six laps with one shoe and still finished the race in first place. If if he won with both spikes on, you know, spiked shoes, it would have been an incredible victory. But but here he he wins the battle with only one shoe, and it only highlights his greatness. When we see our Lord defeating Satan in the wilderness, it only highlights his greatness. That after 40 days in the wilderness, after he was hungry, being alone with the wild beasts After being tired, exhausted, and it's that moment that Satan comes in to strike. And even in that condition, Jesus is the champion. And it only only highlights who our Lord and Savior is, doesn't it? The greatness of Jesus is magnified when we understand that he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. Even more praise should be given to our Lord when he defeats sin in the likeness of sinful flesh. And finally, why is there no condemnation for the believer? We find about the weakness of the law. Can it stop it? The greatness of the Son is what secured it. And finally, we have the holiness of the Father that proclaims it. When we read in Romans 8. 3 , what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh, God did. It's speaking about what God the Father has done. God the Father has done something that the law could not do. And what was it that God the Father did? Actually, if you look at verse 3, you know, the word did should be in italics because it's not original in the Greek. Because the verb waits until later on when it says he condemned sin in the flesh. What did God the Father do? He is the one who condemns sin in the flesh. And how does he condemn sin in the flesh? It's not that the Father became flesh, but he sent his son in the flesh. And when we use that word condemnation, we're speaking about the sentence and the punishment for sin. It's a judicial term referring to the act of passing and executing a sentence. And when Jesus was offered up on the cross, what was God the Father doing? God the Father was executing the full penalty against sin against Jesus in his flesh. And the reason that Paul can say that there is now no condemnation is not because there's no condemnation needed for sin. It's not because sin is not a big deal after all. You know, it's a small sin after all. It's a small, small sin. It's not because sin is not a big deal. That's not it. It's because God, if he's going to maintain his holiness, he has to condemn sin. If God says that sin must be condemned, and then he doesn't condemn sin, then what is God? A liar. We can't take him seriously. He says that sin has to be judged, and it's just like, well, maybe not. You know, I just love him so much, you know, we just kind of brush that under the rug and don't worry about that. No, no, if God's going to be taken seriously, he has to condemn sin. He has to condemn it. And what we learn from Romans 8 is that God does condemn sin. And he condemns sin in the flesh. And why does he do it in the flesh? It's because mankind in the flesh is the one who sinned against God. So it has to be somebody who is man who substitutes for mankind in the flesh. I remember back on uh on Good Friday, you know, when we took a look at Matthew 26, 39. Where God says, where Jesus says, my father, if it is possible, let this cup pass for me in the Garden of Gethsemane, he's crying out to his father to let this cup pass. And we ask the question, what was it that Jesus agonized over? Was he agonizing over his death? Was he afraid of death? Oh Lord, I don't want to die. I'm so afraid of death. Don't let death come upon me. How is Jesus, the one who spoke of death as nothing more than sleep, now going to be terrified of it? He tells his disciples, our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep. I go that I may awaken him out of sleep. But now he's afraid to die. It's like, oh not me. You know, my friend Lazarus can do it, but not me. I'm terrified of death. Was Jesus agonizing over the pain of the crucifixion? When Jesus speaks about being scourged and persecuted and put to death, he tells his disciples, don't fear them. Don't fear those who can put your body to death. Don't fear persecution and scourging and torture. Don't fear that. So when Christ is saying, let this cup pass from me, he's not saying, Oh Lord, I don't want the blows, I don't want the cat of nine-tails, I don't want the crown of thorns, oh Lord, please don't allow me to suffer any pain. That's not what he's saying. When he says, let this cup pass from me, what he's talking about is the unleashing of the wrath of God against sin. That's what he was asking to be released from. The wrath of God. And that's what we should fear is the wrath of God. No, I mean don't fear death. Death is just the pathway to glory if you're in Christ. The only reason you should fear death is because of what happens after death. Because that's when you face the wrath of God for your sins for all of eternity. The wrath of God is described as the cup. Jeremiah 25, 15, it says, For thus the Lord, the God of Israel, says to me, Take this cup of the wine of wrath. Revelation chapter 14 speaks about the cup as a cup of wrath. Verse 10, Revelation 14, it says, He also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed in full strength in the cup of his anger. And Jesus is deeply grieved and distressed to the point of death over the thought of becoming a curse for us. That he would take upon himself the condemnation for sin. It's the Father's wrath that he objected to. Like, like Lord, I don't want to, if there's any other way besides experiencing your wrath and hatred against sin, any other way. For one person to suffer for their sins would have taken an eternity. And Jesus Christ on the cross, He suffers an eternity of hells for every person who would ever believe. For one person to suffer would be an eternity. And Jesus takes on an eternity for everyone? The price for the payment of sin on himself in three hours on the cross. All of the wrath of God pouring out upon the Son And sin is condemned in the flesh. So why does the believer not have to fear condemnation? Because all of his condemnation has already been taken by Jesus Christ. And he drank the cup of wrath down to the last drop. So that there's nothing left for me. There's no more wrath left in the cup for me. I may be discipline in this life, but there's not wrath. I might experience the displeasure of God because of my sin, but it's not going to be wrath. I may experience the consequences for my sin in this life, but I'll never experience the wrath of God. Because there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Back in April of uh 2011, I had the opportunity to tag along with Lance Quinn and uh John MacArthur to the uh Louisiana State Penitentiary, also known as Angola. Because so many slaves were brought there from Angola, and that's where a slave trade happened there in that part of the country. It's the largest maximum security prison, also nicknamed the Alcatraz of the South. And one of the most sobering parts of that visit is when they took us to the facility where the executions are performed We're brought into the very room where the lethal injection was administered. There's a padded table where the inmate in death row is strapped down. Two red telephones just in case the call for pardon is received. A one-way glass where you can actually sit on one side of the glass and view the execution. And aside from that, the room is bare, it's empty. No decorations, no furniture. But that bleak picture is contrasted by a work that the Lord It's done there, and at some point in the future I'll have to tell you more about the story. But in a book titled Cain's Redemption, it describes the journey from the to the execution room for one inmate. And I'll close with this. He didn't have much time. In just a few days, Antonio James sentenced to death for killing a man in New Orleans robbery and a New Orleans robbery would leave his home for a final journey. Guards would transport him to a holding cell some distance from the from the death rope complex and on the other side of the broad expanse that is Angola The teenager, Marshall Kane, asked his dad, Burl, the warden of Angola, who would preside over James' execution, if he could take a plate of homemade chocolate chip cookies to the condemned inmate, now less than a week away from his appointment with death. The father who had come to deeply appreciate how James made the most of his days on death row readily agreed. There on the top of the chest was a worn and much underlined Bible. Antonio James's most precious possession. The inmate kept it open so he could immediately turn to one of his favorite passages Here, Marshal Cain said as he inserted the paper plate filled with the cookies through the narrow slit between the cell bars. James took the plate, sniffed the cookies approvingly, and sampled one. In a moment he turned his attention to the youth. Thanks, the inmate said. That was kind of you. They're my favorites. Marshall nodded somewhat self-consciously, then asked a question that clearly reflected both his disbelief and dismay. Antonio, I have something to ask you. You're a Christian. You care about others. You teach the inmates to read and you do Bible studies. Why are you here on death row? Why do you have to be executed? James didn't answer for a moment, then he began to talk about his abusive upbringing, about a father who liked to hurt and belittle him, about escaping by sleeping under the house with the dog to keep him warm. He talked about running away to New Orleans when he was twelve. He and his friends formed a small gang that would rob tourists at gunpoint in the French quarter. Most of the time the victims did not resist except one. Antonio shot him and he died. He says, that's why I'm here. I didn't mean to kill the man, James insisted. He had throughout his years on death row, but it happened, and I take responsibility for that. As the date of his death drew near, Antonio asked the warden lots of questions. How is it when you die? What happens to your soul? How does it really work? Cain listen, taking the man's question seriously. He quoted Jesus' words to the chief, to the thief hanging next to him on the cross, today you will be with me in paradise. Antonio asked Cain if he would hold his hand when the time came, so he would be connected to this earth while he reached into heaven with the other hand. Cain promised he would. Any more questions? The warden asked. Antonio shook his head. Let's pray together then, said Cain. The warden reached out and grasped the inmate's hand as he whispered, Dear God. You're about to welcome Antonio into your kingdom. Help him to keep his focus entirely on you during the coming hours. Help him to realize that he is about to come into the presence of Jesus. And Father, we just pray for the victim's family that you'll be with them and comfort them. The official strap-down team did their work in ninety seconds, securing leather straps around the prisoner's ankles, thighs, abdomen, chest and shoulders. Then the executioner began searching for a view for a vein in his right arm into which he could insert the needle. Antonio was so calm, his pulse so low, that he couldn't, they couldn't locate a suitable vein even when he made a fist. King said later, he apologized for making things difficult. The MT slapped his arm to see if he could raise the vein. That didn't work, so he finally inserted the needle in his leg. Now with every step of the procedure accomplished, the warden signaled for the curtain to open so the witnesses could observe the actual execution. Cain took hold of Antonio's hand and stared into his eyes. Then he said, Antonio, the chariot is here. Get ready for the ride. Here we go. You're about to see Jesus. The process, irrevocable, began. In a moment the first drug began to enter Antonio James. The inmate breathed two deep breaths, relaxed his grip on Burl Kane's hand, and closed his eyes for the last time. The lawyers had tears in their eyes. Antonio James was sentenced to death for killing a man in a New Orleans robbery. Not only did he receive the sentence of condemnation, he actually paid the punishment that followed But even though he faced an earthly condemnation, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. And for you, if you're a true believer, if you've truly trusted in Jesus Christ, it doesn't matter what your past is. It doesn't matter what you've done. In Christ you can find forgiveness. You can find true hope. You can find everlasting peace if you've truly trusted in Christ. One of the songs we sing says he breaks the power of canceled sin. He sets the prisoner free. And that's what God does for every one of us if we've trusted in Christ. There is now no condemnation. For those who are in Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the encouragement that we have through the scriptures, Father, that there is now no condemnation for those of us who are in Christ Jesus. Father, we thank you that no matter what our life might have looked like before Christ, And even the ways that we stumble now that we're in Christ, that if we truly belong to Him, now Father, that if we're those that are truly striving for Christ's likeness, Oh Father, that that's an indication that we're truly found in Him. That we've been made new, that we now have the Holy Spirit residing within us Father, this is not a comfort for the false professor. This is the comfort for the true believer. Those that struggle against sin and often feel defeated because we can't accomplish your will perfectly as we would desire to do. But Father, for those of us who strive and struggle and desire to fall, and it seems like one step forward and two steps back at times. That Father, even for us, that because we're truly in Christ, Lord, that there is now no condemnation for us. So Father, I thank you for these precious promises of your word. We thank you for What the law could not do, that you did, by sending your son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and in the likeness of sinful flesh, that he still won the victory for us. But there's victory in Jesus, our Savior forever. So Father, we thank you for the victory that we find, that's only found in Him. And may you, Lord, be honored and glorified in our lives In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawton Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and Digital Files