The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're going to continue in our study of the book of Matthew. Last week we uh wrapped up uh study in the Sermon on the Mount And uh we heard the closing words of the sermon on the mount, and uh they were terrifying words. They were words of of judgment. Jesus opened his sermon in chapter 5 and verse 3 with the word of blessing. He said, blessed, blessed are the poor in spirit, and he went on to list eight beatitudes there. It was a word of peace. a word of joy and a word of comfort. But the way that Jesus closes the Sermon on the Mount is with a word of judgment. In chapter 7 and verse 27, he ends it with the words, And great was its fall. It was a word of cursing, destruction, and judgment. And those were the last words from the Sermon on the Mount, and great was its fall. Those were the last words that the crowd would have heard. on that day. But they weren't the last words about the Sermon on the Mount. We actually have two verses that follow up the Sermon on the Mount and it's uh the the the thoughts of the crowds. You know, uh the crowds overheard what Jesus taught his disciples, and now we overhear what the crowds say about uh listening to the to the sermon on the on the mount. We're allowed to listen into the response of the of the crowd. And it's important that we have a proper understanding of what a true and proper response is to the Word of God, to the Word of Christ. Because the way that we respond to the message of Jesus has eternal consequences. The way that we respond to the message of Jesus has eternal consequences. Let's look at it in Matthew chapter 7. Let's look at the response of the crowds to the word of Jesus Christ. Matthew chapter 7, verses 28 and 29. It said, when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as their scribes. Let's bow our heads for a word prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this opportunity that we have to take a look at your word. My Father, we pray that you'd open your word to us, that you'd allow us to understand it, Father, not only to understand it, but that our lives will be changed because of our understanding of your word. Father, that we wouldn't be like people who look at their face in a mirror and Don't change anything about their uh appearance, but that we would be uh those that uh see where uh things are out of place in our lives, and that we would seek to get them in line with your word, God. Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people this morning. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, here at the uh end of the Sermon on the Mount, we're introduced to the crowds again. Uh we are introduced to the crowds. Earlier on in chapter 5, as the crowds uh went up the mountain to join Jesus and his disciples, uh Jesus uh sat down to teach his disciples and the the primary application uh was for his own for his disciples uh but the the crowds kind of gather around, like in an outer circle around the disciples that are listening uh to their master's teaching. And throughout the gospel of of Matthew, and really throughout all of the gospels, What you find is that there's there's three primary groups of people, three primary groups of people that respond to the ministry of Jesus Christ. You have the disciples who've committed themselves to following after Jesus Christ. You have the religious leaders who have committed themselves to oppose and attack the ministry of Jesus Christ, you know, the scribes, the Pharisees, the Sadducees. And then you have the the crowds who haven't committed themselves to anything. They're not committing to follow, they're not committing to oppose, they're just not committing. They're not committing to anything. They just kind of blow around in the in the breeze. They just kind of free for all, you know what I mean? They just kind of do what they do. They're decidedly uncommitted. Firmly, indecisive, and faithfully double-minded. You can't count on these people. You can't count on them. And you can't trust them. And uh that's one of the reasons that Jesus doesn't easily commit himself to the crowds. You find in uh John chapter 2, in uh chapter 2 verses 23 and 25 through 25 It says now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs, which he was doing. But listen to this, verse twenty-four. But Jesus on his part was not entrusting himself to them. So here comes these groups of people, these crowds of people. They say, hey, we believe in you. We've seen your signs. We like what you're doing. But Jesus, on his part, was not going to entrust himself to them. And it goes on to tell us why. For he knew all men, and because he did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man. So uh regardless of what the crowds might have proclaimed about themselves, proclaimed about their allegiance to Christ, hey, we want to follow you, we want to believe you, we believe in your miracles, uh Jesus says for his part, he knows what's inside. He knows what's really going on on the inside. Jesus says in John chapter 10, verse 27, that he knows his sheep. I know who my sheep are I know who my sheep are. 2 Timothy 2 verse 19 says, the Lord knows those who are his. God knows who belongs to him and who doesn't. He knows who has true faith and who's just. Faking it. God knows the difference. And uh like we've already seen in uh verses 21 to 23, there's a big difference between saying that you know the Lord and the Lord saying that I know you. Big difference between you saying that you know the Lord and the Lord saying I know you. And this crowd belongs to the large group that the Lord does not know. But that doesn't stop them from hanging around on the the edges, hanging around on the the fringes. And uh as we've pointed out before a number of times already It's clear that Jesus' disciples are the primary audience of the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew chapter 5, verse 1 says that his disciples came to him. In verse 2, it says that he taught them, referring to the disciples specifically. They're the focus of his sermon. Most of the sermon has no application at all for people that aren't committed to Jesus Christ. Everybody can't be called the salt of the earth, the light of the world. You know, unbelievers can't be called the salt of the earth and the light of the world. That's only for believers, right? So when he says you are the salt of the earth, who's he talking to? He's talking to believers. He's talking to his disciples. He's not talking about everybody. He's not calling unbelievers the light of the world. You know, this is specifically for his disciples. But that doesn't mean that Jesus doesn't recognize that the crowds are listening in. And uh there are times when Jesus changed locations to avoid the crowds. Uh, there are other times that he changed locations in order for the crowds to better hear him. So you have that in uh like in Matthew chapter 13, uh Jesus actually pushed off on the lake so you could have you know audience with the with the crowd that came around the lake. And this is one of those times when he came up on the mountain. The purpose was to elevate himself, to bring him to a position where he could speak to a broad number of So he's on the mountain knowing that the crowds are coming. He's specifically teaching his disciples, but he doesn't mind the crowds listening into what he has to say. So the crowds are allowed to listen into a conversation that's not really theirs It's not really theirs. The primary focus is his own. They don't want to join in the circle of the disciples, but they they want to get uh close enough to kind of warm themselves by the fire of Jesus Christ. You know, you don't want to get too close. But I want to get just close enough where I can still kind of rub my hands together and warm myself by the fire of Jesus' life. They're on the outside looking in, but even on the perimeter. Even on the perimeter, even from the outskirts, they still felt the amazing heat of Jesus' flame. And throughout the Gospels, we constantly hear how the crowds were just blown away. By listening in, by sitting on the fringes, listening in to what's going on on the inside. They're still blown away by what they observe. First of all, they are amazed by Jesus' miraculous power. I mean, uh, they had never seen anything like Jesus before. In Matthew chapter 9, if you want to flip over there, uh Jesus told a paralytic uh to get up. Pick up your bed and go home. And uh Matthew chapter uh uh nine, if you look at verse eight. And it says that um He got up and went home. Verse 7. He got up and went home. But when the crowd saw this, they were awestruck and glorified God who had given such authority to men. That word ostrech literally means to be terrified, literally filled with fear. It's the Greek word phobeo for when we get phobia. They were just just like like in shock. Just in fear of like, who is this guy? Anybody who can tell somebody who's paralyzed to get up, pick up your bed, and go home, I mean this is somebody who's worthy to be feared. They're trembling before Jesus Christ. In Matthew chapter 12, if you want to flip over there. There was a demon-possessed man who was both blind and mute, and Jesus healed him so that uh he both spoke and saw. So here 's a man who can't see, he can't talk. Matthew chapter 12, look at what verse 32 says. It says, All the crowds were amazed. And we're saying, this man cannot be the son of David, can he? But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, this man cast out demons only by Bealzebol, the ruler of the demons. And the Pharisees here are decidedly against Jesus Christ, but the crowd enjoyed the fire. You know, they like being close. They like warming themselves by the fire of Jesus Christ. We want to get close. We I mean they're they're they're in amazement. The the Greek word here is existami. It means to be outside of yourself. I'm like just struck out of myself, just in wonder and awe at Jesus Christ. I want to stay close to them. I don't want to go too far. I want to stay close Matthew chapter 15. If you want to flip there, many of the crowds were even personally touched by the flame of the Son of God. And Matthew chapter 15, if you look at verses 30 and 31. It says here that um large crowds came to him, bringing with them those who were lame, crippled, blind, mute, and many others, and they laid them down at his feet, and he healed them. I mean it's just like there's no disease that's safe in the presence of Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter what you bring. You know, just just bring it. Just keep on bringing it. Whatever you bring, Jesus can take care of it So the crowd marveled as they saw the mute speaking, the crippled restorer, the lame walking, the blind singing. They glorified the God of Israel. They marveled, it's a word that means to be surprised to wonder at. They didn't receive the greatest miracle of regeneration to change life But they had received the physical blessings, you know, the physical and temporary blessings. And they were amazed by Jesus' miraculous power. But not only did the crowds marvel at the miraculous power of Jesus Christ, they also marveled at his teaching. His teaching was amazing. No man ever spoke like this man. Nobody ever said the things that Jesus Christ said. He spoke in such a unique way that there was nobody to compare them to. Like nobody's even on the same chart as Jesus Christ. Uh Alfred Edersheim, who was the leading authority on Jewish practices, said that the rabbinic parallels, you know, the the uh the rabbis teachings and people try to say, oh, Jesus' words are just like the rabbis words. He says they're only general, superficially similar, and often opposite in spirit. Like the intent is often exactly the opposite of what Jesus Christ would say. So it's like you had to come up with a new category when you wanted to start thinking about the words of Christ. Because you couldn't say, you know, oh Jesus, yeah, I remember him. He's just like And you just keep thinking, because there's nobody that he's just like. He's just like nobody. He's beyond comparison. He's unmatched. He's unrivaled. He's unsurpassed. And over in Matthew chapter 22 In verse 32, Jesus stopped the Sadducees dead in their tracks. If you remember the Sadducees, they didn't believe in a resurrection. That's why people say they're so sad, you see. So uh They don't believe in a resurrection, and Jesus stops them dead in their tracks uh by pointing to the tense of the Hebrew verb He he knew his Bible so well, he knew what like what the tenses were. Uh so here you have the the Sadducees that are arguing, ah, there's no resurrection of the dead and they try to give Jesus some you know fabulous story about a guy who dies and uh I think it was like the wife dies and another wife dies and another wife dies and it's like oh who's who's she going to be married to? I can't remember the door. It's either the husband dies or the wife dies. Somebody's dead, right? And he says, you know, who 's who they're going to be married to in the in the resurrection? You believe in a resurrection, you know, this person who's married multiple people. Who are they going to be married to in the resurrection? You know, you don't believe in multiple marriages, do you And Jesus responds in Matthew chapter 22, 32 and 33. He says, I am the God of Abraham and thy God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. When the crowds heard this, they were astonished at his teaching. You may wonder, it's like, what does that have to do with anything? When God said this, this is back a reference back to Exodus, you know, as Moses is before the burning bush. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob have already been dead a long time ago. So when God appears before Moses and says, I am Like right now, I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. He's saying that they're present with me. It's not that I I was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I am because they're still here. There is a resurrection. People go beyond the grave. So Jesus points to the tense of the verb, I am, not I was The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Christ had no comparison. His ability to understand, to comprehend the Bible, just amazing Just even as amazing as his ability to heal. Just for a moment, why don't you flip over to John chapter 7? John chapter 7. Occurs uh sometime during the third year of Jesus' ministry. The opposition and hostility against uh Christ was cranked up. It 's moving rapidly towards the cross, the crucifixion, and the Pharisees wanted him dead, and that was no secret to the to the people. Everybody else knows the Pharisees want them dead. And when Jesus arrives in uh Jerusalem for the Feast of Tabernacles, everybody's expecting a showdown between Jesus and the religious leaders, and Jesus isn't ignorant about any of this. He's not ignorant about any of this. Look at a John chapter 7, starting at verse 19. He says, Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you carries out the law? Why do you seek to kill me? So Jesus knows what's going on, right? The crowd answered, You have a demon. Who seeks to kill you? No, nobody's trying to kill you here, Jesus. What are you talking about? You must have a demon. But in verse 25, we find out that that wasn't altogether true, that they don't know that there's some kind of plot against his life. Because look at verse 25. So some of the people of Jerusalem were saying, Is this not the man whom they're seeking to kill? You know, before they're saying, Oh, you you must have a demon, who's seeking to kill you? And then the crowds are talking amongst themselves, Isn't that the guy that they're trying to get rid of? So it's like Jesus knows what's going on. Jesus knows exactly what's going on. No wonder Jesus didn't entrust himself to the crowds. No wonder he didn't entrust himself to these people. Look at verse 26. They say, uh, uh, look, he's speaking publicly. They and they are saying nothing to him. The rulers do not really know that this is the Christ, do they? So uh they don't really know what they believe about Jesus. Remember, like I said, they're they're just decidedly uncommitted. You know, uh they're they're tenaciously uh, you know, just just uh Wishy-washy, right? They they have no idea. It's like, I mean, is he? Could he be? Maybe he's not. I don't know. What do you think? You know, I mean he's standing there. I mean, if the rulers really thought I mean he must be the Christ if they the it's like they're just trying to figure out where are they going? What are they doing? Drop down to verse 31. Look at verse 31. But many of the crowd believed in him, and they were saying, When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? So here they are kind of leaning back towards, well maybe he's gotta be, because like who else can do more miracles than this guy does? So they're like I said, they're just kind of going back and forth like the seesaw, right? You know, which way am I gonna go? I don't know. And the chief priests and the Pharisees, you know, they they can't have this. So the Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things. You know, hey, hey, maybe maybe it is. Verse thirty two the Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to seize him. Get this guy out of there. Too many people are wondering if he might be the Christ. Somebody go and grab him. Stop him from teaching. They can't have people being converted underneath their own noses. So the look at what happens to the to the people they they send. Look at verse 44. It says, uh, some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees and They said to them, you know, here's the Pharisees and chief priests talking to these officers that they sent to go and grab Jesus. Why didn't you bring them? The officer answered, Never has a man spoken the way that this man speaks. Like, we're not gonna touch him. You know, you can go touch him if you want. I'm not touching that guy. Nobody can talk like this guy talks. Nobody says the things that this guy says. He speaks with an authority. I I don't want to touch that. So uh you have this just amazing way that that Jesus taught that left people just speechless. They're dumbfounded. You know, even guys that are trained to apprehend people, it's like I I don't even know what to do anymore with this guy I can't touch him. He's just got this authority. Back in Matthew chapter 7, verse 28, the text says there that when Jesus had finished These words after he finished the Sermon on the Mount, that the crowds were amazed at his teaching. Amazed at his teaching. Uses a word there that means to be stricken with panic, shock, astonishment, just blown away. They are blown away by what they're hearing from Jesus' mouth. The Sermon on the Mount just blew their minds, and uh throughout history, even people outside of Christianity have been kind of pulled into the Sermon on the Mount. Uh one commentator remarks that uh perhaps no other religious discourse in the history of humanity has attracted the attention which has been devoted to the Sermon on the Mount, philosophers, activists, non-Christian perspectives Who have refused to worship Jesus, nevertheless, have admired this ethic. They've admired the Sermon on the Mount. They just keep being drawn into it because of the words of Jesus Christ. And there's two things that we want to take a look at in verses 28 and 29. They're amazing, but they're really simple. Simple, simple factors that stood out about the teaching of Jesus Christ on this day, and it's simply this. He taught like a king and not like a scribe. He taught like a king and not like a scribe. Look at verse 28 again. It says, When Jesus had finished these words, The crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority. He taught as one having authority. authority. You can't just walk away from the Sermon on the Mount with the idea that Jesus just believes that he's like anybody else. You can't walk away from the Sermon on the Mount like that. He has to be more than a a good teacher. I think the words of C. S. Lewis are worth repeating here. You guys have heard this before. A man who is merely a man and said the sort of things that Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic on the level with the man who says he's the poached egg, or else he's the devil of hell. You must make your choice. Either this man was and is the Son of God, or else a madman, or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon, or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord. And God. But let us not come up with any patronizing nonsense about his being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to. It's like you've got to make a choice. You know, Jesus is the dividing line. You gotta make a choice. What what side are you on? And uh throughout the Sermon on the Mount and we Recently I read over this in verses 21 down to 23. He accepts the title Lord, the supreme title for himself. He accepts the role as being the supreme judge over all the earth in verse 21 and 23. He claims to have the supreme knowledge of every life, that everybody who's ever lived, that he knows exactly what you've done. He receives supreme glory for himself, that uh the things that were done, in your name, in your name, in your name we've done these things. He accepts that for himself. That that's right. But not only that, from the beginning of the sermon to the end, we understand that Jesus has the last word on everything. Jesus has the final word on everything, every aspect. of the kingdom, he has the the final word on it. And this is somewhat of a of an overview of what we've been doing in the in the last year through the Sermon on the Mount. But just real quick, in uh verses uh 3 to 12, in chapter 5, verse 3 to 12, uh we heard the the king's word on the the character of the kingdom. the character of the kingdom and the beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5, verses 3 to 12. Jesus provides us with a description of the travelers along the narrow path to life. those that that are characterized as kingdom citizens. I love this uh this word by uh S. Lewis Johnson. He says, these beatitudes give us a description of those who have believed in the Lord Jesus. The beatitudes are the birthmark of the Christian. It's the identifying mark of the Christian. Are you poor in spirit? Do you hunger and thirst for righteousness? Are you pure in heart? You know, these are the birthmarks of the Christian. Nobody prior to Christ would have put a list. Anything like this together to say that this identifies those that belong to me. The religious leaders, they didn't believe that heaven belonged to spiritual beggars, you know, people who were bankrupt didn't have anything to offer. They believed that the kingdom belonged to those that were righteous. You know, they thought they were righteous. And they believed that the kingdom belongs to us because of our righteous acts. And Jesus says, no, you know, I only accept beggars. I accept the people who who understand that they have nothing to offer me. You know, those are the people that I receive into my kingdom. The idea of being meek and possessing the earth would have been outrageous. I mean, who gives the gentle anything? You know, to be be gentle. You know, the meek inherit the earth I remember uh that uh advertisement was I think it was for Revolver or something like that. It says the meek inherit the passenger seat. You know, it's like get in the passenger seat and let me drive if you're meek, you know, just take a back seat. Uh and that's the way that the world thinks. You know, you're meek, you're gentle, you're not going to get anywhere. Jesus Christ says, those are the people that inherit the kingdom. Those are the people that belong to me. Jesus defines those who are part of the kingdom. In uh verses 13 through 16, we have the King's word on what true influence in the kingdom is. What's the true influence in the kingdom? If it was up to us, you know, we'd want to be known as the warriors of the earth, you know, the kings of the earth, you know, the tanks of the earth, you know, just rolling over everybody. Uh Jesus paints a different picture. He says that true influence is being salt. You know, congratulations, right? Salt, your salt and your your light. But you have the influence. You have the kind of influence that Christ wants you to have. You know, to stop the decay of the world, to shine the light on a dark world, and it's important to notice that Jesus doesn't say that we should be or must be the salt. He says you are. You are the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. That means that if uh if you lose your light or you lose your bite, There's nobody to replace you. You know, Jesus Christ puts you here for a purpose. And if we've lost our influence, we've become useless. He says you might as well just get tossed on the ground somewhere and let people trample on you if you're not going to do what I've called you to do to do and be what I've called you to be. And uh verses uh seventeen down to forty-eight in chapter five, the king's word on the righteous standard of the kingdom. Uh throughout this section, Jesus calls claims to be the uh the supreme interpreter of the law, the fulfiller of the law, and Jesus corrects the uh the popular misunderstandings of his day. Six times Jesus says, you've heard it said, but I say to you, you've heard it said, but I say to you. Jesus points out that uh their understanding and practice of the law was superficial, uh hypocritical, external. And Jesus says that his followers have a deep internal and genuine standard of righteousness. that those who follow Jesus Christ, they consider anger as murder. They don't say, you know, hey, you can just get angry at whoever you want to, and that's okay. It's just on the inside. You know, you haven't actually done anything. He says, no, if if if you're angry, that's like committing murder. If you lust, that's like committing adultery. If you uh uh we're supposed to consider divorce as something that's extreme Consider your word as your oath. Consider vengeance as belonging to the Lord. You don't take vengeance for yourself. Consider your enemy as your neighbor. You know, these are things that the Lord talked about. This is my standard of righteousness. And not only was Jesus the supreme interpreter of the law, he was also the one who completely fulfilled it. He completely fulfilled the law as well. In chapter 6, verses 1 to 18, we have the king's word on the righteous practice of the kingdom. Even private practices like giving and praying and fasting aren't off limits. aren't off limits to the king talking about. He's even so bold as to to give us a pattern for prayer, instructs his followers to address God as Father, which was hardly ever used in the Old Testament at all. But he directs his followers to use it and he says, It's okay because I said it's okay. You know, it's okay for you to call God father in a familiar way because I said it's okay. And they're just supposed to believe him. You know, he expects them to believe him. In chapter 6, 19 to 34, the King's word on the riches of the kingdom, our true and lasting treasures are said to be in heaven. Jesus has a right to tell us where to store our treasures and how to use what we're left with. And one of the ways in the in ancient times that people would recognize the king is they would actually pay tribute to the king, basically saying that, you know, hey, we belong to you, you know, that our even our money belongs to you. And uh Jesus has the right to say, you know, what we do with our our finances is as well. He's not he 's the king that has a right to everything. In uh chapter seven, verses one through twelve, we have the king's word on relationships. You know, how are we to respond to those who uh respond to to the king's authority. You know, how do we respond to to the the way that others respond to the king's authority? Uh you know, what about my brothers and sisters that I notice aren't walking closely with the king. You know, how do I deal with them? You know, what about those who who reject the authority of the of the king? How do I deal with them? How should I treat those who accept the king's authority? You know, how do I deal with with these people? And uh So Jesus gives us the the kind of last word on relationships. And then in uh verses 13 to 29 in chapter 7, and originally I had this connected to 1 through 12, but after considering it again, it really deserves its own section. You have the the the king's word on the path to the kingdom itself, on the entrance into the kingdom. And it's instructive for us also, but um I believe a direct appeal to those who are gathered around here, you know, that they're being given a warning. You know, the crowds are around, Jesus knows that he's gonna like shoot over the bow and give them a warning too. I want you to hear something. You know, those who are gathered here together. So uh verse 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my father who's in heaven, and he taught like a king, he taught with authority And uh not only were there direct statements of his lordship, but the way that he taught assumed that he had authority. And that alone would have been outrageous, just the way that Jesus Christ taught. Because the Jewish people already had what they considered the recognized authorities on the law and the prophets, and who were they? It's the scribes. It's the Pharisees. You know, we have this these people that we recognize as the kind of professional interpreters of the law. And basically Jesus comes on the scene and says, forget everything that they told you and listen to me. I mean that's that's just shocking in itself. You know, these are people who have been trained since they were children until they were forty, is when they were actually uh they actually kind of graduated, were ordained, you know, to be a scribe, you had to be trained all your life to be a scribe. And uh Jesus says, yeah, I know you've heard him say, but this is what I'm telling you. And I mean that alone would have been like, like, who is this guy? Who does this guy think he is to talk like this, right? And this is the only group of people that the crowds have to compare him with. And they say he's not like our stribes. He is nothing like our stribes. He doesn't teach anything like these guys. Jesus didn't teach like a scribe, he taught like a like a king. He taught like a king, he didn't teach like a scribe. And um Leon Moore says that it was a scribal habit to appeal to outside authority to appeal to somebody else. There was a widespread respect for age. It was important to cite an authority. If you if you if you thought you were going to be listened to, you had to recite, you know, cite somebody who agreed with you. You know, uh and um well one of the ways they kind of open up their addresses would be, you know, Rabbi Shemai says this, Rabbi Hillel says this, and now you know they're gonna add something to it and you know kind of uh regurgitate what they've already heard from from others. And um I can uh I can definitely uh uh uh appreciate that, you know, uh as a person who you know does research and you want to quote people and you want to you know back yourself up when you're you know uh talking. But um What would I look like if I came in here on a on a Sunday and said, um, you know what? Just just forget every source that you know. You know, forget your commentaries and you know, your theology books and uh, you know, your study bibles. You know, just push all that aside and listen to what I have to say. I mean it was like the height of arrogance, right? For for me to do that. And uh Jesus just says uh that that's what I'm doing. You know, you've heard it said, but listen to me. No stride came close to Jesus Christ. Nobody even touched Jesus Christ. Jesus had this unique authority that we can't match. We're not even supposed to try to match the authority of Jesus Christ. You know, if I come in here on a Sunday and say, hey, just forget everything you know and just listen to me. Somebody please pull me out of the pulpit, you know, uh take me to a hospital somewhere, get me checked out, just like don't let me keep going. Jesus had the kind of authority that nobody can match. Nobody can say, you've heard it said, but just listen to me. Nobody can say that. They said the scribes aren't like that. So we understand that we can't match the authority of Jesus, but there's also application for us as well, and especially for people that appreciate history and uh you know the uh reformers and you know a long line of faithful men and uh you know people who've been faithful in the past. Uh but there's a a danger if you quote other people But you're not quoting from the real authority. Right? There's a danger if you, you know, to back up your arguments you quote from Calvin, you know, you quote from MacArthur, uh, you quote from Sprohl, but you don't quote from Jesus. You don't quote from the book, the the final authority. So there's there's application for us as well. We can't match the authority of Jesus Christ, but we can appeal to the authority, right? We can appeal to the authority of Jesus Christ and his and his word. So the place to start is with the the scriptures, the word of God for for us. But the crowd that's sitting around, like I said, they're listening to Jesus, they're not prepared for any of this. They have like no category to put Jesus in. Like I said, he just blew their minds. And that's a great way to start. That's a terrific place to start in your response to Jesus Christ. To just be amazed. That's a great place to start. It's a horrible place to end. It's a horrible place to end. Because that's all that said about the crowds. That they were amazed. They just stopped at amazement. And you know what I find even more significant? That the disciples aren't listed in the same verse. It doesn't say that after listening to the sermon, the disciples were just amazed and just kind of stopped, period, end of sentence. It doesn't say that. It says for the crowds that were gathered around. They were amazed. Stop, period. End of sentence. Amazement is not enough. Being blown out of your mind by listening to Jesus is not enough. Enjoying listening to the teaching of Jesus is not enough. Sitting in church and listening to a sermon and enjoying the sermon is not enough. It's not enough. The disciples are left out of that verse. Because Jesus didn't ask for just amazement from his disciples. What did he ask for? Obedience! Faith! Repentance! Follow me! That was the mark of discipleship. It's not just amazement. Don't just sit there and be amazed at what I'm telling you. It doesn't do you any good to admire the beauty of the gate if you don't walk through it. Doesn't do any good. Doesn't do you any good to admire the the teaching of Jesus, the the the style of Jesus, the authority of Jesus. It does you no good at all to admire all of that if you're not prepared to follow what Jesus has to say. Why recognize him as an authority? Why call me Lord, Lord, if you don't do the things that I say? And one of the saddest realities for me is that there are people who are amazed by the teaching of Jesus, just blown out of their minds as they sat there and listened to the Master teach. Who will spend an eternity in hell? To sit around the outer circle and listen to the words firsthand. First person from Jesus Christ and still die and go to hell. And that's a reality. There's people that are amazed by the teaching of Christ who will not benefit from the teaching of Christ It's a fearful thing. That's why Hebrews chapter 4, verse 1 says, Therefore let us fear, if while a promise remains of entering his rest, any one of you may seem to come short of it. Don't come short of the promise. Don't come short of the rest of God. And if you're you're part of the crowd, it's possible for you to have an amazing response to what Jesus has to say and still come short of entering into the gate. You can be blown away by his miracles. You can be beside yourself about his teaching. You can even claim that Jesus is the Messiah. And the crowds that were around Jesus raised that question early on in Jesus' ministry in Matthew chapter 12. In verse 23, it says that after Jesus healed the man who was blind and mute, I believe we looked at it already before in verse 23. It says all the crowds were amazed and were saying, This man cannot be the son of David, can he? They raised the question. Pretty early in Jesus' ministry. Can he be the son of David? That's the designation for the Messiah. Can he be the one that we are looking for? The crowds argued about it late in this ministry when he appeared at the Feast of Tabernacles in John chapter 7. In John chapter 7 and Verses 40 down to 43, it says, some of the people therefore, when they heard these words, were saying, This certainly is the prophet. Others were saying, this is the Christ. Still others were saying, surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was, so a division occurred in the crowd because of him. So they're they're arguing about it. You know, yes he is, no he's not. I don't know. They were going back and forth. They argued about it. Later on in Matthew chapter 21, they seem to be pretty confident about it. Towards the end of Jesus' ministry and the triumphal entry, Matthew chapter 21, verses 8 and 9. Says most of the crowd spread their coats in the road. Others were cutting branches from the tree, spreading them on the road. The crowds were going ahead of him, and those who followed were shouting out, Hosanna to the son of David. You know, why are they saying son of David? Because they're trying to recognize him as the king. You come from the line of David. You are the king, you are the promised king. Hosanna to the king, the Messiah, the son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest Come and save us, Lord, which is what a Hosanna means. Save Lord. Save us now, Lord. Do it now. You're the king. We recognize you. Hosanna. Here the crowds seem pretty confident about what they believe about Jesus, but why don't you flip over to Matthew chapter 27? Matthew chapter 27. Because what you find out is that these crowds are still blowing around in the breeze. Still uncommitted. Still indecisive. They're still double-minded. You can't count on them. You can't trust them. Matthew chapter 27. Look at verses 20 to 25. Actually I'll start off at verse 19. It says While he was sitting in on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message saying, Have nothing to do with That righteous man, for last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. So here uh Pilate's being warned about him. But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds. Like I said, they're easily persuaded. Persuaded the crowds to ask for Barabbas and to put Jesus to death. But the governor said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release for you? And they said, Barabbas! Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said, Crucify him. And he said, Why, what evil has he done? But they kept shouting all the more, saying, Crucify him! When Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd. Saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to that yourselves. And all the people said, His blood shall be on us and on our children. Incredible. Absolutely incredible. Now that should blow your mind. You know, you talk about being astonished and amazed. I mean that you should be amazed about that. That that that some of the same crowd That would huddle around Jesus and listen to his teaching, that would receive from his hand miracles and healing. It would be the same crowd that are still undecided about what they really think about Jesus, and then finally turn against him because they're persuaded by the chief priests and the Pharisees. That should blow your mind Tasted of the powers of the world to come and they still rejected him? Amazing. What reason did Jesus give anybody to reject him What reason could they think of for not bowing the knee to this king? Where was this crowd on the night of his crucifixion? They should have been storming Pilate's gates in defense of Jesus. He healed me of leprosy. Let him go. He caused me to walk. Let him go. He raised my child from the dead. Release him. Let him go. Let him go. But instead they're persuaded to say, crucify him! Crucify him! This was the crowd that he healed. This is the crowd who heard his words. Amazing. And the the question for you is are you a part of the crowd? Because you're still wavering? Still undecided You can be persuaded one way or the other because you're not firmly committed to Jesus Christ. You're not trusting in him. You haven't repented of your sins. You're not willing to follow him. Are you part of the crowd? The crowd just blows in the breeze. The crowd's indecisive. They're uncommitted. They're double-minded. You can't count on them and you can't trust them. And Jesus says, I'm not committing myself to the crowd. I'm not committing myself to the crowd. I'll commit myself to those who trust in me, those who repent of their sins, and those who are willing to follow me. That's who Jesus Christ commits himself to. Jesus Christ wants more than than amazement from us. He wants our faith, repentance, and obedience. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh opportunity to to look at this text and Father, I pray that you'd uh use it in our lives. Father, I pray that none of us is still a part of the crowd. Uh just thinking that being undecided is an option for us because not to decide for Christ is to decide against Christ. Jesus Christ himself said, either you're with me or you're against me. There's no middle ground. So Father, I pray that nobody's riding the fence, hoping that just because they're not in outright hostility against Jesus Christ, that somehow they'll be spared on the last day. My Father, I pray that you, through your word and the power of your word and your spirit, Lord, that you bring life. to those that uh still have to give their lives to Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you'd help us as your people, those that are committed to you, those that are your disciples That we would follow the example of Jesus, calling people to enter, enter into the gate. There's only one way to be saved. It's only by resting your life on the bedrock of Jesus Christ in his word Father, I pray that we encourage people to trust in Jesus Christ, that they would repent of their sins, that they would believe in him. And that repentance and belief would be evidenced by obedience to Christ, knowing that we're not saved by our obedience. We're saved by repentance in faith, and obedience is the the evidence of of our conversion. So Father, I pray that there would be true conversion, that we seek true conversion in our midst, Lord, that as we talk to others, that we would bring them to the light of the glory of Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.