The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. All praise, honor, and glory to our eternal God. Amen. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and uh turn back to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 3. I mentioned last week that the Book of Romans has been considered the Mount Everest of St. Paul's Epistles, but the section that we're working through right now is more like the valley of the shadow of death. In Romans chapters 1 through 3, Paul's been taking us on a tour of humanity, and so far that tour has been dark and dismal and depressing. And maybe when you read Paul, say things like, none are righteous, none understands, none seeks for God, none do good, together they've become useless. Maybe you're thinking that Paul is doing too much. He's just being extra. It's going too far. Speaking in hyperbole, or as my niece would say, he's doing the most right now. Maybe Paul means to say that there are some who are under sin. There are many who are under sin, but did Paul mean to say that all are under sin, dominated by sin? I mean, I agree with you, Paul, that there are the basket of deplorables out there who could be described as unrighteous and ungodly and maybe even depraved. I mean Paul uses that language back in chapter one, but Paul, why would we say that everybody is like that? I mean certainly we have ways to to take care of the issues that we see in society, right? You know, that's why we vote every four years. And that's what our prison system is for. And that's what the Department of Homeland Security and the military is designed to protect us from Those people that are out there that are unloving, unmerciful, untrustworthy. I mean, we protect ourselves from those people. We identify the threats to society and we put them away. But this can't be everybody. And Paul, when are you going to finally turn the corner and tell us about the brighter side of humanity? You know, I recognize that there's exceptions to the rule, but for the most part, people are generally good, aren't they? When are you going to talk about the goodness, the common goodness of humanity? What about all the acts of kindness that I've experienced over the course of my life? I have neighbors who look out for me and who offer me help who don't know the Lord. And I don't know where I would be if it wasn't for my family being there for me and I and they don't believe like I believe. I even have stories of total strangers who stood up for me and did the right thing for others. And what about the compassion and selflessness and care that I've seen so many people demonstrate in the world, caring for the sick, feeding the hungry, sheltering the homeless, giving up their time and resources to help those in need. There are religious and non-religious charities and organizations that I support who couldn't sign our doctrinal statement. And what about all the acts of sacrifice? I mean there are people who will literally take a bullet Or rush into a fire and put themselves in harm's way for the sake of another's life. First responders, firefighters, military personnel. I mean there's good people out there. And are you gonna say that what they do isn't good? Are you going to say that they're not good people? I can't accept that. And there are a number of ways to answer that objection biblically. Number one, how do you define what's good? How do you define good? Because we often try to describe goodness or define goodness without first uh defining what it actually is. We try to describe it without defining it. Who gets to define what is good? Do we do that for ourselves? Does goodness exist outside of us? Is goodness a standard over us? What's the summation of goodness? If we were to say that this is the totality of goodness or the perfection of goodness, where would you find that? Does goodness find its origin in mankind or somewhere else? The Bible answers that. Jesus says in Mark chapter 10 and verse 18, no one is good except God alone. Psalm 119 verse 68 says, You are good, that's God's character, and you do good, that's God's works 1 John chapter 1 and verse 5 says, this is the message we have heard from him and announced to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. God is all good. And that's why we read in one confession of faith that God is a spirit infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his goodness. God is infinitely good. He's the highest possible degree of good. He's infinite and all of who he is is all of who he is. I don't know if you understand that. He is all of who he is So his goodness is just as infinite as he is. Goodness doesn't just describe one aspect of God, it describes the totality of God. God is all good. In him there is no darkness at all. And he's eternal in his goodness. There's never been a time when God was not good. The Lord does not change, right? Isaiah 43, verse 13 says, I am God, even from eternity, I am he. He's been the same and will be the same into all of eternity future. He's immutable in his goodness. Psalm 106 verse 1 says, Praise the Lord. Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his loving kindness is everlasting. So it's important that we define good according to God. No one is good except God alone. He is the standard of all goodness. If I'm going to describe anything as good, I have to redirect it somehow back to God. What does God have to say about this? We also have to consider the motives for our goodness. And just like we have to consider the definition of goodness, we also have to consider the direction of our goodness. Do we direct our goodness towards the glory of God? Does our goodness have any relationship to the source of all good, the goal of all goodness? 1 Corinthians 10 and verse 31 says, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all for the what? Dwell for the glory of God. And how can I consider what I'm doing good if it's not somehow directed back to the glory of God? Because that's what all things are supposed to be directed to. But then we want to say that we can do good that has no view to the glory of God at all. Or that we can even reject God and still be considered good. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 6 says, without faith it is impossible to please him. Hebrews or uh Romans chapter 8 and verse 8 says those who are in the flesh in an unconverted state cannot please God So how can we define God as the standard, the source, the summation of all goodness, and then say that those who refuse to give him glory should still be considered good? It's not only the actions, but the motives have to be examined. And finally, I'll say this: that when Paul says there are none righteous, no one who does good, he's speaking in the context of the judgment of God. In verse 5 in Romans 3, it speaks of the God who inflicts wrath. Verse 6, how will God judge the world? Verse 8 speaks about their condemnation being just, though we're in a context of judgment. So the point that Paul is making is not that people who are outside of Christ never display any acts of kindness or look out for their neighbors. For example, when Paul was shipwrecked on the shore of Malta, the book of Acts says in Acts 28 that the natives showed us extraordinary kindness. These are pagan unbelievers. He says they showed us extraordinary kindness. So he's not saying that what they did wasn't kind. He's also not saying that people never demonstrate compassion and selflessness or love their families. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 11, it says, if you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, so Jesus recognizes that even evil people can give good gifts. You know, you don't get a gift for your birthday from an unbeliever and say, well, this is a work of iniquity. No, they're they're doing something that's kind towards you. You receive it as that. Thank you You know? It's like thanks for the filthy rags of unrighteousness, you know. And we do know that there are people who will literally take a bullet or rush into a fire For the sake of somebody else. And we can genuinely thank our first responders and firefighters and military personnel and police enforcement, law enforcement for acts of bravery and sacrifice and kindness. You can do that genuinely. I remember I was uh uh at the uh uh World Trade Center, the the memorial for the World Trade Center in New York And I was reading one of the captions under a picture, and it was the firefighter, a picture of a firefighter who was looking over his shoulder, and uh he was only barely in his twenties. Firefighter. And under the caption it said that, you know, he had just rescued somebody from the building, the building that was on fire. He had just rescued somebody, and he was turning back to go back in. And the person who was just rescued said that you're never gonna make it out. Like, why are you going back in? You'll never make it out alive. And the firefighter looked over his shoulder with the look that communicated, I know. That's all they said. He he looked at me with that look that said, I know I'm not coming back. But it's almost as if I couldn't live with myself if I didn't at least try. So this young firefighter in his twenties ascended the stairs never to come back again. And we recognize that as sacrifice. We recognize that as honorable. And we say, yes, that's a kind deed, that's a good deed. And Paul's not denying any of that. But if we think for a moment that God is supposed to deny himself , And diminish his glory, and violate his justice, and compromise his righteousness, and withhold his justice For the sake of a sacrifice that we've made, we don't really understand the glory of God. We're saying that I can make a sacrifice that's worth eternal life. You didn't have to send Jesus Christ to come and die for me. All I had to do was to do acts of kindness in my life and be a hero for once. And that should be enough to make up for all of my sins that I've ever done against you. Every time that I've ever rebelled against you, as long as I make a heroic act of sacrifice towards the end of my life, that that washes away all my sins. That's what I do is enough. We don't understand the glory that God deserves. God demands righteousness. Perfect righteousness. Righteousness that's not changing. The highest degree of righteousness. And none of us can offer that to him. The book of James says it's like people who commit murder, but they don't commit adultery. And they think they're supposed to be set free because they've been faithful to their wives. James 2. 11 says, you're still guilty. You're still a transgressor of the law. I mean, imagine you know you're standing on the in the in the court for murder, and he says, Well, I've never cheated on my wife. How are you going to send me to jail? I'm a faithful husband. That says nothing about the transgression that you've committed. I appreciate that you've been faithful to your wife. She can come and visit you in prison. But don't think that just because I've been faithful over here, that all of a sudden I'm supposed to get off over here. What reason could you give God for why you shouldn't pay for the price of your sins? Romans 3. 19 says, every mouth may be closed, and all the world may become accountable to God. So let's turn again to Romans chapter 3, looking at verses 9 through 20, and uh we'll go ahead and read and we'll jump back in. Verse 9, what then are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they've become useless. There is none who does good, there is not even one. Their throat is an open grave, with their tongues they keep deceiving, the poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law speaks, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed, and all the world may become accountable to God. Because by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. We're so grateful for your word, for the clarity of it. And Father, I pray that you would speak to us as we open your word and we look at what's contained in it. Now, Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapters 1-3 silences every excuse, cuts off every possible escape hatch for human righteousness. Chapters 1 through 3, we learn that there's no group of people who are not accountable to God. In chapter 1, he shows us that the pagan Gentile unbeliever is accountable before God. In chapter 2, he shows us that the religious Jewish believer is accountable before God. In chapter 3, he takes on the entire world, Paul against the world. And he says that the entire world is accountable before God. And that brings us to the first point of our outline. We will silence our mouths, our mouths are silenced when we stop comparing ourselves to others. You know, the Jewish people comparing themselves to the Gentiles, and the Gentiles comparing themselves to the to the Jews. What does it matter? You're all under sin Don't compare yourself with one another. What are we better than they? Not at all. Verse 9 says, we've already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. We're all in the same boat. Like I said, it doesn't matter if you're baptized, catechized, and all the scriptures you've memorized. If you're not justified by faith alone in Christ alone, to the glory of God alone, you're still heading for judgment. Doesn't matter who you are, what your background is. So many people are worried about their roots and who they're connected to and their lineage and what people did I come from and who's an Israelite and They're not concerned about am I identified with Jesus Christ? Because that's what matters. Am I identified with Jesus Christ? That's what's going to matter on the day of judgment Not your family tree. Galatians 2 verse 20 says, I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. I'm crucified with Christ. I'm identified with Jesus Christ. It's Christ who lives in me. Jesus is my identity. So all mortal flesh will keep silent when you stop comparing yourselves with yourselves. Number two, our mouths are silenced when we start examining ourselves by the Scripture. And this is where we spent a great deal of time, and we'll spend some more time today. But according to the scripture, verse 10 says, as it is written, this is a word that's used to introduce the words of scripture, as it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. And like I mentioned, that would have been a powerful rebuke to the Jewish people because they depended on the law. And what Paul is saying is that very law that you're depending on. Convicts you as a lawbreaker. You're a transgressor. You're under sin. And this is this this gruesome gallery of humanity. Every portrait of mankind is grotesque. There's not one aspect of our being that's been left unscathed by sin. Sin has so defaced the human race that nobody has escaped the corruption, not even one. And I know we covered this last time, but it's helpful to review. Number one, our thinking is depraved. Look at verses ten and eleven. There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. Our thinking is depraved. There's no one who understands. Psalm 53, verse 2 says, God has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there is anyone who understands. And guess what? There are none. There are none. 1 Corinthians 2 verse 14 says, a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness to him. The words on the page are easy enough to understand, but the message doesn't make sense to an unbelieving heart. Why would I do that? Like in Matthew 16, verse 25, where it says, For whoever wishes to save his life will lose it. What sense does that make? Why do I want to lose my life in order to save it? Why do I want to give up all these things out here, all that life has to offer me? Why would I want to do that? But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. That doesn't make sense. Why would I lose my life? I'm having too much fun in my life to lose it. 1 Corinthians 1. 18 says the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. It's foolishness to the natural man. A cross? And then Jesus wants me to follow him there? No, thank you. I've got better ideas for my life than a cross We don't understand it. But not only do we not understand it, we don't have a desire for it. Our desires are corrupt. Verse 11 says, there is none who seeks for God. Like I said, it wasn't Adam running around the garden saying, God, where are you? Oh God, I messed up this time. God, I need you. Oh Lord, come down and walk with me in the garden again. That wasn't Adam. God had to come down and fish them out the bushes. Adam, where are you? What are you doing hiding? And what are these leaves over here? Get those leaves off, right? God had to look for Adam. We naturally want to hide from the light. John 3:19 says: this is the judgment that the light has come into the world, and men love what? Darkness rather than the light. We're like the roaches, as soon as you flick the lights on, just scatter. I I don't want to be exposed. Let me find a cabinet to crawl under, right? That's mankind. He does evil and he hates the light. Because I don't want to be exposed. That's judgment if I'm in the light. But that's the only place of safety. You know that? It's coming into the light, coming to God, looking to Him for repentance. Lord, help me. I'm exposing myself to you because I know that that's the only hope that I have. But mankind doesn't want to come to the light. And all the man's Kinds of religions are not man seeking after God, it's man trying to run from God. That's what the religions of the world are. They seek the benefits of God, they just don't want him. I want the forgiveness, I want eternal life, I just don't want God. Like the prodigal son, it's like, hey, you know, give me the portion of the inheritance that belongs to me. That portion that was supposed to belong to him after his father died. Give me the goodies and I'll be on my way. I want the goods, I don't want you. That's the story of the prodigal son. And that's how we are, naturally. We want all the benefits of God, but we don't want him. Number three, our direction is deviant. We're heading in the wrong direction. Verse 12 says, all have turned aside. It's used of the donkey that turns aside from the road. It's used of the person that has no regard for the ways of God Isaiah 53, verse 6 says, All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each has turned to his own way. Each has turned to his own way. That's another statement of another universal statement. Each of us. We've all done that. It's total. It's depravity. We want to rule our own lives. We don't want him ruling over us. Isaiah 5, verse 20, speaking to Israel, says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil Who substitute darkness for light and light for darkness? Who substitute bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and clever in their own sight. And you know what? We have a generation of people today who are characterized by calling evil good and good evil. We're swapping everything. You know, men are women and women are men. They're swapping everything, going their own way, deviant in their thoughts and their behavior. Ecclesiastes 7. 29 says, I found only this, the God made man upright, but they've sought out many devices. They do their own thing. So our direction is deviant. Number four, our works are useless. In verse 12 Says they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one Again, we've already demonstrated that there's temporal good that people do. Fathers give good gifts. Pagans show extraordinary kindness. We're not saying that when the firefighter goes up the stairs and says, I'm not coming back, but he's not doing a brave act. But those works will not substitute for the infinite, eternal, unchangeable goodness of God. No substitute And in comparison with the goodness of God, on the day of judgment, those acts of sacrifice will be worthless. It doesn't grant them eternal life. You can't get to heaven that way. All of our righteousness is like filthy rags, a filthy garment. Our thinking is depraved, our desires are corrupt, our directions deviant, our works are useless, and we didn't get to this last time, but our words are deadly. Look at verse 13. Verse 13. It says, their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they keep deceiving. The poison of asps is under their lips, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness And with this, Paul provides us with these deadly pictures of our speech. It's a graphic illustration. And the first picture is the open grave. And uh one of the obviously first associations that we make with the grave is with the dead who are contained in the grave, right? According to the Mosaic Law, a grave was Defiling and the person who made contact with the a grave was unclean, considered unclean, and he had to go through a process in order to be come clean, in order to purify himself. Numbers 1916 speaks about that. So the ancient Israelite had to be careful about coming into contact with graves But the defilement that's described in this verse does not come from death on the ins outside, but death on the inside, right? Matthew 15, 19 says, For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. These are the things which defile the man. Defilement comes from within. Ephesians chapter 4 verse 29 says, let no unwholesome, that's a word for foul, putrid, defiled. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification. Where do they come from? They come from within, and they come out the mouth. And the idea is that some people walk around with the defilement of death in their own throats. Because that's what's on the inside. But there's something else that we need to get from this picture in Romans chapter 3 and verse 13, because this is a quotation from the book of Psalms. Psalm 5. So let's turn to Psalm 5 just to get a sense of the original context of this. Because I think that there's something beyond the defilement that Paul is really getting at here. Take a look at Psalm 5. This is a prayer of David. It's a prayer for protection from the wicked. Take a look at verse 1. David says, Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my groaning, heed the sound of my cry for help, my king and my God, for to you I pray. This is a song of deliverance, a prayer for deliverance. Lord, help me. Listen to the sound of my cry. I'm groaning here, Lord. Why is he groaning? He's groaning because of those that speak falsehood against him. Look at down at verse 6. He says, You destroy those who speak falsehood. The Lord abhors the man of bloodshed and deceit. So here we see that falsehood and bloodshed were tied together. Because men were speaking falsely against me, they're putting me in danger of my blood being shed. So what's David saying? The enemy is seeking to take my life by lying against me. Look down at verse 9. He says, There is nothing reliable in what they say, their inward part is destruction itself. And here it is, their throat is an open grave. And I would argue that the throat is described as an open grave. Not because of what's already in there, but because of the future victims that they want to take down there. You want to take people down through the words that you speak. Take them out. And this matches the picture that we see back in back in Romans. I'm not sure if you've ever thought about this, but back in Romans chapter 3 and verse 13, it goes on to say that with their tongues they keep deceiving So their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they keep deceiving. They're lying against me. So this is a way that this destruction is coming to me. The verb is this ongoing repeated action. They're continuing to lie against me. And then the next thing that it says is that the poison of asps is under their lips. This is actually a quote from Psalm 140. Why don't you turn over to Psalm 140? There's a connection that he's making here. Psalm 140. Listen what he says here. This is another Psalm of David, protection against the wicked. These are all connected, this string of pearls that Paul is putting together. Psalm 140, verse 1. Rescue me, O Lord, from evil men, preserve me from violent men, who devise evil things in their hearts. They continually stir up wars. They sharpen their tongues as a serpent. The poison of a viper is under their lips. The word for A viper or an ass was the word used for a cobra or a hooded snake. The Greek word uh uh that was used here for for this viper was was actually a shield. you know, like kind of like the shield that the the snake kind of spreads himself out. It looks like a shield. And under the snake's mouth, at the base of his fangs, were these sacks filled with deadly venom. And the poison was under, literally under their lips. And when they opened their mouth to expose the fangs, the venom was then injected into their victim. And then their throat became what? The open grave. With the poison of ass under their lips, they take their victim, and then their throat becomes the grave. To take them in. And no wonder David prays, Lord, deliver me. Those who speak falsehood, those who lie against me, those who who manipulate things to make it seem as if I'm the one who's The one who needs to be put to death. And how many godly people have been taken down by those who use their words to deceive. Right? What a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive, right? Jesus was delivered over to death because of what? A lie. Deception. People use their words to deceive. And then they use their words to destroy. Verse 14 says, whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. This again is from Psalm 10, another prayer for deliverance from the wicked. I mean, we're all over the Psalms here The wicked fill their mouth with curses, wishing and preying harm on you, bitterness, mouth is full of bitterness, which was a word used for a plant that produced an inedible and poisonous fruit. This is death. Their words are death. Out of their mouth comes death. You know, there's that old saying, sticks and stones will break my bones, but words will never hurt me. I remember R. C. Sprohl saying that was made by somebody whose words hurt them. They had words hurt them and they were just trying to make up for it. Because words do hurt. Actually, in some cases, I'd rather get hit by a sticker stone than by somebody's words. Because I'll heal from the sticker or the stone, but some words that people say, they never leave your mind. It's a wound that stays for the rest of your life. Always being reminded about what somebody said about you Words hurt, words wound. And there's people who come against us who speak these words. Psalm 57 verse 4 says, My soul is among lions. I must lie among those who breathe forth fire. They're like dragons. Even the sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows and their tongue is a sharp sword. People attack me with their words. And we could spend the rest of our time talking about the people who have wounded you and attacked you and the words that you remember from so-and-so who said this years ago and that hurt me. But let's flip the table around. How many times have you been the one to say those words That other people remember for the rest of their lives. How many times have you slandered? How many times have you lied about somebody? Have you ever used your words to harm somebody? You might have even felt justified for what you said. No, they deserved it. You know, I would gotta give them a piece of my mind. You know, as people said, you know, that's a piece you should have left in there. Gotta give them a piece of my mind. I need to let them know about themselves. Justified. Matthew 5. 22 says, But I say to you that everyone, this is the these are the words of Jesus, everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. Whoever says to his brother, you good for nothing. shall be guilty before the Supreme Court, and whoever says, you fool, shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell. I think Jesus considered words very important. You're guilty. James 3 6 says the tongue is a fire, the very world of iniquity. The tongue is set among our members as that which defiles the entire body and sets on fire the course of our life and is set on fire by hell. We have an arsonist in our mouths. Set the world on fire if we find the right opportunity. If we feel we're justified. Our words are deadly. And number six, our actions are destructive. Our actions are destructive. Look at verse 15. Back in Romans chapter 3. It says, their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace they have not known. That's a quotation from Psalm or Isaiah 59. I just want to remind you of the context. If you want to flip back to Isaiah 59 with me, Isaiah 59. I know we're flipping around a lot, but Hey, Paul gave us all the verses to look up, okay? So kind of take a look at them. Isaiah 59. Isaiah speaking to the nation of Judah in a portion of scripture that refers to their future deliverance. But they would only be delivered in the future after a period of judgment. And back in chapter 39, he speaks about being carried away into Babylon and that nothing will be left. You're going into judgment But you'll be delivered from it, and that's what Isaiah 59 speaks about, a future deliverance. But listen what he says here, starting at verse 1. He says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not so short that it cannot save, nor is his ear so dull that it cannot hear But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. For your hands are defiled with blood. And your fingers with iniquity, your lips have spoken falsehood again. Here comes the falsehood again. Your tongue mutters wickedness. And then down in verse 7, look what he says. He says, their feet run To evil, and they hasten to shed innocent blood. Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity, devastation, and destruction are in their highways. They do not know the way of peace, and there is no justice in their tracks. They have made their paths crooked. Whoever treads on them does not know peace. And that's the language that's picked up by By Paul. That the nation of Judah was not innocent. They had false prophets for hire taking advantage of the people. They had rulers that took advantage of the people. Micah written about a similar period, speaks about that. Society became so corrupt that they hunted one another down, took justice into their own hands. Micah chapter 7 and verse 2 speaking about the same period. He says the godly person has perished from the land, and there is no upright person among them. All of them lie in wait for bloodshed, looking for an opportunity to take somebody out, if it would be to their advantage. Make it look like an accident. Each of them hunts the other with the net. They were literally taking lives. Literally taking lives. We might say, well, I've never done that. I'm I I've got a clean criminal record. I've never been to been to prison. I haven't put anybody to death Well, listen to the words of 1 John 3, verse 15. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. Murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Matthew 5, 21, you have heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit murder. And whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court, but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty. How many people have we murdered in our hearts? We're serial killers in our minds. The way that we think about others, the way that we speak about others. Killing them with our our words. It's like we pull back the arrow and let it fly. With the words that we speak And how many times has the the target even been your own spouse? You pull the bow back and you aim the arrow at your own spouse and let it fly Turn around and aim it at your own children and let it fly. Because they hurt me, they wounded me. I'm getting back at them for what they've done. Killing them with your words. And finally, in verse 18, Romans 3, our heart is hardened. Heart is hardened. Says there is no fear of God before their eyes. No fear of God. This is another psalm that Highlights the wickedness of men. One more. Psalm 36. Flip over to Psalm 36 Request for deliverance, David prays, let not the foot of pride come upon me, let no hand of the wicked drive me away. And then he pulls back the curtain on what's going on within the heart of the wicked. Those that are after me, those that seek my life, what's going on in their hearts? Look at Psalm 36, look at verse 1. He says transgression speaks to the ungodly within his heart. He's personifying sin as a companion. And sin is pulling up a chair and having a conversation with the wicked, the sinful friend, discouraging them from fearing God. You don't have to worry about the consequences of the Lord. It's like Satan whispering into Eve's ear, you know, has God really said. Nothing to worry about And look at the result of transgressions speaking within the heart of the wicked. There is no fear of God before his eyes. And this is really the core issue. People do not fear the Lord. And that's why they do what they do. I can guarantee you that there are things that you would never watch if you had somebody that you respected sitting next to you. If I was sitting next to you tonight and you turn on Netflix, you might say, you know what, I'm not going to watch that one tonight. There might be things that you'd listen to that you wouldn't listen to. There might be things that you would say that you wouldn't say if you were in front of somebody that they could hear what you're about to say. There's things that you wouldn't do in front of the presence of somebody that you respected. But then we do those same things in the presence of God We don't do it in the presence of somebody else because we we respect them, we we fear them, but then you do it in the very presence of the Lord, the Almighty? As if he doesn't see? What does that tell you about yourself? You don't have a fear of the Lord. We don't fear God. And we don't think that we'll be found out Somehow, it's like you know people say it's like a a practical atheism. You know, you just kind of block God out for a moment until you finish doing what you want to do, and then you, you know, okay, God, you can come back in. You know, excuse me God, I've got some stuff I need to take care of and then all right, I'll unlock the door and let you back in now. Some 36, again in verse 3, it says, the words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit. He has ceased to be wise and to do good. He plans wickedness upon his bed. As if God doesn't know what you're thinking. Scheming, plotting, planning wickedness that you're going to carry out tomorrow. As you're going to sleep, drifting off, thinking about what plans you have for the weekend. He sets himself on a path that is not good. He does not despise evil. We don't hate evil and we don't fear God. And the wicked harden themselves. Flip over to 2 Peter. 2 Peter. 2 Peter speaks about those who don't have a fear of God. They think that somehow they're going to get away with whatever they do. Second Peter chapter 3, look at verse 3. It says, know this, first of all, that in the last days mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts, and listening to the transgression in their hearts. And saying, where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. God's not coming. There's no consequence to pay. We're all good Verse 5, for when they maintain this, it escapes their notice that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed out of the water and by the water, through which the world at that time was destroyed, being flooded with water. That's the same kind of thinking the people had during the days of Noah. But by his word, the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. But do not let this one fact escape your notice. Beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years like one day, and the Lord is not slow about his promise as some count slowness, but is patient. Towards you, not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. Do you know why you're not in the fire right now? It's because God is patient. God is patient. And the ungodly mock. And they continue their mocking. Because judgment's not immediate. You know, you Christians, you judgmental Christians, always talking about our lifestyle. You know, you're the judgmental ones You just want to control people and their decisions. Now I don't believe in a God who would judge people for their choices. They mock the God of judgment, but I've often said it, the mills of God grind slowly, but they grind exceedingly small. And just because judgment doesn't come immediately, don't think that it's not coming. And when judgment falls, it will crush the wicked to dust. But there's people who don't have a fear of God. And you want proof that there's people who don't have a fear of God? That some people can sit here and listen to a sermon like this and be totally unfazed. That's proof that there's no fear of God. In Jeremiah 5 and verse 22, God says, Do you not fear me? Don't you fear me? declares the Lord. Do you not tremble in my presence? But then we mock against God, you know, argue against the Lord, make up excuses for why we can continue to live in rebellion against him as if he doesn't take notice. He liked the fear of God. I remember I was uh visiting my father-in-law in St. Croix, and uh his next door neighbor had this dog tied up by a chain. Behind a fence and every time I would pass by, you know, he would rust the fence and growl and start snapping and showing me his teeth and licking his lips. Like if I could only break free from this chain, I'll show you something. And then one day I went out to cut the grass. And this lawnmower that my father-in-law had was making all this kind of racket just and when I went past that same fence, that same dog They used to rush the fence and lick his lips and show me his teeth. He was cowering down, his tail's between his legs. He's backing up. He's looking for some place to hide Then I started showing them my teeth. What what's what's the difference? The lawnmower had a bigger growl than he did. And there are people who are mocking God. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. Gotta show you my teeth. Gonna lick my lips and show you what I'm gonna do. You're not gonna rule over me. Then all God has to do is growl. And now you're looking for a place to hide. Tail between the legs There's coming a time when God's coming back. The Lord is going to crack the sky. And there's going to be great fear where before there was no fear. Psalm 53 verse 5 says, there they were in great fear where no fear had been For God scattered the bones of him who encamped against you. When God starts cracking skulls and scattering bones, all of a sudden everybody's fearful But then when somebody stands up and tells you, hey, you can avoid that. God is coming. I'm trying to give you a warning. You have no fear at all. As if it's not going to happen. But when God comes, there's not going to be one person whose knees aren't knocking and asking for the rocks to fall on them as an unbeliever. Revelation 6, verse 16, they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, hide us from the presence of Him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? You're not going to be able to stand in that day. But then in this day you want to show God your teeth It's a fear that comes too late. Proverbs 1 says, Oh, how long, O naive ones, will you love being simple-minded? How long? But he who listens to me shall live securely and will be at ease from the dread of evil. Believers are those who choose the fear of the Lord now. We choose the fear of the Lord now. Psalm 16, verse 8 says, I have set the Lord continually before me because he is at my right hand. Proverbs 1:7 says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. But I don't want you to miss the point here back to Romans chapter 3, and I pointed it out before. But our mouths will also be silenced when we recognize our accountability before the Lord. There's a point to all of this. There's a point. Verse 19, it says, now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. I've quoted all these verses from the Old Testament because I'm trying to show you something. That those who are under the law, that the law is speaking to them, but I'm only pointing that out as an illustration of what's true of the rest of the world. Because if these things could be said about Israel, that this is how Israel was, that there was none righteous in Israel. Not even one. Nobody who understands in Israel. Nobody who seeks for God in Israel. No fear of God before their eyes. What do you think about the rest of us? That those who had the law of God given to them that they're not going to escape? And then you are? I'm showing you this so that all the world may become accountable before God. Everybody. If those who had the law and were under the covenant couldn't keep it, what do you think about those on the outside? And just in case you thought you were the exception, verse 20 says, Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. In his sight, through the law, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Nobody's going to be justified in his sight. Everybody is guilty. Everybody's guilty. And who hasn't read through this and felt convicted? Even as a believer, you feel convicted reading through this, don't you? I mean, there are times when our thinking is depraved, right? There are times when I've been slow of heart to believe in the word of the Lord. Jesus said this about his own disciples, you unbelieving and perverted generation. Think about that. Those are the disciples of Christ. You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long will I be with you? It's like dagger. There's times when our desires are corrupt, when we don't seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, right? I don't always seek the Lord. There's times when our direction is deviant. I want my own way sometimes. You don't want to pray, you know, Father, your will be done. You don't want to pray that prayer. Not my will, but your will be done. No, we want to flip that around. Not your will, but my will be done, Father. That's how we want to pray. There's times when our works are useless. We could be motivated by selfish desires. 1 Corinthians 3 speaks about even the works of believers being burned up on the day of judgment. You could be motivated poorly. There's times when our words are deadly. Who hasn't spoken a deadly word in here? A word intended to hurt. Pulled the bow back and let it fly. Let the arrow fly. The people that we say that we love. Times when our actions are destructive, we've harbored bitterness in our hearts and we've acted on that. We've said, vengeance is mine and I will repay. There's times when our hearts are are hardened. We don't fear God like we should. Because if we fear God like we should, we wouldn't do what we do. Fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Do you hate evil? We've all sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. All of us. This is true for everybody. But there was a time when the fullness of time came And God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who are under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. There is one who was born under the law and fulfilled every part of it. Never violated one command from his father. Hebrews 4:15 says, One who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. 1 John 3 verse 5 says, You know that he appeared to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. There was one who came outside of the sinful stream of humanity who came to us. And his thinking was never depraved. His desires were never corrupt, his direction was never deviant, his works were never useless, his words were never deadly, his actions were never destructive, and his heart was never hardened. And because he lived in our place, he can be our high priest and present us to God. Lord, Lord, I know that they're guilty and all the world is accountable to you, but I've died for that one. I've lived for that one. I rose again for that one Look at my life. And it's because of my life that they're free, that they're accepted, that I can present them before you, as Colossians says in chapter one and verse twenty-two. Yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body. through death in order to present you before him, holy and blameless and beyond reproach. That's how the Savior presents us before him And this record of sin , this dismal, depressing record of sin, that everybody's guilty, the whole world is guilty. And we have to admit that, yes, that's me too. But because I admit the guilt, I can receive the pardon. And there are people who want the pardon but don't want to accept the guilt. You have to first accept the guilt. I am a guilty sinner and I deserve death. God should put me in hell forever. It's his right to do that. And no sacrifice I've made can make up for the sins that I've committed against him. He is too holy for that. His justice is too great for that. His goodness is too infinite for that. I can't make up for what I've done by my good works. I just have to flee to the cross of Jesus Christ and trust in him. Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless fly to thee for grace. Fow I to the fountain, fly, wash me, Savior, or I die. I flee to the cross of Jesus Christ because that's the only place that I can find rescue. And I trust in Jesus Christ. And all you have to do is look. All you have to do is stretch out in faith and say, Lord, I accept you. Lord, I recognize my sins and I I embrace you. I cling onto your garments because you're the one that takes me home. It's not because of what I do. There's an old song we used to sing, oh, it is Jesus. Yes, it is Jesus. It is Jesus in my soul. For I have touched the hem of his garment, and his blood has made me whole. Will you trust in Jesus Christ today? Will you look to Jesus? Will you embrace Jesus as your only satisfaction before God? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this time that we've had in your word. Father, we pray that you would speak to hearts, that you would trouble hearts today, that people would be shaken. Lord, that if they're here and they're not fearing you, Lord, why would they not fear you? There's coming a time when every man will fear you who doesn't trust in Jesus Christ. Every man, doesn't matter who they think they are, they will shake and tremble in fear at the Lamb of God. So, Father, why don't they fear now? God, I pray that you would open eyes through the power of your spirit, that people would hear the message of truth, that they would turn to Him, turn to Jesus Christ. And find in him a blood that can make them whole. The one who's died for them can make them whole. Their sins can be forgiven. Father, I pray that you would do that even today. Oh Father, we pray that you through your Spirit, Lord, would grant life. Help them to hear the message of truth. For the sake of your son, we pray that you would glorify yourself. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files