The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter 6. This week we uh officially move on from the Lord's Prayer And in the providence of of God, we'll be talking about fasting on Thanksgiving week. Fasting on Thanksgiving week. I didn't I didn't plan it that way, but uh some of you might want to change your plans after listening to this message. I'm I'm just I'm just joking. You can you can relax. You'll be fine. But it it did give me uh an interesting uh contrast to think about uh this week. uh in regards to uh uh fasting, uh comparing it with uh uh what we're about to enjoy in in Thanksgiving. Um but uh let's go ahead and and pray and uh we'll go ahead and uh and read this uh scripture together. It's uh Matthew chapter six Verses 16 to 18. Let me uh read it first. So whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that your fasting will Not be noticed by men, but by your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the truthfulness of it. We thank you for the way that it speaks to us. And Father, I pray that you would uh use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people this morning. Father, we uh I pray that We would uh consider uh what your word uh has to say to us. And uh Father, that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers as well. In Jesus' name, we praise and give you thanks. Amen. Well, uh as I said, Thanksgiving week just doesn't seem like the week to be talking about fasting, uh, but in God's providence it gives us a great opportunity to explore the contrast between feasting and fasting. And to think through the differences between the two. And when you think about it, there's even an interesting contrast in the immediate context in verse 11, in the Lord's Prayer in verse 11, it says, Give us this day our daily bread. And now in verses 16 to 18, we're given instructions for how to deny ourselves our daily bread. And how do we know the difference? And uh when you when you look throughout scripture, there were there were times when the people of God were commanded to celebrate, to enjoy the bounty of of the Lord. And um there were also times when people were commanded to refrain from enjoying the the bounty of the Lord as well. There's times for feasting and there's times for for fasting, and it's important that we distinguish the two. And just by by way of introduction, I find it fascinating that God actually commanded times of celebration and joy in Scripture. Feasting was actually a command. It was command to feast, a command to party. Command to celebrate. In Leviticus 23, it lets us know about eight appointed times that the Lord had appointed for Israel, and six out of the eight describe feasting. Described the celebration. And many of the feasts actually connected in some way with the agricultural cycle or the farming seasons of the of the year. And I'll just mention three of them. Why don't you flip back over to Exodus chapter 23? for a moment. Exodus chapter 23. We'll just look at three of these feasts that were prescribed for the nation of Israel. Exodus 23, we'll look at verses 14 to 17. Exodus 23, 14 to 17. It says, three times a year you shall celebrate a feast to me. You shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for seven days you are to eat unleavened bread as I commanded you at the appointed time in the month Habib. For in it you came out of Egypt, and none shall appear before me empty-handed. Also you shall observe the feast of the harvest, of the first fruits of your labors from what you sow in the field. Also the feast of the ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in the fruit of your labors from the field, three times a year. All your males shall appear before the Lord God. There were three times during the year when all of the Israelite males were commanded to join together at Jerusalem. And to celebrate these feasts before the Lord. It was a it was a huge, huge opportunity to for for joy and celebration. These were known as pilgrim festivals because everybody was to travel back to Jerusalem. And uh each one of these is connected with the agricultural cycle. Uh Passover, uh, which actually began the uh the week of unleavened bread. uh was the the most important of these and had a a theological uh significance to it as well. Uh if you remember the uh uh the time of Passover was the time when the angel of death you know, went throughout the land of Egypt and uh slaughtered every firstborn son, but uh everybody who had the blood on the doorpost, you know, the angel of death uh passed over over them. And uh this symbolized God's deliverance of Israel by his mighty hand and and for the church, uh the night of of Passover also has significance because it was on the the night of Passover that Christ took the bread. Remember that Took the bread and he says, uh uh this is my body which is broken for you, you know, uh to to eat this in remembrance of me. But um what you might not know is that according to Deuteronomy 16, nine through twelve, Passover was actually the beginning. of the feast of unleavened bread, uh the feast of of unleavened bread. So not only was Israel to remember uh their deliverance from Egypt But they were also to remember that God was the one who sustained their lives. You know, that that uh God was the one who gave them provision through their bread. And uh God was to be recognized as both the Savior of life and also the sustainer of life. So in this feast, they were to remember God saved us from Egypt. And God is the one that continues to sustain us, to sustain our very lives. In Psalm 145, verse 16, it says, You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. There we remember that God is the one who sustains every living thing. And God commanded them to celebrate that with the feast. The second one, uh Pentecost, uh, was an another time that the Jewish males were commanded to come to Jerusalem. In uh Exodus 23, it's called the Feast of Harvest in uh verse 15. It was a festival that marked the end of the grain harvest. It was fifty days. after the feast of unleavened bread, which is why we call it Pentecost. The Greek word for Pentecost is penteconta, which is where we get our word Pentecost from. It means 50. Fifty days after the Feast of Unloved Bread, they were to have another celebration. And this was the celebration of the harvest. It was it was basically a harvest festival. You know, as they're harvesting all their grain, all their goods. They were supposed to have this time of rejoicing uh before the Lord to rejoice in God's prosperity. And uh and think about it, uh it's it's no accident That uh Christ was crucified during the time of the Passover, during this feast uh for uh uh the harvest uh festival. During the harvest festival, Christ was crucified. Um I mean I mean during the uh uh the Passover Christ was crucified and during Pentecost, I'm sorry, uh th this is when the church was actually born, when the Holy Spirit was was given. The two times when all Jewish males were commanded to be in Jerusalem On one of those days, Christ was crucified. On another one of those seasons, the church was born. You know, all the Jewish males show up for these two significant events in the life of the church. Christ is crucified. And the church is born and the Spirit is given. God has perfect timing, doesn't he? You know, and and the way that he that he set that up is just uh remarkable. And the the the point that I'm making here is that these times were associated with with giving of thanks, provision of the Lord. He gives the land, he gives the rain, he gives the fruitful seasons, and they're commanded to celebrate that, to celebrate God. for those things. And the last one that I'll mention is the feast of booths, which we also find in Exodus 23. This is known as the Feast of the Ingathering. uh the Feast of Tabernacles or the Feast of Booths. Uh it was during this time that there was a a week long celebration. Uh uh they they took off the first and the and the the last day and and everybody joined together for this this time of of rejoicing. And the reason why is because all of the work for the year was done. You know, all the harvesting was done, all the food was brought in. And this was just a time to rejoice in what the Lord had given over the entire year. You know, the work was completed and the joy was unleashed. In uh Deuteronomy 16. Uh listen to how many times it talks about the joy and celebration. Deuteronomy sixteen fourteen to fifteen it says, and you shall rejoice in your feast You and your son and your daughter and your male and female servants and the Levite and the stranger and the orphan and the widow who are in your towns, seven days you shall celebrate, a seven-day party. Seven days you shall celebrate a feast of the Lord your God in the place which the Lord chooses, because the Lord your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful. This is a time that they were to rejoice in the Lord. And these are only a few of the feasts that Israel was to celebrate and commanded by God. Their joy, their celebration. uh this time of of of rejoicing together was commanded by God and God gave food for their enjoyment. It was it was part of the celebration. Food was part of the gladness that they were to to share in. And uh food, when you look through scriptures often associated with gladness. Food is associated with gladness. In Acts chapter 14 and verse 17 it says, and yet he did not leave himself without witness. And that he did good and gave you rains from heaven, fruitful season, satisfying satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. Food was given for people's joy, for the gladness of people. satisfies them with goodness in uh Psalm 107 verse 9. It says, For he has satisfied the thirsty soul, and the hungry soul he has filled with that which is good. He has filled us with goodness. And it's a gift from God. Food is a gift from God. And I didn't make this connection before, but food is a gift, particularly for believers. Flip over to 1 Timothy chapter 4. 1 Timothy chapter 4. Like I said, I didn't make this connection before, but this this is your Thanksgiving verse for the week, okay? 1 Timothy chapter 4. Look at verse 3. 1 Timothy 4, verse 3. He talks about those who forbid marriage, advocate abstaining from foods which God has created to be gratefully shared in by who? By those who believe and know the truth. Food has been created for you to gratefully share in because you believe and know the truth. Food is created for believers. The enjoyment of food was specifically created, designed by God for believers. It's God's gift to us. Food is God's gift to us. And uh and think about this, that the average adult has somewhere between two thousand and ten thousand taste buds. Two thousand and ten thousand taste buds. You don't just have uh taste buds just on your your tongue, it's on the roof of your mouth, it's in your throat, it's in your stomach. I mean it's just like All the way through you have taste buds that the Lord has given you to enjoy the food. It picks up sweet, salty, sour bitter, possibly a fifth Taste known as uh umami. I don't even know what that is. Umami. Uh they said it's actually the the pleasant or savory you know kind of taste. They call it a fifth uh flavor that your taste buds pick up and that the that that taste you know that you you receive through through those taste buds in addition to the smell is what gives your food the flavor that it has You know, that's why if you have a stuffy nose, it doesn't taste as good, but your taste and your smell, you know, that's where this flavor comes from. God didn't have to do that. God didn't have to do that. Everything could have tasted like the dirt it grew out of. You ever think about that? All your food grows out of the dirt. You know, these vegetables and fruits, they grow out of the dirt. Why don't they taste like dirt? They grow out of the dirt. They don't taste like dirt. Why? They won't have this unique taste. That is God's gift to you. Food is God's gift. It's God's gift of flavor, variety, the food, the ability to enjoy it. This is the gift of God. And we gratefully share in that meal and that brings glory to God. It glorifies God. It honors God. When we gratefully share in the meals that that He's given us. So when we set aside a season of the year to give thanksgiving to God for His provisions It's appropriate and it's biblical to do that. To set aside a time to say, God, I want to give you thanks for what you've provided for me, for how you've provided for me throughout the whole year. That you give me this food to enjoy. It brings gladness to my soul. I I praise you, God For what you've done in this meal. So to eat well is biblical. And uh Paul even said that he knew what it was like to be full. In uh Philippians chapter four and verse twelve, we said he knew how to be full and be content with whatever he was provided for, whether he had a little or a lot. You know, and when we have a lot, we need to be content. If you have a little, you need to be content. Either way, right? And Paul says, I know how to be content having a full stomach, you know, being able to push away from the table saying, Wow, I'm stuffed, which is actually what the word that he used meant. You know, the word for full, it meant to be stuffed. The same word that they used for fattening up an animal before the day of slaughter is the same word that he used. He says, I feel like I'm stuffed. I'm ready for the slaughter now. So be content in that. Enjoy your week. Enjoy the food that God gives you. And for some of you, you'll be sharing a meal with uh with maybe an unbeliever over this season. Uh and that same food that's a gift to you is a witness to them. The same food that's a gift to you is a witness to them because it's been created uh by God for that purpose. So when you're you're you know passing the uh the stuffing in the gravy to your unbelieving friend, you can remind them that that that meal has been given for you to enjoy, and it's a witness of the goodness and kindness of God. It is a witness that there is a creator. It's a witness that there's a God who exists and a God who loves his creation. And my prayer for you is that you'd come to know the giver of those gifts. You know, as you're passing the plate, Acts chapter 14 and verse 17 again it says, And yet he did not leave himself without witness. The food that God gives to us, to unbelievers, is also a witness. A witness of who he is. And uh as believers, we have the double blessing. We don't just enjoy the gifts. We enjoy the person who gave it to us, right? We enjoy the enjoy the giver. We celebrate the giver And uh there's seasons to celebrate, and uh God is honored when we acknowledge him for his gracious provision uh for us, the bounty and the favor of God. This is it's appropriate to do that. So we appreciate those seasons, don't we? We appreciate that. But then there's other seasons when when life is hard, when the heart becomes heavy and burdened by the weight and the difficulties of life. There's those times that we have, right? There's those seasons of life. Maybe a doctor just informs you that that there's nothing more that they can do. Nothing more that they can do for you or for your loved one. That's a difficult time, right? It's a hard time. Maybe you just received news of a of a tragic accident and somebody that you know was actually involved in it That's a difficult time, right? Maybe you've uh you're being severely persecuted for your faith on your job. It's difficult. Maybe you have an important decision to make that's going to affect the lives of all the people that you you know, that you love, the people that you care about, and this decision matters. It's a difficult time, right? It's a difficult time. Or maybe God is just pressing on you the conviction of a sin that you've been trying to ignore. And God has just brought that to the to the surface in your life, and you are crushed by the weight of your own sin. It's difficult. Those aren't times of joy. Those are times of mourning, of weeping, of desperation, of urgency And just as God makes provision for your joy by giving you food to be glad in and to rejoice in, God has also made another provision for your mourning and for your weeping, and that's where fasting comes in. That's where fasting comes in. Fasting and scripture was associated with times like these. It's the response that uh uh the response that Jesus gave to his disciples uh is really instructive. Uh When uh the the disciples of John the Baptist uh came to him and they asked Jesus, they said, you know, hey, you know, we fast, the Pharisees fast, why aren't your disciples fasting? Remember that? Over in Matthew chapter 9, the disciples of John came to him asking, why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? Listen to how Jesus responds in verse 15. And Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? So this isn't a this isn't a time for mourning and weeping I mean, this is the Son of God in the flesh. That's not a time to be sad. That's a time to rejoice. What would they be fasting for? It's not the appropriate time for fasting. While the disciples were enjoying the personal presence of Christ, it wasn't a time to mourn. But Jesus says that there will come a time. When I'm taken from them, and then mourning is going to be appropriate. Morning is going to be appropriate then. He says that the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast. And notice the connection that Jesus makes between mourning and fasting. He says that the time that I'm here, when the bridegroom is present, it's not a time to mourn. But he says when the bridegroom is taken from them, it will be the time to fast. Mourning and fasting were connected. Connected. There's a link between fasting and mourning, and if you do a word search, a word study on uh fasting in the scriptures, the overwhelming conclusion overwhelming conclusion that you'll reach is that fasting is associated with periods of mourning, urgency, repentance from sin, and life-changing decisions. That was the time when people fasted. And what a person was doing externally and physically was an expression of what they were experiencing spiritually and internally, emotionally. The idea that fasting was meant to be used as uh some kind of key to unlock your spiritual growth or uh as a path to communion with God or some kind of gauge for your hunger for God is just not backed up by the specific text of Scripture. And I've I've read books by guys that that promote that. And the idea sounds great, but when you actually look to the verses to back it up, it doesn't back it up. You know, fasting is not some way that you know just get some kind of super revelation from God. I'm going to fast and God's just going to drop it out of the sky. I'm going to become this super spiritual Christian if I push away the plate. That's never what fasting was given for. You know, you're not to think about a person as, hey, they're just more spiritual because they fast often. That's exactly what Matthew chapter 6 is arguing against. Fasting wasn't associated with this kind of superspiritual life in Christ. And uh even in uh Matthew chapter 17, 21 If you uh remember that verse that talks about the casting out of demons through fasting, you know, the such comes not out but by prayer and fasting. It's actually not found in the most uh uh reliable manuscripts, the oldest manuscripts, that verse isn't even there So so fasting was was not uh this this idea that that I'm to weaken my body so I can become more spiritual, that I can become this kind of super, you know, uh mature Christian. That actually has more to do with pagan practice than Christianity. It actually does. Flip over to Colossians chapter 2. I just want to show you this. Colossians chapter 2. This is where Paul addresses Fasting in the context of heresy, Colossians chapter 2. There was a heresy that was beginning to have influence among the Colossian believers, and it was this idea that, you know, the spirit is good and the flesh is bad. If you can just beat down your flesh, then you're going to become like this kind of super spiritual type of person. Colossians chapter 2. Look at verses 20 to 23. He says, if you have died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why as if you were living in the world do you submit yourself to decrees such as do not handle, do not taste, do not touch? Which all refer to things destined to perish with use, in accordance with the commandments and teachings of men. These are matters which have to be sure The appearance of wisdom and self-made religion and self-abasement and severe treatment of the body, that self-abasement would have been the fasting. Self-abasement, you know, I'm just beating myself up, I'm lowering myself But are of no value against fleshly indulgence. Like I said, these teachers were trying to promote this idea within the Colossian congregation that if you just abase yourself, if you just abuse yourself, You know, you just deny yourself that that you're just going to start growing and flourishing spiritually. You know, that there's this this uh that the that what's holding you back is your physical body and the physical things that you taste and touch and handle. You know, these are the things that are holding you back. And if you can free yourself from those things, now you'll become truly spiritual. Now you have this path to communion with God if you can only rid yourself of these physical things that trip us up. But listen to what Paul says. Even though that has the appearance of wisdom, it's like it sounds good. He says it's of no value against fleshly indulgence. Do you think that's really going to take care of your sin problem? If I push away the plate enough, my problems are gonna go away? My sin is gonna disappear? If you believe that, you're you're missing uh you know missing a couple meals is is going to make you more spiritual. You've bought into the lie that this physical thing contaminates you. It's the stuff around me that contaminates me. That's holding me back. Fasting was never meant for that, and I'll just highlight a few passages that talk about the context for fasting. Number one, it was used for times of mourning and grief. When Israel heard that King Saul and his son Jonathan had been slain, in 2 Samuel 1 and verse 12, it says, They mourned and wept and fasted. until evening for Saul and his son Jonathan, and for the people of the Lord and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. It was a time of mourning and grief. And out of that they they pushed away the plate as a response to what they were feeling in their souls. It was used for urgent situations. Remember when uh Queen Esther was uh informed that there was a plot to annihilate all the Jews in uh in the kingdom of uh of or the Persian Empire. Remember that? There's this plot to annihilate all the Jews. So what did she say? Exodus Exod chapter 4 verse 16 Go assemble all the Jews who are found in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, three days, night or day. And my maidens and I also will fast in the same way, and thus I will go to the king which is not according to the law, and if I perish, I perish. Fast. Everybody push away the plague. This is an urgent situation We need help. David had the same kind of response when he uh he found out that his child was gonna die. Remember that? Found out that his his son was was gonna die and he just pushed away the plate, fasted before the Lord, pleading before the Lord. It's also used in uh not only times of mourning and in grief, urgent situations, but also life-changing decisions. Uh before Paul and Barnabas were sent out to the mission field, In Acts chapter thirteen and verse three it says that when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. You know the church fasted and prayed together before they're sending Paul and Barnabas out. Like I said, this is a life-changing decision that's that's happening here. You know, to to to send out these missionaries and they fasted and prayed before they they did this. The same kind of thing happened with the uh appointment of elders In Acts chapter 14 and verse 23 that the elders were selected after a period of fasting. You know, a period of seeking the Lord and fasting. Even Christ prepared for his ministry by doing what? Fasting. It was a 40-day fast before Christ began his ministry. And this kind of preparation for what he was about to do, this life-changing decisions. And then the fourth one that I'll mention is repentance from sin. Repentance for sin. The most common time for fasting in the scripture, it was in relationship to sin and repentance. Remember when uh Nineveh was informed that in 40 days You're going to die. In 40 days, the judgment of God is going to rain down upon you because of your sin, because of your rebellion against God. You got 40 days, and it's over. Jonah chapter 3, verse 5, it says, Then the people of Nineveh believed in God, and they called to fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. Even their animals fasted. They made even their animals fast during this time. Jonah chapter 3 and verse 8, it says, But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth. Make the animals uncomfortable. Let them let men call on God earnestly that each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. And when you examine the scriptures, There were many times that were commanded for feasting, you know, many festivals and feasts that Israel had. There was only one time a year that they were commanded to fast. You know when that was? It was the day known as Yom Kippur. The Day of Atonement. Flip over to Leviticus chapter 16 so I can show this to you. Leviticus chapter 16. This is the the one time of of the year. It was the the most significant day on the Jewish calendar when the high priest Once a year would enter into the very presence of God, into the Holy of Holies itself, into the presence of God to make atonement for the forgiveness of the sins of the people. Leviticus chapter 16, look at verse 29. Says this shall be a permanent statute for you. In the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall humble your souls, and do not do any work, whether the native or the alien who sojourns among you for it is on this day that atonement shall be made for you, to cleanse you. You will be clean from all your sins before the Lord. It is to be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, that you may humble your souls. It is a permanent statute. And that uh that phrase to to uh to humble your souls or to afflict your souls was actually a synonym for for fasting according to uh Isaiah 58 verse 3, Ezra chapter 8, verse 21, the afflicting or the humbling of the soul was connected to fasting. And in Acts chapter uh twenty-seven and verse nine the day of atonement was just referred to as the fast. That's what they called it, the fast. It's the one time of year that all of Israel would fast together. And it was a time to remember their sins before God. And that urgent time when the high priest would go before the Lord to plead with God to forgive us for our sins. And on that one time a year, everybody would mourn together for the sins that they had committed against the Lord. That was the time for fasting. It was the time for humbling their souls. And in each of these cases, Uh the fast was to to be this outward and physical expression of what was going on on the inside of of their hearts. And uh while our hearts should should break over the the death of a of a loved one. And uh there's times where you don't even feel like eating, right? You know, somebody who you're close to dies, you don't even want to eat. There's uh times when there's urgent situations, even dangerous situations, you know, physically for for other people There's uh those life-changing decisions where it just turns your stomach, you know, you're trying to make a make a right decision. And and those times should should break our souls, but there's nothing that should break our souls the way that sin does, right? Nothing should break the soul the way that sin does because sin is what disrupts your intimacy with God. And uh the only time for a regular fast through the scripture was the the time when the Israelites were to remember their sins against the against their their God, their sins against the Lord. And this this raises an important question that I want you to consider. Have you ever mourned over your sin? Have you ever reached a place where you are just disgusted with the sins that you participate in? Where you're desperate for God to do something? Have you ever felt the urgency of your situation before God, even to the point where you've lost your appetite? Because you are just so desperate for God to change you? Now if if you've never experienced any grief at all for your sin, you've got another problem. You're not even a believer If you've never experienced any kind of grief, any kind of mourning over your sin at all, the Bible says that you don't even know the Lord. Matthew chapter 5 and verse 4, it says, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted Those that that mourn in Matthew chapter five are those that that mourn over their their sins. And the the comfort that Jesus speaks of in Matthew chapter five is that the comfort of of salvation. The Beatitudes describe people who inherit the kingdom of heaven. And if you've never experienced any grief over your sin, it's like, how can you even be a I mean what did you come to Christ for if it wasn't because of your sin, right? Why am I coming to the Lord if it's not because of my sin? That's why we come to Christ in the first place. Because I'm broken over my sins. Jesus says in Matthew 9, verse 12, that uh it's those who are sick who need a physician. You don't even realize that you're sick yet. What do you need me for? First realize that you have a problem. And I'm not sure where where all of you are today, but um, if you understand that there's a holy God who created you for his own glory, and that you've lived in rebellion against this God, that should break your heart. You should be broken over your condition before the Lord. And if you've never experienced grief for your sin, I plead with you to turn to Christ. To look to Christ in his righteousness, to look to the God who's absolutely holy and will not accept you with your sins. Think about the desperate condition that you're in. Think about the wrath of God that you will face for your sins. And let your heart break over that. Understand that the desperation in that. It's an urgent situation. And if you're broken and crushed because of your sin, the Bible says that God will not despise you. Those that are broken and contrite, crushed because of their sins, God's not going to turn you away If you understand the severity of your sin before him, he's not going to despise you. He's not going to turn you away if you come to him. Trust in Jesus. Turn to Jesus. He was crucified, buried, and he rose in victory for those who trust him, for those who understand how grave their sins are before God. And he'll save you from the penalty of your sin and give you eternal life. But that doesn't mean that the life becomes easy for believers after we've trusted in in Christ. It doesn't mean life gets easy Because there's still times of mourning and grief, still urgent and desperate situations that we face, still life-changing decisions. Bitter conviction of sin, and that's when uh fasting is God's provision for you. It's an expression of what's going on on on the inside, right? Just like I said, feasting was for gladness, fasting was for for times of grief and sadness. And that's the way to look at fasting. And that helps us give us a little bit of context back in Matthew chapter 6, if you want to flip back there. Really, I I think that the passage will just kind of open up to you after you understand what the purpose for fasting was. Back in Matthew chapter 6 You know, when you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they're fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head, wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but your father, but by your father who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. So listen to this. If fasting was to be the humbling of the soul, right, was to be this humility before God, what are you trying to do displaying it before other people? What are you trying to elevate yourself before others if it's supposed to be a humbling of your soul? I want everybody to see how humble I am. You know, write books about it, put it in a blog. About how I'm humbling my soul before God so people can notice me? I mean it's the exact opposite of what the intent is, right? It's supposed to be a time of humbling yourself before the Lord, and now you want the greatest audience for it? When the Ninevites fasted, they could care less about what the other nations thought. Who was saying them? They're about to die. When David was fasting for the life of his child, he could care less about who was saying him. My son's about to die. It was an urgent situation. He's not looking for the greatest possible audience. So when you come to a time of fasting and you're busy tweeting about your 40-day fast experience and posting pictures of an empty plate You really have to ask yourself, have I missed the entire point? Is this a humbling of my soul? To let everybody know what a great experience and how close to God I am now because I've been fasting? I'm on the Daniel fast. Pray for me. What in the world is that about? Missing the entire point. And as we we've already mentioned, there's there's pagans who fasted They saw it as their path to spirituality. They saw it as their way to elevate themselves before God. And now Christians are adopting the same stance. This is my way to elevate myself before the eyes of God. Elevate myself in the eyes of others. It's my way to become spiritual And then the Pharisees saw it as their way to elevate themselves before others, and in both cases it was wrong-headed. Fasting was meant to humble the soul, not to elevate it. But but but the Pharisees used it as a way to feed their pride. If you remember uh that picture that Christ painted for us in Luke 18, it accurately depicts the attitude of many of the religious leaders of his day in Luke 18 verses eleven and twelve. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. Notice who he's praying to. Praying this to himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. He looked at this as a way to elevate himself. Look at what I do. I'm fasting twice a week. I pay tithes. God, you have to listen to me. I must be in your good favor. Look at what I do. You don't stand before God based on what you do. You know that? You understand that? That's exactly the kind of attitude that this passage was meant to tear apart. The central theme of this text really connects us back to the idea found in Matthew 6 verse 1. Beware of practicing your righteousness before men. to be noticed by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. Beware of making a display of your righteousness. Showing it off so everybody can can know about it. Acts are meant acts that are meant for the attention of men don't grab the attention of God. And that's really the main point of this entire passage. And that the three uh primary practices of the the Jewish uh faith, you know, of righteousness anyway, uh practices of righteousness were giving, prayer, and fasting. And uh Jesus lets us know that these acts of religious devotion are meaningless without the right heart. There's two main sections of uh of this passage in 16 and 18 and uh uh 16 and 17 through 18. In 16 we're told how to miss a meal and miss God And in 17 to 18, we're told how to miss a meal and find God. And the difference between the two is whose attention are you trying to get? Whose attention are you trying to get? In verse 16, look at it again. Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face, as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance, so that they will be noticed by men when they're fasting. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. That word for gloomy, it only shows up one other place in the New Testament, and it's the word that was used in Luke chapter 24 and verse 17, for the look on the disciple's face after Jesus had died. They looked like somebody had just died. That was the expression on their face, the gloom that was on their face. The neglected appearance just emphasizes uh You know, the the grief here, you know, in uh in verse 16, the neglect their appearance. Uh literally the the phrase neglect their appearance, literally it says this, to destroy their faces. They destroy their faces. It looks like an explosion went off on her face when when you see them. You know, hair is out of place, you know, maybe you know tears running down and everything else. It looks like I mean what happened? And I understand that there's times when you when you grieve like that. I mean there there there's times when it comes to that, right? When you just don't care about how you look. When you don't care about what's going on. But are those the times to go out in public to be noticed by men? When when you're under that extreme grief, is that the time to be out in public so everybody can see what's going on in your life? And you really expect nobody to notice? And it's and really the the connection I think is like in the same way that the majority of prayer was to be done away from the public view. Right when they're in private, close the door, you know, nobody sees. Was the same kind of way that fasting is to be done. This isn't supposed to be for the public. This isn't for a show. If I'm mourning over my sins or mourning over this difficult situation in my life, that's not for everybody to see. And it seems like the most appropriate time to do Fasting is when you can dedicate some time away from people to just be alone before God. Just get alone before God. That is God's provision for you. Fasting is God's provision for you. But there's times when you're unable to get away from people. And if you're required to be in public, make every effort to keep your private practice private. This is just before before but between me and the Lord. Don't don't miss a meal and miss God at the same time. Verses 17 and 18 lets you know how to do that It says, but when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face, so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your father who is in secret. Anointing The head with with oil was an ancient custom. It was practiced by the Egyptians, later by other nations as well. Olive oil was mixed with fragrance. And uh spices and apply to the hair, to the face, to the beard. And uh it was also a sign of of hospitality, uh care that was given to a guest you give them oil, you know, you'd anoint their head with with oil, anoint their face or of the beard with oil. And Luke chapter 7, uh verse 46, uh you find uh Jesus uh visiting with uh uh Simon the Pharisee and Simon neglected to give this kind of care to Jesus Christ. When he walked in, he says, You didn't give me any oil for my face You didn't give me any oil for my head. You didn't anoint me. You know, so it was just like this common practice, almost like uh like the soothing kind of thing, you know, like maybe like lotion or you know some other kind of uh ointment that we we might use. Had this pleasant smell, it was comforting And uh, yeah, application for for us might be, you know, if if you're fasting, you know, wear your deodorant. Iron your clothes, brush your teeth. You know, you know, maybe chew some gum so your your breath doesn't smell. It's it's not about you know just looking like I'm just a mess. You know, just just look at how how grieving I am. Look at how much I grieve, you know, for what's going on in my life. It says just You know, just be normal. You know, anoint your head, you know, wash up. Washing the face was another way to hide the grief. If you remember in uh in Genesis chapter 43, when Joseph was trying to hide his identity from his brothers, remember that? And uh he saw Benjamin, his brother, for the first time, and he couldn't hold it back anymore. It says that he he ran off, right, so he could be by himself. And after he regained his composure, what did he do? He washed his face so he could come back out and appear before his brothers. You know, no sign of grief showing. You know, washed his his face. You know, to to run around with the tear-stained face, you know, mascara running down your your face. And I mean obviously somebody's gonna say, what's wrong? Right? What's going on? You know, obviously you've been crying. It's like, no, wash your face. That's not for everybody to see The idea, like I said, it's it's keeping your private practice private. You know, you're not supposed to walk around so everybody knows that something's something's going on. And you know, maybe some people have to know, your family, you know, probably have to know if you're fasting, close friends might have to know, if you're you know not going to meet meet with them for lunch or you're not eating for lunch or whatever, you know, some people might have to know. But it's not to be for everybody. You know, keep it as close to you as possible. And there are those times when you're even, like I said, brought to tears because you're wrestling. through something. And fasting is God's provision for you to express that deep and bitter pain. And that the emptiness of your stomach can be a sign of your desperation for Him, the urgency of your need. But uh but when you allow that most private act to become you know your hashtag and your t-shirt logo, you know somet something's wrong. Something is wrong. And you don't just miss a meal, you miss guide. You miss guide when you do that. Pastor Don Green, who used to serve at the Ministry of Grace to You, said this: Jesus taught us to go out of our way to conceal these acts of righteousness. Men cannot praise you for what they cannot see. I love that. Men cannot praise you for what they cannot see. So keep it to yourself, because it's not about the praise of men. And if they can't see me, they can't praise me for it. They can't congratulate me for it Men cannot praise you for what they can't see, and by contrast, God who looks on the heart rewards what he alone can see. Look to your father who sees you in secret reward you. And that's really the main point of the passage. It's straightforward, uncomplicated. And that's just the last observation that I want to make about Jesus' teaching here on fasting. It's uncomplicated. If you notice it, when it comes to prayer, Jesus took the time to hit the pause button and give his disciples some length of instruction about how to pray. You know, you need to pray, and this is how you do it. When it comes to fasting, he doesn't say and pray in the and and fast in this way. He doesn't say that. Doesn't say that. That's significant Because the Christian is at great liberty to fast when he chooses and for how long he chooses. That's the liberty of the Christian. We could we could choose to to to fast from sundown to sundown like the the Jewish tradition was, pick a meal during the day that we're going to dedicate to prayer, we could do that. History tells us that the Pharisees fasted twice a week and there's Christians who adopted that fasted twice a week. That seems to be more of a holdover from uh from the old system that they they carried over into their lives. Uh I mean the only thing that I'd say is that that if you go beyond a day, you know, with with fasting, that uh you want to make sure you keep your fluids up and uh you might want to check with the doctor if you're gonna go you know more than one day because we need to be wise in the in the things that we do It's appropriate to be you know prepared you know for that. So if you have a medical condition, you know, older, you need to be careful with fasting. But there's no expectation that Jesus gives like you need to fast daily. You know, prayer was daily. We're instructed to pray daily. Fasting, he doesn't give us the time. He doesn't say fast every day, fast once a day, fast once a week, fast once a month. He doesn't give that. Fast once a year like the Jewish people did? He doesn't give that. It's up to the discretion of the believer for when and how they they fast. There was no expectation given from Christ. And like I said, that's significant because if fasting is associated with times of distress, you can't manufacture that. You can't manufacture a time of distress. One commentator named John Broad said this. He says, fasting is right only when your condition makes it natural. In a time of joy, fasting would be unnatural and could not express a genuine feeling. But persons who are in great distress are naturally inclined to abstain from eating. Fasting can deepen those spiritual impulses toward worship and devout meditation. And again, Pastor Don Green says this. He says, someone who casually pursues fasting as a religious duty without a broken heart actually mocks the reason for its existence. So if you just make fasting, hey, this is just one of my spiritual disciplines. I pray, I read, I fast. Then it's like, have you ripped the heart out of fasting? Like what's the purpose for fasting then? Fasting was reserved for those times when you're under this extreme grief and distress, and it's like, this is my time, this is God's provision for me, for me to be broken before God. That's God's provision for you. It wasn't meant to just be, hey, today I'm gonna fast and I'll fast over here and hey, are you gonna fast? Are you gonna join me on? It wasn't for that It wasn't something that's supposed to be taken lightly. Were the Ninevehes taking it lightly? Was David taking it lightly? Was Esther taking it lightly? Hey, this is just my spiritual discipline. This is what I do It wasn't meant for that. It was God's provision for people when there were times of distress. Serious decisions had to be made. It was God's provision for that time. And if you're experiencing some difficulty in your life, fasting is God's provision for you. And it's a very natural and biblical way to cry out to the Lord. If you don't want to miss a meal and miss God, you need to make sure that it's kept private. And if that's you, this is, I mean, fasting is your provision. Fasting is what God gives you for those times of grief and urgency beforehand. It's not, you know, I'm fasting from TV for this week. Just call it what it is. It's self-discipline, right? If you're turning off the TV, great. You know, there's there's a lot of trash on there anyway. Just cut it off. But don't call it fasting. I'm fasting this week. You know, I'm going to turn off my TV while you're eating this big meal. Right? It's not fasting. Just call it what it is. A fast is a fast. It's abstaining from food. That's what it means. You know, the the Greek word actually meant to be empty. Right? That I'm not going to eat. And it was reserved for those times when you were broken before the Lord because of an urgent situation. And if that's you this week, fasting is your gift from God. I'm not going to tell you how to do it, when to do it. That's between you and the Lord. That's your private practice between you and God And if if like I said, there's no time that you you should be more broken than over your sin. And if there's there's somebody here who who knows That they're in this desperate situation. I don't know how to get rid of this. This is your provision right here. This is part of your provision that God gives to those that are broken for their sins. This is your gift. But for uh for many of us this week, it's gonna be a week to thank God for our 10,000 taste buds and the sense of smell. And uh praise God that the food doesn't taste like the dirt it was grown out of, right? You know, this is this is our week to to enjoy God's provision. And that was, like I said, the majority of the times that uh God gave to his children Israel. But there were those times that uh uh the God said it's it's a time to be broken to be broken before me because of uh because of your your sin and uh and the desperation of what you're under. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity that we have to think about fasting, to think about your provision for us in fasting. And uh Father, we pray that uh you would uh uh help us to be uh broken uh over our sins, uh that we would understand the desperation of the situations that we might be placed in And that we would understand that there is a God who hears and rewards those who come before him. So Father, I pray that we would remember This provision that's made for us, that feasting is for those times of joy and gladness, and fasting is for those times of grief and sadness. Father, that you give both, and we can praise you for both. We can give you thanks for both. Father, we uh I pray that uh you administer to each one. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.