The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, let's take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans. We're working our way through Romans chapter 4. And uh we're in a section of scripture where Paul is making a defense for the gospel that gives hope. The gospel that gives hope. And that's a good way to think about it. It's the gospel that gives us hope, and if it wasn't for the message of the righteousness of God that can be received by faith in Christ Jesus, we would have no hope. Because there is no hope in performing works that might somehow be worthy to pass the judgment of God. All of our righteous deeds, the Bible says, are like filthy rags. There's no hope in keeping the law. Because even if we were able to keep the whole law and stumble in one point, we're guilty of all. The law condemns us, but it can't cleanse us. And there's no hope in our human efforts because flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. We can't get there from here. And actually we uh spoke about a just a broad outline for Romans chapter 4. In Romans chapter 4, verses 1 through 8, it speaks about how salvation is by faith and not by works. In verses 9 through 17, that salvation is by grace and not by law. And in verses 18 to 25, that salvation is by the power of God and not by human effort. And so the gospel comes in the midst of all of this, our works, keeping of the law, our human effort, and says, I've come to give you hope. The gospel gives us hope. In Romans 3, verse 28, it says, For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. But the question that's raised in Romans chapter 4 is this. Is that a message? That message that we can be saved, rescued, accepted before God based on believing in him and not by any human effort, not by our human works or keeping the law, is that a message that's consistent with the Old Testament revelation? That's the question of Romans chapter 4. Because one of the tests for truth is, is it consistent with previous revelation? If you remember back in Deuteronomy, God provided a test to measure anyone who brought a new revelation to the nation of Israel. Actually, if you want to flip over to it in Deuteronomy chapter 13. You have uh Moses who's giving warning to the children of Israel about uh those that would claim to be speaking for God. And he gives them a way to test whether or not the person who's speaking is actually uh somebody who's speaking for the Lord. Deuteronomy chapter 13, I'll go ahead and start at verse 1. It says, if a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder, and the sign or the wonder comes true. Concerning which he spoke to you, saying, let us go after other gods. So here's the scenario. Somebody says, you know, I'm a prophet, and he's able to work miracles. But then after he works those miracles, he says, now let's go father another God. That's what he says. Let us go after other gods whom you have not known, and let us serve them. What does verse 3 say? Say, you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams, for the Lord your God is testing you to find out if you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul You shall follow the Lord your God and fear him, and you shall keep his commandments, listen to his voice, serve him and cling to him, but that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death. Because he has counseled rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery, to seduce you away from in from the way in which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. so ye shall purge the evil from among you. The test of new revelation was, was it consistent with previous revelation? New Revelation was built on top of previous revelation. It didn't contradict it. Another test of the true prophet is also what they predicted, you know, what they prophesied was it true a hundred percent of the time. That was another test of the the the the false prophet. In Deuteronomy chapter 18 and verse 20, it says, but the prophet who speaks the word presumptuously in my name Which I have not commanded him to speak, or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die. You may say in your heart, How will we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? When a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true, that is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously you shall not be afraid of him. Put him to death. Don't be afraid of him. And we'd have a lot less people running around claiming to be prophets if we were back under the Mosaic Law, right? A lot less people who are claiming that they're speaking for God. But my point here is that new revelation had to agree with previous revelation. So how do we know that the Book of Mormon or the Quran or the Bhagavad Gita is not the word of God? It's because it contradicts the revelation of God. That's how we know. No, no, those books are to be thrown out. Toss them out. Don't be afraid of them. Those who come to you and say that they're prophets. If what they say does not agree with this book Let them go. Let them go. They're be rebuked speaking for the Lord when they have not heard from the Lord. Now that's taking the name of the Lord in vain if anything is, right? I'm speaking for God when they have not yet spoken for God. And that's the true principle that all of Revelation agrees because God doesn't contradict himself We serve a God of truth, a God who doesn't change. Truth can be expanded, developed, fulfilled, but it doesn't change. It's not contradicted. That's what we call progressive revelation. That newer revelation is built off of older revelation. And it's not contradictory, it's complementary. So the New Testament completes the old, but it doesn't contradict the old. And we're not to anticipate any new revelation until the second coming of Christ outside of Scripture. But back to back to Romans, what's the point here The question that the Jewish people would have been asking is, does the message of Paul agree with previous revelation? Is Paul bringing something new that 's totally outside of what we should have expected from previous revelation? And Paul's answer is what? What does the scripture say? What does the scripture say? Romans chapter 4 and verse 3. What does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Abraham was saved in the same way I'm telling you to be saved. He was considered a friend of God, the father of the Jewish nation. He found salvation in exactly the same way that I'm telling you to find salvation. Salvation was always by grace, it was always through faith, and it was always ultimately because of Christ. And even more than that, the promise that Abraham received, like I said, was ultimately fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Because Jesus would be that seed in whom the whole world would be blessed. It was through Jesus Christ. And that's why Jesus said in John chapter 8 and verse 56, Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day and he saw it and was glad. Abraham rejoiced in me. What he was looking forward to, what he was longing for, the promise of God, that was me. He he longed to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. And that one that they all look to as the the father of their their faith in Galatians chapter 3 and verse 8, it says the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith. Preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. How is the gospel preached to Abraham? Because it was said to Abraham that all the nations will be blessed in you. And who was that promise in whom all the nations of the earth would be blessed? It was through Jesus Christ. So the promise that was given to Abraham was actually a promise about Jesus Christ. So then those of us who are of faith are blessed with Abraham the believer. So Abraham stands up as witness number one, you know, star witness number one, as a defender of salvation by faith apart from works. But that's not where Paul stops. He calls up the second witness to the stand to defend salvation by faith apart from works. And his second witness is King David. Take a look at chapter 4 and verse 6. It says, just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. And there's a number of reasons that Paul could have selected David as an illustration. I mean, David was a great warrior. He was victorious in battle. He was a good king. He was the greatest of all the kings of Israel outside of Jesus Christ. He was the sweet singer of Israel, the composer. of many of the Psalms. He was the man after God's own heart. He was the chosen successor after King Saul. As one author said, for Israel, David is her shepherd, her musician, her poet, her soldier, her prophet, her king. But none of those reasons are the reasons that Paul chooses David as his star witness. He chooses David for another reason. He chooses David because David was also Israel's sinner. He was Israel's sinner. If there was anything else that he chose David for, we might have been tempted to think that David was acceptable to God based on what he did. Well, we find that David was selected out of all of the previous patriarchs and great men in the Old Testament to point out his sin. And what Paul does is out of all the chapters of David's story, Paul turns to the darkest chapter of David's life and shines the spotlight on his darkest and grossest sin. And the confession of his sin becomes for us a picture of the gospel at work. So let's jump back into Romans chapter 4. We'll start at verse 1 and read through verse 9 together. Starting at verse 1. It says, What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh is found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness Just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven And whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Is this blessing then on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? For we say faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and my Father, we're just so grateful for every opportunity that we have to come before your word. My Father, your word is rich, your word is sufficient, your word instructs us in how to live for you. All that we need for life and godliness is found in your word. And the way of salvation is is clearly explained in your word. So Father, I pray that you would grow our confidence in this message, that you would grow our confidence in the revelation of Scripture. Father, that as we have opportunity to share with others and even as we give comfort to our own souls, Father, that our lives would be built. on the certain and sufficient word of God. My Father, may you receive all the glory and may you use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen One of the key words in this section of Scripture about David is the word blessing, or the word blessed. A form of this word is found four times between verses six to nine. In verse six it says, just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Verse 7, blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Verse 8, blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Verse 9, is this blessing then on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? So blessing is the is a key word in this Context here. And the word blessing here is the Greek word maka rismas, and it's used as a pronouncement of blessing or of happiness. The word blessed is from a related word that means fortunate, well off, well-to-do, or even happy. But it's clear from the context that we're not talking about a physical blessing. So many times when we speak about blessings, you know, those blessings are physical blessings, you know, health and wealth and prosperity Consider the signs of God's blessings on your life. Live long and prosper. That's the blessings of the Lord. You know, I got the last spot in the parking lot. You know, God's blessings. You know, look at the blessings of the of the Lord. I was actually reminded of that this week. When I was talking with the family member and and all the blessings that they spoke about were just all the physical blessings. You know, the the God did this and God did that, and it's all just about the physical blessings that we receive. But when we examine Scripture, the primary blessings of Scripture are not physical, but they're spiritual. Psalm 2, verse 12. How blessed are all who take refuge in him! Psalm 33, verse 12. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Psalm 40, verse 4. How blessed is the man who has made the Lord his trust! Psalm 65, verse 4. How blessed is the one whom you choose and bring near to you to dwell in your courts. We will be satisfied with the goodness of your house, your holy temple. My question for you is, if you had a choice between drawing near to the Lord and having physical prosperity, which would you choose? What's the blessing? The blessing is the nearness of my God is my good. That God is my blessing. That He's my portion. That I want God above everything else. That's the blessing that's being spoken about both in Psalm 32 and in Romans chapter 4. In fact, the word for blessing or blessed uh Macarias, it's uh translated uh in the Latin as uh beatus. Which is where we get our word beatitudes from. Same word that's used over in Matthew chapter 5 and Luke chapter 6, for all the blessings. And what are the blessings? Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth, which is a reference to the future kingdom of God. The blessings come through being poor in spirit, mourning over your sin, gentle with all men. Like these are where the blessings of the Lord come from. The primary blessings are spiritual. And that's the kind of blessing that we encounter in Romans chapter 4, 7-8. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven. And whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Like I mentioned earlier, this text makes reference to a dark period in David's life. It was a time when his lawless deeds had to be forgiven, where his sins had to be covered. And David's illustration fills out our understanding of justification. And it really provides the negative side of justification. Back in verse 3, Paul used Abraham as a picture of what God positively does in justification. God credits the person who believes with righteousness. You believe and trust in Jesus Christ and you're credited righteousness. Righteousness is placed into your account. That's the the word that's uh legitimized, a banking term speaks about counting, reckoning, placing into your account But what we find in David's life is the negative side of justification. Romans chapter 4 and verse 8, blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. So for Abraham, it's I'm blessed because I'm credited with something. And in David's case, I'm blessed because something is not being credited to me. This is what's not being credited to me. God doesn't count my sins against me. God erases the debit from my account. He doesn't consider us as sinful before him, and that's what was true for David. Abraham was used as an example because of his absence of righteousness, and David was used as an example because of the presence of sin. God does more than just credit you with righteousness. God also removes your sin. And David understood this wasedness because he also understood his sin. And I know we know the story already, but It's worth a reminder, so why don't you flip back to 2 Samuel chapter 11? 2 Samuel chapter 11. Familiar story, but it's worth worth the reminder, starting at verse one. Says then it happened in the spring at the time when kings go out to battle that David sent Joab and his servants with him. And all Israel, and they destroyed the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabba, but David stayed at Jerusalem. The springtime was the best time for battle. uh because the weather made traveling easier and there was also an abundance of food in the springtime for the soldiers so you could provide for your soldiers and it was David's habit to travel along with his army but this time he stayed home Verse 2. Now when evening came, David arose from his bed and walked around on the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful in appearance. And gentlemen, this is the time when you turn your head, you close your laptop, you switch the channel, you cover the screen. You phone a friend, you step back into your house, or you take a page from Joseph and you run for your life. That's that's what you do Job 31 in verse 1, Job says, I've made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? How could I? Genesis 39 verse 9, Joseph says, How then could I do this great evil and sin against God? And ladies, what are you doing bathing in plain sight? Where's the shower curtain here, right? That's another story. On the roof, you know, in plain sight of the king's roof. So David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? Eliam was one of David's mighty men. Uriah was a soldier in his army. So this should have been all David needed to hear. Hey, she's taken. That's all she he needed to hear. But that wasn't all that he wanted to hear. And he involves others in a sin. Look at verse 4. Says David sent messengers and took her. And when she came to him, he lay with her. And when she had purified herself from her uncleanness, she returned to her house. The woman conceived and she sent and told David and said, I am pregnant. And now comes the cover-up. Look at verse 6. And David sent to Joab saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. So Joab sent Uriah to David. When Uriah came to him, David asked concerning the welfare of Joab and the people and the state of war. He didn't really concern himself with any of that. He's thinking about this cover-up. Then David said to Uriah, go down to your house, wash your feet. And Uriah went out of the king's house, and listen to this. A present from the king was sent out after him. You know, maybe a box of chocolates and a bottle of martinellis or something, you know. Sends them with the present. You know, hey, go down to your wife, enjoy, enjoy the enjoy some time, right? But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his Lord, and did not go down to his house. Now when they told David, you know, so everyone's in on this now, this is a conspiracy, everybody's in on it, saying Uriah did not go down to his house. David said to Uriah, have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house? Uriah said to David, the ark. And the Israel and Judah are staying in temporary shelters, and my Lord Joab and the servants of my Lord are camping in the open field? Shall I then go to my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? By your life! From the life of your soul, I will not do this thing. So he's not only a person of integrity, but he's pious too. He's concerned about the ark of the Lord. The ark of the Lord is in a tent, temporary tent, and I'm gonna go down and be in my house. No! As long as you live. By your life, O King. He's dedicated. By your life, O King, I will not do this thing. He's a righteous man. Verse 12, and David said to Uriah, Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you go. So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next. Now David called him and he ate and drank before him, and he made him drunk. And in the evening he went out to lie on his bed with his Lord's servants, but he did not go down to his house. Uriah was a better man drunk than David was sober. Now in the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. By the hand of Uriah, he's carrying his own death sentence. With them back in the battle. Verse 15, he had written in the letter saying, Place your eye in the front line of the fiercest battle and withdraw from him, so that he may be struck down and die. This is how far the cover-up went. Even if it cost him his life, this is not going to be found out. David was guilty of lust, of adultery, of deception, of hypocrisy, of coveting, of murder. And listen to this: not only was Uriah killed, but there were other men who were needlessly put in harm's way. While everybody else pulled back to watch him die. So it wasn't just Uriah who caught the arrow. It was everybody who was in the front line with them who caught the arrow Verse 24, the message came back. Moreover, the archer shot at your servants from the wall. So some of the king's servants are dead. Plural. And your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead. And David let this sin rot in his conscience for about a year. How do we know that? By the time Nathan the prophet comes to him about his sin, the child from Bathsheba was already born. Chapter 11 and verse 27 says, She bore him a son, but the thing that David had done was evil in the sight of the Lord. And the consequences of David's sin followed him for the rest of his life. Even after David died, it was remembered 1 Kings 15, verse 5. David did what was right in the sight of the Lord, and had not turned aside from anything that he commanded him all the days of his life, except in the case of Uriah the Hittite. And there are some sins that haunt people for decades. Donald Gray Barnhouse, who is a pastor of Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, he tells a story about a woman. Who came to him for counseling, who was about 60 years old, and she confessed to him a murder that she committed when she was 20 years old. Forty years she's sitting with this on her conscience and finally comes to a pastor and confesses her sin. In her case there was a man who abused her. She was so outraged that she crept into his room, turned on the gas jet for a heater in the room, without the light on, without the being lit, so it's just the gas that's you know blowing all night in his room And when the police investigated it, they ruled it as an accident. And the fire, the thought the fire must have been blown out overnight. And it followed her like a dark shadow for 40 years. If you remember the story of Joseph, Joseph's brother sold him into slavery when he was a teenager. And it was after Jacob died, almost 40 years later. That his brother sent Joseph a message. Genesis chapter 50 and verse 16 says, So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father charged before he died, saying, Thus you shall say to Joseph, Please. Forgive, I beg you, the transgressions of your brothers and their sin, for they did you wrong. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. I mean, if Jacob really wanted to tell Joseph that, don't you think he would have said it to him? Now here are the brothers, they've been sitting on this for 40 years. We've done Joseph wrong and now it's coming back. The boomerang is finally turning around. Jacob's dead. Dad's gone. There's nobody to be a shield anymore between us and Joseph So here they come to Joseph. Oh, please, Dad, before he died, he said, please forgive us. And now they bow down before Joseph and they. Beg his forgiveness. And Joseph wept and he spoke to them when they spoke to him. And his brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold, we are your servants. Forty years been carrying this. Are you carrying around the guilt of a past action? Was it a crime that you committed? Was it dishonesty? Was it unfaithfulness in your marriage? Did you harm someone? And for some of you, that it might be somebody that you can't even confess to anymore. Because either you can't find the person or the person might have already passed on. So the question is, what are you supposed to do with the weight of your sin? My aunt told me about one person who is just so much under the weight of her sin. She said, she said this, she says, it doesn't matter how many times I wash myself, I can't get clean. Doesn't matter how many times I wash myself, I can't get clean. But there's a way to become clean. There's a way to become clean. And even though David was never able to shake off the temporary consequences of his sin, he did experience the freedom from the eternal consequences of his sin, and the weight of his guilt was lifted. And that's what we find in Psalm 32. You can flip over to Psalm 32. Psalm 32, which is quoted in Romans chapter 4. We find a parallel to Psalm 51. In Psalm 51, it's explicitly titled The Psalm of David when Nathan the prophet came to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. And since the case of Uriah the Hittite was David's great sin, there's little doubt that we're talking about the same sin here in Psalm 32, even though it's not found in the title. And listen to how David speaks about his forgiveness. Look at verse 1. He says, How blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. How blessed is the man to whom the Lord does not impute iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. And that word for impute, and that the Lord does not impute iniquity, it's the same Hebrew word, uh kishab, which is uh the same word used over in Genesis 15, 6. where uh Abraham believed in the Lord and God reckoned it to him or counted it as righteousness. So we're talking about the same reckoning or accounting. Verse 3 says, when I kept silent about my sin, my body wasted away through my groaning all day long. It's like I was rotting on the inside. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My vitality was drained away as with the fever heat of summer. Selah. It's like he's wilting under the heat of his own conscience. But what does he say in verse 5? I acknowledge my sin to you. In my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt of my sin. David's story, like I said, is more than just a lack of righteousness. It's the presence of sin. And when you read through Psalm 32 What's interesting is that you don't find one word about righteousness, good works, ceremonies, none of that. , Instead, what do we read from David? Verse 5, I acknowledge my sin Verse 5, I did not hide. Verse 5, I will confess. And then there's this promise down in verse 10. But he who trust in the Lord, loving kindness shall surround him. Trust in the Lord. Believe in him, acknowledge your sin, trust in him. That's the way that he was made clean. And Paul understands the sound to be just another way of speaking about justification by faith, apart from works, because David isn't offering anything. Other than a confession and belief. Lord, I've sinned against you and I'm trusting in you. That's all. And Abraham, like I said, presents the positive side. David presents the negative side And with that, let's turn back to Romans chapter 4. All of that is introduction, right? Back to Romans chapter 4. When Paul summarizes David's confession, he says that David is speaking of this blessing. And by the way, when it says that David speaks, verse 6, just as David also speaks. That's actually equated with what Scripture says in verse 3. For what does Scripture say in verse 3? And then verse 6, just as David also speaks, what is that doing? It's equating David's words with the words of Scripture. David speaks his scripture speaking. He's speaking the words of the Lord So here he's talking about this blessing. This is the authoritative word of God. He's speaking about the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. And you may ask yourself again, like, well, where in Psalm 32 does David speak about crediting righteousness? I mean, he's talking about the forgiveness of sin. Where does he talk about crediting righteousness apart from works? But Paul here is making the connection that the person to whom the Lord does not count sin, he also credits righteousness. And that's not only because the same word is used, the word for credit or account, it's used in both Genesis 15 and Psalm 32, but also because of the way that the person is described whose sins are forgiven. In Psalm 32, the person is described as blessed. And again, we're not talking about health, wealth, prosperity. This is a word that means to be fortunate, to be well off, to be well-to-do. It's not talking about the removal of something, this word blessing, but the presence of something. You don't have the sin, but you have the presence of something else. That it is well with your soul. And how else can it be well with your soul if you do not have God's righteousness in your account? That's the way that it is well with my soul. That's how I'm well off, that I'm well-to-do, that I'm blessed It's not just the removal of something, it's the presence of something. And also in the same psalm, it talks about God's loving kindness surrounding the person who trusts in the Lord for forgiveness. That loving kindness surrounding that person is another way to speak about God's righteousness apart from works. And with the time that I have left, I want to talk to you about three things that God does with your sins. Three things that God does with your sins from Romans chapter 4, verses 7 to 8. Three things that God does with your sin. What's the first thing that God does with your sin? He forgives them. He forgives your sins. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven. That word forgiven, it's the Greek word aphiamine. It's a word that could be translated to send off. To send away, to leave alone. It was a word that was used literally in Matthew chapter 13, 36, for Jesus sending away the crowds or leaving the crowds, depending on your translation there. But it's a word that speaks about literal separation. And when God forgives you, he forgives your sin, he separates you from your sins. He removes you from your sins. He takes it away. The guilt of our sin has been taken away from us if you've trusted in Jesus Christ. James Montgomery Boyce writes this, he says, God is willing to separate the sinner's transgression and guilt from the sinner. We're not able to do that. When we punish a crime, it is always by punishing the offender. Simply because there's no other way of doing it. How do you punish sin without punishing the one who's done the sin? But God, for whom all things are possible, does separate the sin from the sinner And placing the sin upon Jesus Christ where it's punished. It's only when we refuse to be separated from our sins that we will be judged with them. But God is willing to separate the sinner's transgression from the guilt and the guilt from the sinner. And there's a number of texts that point this out in John 1. 29. John the Baptist says the next day he saw Jesus coming to him and he says, behold, the Lamb of God who does what? Takes away the sin of the world. Hebrews chapter 9, it speaks about Christ who was offered once to bear the sins of many, to take them away. He's bearing them. 1 Peter 2 verse 24 says that he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. And the Old Testament picture of that is the scapegoat. On the Day of Atonement, there were two goats that were required. The first was slain as a sin offering by the people for the people, and the second had a different responsibility. According to Leviticus chapter 16 and verse 20, it speaks about uh Aaron who's the high priest that says when he finishes atoning for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar. He shall offer the live goat. What's going to happen with this live goat? Then Aaron shall lay both of his hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the iniquities of the sons of Israel. And all their transgressions in regard to all their sins. What's he doing? He's saying, forgive us for lying. Forgive us for stealing. Forgive us for our adultery. Forgive us for covenant. He's asking for the forgiveness of our sins, placing them on the head of this goat. He shall lay them on the head of the goat and send it away. Into the wilderness by the hand of a man who stands in readiness. The goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to a solitary land, and he shall release the goat in the wilderness. And it was said that this uh this man who stands in readiness to kind of carry this goat away, that you know, if the goat needed a little push off the cliff, he'd, you know, offer him some help. You know, we don't want this goat coming back. You know, this this goat is to take our sins away. It was a symbolic, you know, symbol of like just the sins being removed from Israel, placed on another, and then removed from me So what does God do with our sins? He forgives it. He sends it away. If you've truly turned from your sins, trusted in Christ, He sends your sins away. Cast your sins away from you. He forgives your sins. What else does God do with your sins? Number two, he covers them. Look at verse 7 again. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Uses this uh Greek word, uh epikalypto. It's a word that shows up only once in the New Testament, but it's a word that appears a number of times in the Old Testament It's a word that means to be completely covered. Completely covered. It was a word that was used for the worldwide flood in uh Genesis 7 and verse 19. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth. so that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. Uses the same word. It was used for Pharaoh's armies that pursued after Israel. We're cast into the sea in Exodus 14. The Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may come back over the Egyptians, over their chariots and over their horsemen. They were covered. It was used in secular writings for the covering of a veil or the covering of tracks with snow. What does it mean as it relates to our sins? It means that God has buried our sins no longer to be remembered. If you've come to Christ, if you've truly confessed your sins, God buries your sins no longer to be remembered. There's no trace of them left behind. It's like the tracks are covered up, so you can't even get back to the sins. Isaiah 43 verse 25 says, I, even I am the one who wipes out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. Psalm 103 verse 12, and I love this. It says, For as far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. Uh one of my professors he he talked about this and I'm not sure if this is the intent here but it's a great illustration. He says if you if you're flying north, right, and you reach the north pole, what direction do you start flying? South, right? So God doesn't say I've removed your sins as far as north and south, because if you go north, you're going to start going south. He says I've removed it as far as east as from the west. If you're traveling east, at what point do you start going west? You don't. You just keep circling around in one direction. You never come back to saying, well, I've got to turn around and start going west now. You're always going east. If you're going east, you always go east. If you're going west, you always go west. Cool illustration. But God has removed our sins as far as east as from west. You're not going to get back to them, is what he's saying. I've removed them from you so that you can't even get back to the tracks anymore Oh, I heard one illustration. It's like you know, God throws your your sins into the deepest ocean and puts up a sign that says no fishing, right? You can't get back to them anymore. I've removed them away from you And one of the pictures that we have in the Old Testament of covering for sin is the Day of Atonement. Again, when the high priest entered into the Holy of Holies, once a year to sprinkle blood on the Ark of the Covenant, he was covering for the sins of the people. But Jesus in Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 12, it says, not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood. He entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. Jesus. Blood covers our sins. He's the one who covers us. And that's the one that we come to for covering. And there are all kinds of ways that people attempted to cover up their own sins, right? You find that Adam tried to cover up his sins with the fig leaves. Cain tried to cover up his sins by putting his brother in the field. Abraham tried to cover up his sin and lied about his wife. Achan tried to cover up his sin by hiding what he stole in the tent. Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, did the same thing, hid what he stole from Naaman and put it in his tent. Ananias and Sapphira, they tried to cover up their sin with hypocrisy, with religion. Oh, we're giving everything. And when they knew that they weren't giving everything to the Lord. And David tried to cover his sin with deception, gifts, drunkenness, and eventually when nothing else worked, he covered his own sin with murder. Tried to live with the sin rotting on his conscience like a corpse for a year. And here's the principle you want to remember. If you try to cover your sin, God will expose it. But if you expose your sin, God will cover it. Let God cover your sin. What are you doing trying to cover your sins with your fig leaves? Expose your sin. Acknowledge your sin. Confess your sin. And let God do the work of covering your sin. What does David say? I acknowledged my sin to you and my iniquity I did not hide. Proverbs 28 and verse 13. He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper. But he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. Do you want to find compassion in your life? Are you holding on to iniquity in your heart? And thinking that the Lord is still going to hear you? You know, Psalm 66, 18, it says, If I regard iniquity in my heart, what? The Lord will not hear me. What are you holding on to? What are you trying to cover up that the Lord is wanting to expose? God is willing to cover your sins if you're willing to stop covering up yourself. 1 John 1. 9, it says, if we confess our sins, right? He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins. and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And number three, finally, what else does God do with my sin? He cancels my sin. He cancels him. He doesn't count it against me. If I'm willing to come and bring my sin to the light, to acknowledge it, to confess it before the Lord. The Lord cancels my sin. He doesn't count it against me. Verse 8. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. And I love the picture that's presented over in Colossians chapter 2. Just flip over there real quick. Colossians chapter 2. Just thinking about how the Lord doesn't count our sins against us That the debt of our sins doesn't come back to us. We find a picture of this in Colossians chapter 2. Take a look at verse 13. It says, When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. having canceled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. And you have to understand the word picture that's being used here. When it speaks about this uh This decree that was written against us, canceling out the certificate of of debt, consisting of decrees against us. That word for this this this writing of of debt, the certificate of debt It's this uh uh uh Greek word that means the to be written with the hand or signature. And what it was used for was a written document in one's own handwriting as proof that you had an obligation. You had a debt, so with your own hand you would write on a slip of paper, this is what I owe. Sign your name to it. And and there was an admission that I owed the debt And it's often written in duplicate. So there was one for whoever you owed the money to, so they'd keep a copy of what you owed, and then there was one that you'd write and keep a copy yourself, so you're reminding yourself of what you owe. So you have two copies One for the person that you owe to, and one to remind yourself of this is what I owe. But here's what the Lord does in a real way. He takes the copy that you have and he wipes it clean. And then he takes the other copy that he owns and he nails it to the cross. Every personal transgression Every past, present, future transgression is nailed to the cross. Having canceled out the certificate of debt consistent of our decree consisting of decrees against us Which was hostile to us. This is what was going to send us to hell. This is what was going to condemn us. And he takes that same certificate. And what does he do? He's taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. Sins must be dealt with. The debt has to be paid. I know you can't pay that debt. Just give me that slip of paper. I'm gonna wipe that clean. You don't owe me anymore. And I'm going to take what you do owe me, and I'm going to pay for it myself. And he nails it to the cross, but he doesn't nail a slip of paper to the cross, he nails his son to the cross to pay the debt for our sins. Every transgression must be dealt with. And when Jesus hung on the cross He became the only hope that we have of salvation. Christ suffered and died to accomplish what we could not do. We could not pay the debt. Jesus pays the debt, and he cancels out the debt against us. He's taking it out of the way. Which means that God is not going to bring my sins back up to me. My past doesn't have to haunt me. I don't have to walk around for 40 years with the sins that I've done in the past that I've confessed. Now, if you haven't confessed your sins, that's something that God wants you to do in the present. But those sins that you've confessed before the Lord and before whoever you've sinned against, you don't have to hang those things around your neck anymore. You don't have to walk around with that riding corpse on your back anymore about how I sinned and I'm beating myself over my head for what I've done in the past and who I've heard in the past, and I can't even go back to that person and say sorry anymore because they're not around or they don't want to talk to me. I don't have to walk around with the weight of my sin anymore Because God has taken it out of the way. God is not going to bring it back in my face again. It's done with. It's dealt with. It's canceled. And if I have this offer of freedom, why would I want to turn to any path of reconciling myself to God? If it wasn't for the message of the gospel, again, we would have no hope. We'd have no hope. We'd be in this endless cycle of trying to perform works. Somehow I'm going to do enough that finally, God, are you are you finally satisfied with what I've done? You can't do enough good works You know, that's why some you know some of these religious cults are running around like maniacs because they're trying to earn their own salvation. How many doors do you have to knock on before you finally feel like I've done enough? I remember talking to one Jehovah's Witness and I talked to him about salvation or her about salvation. She says, Well that's what I'm trying to do now I'm trying to work for my salvation. I said, that's your problem. You're on the wrong road. You can't get there from here. You have to abandon your own works and trust in Jesus Christ. You can't work for your salvation. You can't keep the law enough. The law only shows you your sin. It turns on the light so you can see all the dust. That's what the law does It shows your sins up. No, I I I can't be saved by the law. The law shows me how I'm convicted under it. Lord, I can't do enough. It's not my own human effort. There's nothing that I can do in my own flesh Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. So the gospel comes to us and it offers hope. There's a way out. And it's not through anything that you can do. And it's consistent with the Old Testament revelation. It's the same way that Abraham was saved. It's the same way that David was saved. And it's the same way that you can be saved consistent with the revelation of God. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law I love the words of that familiar hymn, My Sin, O the bliss of this glorious thought, My sin not in part, but the whole. Is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. I'm not carrying it around anymore. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this glorious thought that we have that our sin not in part but the whole is nailed to the cross and we bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Heavenly Father, I pray that we would understand the beauty of our salvation. That we've been given this gift, that we've been given hope That we don't have to work for our salvation, Lord, that there's not enough that we could offer to you. And that's why you've come and you've done the work. You've done all that's necessary for us. And it's all happened because of Jesus Christ. Also, Father, I pray that you would free us from our guilt, free us from our shame. Father, I pray that we would receive the forgiveness that only comes from you. And Father, I pray that if there are any here today who have not yet trusted in Christ, Lord, that today would be the day that they would let the sin go That they would release these sins, that they would separate themselves from the sins so that these sins can be judged apart from them instead of with them. And Father, I pray for anybody here, Lord, who's even a believer, who's trusted in Christ, Lord, that even if we as we see David as an example, Lord, that that he would not hold on to his iniquities, but he would Come before you, Lord, that He would confess them before you, that He would receive that forgiveness. Father, I pray that that we would receive again from you and look to you again as the God who forgives, as the God who justifies, as the God who sanctifies. Lord, may you receive all the honor and glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files