The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and uh open up with me to the book of 1 Samuel? Old Testament book of 1 Samuel will be in chapter 15 this morning. We're going to take a short break from Matthew this week as we begin our new year. I wanted to begin the the new year in Matthew chapter uh twenty-three and I wanted to wait until we all got back together after the holidays to start the year together in the next section of of Matthew and I'm really looking forward uh to that study. Uh but this week uh we have the privilege of hearing from the Old Testament book of 1 Samuel, uh which is is really an appropriate book. to consider this morning because First Samuel is a book about transitions. And it's exactly where we are today in God's wisdom. He's designed our planet to experience transition every year. Uh Genesis chapter one and verse fourteen says, Then God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. Let them be for signs, for seasons, for days, and for years. And uh we experience our shortest day of the year in December, and it's like a big reset button for the earth. It's the time of year that we usually start thinking about our personal plans for the for the new year and what we desire to be different than last year, the year before. It's a time of transition. It's also a time of transition for us as a church. This year we're praying through the decision to appoint deacons as well as another elder. uh for our church and um I trust that you all have a a sense of how important uh that decision is for for us as a congregation. There's there's no more uh weighty decision uh for a church than uh than who is uh the church's leadership. Uh so uh we definitely will be praying for that. Uh the decisions that we make this year regarding leadership will really uh affect the church for years to come. So we pray for the Lord's direction in that as well for us. We're in a year of transition as a as a church. And uh many of you might be experiencing uh personal transitions in your lives as well. Uh whether it's uh new marriage or new children or new jobs or new homes or or new ministries. And uh the question uh you may be asking is how can I enjoy the blessing and favor of God in this period of transition Or or better yet, how can I avoid the displeasure and discipline of the Lord in a period of transition? And it's an important question to ask because there's many ways that we can all appear to be doing well on the outside. And your life can look like a success story. And when people want to know what a win looks like, you know, they can look at your picture. And On the inside, it's a very different story. Uh it's possible to look like you have everything that's going right on the outside, but be suffering defeat and loss in your life. And 1 Samuel chapter 15 is a narrative that that doesn't give us a pass on the tough questions. We can't get away with the canned response. It's a passage that says, I want you to look me in the eye. And give me an honest answer. You know, how are you doing? That's the kind of passage that uh 1 Samuel chapter 15 is. It's a text that uh we're approaching this morning in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Verse 6 says uh it speaks about the Old Testament and says this, that these things have happened as examples for us so that we would not crave evil things as they also craved. And uh we we kind of learned that lesson from uh from 1 Samuel uh chapter 15 to not to crave the evil things as uh we'll find out that King Saul was craving after. So why don't you follow with me as I read in 1 Samuel chapter 15, starting at verse 1. Says then Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you as king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore, listen to the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I'll punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way while he was coming up from Egypt. Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that he has, and do not spare him, but put to death both man and woman, child and infant, oxen, sheep, camel, and donkey. Then Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah. Saul came to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the valley. Saul said to the Kenites, Go depart, go down from among the Amalekites, so that I do not destroy you with them. For you showed kindness to all the sons of Israel when they came up from Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. So Saul defeated the Amalekites from Havilah as you go to Shur, which is east of Egypt. He captured Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag. And the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were not willing to destroy them utterly, but everything despised and worthless that they utterly destroyed Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me and has not carried out my commands. And Samuel was distressed and cried out to the Lord all night. Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, and it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold he set up a monument for himself. Then turned and proceeded on down to Gilgal Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. I have carried out the command of the Lord. But Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of the sheep in my ears? And the lowing of the oxen which I hear? Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen, the sacrifice to the Lord your God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed. Then Samuel said to Saul, Wait. And let me tell you what the Lord said to me last night. And he said to him, Speak. Samuel said, Is it not true, though you were little in your own eyes, you were made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed you, king over Israel, and the Lord sent you on a mission and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners of the Amalekites and fight against them until they are exterminated. Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? But rushed upon the spoil and did what was evil in the sight of the Lord? Then Saul said to Samuel, I did obey the voice of the Lord And went on the mission on which the Lord sent me and have brought back Agag, the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people took some of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the Lord your God at Gilgal. Samu said, Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to heed them the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of divination and insubordination as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you From being king. Let's stop there. Heavenly Father, we come before you, and uh Father, we're just so grateful for this text. We thank you for the power and the authority of it. Father, we thank you for the conviction that it brings to our own hearts. Father, I pray that we would not seek to avoid the conviction that a passage like this brings. Our Father, that we would face it squarely, my Father, that we would not be as the man who beholds his face in the mirror and forgets what he looks like. But Father, that we would make the appropriate changes in our lives that we may better honor and please you. Father, that's our prayer and our desire. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. 1 Samuel is a book that's named after the most prominent and central figure in the book who is Samuel. Samuel was the uh the author of much of the book according to 1 Chronicles chapter 29 and verse 29. which says now the acts of King David from first to last are written in the chronicles of Samuel the Seer. And in addition to that, in first Samuel chapter ten and verse twenty five it says then Samuel told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and wrote them in a book and placed it before the Lord. And it's it's this book that features Samuel as well. It's written by Samuel, and like I mentioned, uh Samuel is uh also a book of transition. It's a book about change. Uh and even Samuel himself uh was an indication of the kind of changes that the Lord was uh making in Israel. Up until this time, uh Samuel, uh it was very rare for people to hear a word from the Lord. But Samuel spoke directly with God. God spoke directly with Samuel. Remember in uh in uh 1 Samuel chapter 3 when uh Samuel was just a boy, he was ministering to the Lord uh before uh uh Eli the priest. And uh 1 Samuel chapter 3 and verse 1, it says, the word from the Lord was rare in those days, and visions were infrequent, but the Lord called Samuel by name three times. And he came to Eli thinking it was Eli speaking to him, but he figured out it was actually the Lord that was speaking to Samuel. And Samuel really becomes one of the first of the line of a long line of prophets who heard directly from the Lord and gave direction and warning to the people of God. It was a time of transition. The book of 1 Samuel is also a book of transitions because Israel is transitioning from the days of the the judges uh who were occasional and train uh kind of temporary leaders uh to the days of the kings who were more permanent and stable leadership for Israel. If you remember the beginning of Exodus, God ruled over his people through a single leader, through Moses, and then through Joshua. Uh after the nation entered into the promised land, God ruled over the nation through uh heads of families who were called elders. And uh after they entered into the land, the nation actually descended into chaos in uh Judges chapter 21 verse 25. It says that in those days there was no king in Israel, and everyone did what was right in his own eyes. And at one point they even wanted to make Gideon, who was one of the judges, to be a king for them, but Gideon refused. He understood that he wasn't the one to be the primary leader of the nation. But turn over to 1 Samuel chapter 8. 1 Samuel chapter 8. The people finally get what they want. They've been asking for a king. They've been longing for a king. They don't care if it's the right time. They don't care if it's not the right one. They want what For it And uh Samuel in 1 Samuel chapter 80 lets him know the consequences of taking this king. He says, he'll take your sons. And basically they said, we don't care. They said, he'll take your daughters. They said, we don't care. He'll take your land and your flocks and your servants. And they responded, we don't care. 1 Samuel chapter 8, look at verse 19. It says, Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel. And they said, No, but there shall be a king over us, that we also may be like all the other nations, that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. Now after Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the Lord's hearing. The Lord said to Samuel, listen to their voice and appoint them a king. So Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his city. So God gives them their king and tells Samuel that they've not rejected you, but they've rejected me in uh 1 Samuel chapter 8. Verse 7, he lets them know that the Lord said to Samuel, listen to the voice of the people in regard to all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them. And the people were not content. They weren't satisfied to wait on the Lord's timing, to follow the Lord's direction, to follow his rule. And aren't we like that sometimes, wanting it our own way? You know, even after the the Lord gives us clear direction we want what we want, and uh we need to be careful with what we demand from God because He actually might give it to you. Uh my dad used to tell the story about a uh a person who was in a mental institution because he wanted to to marry this this girl named Lulu and went crazy. You know, and he's just in this this this room and he's just crying out, Lulu, Lulu, Lulu And uh one day this visitor's walking through the hallway and talks to a nurse and he says, You know, hey what's what's going on in this room? You know, why does he keep on crying out Lulu? He says, Well that's the girl that he wanted to marry and he couldn't marry her so, you know, he just kinda went crazy, you know, crying out for this this girl Lulu. Goes further down the hallway and there's another room where another guy's crying out Lulu Lulu Lulu and he says, what happened to him? Did he want to marry Lulu too? He says, no, that's the one who actually got her. You need to be careful with uh what you asked for. God actually might give it to you. But here they they they reject what they need and they they get what they want. They reject God who's their their true king. And they get a phony substitute instead. The word for reject that's used in 1 Samuel chapter 8 and verse 7 uh that they've rejected me is actually a word that means to despise. To refuse. It's a word that's used for things that you throw away. Things that you don't have any use for. You know, things that don't work Things that aren't valuable. You don't throw away something that's important to you, right? But here are these people, they they discarded God. It's like they're saying, you know, God, you're not working for us anymore. God, you're not valuable. You're not as valuable as the physical king. We want a physical king. And their desire for a physical king wasn't a sinful desire. It wasn't a wrong desire to have a physical king. God actually promised that they there would be kings who would rule over Israel. Back in Genesis chapter 17 In verse six, God promised Abraham, I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings will come forth from you. And God promised Jacob in uh Genesis chapter thirty-five, verse eleven God said, I am God Almighty, be fruitful and multiply, a nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come forth from you Back in uh 1 Samuel chapter 2, you even have uh Hannah, who's the godly mother of Samuel, who had the same expectation that there would be a king in Israel First Samuel chapter two and verse ten, listen to what it says. It says, Those who contend with the Lord will be shattered. Against them he will thunder in the heavens. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his king. and will exalt the horn of his anointed. So Hannah, Samuel's mother even expected a king. So the problem isn't that they asked for a king. But that they wanted a king just like all the other nations. We want a king just like the other nations have a king. Over in Deuteronomy chapter 17 Moses actually predicted uh that this is what they would would ask for. Uh Moses predicted the time would come when they would desire a king, but they did not want to wait for God's king and God's time on God's terms. Listen what Moses uh instructed them here in uh uh Deuteronomy chapter 17 and verse uh 14 if you want to turn there Deuteronomy 17 verse 14 It says when you enter the land which the Lord your God gives you, and you possess it and live in it, and you say, I will set a king over me like all the other nations who are around me, you shall surely set a king over you whom the Lord your God chooses One from among your own countrymen, you shall set a king over yourselves. You may not put a foreigner over yourselves who is not your countrymen. They didn't want to wait on God's timing and God's choice, so God gave them a king like all the other nations You can get what you want, you can look like you're on top of the world, but in reality you could be suffering the agony of defeat And that the people were rejecting God as their king. And what we'll see in 1 Samuel 15 is that even Saul rejected God as his king. In the same chapter in uh Deuteronomy chapter 17 again, it lets us know that the king was not the greatest sovereign in Israel. Uh the kings were under the authority of God in uh verse 18 and chapter 17. It says, Now it shall come about when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself, the king, shall write for himself a copy of this law on a scroll in the presence of the Levitical priest. It shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life. That he may learn to fear the Lord his God, by observing, carefully observing all the words of this law and these statutes, that his heart may not be lifted up above his countrymen. And that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right or to the left, so that he and his sons may continue long in his kingdom in the midst of Israel The kings who refused to obey the command of God were forfeiting their right to rule, as well as the right of their sons to rule after them. And over in 1 Samuel 15, Saul forfeits both. First of all Back in 1 Samuel 15, we find that that Saul did not take God seriously. Saul did not take God seriously seriously. And if you desire to know the and enjoy the blessings of God and avoid his displeasure and discipline, you have to take God seriously. Back in 1 Samuel chapter 15, look at verse 1 with me again. Then Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint you as king over his people over Israel. Now therefore listen to the words of the Lord. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I will punish Amalek for what he did. to Israel how he set himself against him in on the way while he was coming up from Egypt. Now go and strike Amalek, and utterly destroy all that he has. Do not spare him, but put to death both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel, and donkey. And we all remember the story of Moses leading the Israelites out of the land of Egypt, where God said, Let my people go, and ten plagues later. Uh you know, finally Pharaoh is uh allowing the people to go, but still chasing them across the the Red Sea before his army drowns. What we might not remember is that the Egyptians weren't the only ones trying to prevent Israel from entering into the Promised Land There was also another group of people called the Amalekites, who were actually descendants of Esau, according to Genesis 36 and verse 12, who Lived in the desert, and as Israel was making its way out of Egypt to Sinai, they attacked Israel from behind. And uh if you remember, this was the same battle where in Exodus chapter 17 In verse 11, where Moses held his hands up, and if he held his hands up, Israel prevailed, or if his hands slumped down, you know, Amalekites prevailed. So these are the Amalekites that that Saul is being told to rid the earth of. And after Israel won the battle, the Lord said this in Exodus chapter 17 and verse 14. The Lord said to Moses, Write this in a book. as a memorial and recited to Joshua that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heaven. Moses built an altar and named it the Lord is my banner, and he said, The Lord has sworn the Lord will have war against Amalek from generation to generation. Meaning that that God's not going to forget this. In uh Deuteronomy chapter twenty-five and verse seventeen, it says, Remember what Amalek did to you along the way when you came out from Egypt, how he met you along the way, attacked Among you all the stragglers at your rear, when you were faint and weary and he did not fear God. What kind of people do you think are going to be at the back of the line? If there's a large group that's traveling through a wilderness, what kind of people are you going to find at the back of the line? Are you going to find the strong, the able? No. What you're going to find is the weak, the sick, the women, the children. Those are the kind of people that Amalek destroyed. Those are the kind of people that Amalek attacked. And God says, I'm not going to forget this. It's cowardly. It's wicked. I'm not going to forget it. God reminded Israel again in Deuteronomy 25, verse 19. It says, Therefore it shall come about when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your surrounding enemies. And the land which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under the heaven. You must not forget. You know, it's kind of like, you know, the remember the Alamo or remember 9-11. It's like you do not forget Amalek. Do not forget this battle with Amalek. Do you think God is serious about this? Of course he is. He could have wiped out Amalek by himself, but what he chose to do was to use the nation of Israel as an instrument to do his work. And there are all kinds of objections that people raise. against uh God sending Israel to go and attack Amalek and uh like one of one of the objections is how can God punish a nation when the people who committed the sin aren't even alive anymore? The Exodus occurred in fourteen forty six BC This is about 1025 B. C. when uh uh Saul is uh being given these directions, which is over 400 years later. You know, how how are you gonna have this guy go and attack a nation 400 years after the fact? Or why would God command that everyone be destroyed? You know, men and women and children and infants and oxen and sheep and camels and donkeys. Well I mean what do they have to do with it? Or we could also ask, you know, how can God command war? Is it right for God to Command to war to actually command people to kill? How can we reconcile this with passages like Psalm 145 and verse 9 that says the Lord is good to all, and his mercies are over all his works? And uh don't want to get into all the the details of this. Books have been written on passages like this, and without going into all the explanations here, I'll just say that that where you land in this discussion Depends on where you begin in this discussion. If you begin this discussion with a question like, how could God do this to us? You'll end up in a very different place than if you ask the question, How could we do this to God? You understand the difference? Very different way to approach this question. If the glory of God is your top priority, you'll end up at a different place than placing man and his glory at the top priority. Isn't the author and giver of life Able to take life, free to choose to take life if he chooses to? He's he's the author and giver of him, and he's the one that gave it, right? Is he not right to take it if he chooses? Deuteronomy thirty two, thirty-nine, see now that I I am he, and there is no God besides me. It is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded, and it is I who heal. There is no one who can deliver from my hand. And even if life is taken in judgment, there can even be mercy in the judgment of God. And we remember that David, as a judgment against David, he lost his son and he pled for the life of his son, his infant son. But after his son was taken away in 2 Samuel 12, verse 23, he says, Now that he has died, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me. There is mercy even in the judgment of God against David's son, an infant's son And we can trust in the judge of all the earth to do what? To do right. To do justly. The judge of all the earth is going to do justly. Remember when uh when God let Abraham know about the destruction of Sodom? In Genesis chapter 18, Abraham says, Far be it from you to do such a thing. God is pronouncing judgment on Sodom. And Abraham's replying, Far be it from you, God, to do that. To slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous and the wicked are treated alike. Far be it from you. Shall not the judge of all the earth do justly? But by the end of Genesis 18, Abraham discovers what God already knew, that there weren't even ten righteous people in the entire city. If God was ready to destroy Amalek, it was because the cry against that city was great before him. In 1 Samuel 15, 33. Samuel says that even then, even at this time, 1 Samuel 15, 33 says, your sword, talking to King Agag, your sword has made women childless. This is what they were still doing. They're still in the process of doing this. So it's time for Amalek to go. It's been said that the wheels of justice turn slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine. And the Amalekites were sinners then, they're sinners now, and Saul was supposed to take God at his word. And uh the question that I have for us, this is an application. of this for for this year for for all of us is uh are you committing yourself to taking God at his word to taking God seriously in uh Isaiah chapter 66 verse 2 it says but but to this one I will look To him who is humble and contrite of spirit, to the one who trembles at my word. Is that the kind of attitude that you have as you hear the word of God? Do you tremble at the word of God? Do you take God's word seriously? Or do you find a convenient way around it? Like like, you know, it doesn't really take all that, does it? Dr. uh Richard Mayhew in his uh book How to Interpret the Bible for yourself He exposes some of the ways that we attempt to escape the the clear and plain meaning of Scripture. I'll just give you a couple of them. We rationalize it You know, it's not wrong to have a physical relationship outside of marriage if you love one another. Rationalize it. Reculturalize it. You know, well that command was only meant for that place at that time. You know, that can't be for today, can it? We redefine it, which is exactly what we've done with marriage and gender today, just redefine it. Or what was true in the case of Saul, we minimize it. It isn't that bad, is it? It's not that bad. It's just this one time. I'll repent after I'm done. I'll make up for it later. God is a God of mercy. You know, he did it before, he can do it again. But like Samson found out, when you when you play with fire, you're bound to get burnt. In Judges chapter 16, verse 20, Samson awoke from his sleep and says, I will go out as at other times and shake myself free, kind of figuring he did it before he'll do it again. But he did not know that the Lord had departed from him. That's a frightening verse. Frightening verse. And what made it worse is that Samson didn't even know that the Lord had departed from him. The Lord was gone. He didn't even know Proverbs 1 28 says, Then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me, because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. If we want to enjoy the blessing and favor of God and avoid his displeasure and discipline, we need to take God's word seriously. Amen? Take God's word seriously. But not only that, we need to obey God completely. Look again at 1 Samuel chapter 15, again, verse 4. So then Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim , 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah. Saul came to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the valley. It's also to the Kenites, Go depart, go down from among the Amalekites, so that I do not destroy you with them, for you showed kindness to all the sons of Israel when they came up from Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. So Saul defeated the Amalekites from Havilah as you go to Shur, which is east of Egypt, he captured Agag, the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, all that was good, were not willing to destroy them utterly, but everything despised and worthless, that they utterly destroyed And here we find that Saul gathered this tremendous army, a great army, numbered into hundreds of thousands, which shows how extensive this campaign was against Amalek in verse six. Saul let the Kenites go because they were kind to Israel. The Kenites were actually relatives of Moses by marriage. Judges chapter 1, verse 16 lets us know that Jethro Moses ' father-in-law was a Kenite. They were living among the Amalekites at this time, and Saul warns them, you know, don't get caught up in the crossfire. You know, get down from here. We're told in verses 7 and 8 that they celebrated a tremendous victory from Havilah to Shore, which is over a 10-mile area, north and south, east of Egypt. And he even captured the king. And from all the appearances on the outside, Saul was a great success. How could things be wrong when they looked so right? But it's like uh he put a brand new roof on the house and redid the siding, but the foundation is crumbling to pieces. In reality, Saul was suffering the biggest loss and defeat of his life. And the same could be true for us, can it? You could have a ministry that's growing by leaps and bounds. Everything seems to be working well. Souls are being saved, lives are being touched, people are being blessed. You could have a a business that's that's growing exponentially. You know, the bottom line has never looked so good. You could have landed the the dream job, you know this is the job I've been asking for, waiting for. Everything seems to be working out. All the bonuses, the raises. Or maybe things at home couldn't be better. You know, the kids have all straight A's, they're all well behaved. My home is ready for HGTV. You know, I'm gonna bump the property brothers out of a spot because they're gonna feature my house. You know, HGTV, I'm ready. But even if you had all that and then some, if you're at the same time purposefully and deliberately failing to obey the clear commands of God in your life, it's a loss. Regardless of what it looks like on the outside. Regardless of what it looks like. Partial obedience is not obedience. And in Saul's case, he was robbing God of his glory and robbing God of His gifts. Robbing God of his glory, robbing God of His gifts. Over in verse 9, it says Saul and the people spared Agag. Why would they spare Agag? Why would they spare the king? Some sometimes when a when a nation defeated an enemy nation, they would bring the kings back as trophies to kind of parade their victory. Look look at what we've done. We've defeated their king. Cut off his thumbs and his toes. Show how how great we are that this is what we can do to your king. In Judges chapter 1, verse 6. It talks about a uh a battle uh between Judah and the Canaanites, and it says in uh Judges chapter 1, verse 6 that uh there was a king named Adonai Bezek who fled, and they pursued him and caught him, and they cut off his thumbs and his big toes Adonai Bezek said, Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off used to gather up scraps under my table, as I have done, so God has repaid me. So they brought him to Jerusalem and he died there. This is the common thing that they would do. Let's g if I if I can capture the king, this is a trophy. You know, the the king would rather take his own life, like Saul and Jonathan did. I'd rather take my own life than fall into the hands of an enemy. But in this case, we captured the king. Sparing an enemy king was to humiliate him. And it would have been the glory of the king. But in this battle, God didn't want Saul to get the glory. The glory belonged to the Lord. It was the Lord's job. It was the Lord's doing. It was the Lord who gave them the victory. It was the Lord who wanted to blot them out. And what Saul is attempting to do is to rob some of that glory for himself. Look at what I've done Instead of look at what the Lord's done. In addition to that, Saul was robbing God of his gifts. Sparing the livestock was robbing God of his gifts. What do they spare? What did they spare? They spared the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, all that was good. They were not willing to destroy them utterly. Which means that who gets the worst? Who gets to the spies? Who gets the worthless? That's what God gets That's what we'll destroy. But the best is what we keep for ourselves. All the best animals were spared. The fatlings, which was a name for the cattle. that were especially well fed so they could eat them at special occasions, special celebrations, like in uh Luke 15 and the the story of the prodigal son, you know, they had the fatted calf. Bring out the fatted calf. That's the the special one for the celebrations. Bring that one out They said, we're not going to leave all these fatlings lying around here. Actually, I uh I looked this up. An average beef cow can make 450 to 500 pounds of beef. That's uh 1800 to 2,000 quarter pounders. That's a lot of meat. It's a lot of meat per cow. So Saul and his army look at this and they say, we can't let this go to waste. We can't just destroy this. This is our reward. Look at what we've done. This is finally our reward. But that was the gift that should have been dedicated to God. And there were times that God allowed Israel to take the spoils of war, but then there were cities that God wanted them to wipe out completely and says, this one's reserved for me. There's cities like that that were considered under the ban. Jericho was a city like that. In Joshua 6, verse 17, it says, The city shall be under the ban, it and all that belongs to the Lord. But if you remember Achan in Joshua 7, 21, when he saw all the spoil, the beautiful mantle from Shinnar and 200 shekels of silver and a bar of gold, 50 shekels in weight. He says, Then I coveted them, took them, behold, they are concealed in the earth inside my tent with the silver underneath it. That was the gift that belonged to the Lord. But but Achan was was achen for it. That's how I remember that. Achan was achen He was filled with greed. Took the Lord's gifts for himself. And this is the same thing that Saul does for himself. I'm going to take the best of the land for myself. And it's treachery. God took Achan's life and his entire family's life for that. It didn't matter what role he had in the battle before then. Those gifts were meant for God. But Saul directed the glory of God to himself, the gifts of God towards himself. And we have the same temptation to do that in our lives. I like how Paul David Tripp put it. He said, sin turns you and I into glory thieves. Glory thieves. The original design was for human beings to live in a glorious world, exist in perfect relational harmony with the glorious God. But sin corrupted the original design, and now you and I have the desire to live for ourselves. He continues on. He says this, instead of living for the glory of God, we try to steal that glory for ourselves. We demand to be in the center of our world. We take credit for what only God could produce. We want to be sovereign. We want others to worship us. We establish our own kingdom, punish those who break our laws, we tell ourselves that we're entitled to what we don't deserve, and we complain when we don't get whatever it is that we want. It's a glory disaster. And when we pick and choose the way that we'll obey God, the way that we won't obey God, basically what we're telling God is, you know what, I'm I'm in control. I I decide what's right and what's wrong for me. I'll decide when I serve and when I don't. I'll decide what I give you and what I won't. We're not recognizing him as the king. We're saying, I'm the king. I I set up my throne. But if we want to enjoy the blessings in favor of God, we need to take God seriously and we need to obey Him completely. And finally, we need to please God genuinely. Look back at 1 Samuel chapter 15 again, verse 10. Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying, I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following me, has not carried out my commands. And Samuel was distressed and cried out to the Lord all night This is a this is a sad verse. God says, I regret that I made Saul king. I regret. In the King James, it's even stated stronger. King James it says, It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king. What do we make out of that? It repenteth me. I regret it. How does God experience regret? Just a little bit later on in the same chapter, down in verse 29, look at what Samuel says there in verse 29. He says also the glory of Israel will not lie or change his mind, for he is not a man that he should change his mind. It actually uses the same word for repentance or regret there. So what are you to make out of this? And again in the King James it makes more clear he is not a man that he should repent. What does that mean? You know, verse 29 it says he doesn't repent. Verse 10, it says that he is repenting. Like, what are we to make out of that? I like what uh John Piper says. He says, I take this to mean that the repenting which God does is not like the repenting which man does. God does not repent like man repents. The repenting of God is the turning of his heart in a new direction, but one that was not unforeseen. When the Bible says that God repents, it means that he expresses a different attitude about something than he expressed before. Not because any turn of events was unexpected, but because the turn of events makes a different attitude more fitting to express now than it would have been before. In other words, when God says that he's sorry, it's not the same thing as when we say that we're sorry. When we say that we're sorry, it's because we did something wrong and we need to change, right? When God says that he's sorry, it's not because he did anything wrong. It's because we did something wrong. And he needs to change the way that he responds towards us. He needs to change the way that he deals with us. So for example, if I found out that my children lied About where they were and I come to him and I say, I I'm I'm just really sorry that you did that. It's not because I did anything wrong. It's because I recognize now that there's trust that I can't give to you, there's privileges that I can't give to you because of how you've acted. When I say that I'm sorry, I'm not saying that I've done anything wrong. I'm saying I'm sorry for you. I'm sorry that I have to change the way that I'm treating you right now Also, when we say that we're sorry, it's often because we we have no idea about what the future is going to be. You know, like I'm sorry that happened. Like I had no idea. That's not what God does. God knows the end from the beginning So God knew that Saul was going to do this. Isaiah chapter 46, verse 9. Remember the former things long past. For I'm God, there is no other. I'm God. There is no one like me. Declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, I will accomplish all my good pleasure. So God doesn't regret in the same way that we do. But that doesn't mean that God doesn't sorrow over our sins Commentator Dale Ralph Davis in his commentary said this It's surprising to read that the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth, whose wisdom is unsearchable, who knows the end from the beginning, repents. That is, regrets or sorry that he made Saul king. This verb never seems to lose a certain emotional element. One can clearly see this in its first occurrence in the Old Testament where Genesis 6 verse 6 says, The Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. He goes on to say this. He says, Nonchalance is never listed as an attribute of the true God. We need to know that the God of the Bible is no cold slab of concrete impervious to our apostasies. He sorrows over our sins. God regrets, he feels sorrow. It pains him to see what Saul has done. So God has an attitude of this deep pain and hurt over what Saul has done, and Samuel is distressed about it, so hurt that he stays awake all night crying to the Lord. Some would even say that word for distress means anger, anger at Saul. And while Samuel is uh or God grieves over uh Saul and Samuel is distressed about Saul, Saul's getting the decorations ready for the party. And here we see the glory thief in his true form. Look again at verse 12. So Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul, and it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself. You get that? He's setting up statues, a monument, a place to honor himself And then he turned and proceeded on down to Gilgal. Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Blessed are you of the Lord. I've carried out the command of the Lord. Congratulating himself with the monument. Now he's congratulating himself in front of Samuel. Phony blessing, claim to be obedient. Which, by the way, wasn't wasn't accurate. Even his destruction of Amalek was incomplete. If you remember in uh in the book of Esther, Esther chapter 3 and verse 1, it says, Haman was an Agagite. A descendant of King Agag. That's Amalek. And Amalek is still persecuting the people of God and Esther That's between 483 and 473 BC, about 550 years after Saul should have wiped them out. So it wasn't a complete destruction, but here he is. Setting up a monument to himself. Oh, look what I've done. I've obeyed the Lord. I've done my job. I've done my duty. Hey, Samuel, don't you want to congratulate me? I've done what you've asked me to do But the evidence of his unfaithfulness is behind him, bleating, making it ruckus. During my time at seminary, I was uh I was part of this advertising campaign that didn't go really well. Someone came up with an idea to bring in live sheep into the seminary. Seriously, this is a true story. Brought live sheep into the seminary and took pictures, you know, with uh you know students in the class, in the classroom, students in the library. And uh the idea was, you know, we're the we're preparing to feed the flock of God. I I knew it wasn't gonna work, but uh It didn't work like they they planned it to, but it was one of the the few experiences that I had with live sheep. And uh I didn't know how loud sheep could be. I was sitting in the in a in a in the library in the seminary and uh you know first they take pictures with me alone and then they say, bring in the sheep, but the sheep came in. And the sheep were like, you know, bumping in the tables, meh, meh, meh, like everywhere they went. It's like what in the w I had no idea that sheep could be so loud You know, there's like this one I was like like afraid of. It's like, is he sick? Is he gonna like die or something? He said, like, what in the world is wrong with you? But these sheep were loud. And that's and that's what comes into my mind is here you have Saul saying, Hey Samuel, look at what I've done. I've obeyed the voice of the Lord. Like behind him is the evidence that you haven't done what the Lord told you to do. It's pathetic And what's so sad is Samuel has to confront him three times before he even admits that he did anything wrong. The Bible says in Proverbs 28 and 13 that he who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find what? Find compassion, find mercy. Over in 1 Samuel 15, verse 14. But Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of the sheep in my ears? Here's your time to confess. Here's your time to confess your sin and forsake it. What then is the bleeding of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear? He addresses his action. Look at what you've done. I see plainly what you've done. I see what you've brought here. What is this bleeding of the sheep that I hear? And here you have Saul's cover-up in verse 15. Saul said, they Have brought them from the Amalekites. For the the people spared the best of the sheep and the oxen to sacrifice to the Lord your God, but the rest we've utterly destroyed. So here comes the the phony cover-up. Saul doesn't admit his guilt even in the face of all the evidence. Tries to shift the blame, which is a common tactic, right? Adam did it to Eve. You have uh Aaron doing it to the people. Oh, it's the people. Oh yeah, I don't know what happened. I you know, this gold went in the fire and it just came out like a calf. Like what am I supposed to do? It just happened that way. The people you know that's the same kind of tactic that Saul is using. It's the people that did it. Tries to shift the blame. And then he throws God into the equation You know, and besides, it's a sacrifice to your God. That's why we're doing it. Samuel can't take it anymore. Shuts down the king. He says, just stop it. Says, wait. Look again at uh verse 16, then Samuel Said to Saul, wait and let me tell you what the Lord said to me last night. And he said to him, Speak. And Samuel said to Saul, Samuel said, Is it not true? Though you were little in your own eyes, you were made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord anointed you king over Israel, and the Lord sent you on a mission? Instead, go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are exterminated? Why then did you not obey the voice of the Lord? But rushed upon the spoil and did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. So here he goes from his actions to let me get to your motives. Let me get to what's behind this. He says you rushed upon the spoils. It's a word that's used to dart greedily like a bird swooping in for the kill. You rushed in like a bird swooping in on the prey. And you were puffed up with pride. He says, What wasn't being king enough? Is it not true that though you were little in your own eyes, that you were made head of the tribes of Israel? Do you remember where you came from, Saul? Flip over to 1 Samuel chapter 10 real quick. 1 Samuel 10 takes us back to when Saul was first selected as the king. This is this is a man who stood stood head and shoulders above everybody else, but look at look at how he responds when he finds out he's going to be the next king of Israel. This this is the kind of king that you you really want to follow after, right? Look at uh 1 Samuel chapter 10. Look at verse 20. It says thus Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by Lot. Then he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its families, and the Matrite family was taken. And Saul the son of Kish was taken, but when they looked for him, he could not be found. Therefore they inquired further of the Lord, has the man come here yet? So the Lord said, Behold, he is hiding himself by the baggage Here's the great king who stands head and shoulders above everybody else. And now when he's about to be picked, he's hiding in the baggage. Some place where I can't be seen. This is where you came from, Saul. But Saul still refuses to admit that he's guilty. Blames the people again. Blames the people. Look at it again at uh verse verse 20 back in 1 Samuel 15. Then Saul said to Samuel, I did! I did obey the voice of the Lord and went on the mission on which the Lord sent me. And I have brought back Agag, the king of Amalek, and I've utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people took some of the spoiled sheep and oxen, the choices of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the Lord your God at Gilgal. And here's where Samuel responds with those famous words. Samu said, Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice and to heed than the fat of rams When Saul when Samuel said has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, he's saying that the Lord does have delight. And sacrifices. He's admitting that sacrifice does bring delight to the Lord, but not without obedience. Don't bother bringing your sacrifices if you're not willing to bring obedience with it. That's the point. It actually sickens God if you're not willing to be obedient. Isaiah chapter 1 verse 11. What are your multiplied sacrifices to me? Says the Lord, I have had enough of burnt offerings, of rams, the fat of fed cattle. I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats. When you come to appear before me, who requires of you this trampling of my courts? Bring your worthless offerings no longer. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath, the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity. The solemn assembly. I hate your new moon festivals, your appointed feasts. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them So when you spread out your hands in prayer, I'll hide my face, hide my eyes from you. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from my sight. Cease to do evil. In Psalm 51, David says in verse 16, for you do not delight in sacrifice. You will delight in righteous sacrifices. Righteous sacrifices. When the people brought a sacrifice to God with a righteous heart, they're saying, you know what, God, you are more worthy. You are more valuable to me than anything that I possess. You're more valuable than this the sheep. You're more valuable than this axe and you're more valuable than anything. Lord, I bring this freely to you, voluntarily to you. But when we're holding on to our sin, we're saying, you know what? My sin is more important than you, God. My sin is more valuable than you. My sin is more important. I'd rather hang on to my sin and let go of my God. It's to bring your rejection into God's face. When we sin, we're telling God no. No No, no God, I'm not I'm not gonna do that. It's rebellion, that's what Samuel says. It's rebellion. There's no way around it. It's rebellion. He says it's like the sin of idolatry. You might as well be worshiping another God if that's what you're gonna do. Idolatry. He says it's like the sin of insubordination. You know, again, it's telling God, no. No, no, God, I'm not going to do that. Samuel says, that's like the sin of divination , which was seeking guidance from a false God. He says, you might as well be praying to a false God if you're going to do that. And then the judgment of God fell. If you remember back in Deuteronomy 17, 20, it said that if the king's heart was lifted up above his countrymen, And he turned aside from the commandment to the right or to the left, that he and his sons would not continue long in his kingdom in the midst of Israel. And that was the kind of judgment that fell upon Saul. And that's also why Jonathan, his son, was not raised to the kingship. Because of what Saul did here. It's over. The kingdom is being taken away. And it was just a matter of time before it was going to be made public. Saul's worship was unacceptable. Saul's kingdom was coming to an end. But what's so sad is that now finally Saul wants to confess. It 's a little bit, it's it's too little, too late. Now all of a sudden he wants to confess. Look at verse 24. Then Saul said to Samuel, I have sinned. Oh, now you've sinned. You know, all the way along it's been the people, the people, the people, oh I did what I I I obeyed you, I obeyed. But now all of a sudden when you know the kingdom's taken away, oh I have sinned Reminds me of some uh some preachers that were caught, right? Oh, I have sinned, oh, forgive me. It's a little too little too late. Like you should have been crying before. Don't wait until you're found out. Don't wait until the cover's been pulled off. And now all of a sudden, oh, oh, I have sinned. Oh, forgive me, forgive me. Here you have Saul. I've sinned, I've indeed transgressed the command of the Lord in your words, because I feared the people and listened to their voice. You should have said that the first time. Now therefore, please pardon my sin. Return with me that I may worship the Lord. But Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel. And having heard that the judgment has fallen, he pleads again for mercy. This time he he's he's grabbing on the edge of Samuel's robe. Look at verse 27. As Samuel turned to go, Saul seized the edge of his robe and it tore. So Samuel said to him, The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today, has given it to your neighbor who is better than you Also, the glory of Israel will not lie or change his mind, for he is not a man that he should change his mind. God is not going to repent like you repent When God makes up his mind, it's done. It's done. It's over. Don't bother coming to beg me for anything else. Like, it's over. It's over, Saul. He's not a man that he should repent. He's not going to change his mind. Then again in verse 30. Then he says, I have sinned, but please, and here we have brutal honesty I have sinned, but please honor me now before the elders of my people and before Israel, and go back with me that I may worship the Lord your God. So Samuel went back following Saul, and Saul worshipped the Lord. Remember I said that the leaders of Israel were the head of families, elders? That's who Saul's really concerned about He's not so much concerned about God being honored and worshiped. Like what I'm really concerned about, please let us be bluntly honest with you. I just want to be honored in the sight of the people. I remember there's a a a guy that I ran across. He's standing outside of a liquor store and he's asking for money. He says, Oh, I need something to eat. I need something to eat. I'm just like, okay, tell me, tell me what you really want. I want to go inside and buy some liquor. I was like, I'm not I'm not gonna give at least you're honest. Yeah, I appreciate that. Yeah, thanks for being honest with me, but I'm not gonna give you money for that. You know, here here's Saul at l at least he's honest I want to be honored in front of the people, before the elders of the people. Please come with me, please. And Samuel might have changed his mind about going with Saul, but God didn't change his mind about rejecting Saul. It's a false and hypocritical worship. And I really hope that this is none of us, right? Hope this isn't us. Hope that we're not more concerned about looking good before the people rather than God being honored. It's hypocritical worship. Because how how could it be true worship when he's offering meat that he should have destroyed earlier? Like that's true worship? Offering the same meat you should have destroyed? And you know you know what they did with the meat after they offered it. They ate it! And this is supposed to be true worship. It wasn't true worship. He's phony He wants to look good in front of the people, wants to throw his party. You know, I already built my monument. Come on, please come with me. My monument's already up. The the calves are already ready. Come on, Samuel. Don't let me go now Can you just can you just show up to the party, please? Samuel goes, but like I said, God's not going to change his mind. And I really hope this isn't us. We need to please God genuinely. We need to please Him genuinely. We can hide behind our ministries, behind our jobs, behind our homes. When in reality we're at a loss on the inside because we're not walking with God. We're not really desiring to be obedient. Just want it all on the outside. You know, put up the facade, you know, throw up the curtains. Make sure nobody can see it. No, don't look behind that. You know, I don't want you to examine that. Don't ask me any more questions I'm okay. I'm doing fine. Don't ask me anything else. Everything's good. Don't you see how the Lord's blessing, you know? Like the the light show, you know, the trinkets out here. Just see it, see what the God's doing out here. But you don't want to deal with what's going on in here. We can hide. We can hide. But there's more hope that I want to offer you here because it's not just about pulling yourself up by your bootstraps and doing better and Trying to succeed and not trying to fail. There's more than that. And I wanted to point you to the hook that's at the end of the story. This is fantastic here. Because the king that Saul was unwilling to bring himself to destroy was destroyed for him. Look at verse 32. It says, Then Samuel said, Bring me Agag, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came to him cheerfully. Agak said, surely the bitterness of death is past. He said, It's all over now. You know, and before the priest, I mean the priest isn't going to do anything to me. I mean, surely he's here to, you know, do his pardon, you know, your pardon, you're free to go. You know, I stand before the Lord, everything's okay. You know, surely the bitterness of death is past. But Samuel said, as your sword has made women childless. So shall your mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag to pieces before the Lord at Gilgal. That is a gruesome scene. He didn't have to hew him to pieces in order to kill him. Like like one child could have been enough, right? But he cut him into bits, little chunks. Why? But because of because of his zeal for the Lord God. Gruesome scene. But there's a ray of hope that it offers because Samuel, as God's representative, was willing to do what Saul was unwilling to do. And here's the beautiful truth that I want to leave you with this morning, because the story did not end with Saul. If we end it with chapter 15, this could be a very depressing story. Look at verse 34. It says, Then Samuel went to Ramah, but Saul went up to his house at Gibeathsaul. Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, for Samuel grieved over Saul. And the Lord regretted that he had made Saul king of Israel. You know, period, end of story, we're done. Like if that was it, that would be a pretty depressing end You know, Samuel didn't see Saul, the Lord regretted it, you know, Samuel's, you know, grieving, and like that's it. But that's not the end of the story. Look at verse, it's chapter 16, verse 1. Now the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you grieve over Saul? Since I have rejected him from being king over Israel, fill your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have selected a king for myself among his sons. And as we learned last week, that King David Was also replaced by the greater son of David, who is Jesus the Christ. David in the Spirit calls him Lord in Psalm 110. There's one that was coming. There's one who's coming. Psalm 110 verse 1, the Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. There's one who's coming who is also going to be the Lord Psalm 89 speaks about the same king, verse 27. I also shall make him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. Verse 29 says that his throne will be established forever. There's one who's coming. Psalm 45, verse 6 says, Your throne, O God, is forever. And the sting of Israel Who was to come was the same king that they rejected. You get that? When Israel rejected the Lord as king, that was the very king who was coming. When they rejected the Lord as king, it was the same king who would come that they desperately needed. And this king would come in flesh. But the king that they desired to see, a physical king, a physical representation. That king was on the way. That king was promised He was going to be the king in the flesh they were waiting for, and they could place their faith and trust in Jesus. And I want to let you know that Jesus is the only one who could perfectly take God's word seriously. Jesus is the only one who could perfectly obey God's word completely. And Jesus was the only one who could perfectly please God genuinely. What we have in Jesus is all that we need, and I pray that you haven't rejected your king. Pray that you haven't rejected your king this morning And if the question is, how can I enjoy the blessing and favor of God and avoid experiencing his displeasure and discipline, the call for you is to follow after Christ. Imitate Christ. Take him seriously. Obey him completely. Please him genuinely. That's our call to obey and follow our master. Amen. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, this morning for uh this text. And my Father, I pray that you would uh drive its truth uh deep into our hearts, my Father, that you would convict us where we need to be convicted. But that you also remind us of the great glory and hope that we have in Jesus Christ. A Savior who followed you, completely, obeyed you perfectly, a savior who took your word seriously. A Savior who's done all that's needed for us to be accepted in the sight of God. Father, we thank you for sending us a Savior, and we pray that you would help us Lord, to follow him obediently, Lord, that we would imitate our Savior, that we follow after Christ. We thank you that you have given us a king of your own choosing. And Father, may we glorify him. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.