The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. Pastor and Bible Teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, take your Bibles with me and uh let's turn back to the book of Romans. We're back in the book of Romans today, and uh the book of Romans has personally Been such a profound blessing to me, and I pray that as we continue to walk through this book, that it will have a powerful and a lasting impact on your lives as well. Uh this Sunday we're beginning a new section of the book of Romans where where Paul is turning the corner from the rich inheritance that we have as believers that he described in Verses 1 through 11 of chapter 5, what we call the benefit package of salvation or the benefit package of justification. In those verses we learn that we have peace, we have grace, we have hope, joy, love, future salvation, present reconciliation. All of this belongs to the believer who's been justified or declared righteous by faith in Jesus Christ. And once we've been declared innocent by faith, this treasury is just opened up to us. And for 11 verses, we've been just kind of walking through this and beholding the glories of our inheritance in Christ. But in verse 12, he turns the corner in order to offer us a bit of an explanation for all that he's just laid out before us. In verses 1 through 11, we've been reminded over and over again of all the riches that we have through one person. All of these benefits come to us through one person. How do we have peace? Verse 1. It's through our Lord Jesus Christ. How do we have grace? Verse 2. It's through him , through whom, referring to Jesus, we've obtained our introduction by faith into this grace. How do we experience love? Verse 8. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It's because of Christ. How are we justified? Verse 9. It's by his blood. Verse 9, how are we saved from the wrath of God? What's the answer? It's through him How are we reconciled? Verse 10. We were reconciled to God through the death of his son. Much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. How do we exalt or rejoice in God? We exalt in God, verse 11 says, through our Lord Jesus Christ. And how have we personally received reconciliation? Again, in verse 11, through whom, referring to Jesus, we have now received the reconciliation. All of these benefits come to us in one person. One person. It's through him, in him, by him, because of him, by his life, by his blood. The question could be asked: how can one person introduce us to all of these riches? How can one man bring us peace and grace and hope and joy and love and salvation, reconciliation? How can somebody else's righteousness be applied to my account? How could the benefits of one man's life enter into the world, offer eternal life, declare every sinner to be righteous who believes in him? How could all of this come through one man? How could one life open the door to all of these riches? And what's the answer? Verse 12. Verse 12, therefore, just as through one man Sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned Romans 5, 12 through 21 gives us the answer for why Jesus' one life can offer us peace, grace, hope, joy, love, salvation, and reconciliation. Because in the same way, it was through one man that the door for sin, death, and eternal damnation were also opened. Through one man, all of these These devastating consequences came into the world. One man, one sin was enough to take the world from creation to chaos, from paradise to pollution, from delight to death. and to eternal damnation. Think about all the chaos that one life introduced to us. One life. One sin. Genesis 1. 31, God saw all that he had made. Behold, it was very good. That's what he saw when he looked upon the earth, it was all very good. Five chapters later, what does the Lord see Genesis 6 verse 5, the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart were only evil continually. And all of that can be traced back to one man. And if we understand the connection between Adam's sin and the fallenness of the human race, we can begin to understand the connection between Jesus' righteousness. And the righteousness to all of those who are united to him by faith. Because in the same way that Adam stands at the head of a fallen, cursed, and condemned humanity, Jesus also stands at the head of a redeemed and justified and reconciled humanity. And there's a lot of details in the text Ahead of us, but uh don't miss the big picture. What's the big picture? What do we want you to walk away from this text with? All that Adam ruined in the fall is redeemed and reconciled by Christ. That's the big picture. All that Adam ruined in the fall is redeemed and reconciled by Christ. And that's the tremendous passage that we have ahead of us. Why don't you uh take a look at Romans chapter 5? We'll just read verses 12 to 14. But we're just scratching the surface today of just a marvelous passage that we have ahead of us. Romans chapter 5, starting at verse 12. So it's therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam Who is a type of him who was to come? Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, Lord, as we do every week, Lord. Asking that you would open up our eyes, that we would behold wonderful things as we look into your word. Now, Father, I pray that you would help us to understand even to a greater degree, Lord, the glories of our salvation. And Father, so much of Romans has just introduced us, Lord, to the glories that we have in Christ, the glories that we have in our salvation. And Father, I pray that you would speak to us, Lord, through this text And I Father that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The term patient zero has been used to refer to a person identified as the initial carrier of an infectious disease. In many cases it's difficult to determine who the initial carrier of a disease was. People can uh have uh be carriers of a disease who don't show symptoms at all Uh people can have mild symptoms or they might be misdiagnosed. There's all kinds of reasons we may never discover who patient zero really was And patient zero might not even be a patient because he might not ever seek treatment at all. And we've heard a lot of discussion about that during COVID-19, didn't we? But in the case of sin and the entrance of sin into the world, we know exactly who patient zero was. We know exactly who he was Romans 5:12 says, Therefore, just as through one man, sin entered into the world. And the entrance of sin is far deadlier than any pandemic that we've ever faced in human history. The Black Death in the 14th century was one of the most fatal pandemics in human history. It's estimated that as many as 50 million people perished. Perhaps fifty percent of Europe's population at the time, spread like wildfire throughout Europe, Asia, North Africa. Smallpox, an infectious disease caused by a variola virus in the 18th century in Europe. It's estimated that 400,000 people died from the disease per year And that one-third of all cases of blindness were due to smallpox? Smallpox is estimated to have killed up to 300 million people in the 20th century? And around 500 million people in the last 100 years. Imagine that. But compared to sin, the casualties of those pandemics is minimal. Because death spread to all men, because all sinned. And again, that can be traced back to one man. One man, one sin, introduced the world to the catastrophic consequences. that we endure today. I was listening to one preacher who quoted this description of the pandemic of of sin. I'm not sure where he got it. I tried to find out where he got this illustration from, but uh this is what he said This pandemic, as one author put it, is everywhere and has a season all of its own. Spring, summer, autumn, winter, no respecter of persons It haunts the hobble as well as invades the palace. It smarks it's uh upon the ignorant, upon the ignorant as well as the learned. It is linked with physical beauty as well as physical ugliness. It smites the child and afflicts the age. It is the discord which spoils the music of human happiness. To it all heartaches and tears, all distress and disrepair, all foreboding and terror can be traced. Strong men wrestle with it as gladiators in the Coliseum wrestled with lions. Gentle women fight it by day and night by night, loving and careful parents watching over their children, give God no rest as they plead that those they love may be delivered from it. And while they pray for their children, they dare not slacken their vigilance in respect to their own souls. Thunderbolts fall and smite, but in a moment the calamity is overpassed, and there is time for rebuilding The avalanche seeps terribly down the mountainside, but in a moment the work of destruction ends, giving opportunity for repair, but not like the thunderbolt ascend, for it perpetually smites. It's not like an avalanche for sin takes no rest. Sin is the most irksome fact of human experience. And what we have presented to us in verse 12 is the cascading corruption of sin. Cascading corruption of of sin. It's like taking a look at a series of falls where where one fall leads to another, leads to another, as you kind of see like you know, maybe a series of waterfalls. It's like one leads to another, leads to another All began with one man and one sin and then it falls and then there's more devastation. Falls again, there's more devastation. Through this one man, sin entered into the world. In verse 12, and there's a couple of observations that are worth making here, and this is underneath this cascading corruption of sin. First of all, it's sin entered the world. That's what verse 12 says. Just as through one man sin entered the world. Couple of observations to make. Number one, sin existed outside of the world before it entered into it. See that sin enters in? The the Greek word uh ace erchimize is a simple word that means to to go into, to enter into Same word that's used for entering into a house, like in Mark 7. 17, Jesus left the crowd and entered into the house. Simple word for entering in, a land, a house, a group of people. And that's how sin is described for us, that it enters in. Coming in from the outside of the world, it enters into the world. But it was already in existence outside of the world. And where do we find that? In Scripture. Isaiah 14 describes the fall of the King of Babylon, compares it to the greater fall which happened in heaven Isaiah 14 and verse 12 says, How you have fallen from heaven, O star of the morning, son of the dawn, you have been cut down to the earth, you have weakened the nations, but you said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven. I will raise my throne above the stars of God. And I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the recesses of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High Revelation 12:4 lets us know that a third of the angels also followed Satan in his rebellion. Sin originated in heaven, existed outside of the world, but apart from mankind, sin was never able to enter in. And that's another observation that's worth making, that through one man sin entered the world. Do you notice it doesn't say through one devil sin entered into the world? Satan is the originator of sin, father of all unbelievers. Unbelievers are said to be sons of the evil one, children of the devil. The devil is called the father of lies, a murderer from the beginning, the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that's now working in the sons of disobedience. But with all of that he's not said to be responsible for bringing sin into the world It was mankind that opened the door. Adam was given dominion over the world, and rather than being the protector that he was meant to be, he unlatched the lock and turned the handle and let sin in. And you would also notice here that the text doesn't say, through one woman sin entered into the world. Even though the woman was the first to eat the fruit. She wasn't the one who was responsible for bringing sin into the world. The buck stopped with Adam. Through one man, sin entered into the world. Now I found it interesting that there are feminist interpreters who are convinced that the woman should be given the credit for the fall of creation. I'm serious about that. Listen to this one misrepresentation of the biblical narrative. The act of eating the apple and later convincing Adam to do so can be seen as a terrible mistake, or it can be seen as necessary and freeing. The first act of human free will Eve can be seen as the morally deficient perpetrator of original sin, the one who doomed all humanity to live a life distance from God, or she can be seen as a liberator, the woman who brought humanity true free will. Eve was not fooled. She was aware that she was acting against God's will, and yet she decided that the rewards of her actions were worth risking the anger of her God. Most simply put, Eve made up her mind to pursue knowledge over following an order, a decision that in many minds makes her a hero. Moving on. And you have this direct contradiction against all that the biblical record gives to us. And what a foolish interpretation that is. That Eve should be looked at as the hero. She wasn't fooled, it says, when it says that it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman was. 1 Timothy chapter 2. And why is it important that we understand that it was through one man, that it was through Adam, that sin entered into the world? The reason why it's important is because we understand that it was Adam who was given the headship. That he was given authority, and that he was the representation for all of humanity. And that representation is parallel to another representation, which is what we find in Christ Adam's responsibility was to protect, to lead, and he failed that responsibility miserably. But Jesus comes along as the second Adam. Who is willing to protect and to lead and to fulfill his responsibility, and that's the connection that's being made. Adam's negligence and his passivity and failure to protect led to disastrous results Genesis chapter 3 and verse 6 it says, She took from its fruit and ate, and she gave also to her husband with her. And he ate. What's he doing with her? At the tree? Why is she following instead of, why is he following instead of leading? Which is really a reminder to those of us who are husbands and fathers that we can't pass on the blame to our wives for our shortcomings. Sometimes I'll talk to guys who will act as if they bear no responsibility over the decisions that are being made in their home. And I'm not saying that leading is not without difficulty, but it is without excuse. You know, I would have been more consistent in my family worship if it wasn't for the women that God gave me. I would have been more faithful with my children if it wasn't for the women that God gave me. I would have served in the church if it wasn't for this woman that God gave me. Or I could have reached out to my neighbors or accomplished more on my job if it wasn't for the woman that God gave me. And you realize that when Adam is blaming Eve and saying that it's this woman that you gave me, he's also blaming God because it's the woman that he gave him, right? He's passing off the responsibility. The responsibility of leadership, headship belongs to the man, and even if the woman at some point is disobedient, the instruction of 1 Peter 3 still stands. You husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way, as with someone weaker since she is a woman, and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered How many prayers are being offered up that are not going any further than the ceiling because we're not dwelling with our wives in an understanding way? How can you live without your prayers being heard? How would it change the story if Adam took responsibility for his wife? What would it look like if he protected his wife and interceded for his wife rather than following his wife? It was Adam who was held responsible. God didn't come to the garden saying, Eve, where are you? God also didn't come to the garden saying, Satan, where are you? God came to the garden saying, Adam, where are you? Because Adam was responsible. And it was through Adam that sin entered into the world. He unlatched the lock, he let sin in. And the next level of this cascading corruption of death, sin enters in, and then death comes in behind it. Sin enters in and death comes in behind it. And just just real quick, you have no idea what sin is bringing along with it as its friends, its company. You know, you open up the door for sin in your life, you have no idea what's coming in behind. So many people they they they play around with sin as if it's, you know, hey, I I can I can just let this in and not not experience the rest of these consequences. That's not how it works. You let sin in and there's no telling what's coming in right behind the back door. Cascading effect of sin. What else happened? Death enters in. That's what verse 12 says. Just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin. If you remember back in Genesis 2 and 17, it says the Lord God commanded the man, saying, In the day that you eat from it, from the fruit, you will surely die. And sometimes people wonder, you know, why didn't why didn't Adam die immediately after he ate the fruit? Now I thought God said that he was going to die. He lived to be 930 years old. That seems like a very long day. According to Genesis 5 and verse 5, he finally died. But he didn't immediately die physically, but you know what? He died immediately spiritually. Spiritually, he died immediately. Immediately there was a separation between Adam and his creator. There was an alienation between him and his God. Ephesians 4. 18 says we are excluded or alienated from the life of God. And that was the case with Adam. He died spiritually that day. The presence of God in the garden was no longer a welcome visit. Time with God wasn't a walk in the park anymore. No more midday stroll with God in the cool of the day. God now became the greatest threat for humanity instead of the greatest friend to humanity. And Adam hid himself from the presence of his maker, one of the saddest passages in Scripture that Adam would hide from his God. And the proof that Adam's soul shriveled up and died is that he's running from God. That's the proof of it. Sin alienated man, sin assassinated man. And Adam was now what Ephesians 2 1 says dead in his trespasses and his sins. Adam's soul died spiritually when he ate of the tree. But not only did Adam die spiritually and immediately, eventually over time he died physically. In the sense of the Hebrew in Genesis 2 is dying, you will die. That the process of death has begun. Genesis 2. 17 could be translated, dying, you shall die. In other words, you'll immediately begin the process of death. God says what he means, and he means what he says, and death was a certainty for Adam after he took of the fruit. Fulfillment of the punishment of Genesis 3:19, by the sweat of your face, you will eat bread till you return to the ground, because from it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust ye shall return. And the earth has been collecting dust ever since. Ever since we've been collecting dust. Ashes to ashes and dust to dust. Abraham says in Genesis 18:27: Who am I but dust and ashes? That's what we are, and that's where we'll return. We're an entire race of sandmen, and the clock is ticking. But not only did Adam die immediately, spiritually, Eventually die physically, but he would also die eternally in a final sense if he didn't repent and trust in the promises of God Because after Adam we all become children of wrath. The wrath of God abides upon us. Unless that wrath is removed, that wrath will fall upon us eternally. Jesus says, Don't fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. That's talking about an eternal punishment. It's what the book of Revelation also describes as the second death where Hades and hell are thrown into the lake of fire. It's a second death in the lake of fire. It's an eternal death. And that's the penalty that Adam let through the door when he let sin enter, received death on that day, took his place on death row, and that's where we're all sitting, unless we repent of our sins and trust in Christ. Until we come to Christ, we are ruined. I love the song that says, Come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, by the fall, sick and sore. Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power? Come ye weary, heavy, laden, lost, and ruined by the fall. If you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. If you wait around thinking that somehow your situation is going to improve, you'll never come at all. Our ruin started with Adam, he created He was created rich and healthy, innocent and pure, and he became pure poor and needy, sick and sore. And sadly the the rotten apple didn't fall far from the tree. Adam's depravity showed up in his offspring Because the death spread. Death spread to all men. That's the next section there in verse 12. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and so death spread. It made its way out. Patient zero is now infecting everybody. Death spreads to all men. Spiritual, physical, eternal death has been passed down to all of Adam's race, and now sin permeates every aspect of our human existence. Man is not inherently good, man is inherently bad, inherently evil. You don't have to teach children to be evil because it's part of their nature In 1926, Governor Theodore Cushenson of Minnesota established the Minnesota Crime Commission to study crime and evaluate its causes. It was said that the Commission eventually concluded that criminal tendencies were not the result of poverty, education, or environment. Instead, it offered the following brutal observation. Listen to this. Every baby starts life as a little savage. He is completely selfish and self-centered He wants what he wants when he wants it, his bottle, his mother's attention, his playmates' toys, or whatever. Deny him these, and he's seized with rage and aggressiveness, which could be murderous were he not so helpless He's dirty. He has no morals, no knowledge, no developed skills. This means that all children, not just certain children, but all children are born delinquent. If permitted to continue in their self-centered world of infancy, given free reign to their impulsive actions to satisfy each want, every child would grow up to be a criminal, a thief, a killer, a rapist. What does the Bible say? Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. It's like it's in there. You came like that. Sounds a lot like Psalm 58. 3. The wicked are estranged from the womb. Those who speak lies go astray from birth. Psalm 51, verse 5, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Or how Isaiah 1:4 describes the nation of Judah. Isaiah says, Alas, sinful nation, people weighed down with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, sons who act corruptly, they have abandoned the Lord, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they have turned away from him All of us like sheep have gone astray, right? We're like what David describes in Psalm 14, verse 1, they are corrupt, they've committed abominable deeds, there is no one who does good The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one Ralph Benning in his book, The Sinfulness of Sin writes this. He says the works of sin are deformed and monstrously ugly. For it works disorder, confusion, and everything that is abominable. Sin may be arraigned for all the mischiefs and villainies that have been done in the world. It is the master of misrule. The author of sedition, the builder of Babel, the troubler of Israel and all mankind, it is a soul killer. We've all died spiritually. We've inherited that from our first parents. Will die physically, and that's what happened in Adam's genealogy. Genesis 5 follows the consistent pattern. He lived, he bore children, he died. He lived, he bore children, he died. Demonstrates the malicious violet virus entered humanity and it's now part of the code. We live, we reproduce, and we die. Spurgeon says, Oh, the awful power which sin had, thus to turn the whole world into one vast cemetery, and to slay the whole human race. And apart from the grace of God, we will die eternally. And no second chances after death, right? It's appointed unto men wants to die, and after this comes the judgment. And what's the final cascade? Final cascade is that sin spread to all men. And so death spread to all men because all sin. So sin is now everywhere. And the answer That we find in Romans 5, and really what we're working through here in Romans chapter 5, we really need to pause for a moment here to make sure that we understand Paul's argument, okay? And uh and we'll we'll come back to this, but this is something that I don't want you to miss. Because the passage that we've just read and the the verses that I just read, verse 12, it's only one verse that I just read, but where it says That so death spread to all men because all sinned. You may not recognize this, you may not know this, but that passage has been considered one of the most difficult passages in the whole book of Romans. Somebody knows what I'm talking about. One of the most difficult passages in the entire book of Romans. And some have considered this to be one of the most difficult passages in the entire New Testament. And you might think that there doesn't seem to be really any major difficulty here because it seems so straightforward. Adam lets sin into the world. Death came in because of sin, and we all die because we all sin. Death is just the personal consequence of my personal choices and my personal sin. But is that what Paul is that what Paul is arguing for here? And this is where we have to make sure that we understand the logic of Paul's argument. Like what is Paul trying to do here? Do we just suffer because of personal consequences for our personal sin? Now it's true that we do suffer personal consequences for our personal sin, for our personal choices. You know, Galatians chapter 6 and verse 7: Do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this will he also reap. But that's not Paul's main point here. Paul's main point is not to just point out that you make personal choices and you suffer personal consequences. What Paul is doing here is he's making a comparison between Adam and Jesus. Like keep that in mind. He's making a comparison between Adam and Jesus. And he's talking about the one man. Verse 12 again, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and it's talking about that sin. And so death spread to all men because all sinned. When he's talking about death spreading to all men because all sinned, there's something behind that language. And the question is, and if you think about the context again, the first 11 verses of Romans chapter 5 are arguing that somebody else's righteousness. Can be applied to our account, and by that we receive all the benefits of salvation. I mean that's that's what we've been celebrating, right? In justification. That Jesus is the one who attained righteousness, and that that righteousness can now be applied to our account. Right? That's what we've been working through. And the question again is like, how can all of this benefit be passed along to somebody else. And the comparison is made in verse 12 that says that it's just as through one man sent entered into the world. In the same way that the benefits of salvation come to us through one man, it's also saying that the consequences of sin come to us from one man. And just to show you that that's the point of the text, look down to look down at verse 18. Just to show you that I'm not making this up. Verse 18. It says, So then, as through one transgression, there resulted condemnation for all men, or to all men. Even so, through one act of righteousness, there resulted justification of life to all men. For as through the one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners Even so, through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. So, what Paul is arguing for in this passage is that Adam's sin condemned all men. Adam's disobedience made many sinners. The point that he is making is not that you're condemned because you sin. That's not the point that he's making. The point that he's making is that you're condemned because Adam sinned. That's the point that he's making here. We're condemned because of Adam's sin. So back in verse 12, when Paul says that death spread to all men because all sinned, do you know where that sin took place? That sin took place in Adam. When he says that all sinned, it's that all sinned in Adam. That's the point that Paul is making. The point that Paul is making is that Adam was your sinful substitute. Just as Jesus is our righteous substitute, and we receive all the benefits because of Christ, he's saying that Adam was your sinful substitute, and you received the condemnation because of Adam. As the head of the human race, Adam was the representative for the entire human race. The representative of humanity. And when Adam fell, we fell. When Adam sinned, it was as if we sinned. And we understand that kind of solidarity to a to a degree. I mean, here in Baltimore, it's a sports town, right? When the Orioles win or the Ravens win, you don't say they won. What do you say? We won. You know, you never put on a jersey and got on the field. But you say we won. Didn't you see what we did? We won! Just like as you're sitting there on your couch drinking your coke. Oh, I won the day. Look at we won. It's it's a solidarity. I'm I'm connected to them. I'm I'm I'm one with them. They represent me. When they win, I win. When they lose, they lose. But but we have like some kind of connection to them even though we were never on the field. In in soccer, when there's a foul in the penalty area, somebody's selected to take a penalty kick, and he does that for the entire team. Technical foul in basketball: one player will take a free throw shot for the entire team. In politics, we represent represent we elect representatives to make decisions for all of us. Military leaders make decisions that affect those that are under them. And a biblical example of this is David and Goliath. Remember in 1 Samuel chapter 17 Goliath stood, this is verse 8, 1 Samuel 17, verse 8, Goliath stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel and said to them, Why do you come out to draw up in battle array? Am I not the Philistine and you servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will become your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall become our servants and serve us. You know what he's asking for? Send me a representative Send me one of yours that can represent all of you. That's what he's asking for. One man represented the entire nation. And in the case of Adam, he was the one representative for the entire human race. And before you start to protest and say, that's not fair. That's not fair. Why would Adam represent me? Do you think you could have done better? I mean, we prove every day that we don't live up to what we know. We don't live up to the to the standards that we know that we should live up to. We prove every day that we couldn't have done better. And if you have a problem with someone being a representative, don't forget that Jesus is also a representative. That he's the one who represents us before the Lord, and we have no complaints about that, do we? You know, I'll take the representative, please, and thank you. You know. Thank you for the representative. And in verses 13 and 14, and again, we're getting we've got to come back to this because there's so much here. In verses 13 and 14, it gives us a defense of the imputation of Adam's sin. The imputation of Adam's sin. And remember, imputation just means that something has either been counted for you or counted against you And in biblical terms, you have either been credited with a righteousness that you did not earn, or in this case, condemned for a crime that you did not commit. And that's what verses 13 to 14 explain. And the way that the scripture does this is just brilliant. Look at verse 13. It says, For until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Paul begins verse 13 with the word for. It's a word of explanation. He needs to give an explanation for what he's just said. Now, if verse 12, all that he meant by verse 12 is just like, hey, every one of us sins and every one of us pays the consequences for those sins, he wouldn't have to give an explanation for it. He's giving an explanation because like what I've just said is tough. What I've just said you may not agree with. You may have a hard time with You being charged with somebody else's sins. You might have a hard time with being condemned because of what Adam did. And now he goes in to give an explanation of this. He says, For, until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not impeded where there is no law And here is Paul's argument, and you have to follow him. Sin was in the world before the law. And the law that he's talking about is the law of Moses. And he makes that clear in the next verse. Where he talks about death reigning from Adam until Moses. So the law that he's talking about is the law of Moses. So the law that he's talking about is Moses ' law, the the Moses given at Sinai, and the argument is Sin was in the world before the law. But how could that sin be charged against man's account if there was no law? So he's basically saying, like, hey, there's there's sin before Moses, but how are people being charged before Moses? Because it's not like they have a law that they're looking at You know, if if I'm out fishing in a lake and someone says, hey, you can't do that, my response might be, you know, is there a law against it? You have a law against it? And unless you can show me that this is private property. Or that I'm violating some kind of government restriction. You can't charge me with the crime. I haven't broken a law. But Paul says that even before the law was given, that sin was still in the world and people are still being judged as sinners. And the greatest evidence of people still being charged as sinners before the law is that people are still dying and suffering the consequences of breaking the law. Verse 14 says that. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses. I mean, we have uh you know uh Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis you know 18. We've got you know, the the flood, the great flood in Genesis chapter six. It's like people are still dying and and suffering the consequences of sin even before the law was given. So death is reigning. It's like It's in charge and people are coming underneath its sway. Death is still reigning from Adam to Moses. And you might say, well, what's the problem with that? I mean, yeah, we die because we sin. But again, the point that he's making is that there is no law, so how can that actually be charged against you? How is God applying the death penalty to people who don't have the law? What's the answer? They're dying because of Adam. That's the answer. And you may say, again, that's not fair. You know, what opportunity that did these people have to get tested like Adam? What law did they break that had the death penalty attached to it? You know, when did God ever communicate, hey, if you do such and such, you will surely die? When did he communicate that to anybody else besides Adam? And the answer is that he didn't Adam was the one who received the death penalty, and everybody else suffered the consequences. So who elected Adam to represent me? You know, I never voted for him, you know, not my president. One commentator writes, God's government over the world is not a democracy, not a representative republic, not an oligarchy, not a limited monarchy. It is a government of one infinitely holy, just, good, and omnipotent sovereign who has no cabinet, no advisors, no checks upon his plans outside of his own ineffable, glorious nature. And we might as well object to our own ancestry before we object to the way that we've been inherit we've inherited the condemnation of Adam. I mean, no nobody gets to vote for his own lineage. You don't vote for your parents. Yet lineage, and this author goes on to say, carries with it honor and dishonor, good health or feeble constitution, riches or poverty. It affects our destiny in a thousand things. But it wasn't your choice. You inherited that He was our representative, and even though you never ate the fruit, you still suffered the consequences. And death reigns from Adam until Moses. And it goes on to say, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam. I've never done what Adam did, but still I'm suffering for what Adam did But praise God, that's not where he leaves us. Because even though Adam was our first representative, he is not our last representative And this is at the end of verse 14, and like I said, there's so much more we have to unpack here, but just to bring you to the end here, speaks about Adam, who is a type of him who is to come. We have a representative that's not like Adam. Adam was the type of the one who was to come. And all that we have comes through this one. It's in him, through him, by him, because of him, by his life, by his blood. We have another representative, and how do we receive the riches that we inherit today? It's through this one man's life. It's through Jesus Christ. It's through him that we've been brought peace, grace, hope, joy, love, salvation, reconciliation. And the answer is, and if you ask the question, how can that happen through one man's life? It's exactly the way that it happened with Adam. Adam let in the curse But we have Jesus who reverses that. And we won't get into all this today, but what we gain in Christ is so much more than what we lost in Adam. It's much more. And that's where we'll go in the weeks to come. But look at verse 15. It says, but the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound the many. Look at verse 17. For if by the transgression of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ Verse 20, the law came in so that the transgression would increase, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. What we've lost in Adam, we've gained all the more, much more, through Jesus Christ. Like when Jesus Christ brings in his benefits, he doesn't just bring us back to the garden. He brings us all the way to glory. And all the benefits that we have are associated with this one Jesus Christ. What we have in Christ. Far exceeds, super exceeds, superabounds whatever we had lost in Adam. And this is the wondrous mystery that we find in Romans chapter 5. We sang it earlier. Come behold the wondrous mystery in the dawning of the king. He the theme of heaven's praises, robed in frail humanity, in our longing, in our darkness, now the light of life has come. Look to Christ who condescended, took on flesh to ransom us Come behold the wondrous mystery. He is the perfect Son of Man in his living, in his suffering, never trace nor stain of sin. Listen to this: see the true and better Adam. Come to save the hell-bound man, Christ, the great and sure fulfillment of the law, and him we stand. We we stand in Christ because Christ is the true and the better Adam. And not only is Christ the the second Adam, Christ is also the last Adam. He's the final representative. There's nobody else that we look to. We look to Christ and we look to Christ alone because He is the only one. that we can receive these benefits through. And looking forward to jumping into this text again next week. But uh but can we just give glory to God for the the grace that we have in Christ? For the glory that we have in this salvation. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh this day that you've given us, Lord, for uh your word. Our Lord, your word is is rich. Our Lord, we have so much. Let's contain in here, Lord, so many treasures and uh so much to understand. And uh Father, I pray that as we uh uh dive into this uh difficult uh text before us, uh Lord, and as we uh start to unpack uh what's uh uh uh here revealed uh to us, Father, I pray that you would grant us understanding. And Father, that you would help us to understand just how rich our salvation is. And Father, to understand just how rich our salvation is. We have to understand just how deep our sins were, what kind of condition we were in, that we entered into this life, lost, ruined by the fall. And it's because of Jesus Christ, Lord, that we can be redeemed and we can be reconciled. And Father, we thank you that we don't stand and represent ourselves, that Jesus Christ is the one who represents us. And what other representative would we desire? Now, Father, we thank you for Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and digital files