The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So what we've been uh looking at is the the model prayer in uh Matthew chapter 6, as uh Jesus teaches us uh uh a model of prayer to uh contrast with the uh the hypocritical prayer of the f fad Pharisees and also the uh the meaningless prayer of the the Gentiles and what he does is he gives us uh a model of of prayer that's um known by many. Uh there's this is there's probably not another prayer that's more known. uh than the Lord's Prayer. Uh probably not another prayer that's repeated more often than the Lord's Prayer, but uh uh sometimes I wonder if we really hear the words uh that we're we're saying or the words that we're attempting to pray. I remember uh growing up I had a clock in my my living room and uh every hour, you know, there's a chime on the on the clock was actually More like a like a dong, you know, it's like, you know, pretty loud. Um and I I r remember growing up and after a while it's like I didn't even hear it anymore. You know, people would come over and and visit and uh you know, they jump and say, Hey, what was that? And I'm like, you know, what was what And uh they said, You got a clack or something? It's like, Oh yeah, there's a clack, it goes off every hour. But I wouldn't even hear it anymore. After just kind of growing up, getting familiar with it, I wouldn't even hear the the sound anymore. I would actually have to deliberately think about it in order to hear it, uh, because I have become so familiar with it. And uh as we approach the the Lord's Prayer, um it's it's my fear that that some of us have become so familiar with the prayer that we don't even hear it anymore You know, it's just kinda kinda words uh that we recite, you know, words that we hear read um repeated to us, but um It's my prayer that as we take some time to deliberately think about uh the Lord's Prayer that we'd actually hear it again, because uh even though we may be able to recite the words, we might not be hearing the words. So let's uh go ahead and and see if we can think about the words as we say 'em. I'm gonna uh be reciting the the prayer from the the King James Version and uh using debtors instead of transgressors, just so or trespasses, just so everybody's on the same page, okay? Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the model of prayer that was given to us by our Lord. Father, we pray that we wouldn't become so familiar with the words that uh that we wouldn't actually hear uh what's being said. Uh Father, I pray that as we uh give our attention to it uh this morning uh and for the the next couple of weeks Father, I pray that you would enrich our prayer lives, that we would pray in a way that's meaningful, that we would pray in a way that you would hear. uh pray in a way that uh you would actually reward. Uh Father, we thank you for uh the uh the good gift that we have of uh the Lord himself teaching us uh how to pray to the Lord. Uh Father, we're uh so grateful for our master teacher Jesus Christ. And uh Father I pray that you'd Use me to be a blessing to your people in Jesus' name. We pray. Amen. Last week we uh learned that God is honored when we address him as our our Father, and when we approach Him as our Father. Addressing God as Father is by far the most common way that Jesus addressed God, and uh through his model prayer he encouraged his disciples. uh to speak to God in a way that would have been unfamiliar and maybe even awkward uh for a lot of the disciples to to talk to God. Um and the reason why is because Uh throughout the Old Testament, uh God is not referred to commonly as Father, only fourteen times in the whole Old Testament. Uh so the disciples aren't used to thinking of God as their father, that the term father would have communicated a closeness and intimacy to God that they weren't accustomed to putting into words. They knew of God as their Father in creation. The God has created all people, so He's Father as as far as the the origin of all people. They would have known God as the Father of Israel as a nation. God called Israel his uh his son, uh but Jesus wanted the disciples to think of God as their father in a personal relationship. And uh throughout the Gospels, Jesus defined what that relationship would look like. And it included the idea of authority, provision, protection, guidance, but also a uh a concept of forgiveness and and love and and compassion And uh just as the prodigal son in uh Luke chapter uh fifteen found a father uh who embraced him with joy and celebration. Everyone who believes in Jesus Christ can experience that same joy of a God who welcomes us, not as a slave, but as a son. You know, that's the kind of God that we have. He welcomes us, he embraces us as his own son, and that's a wonderful truth uh to believe in and to rejoice in. We have this access to God. We have acceptance from God. And all of this was communicated in the word Father. And it's right, and it's biblical. uh to think about God as as our Father, but Jesus also cautions us against taking our own ideas of what a Father is and transferring those ideas to God. You know, this is what I think a father is, and that's what what God is. That's not uh how God uh how Jesus taught us to think about it. He actually qualified uh what he meant by father. And as uh As a father myself, I can be thankful that the God is not like any earthly father, you know. God's not like me, God's not like my father, God's not like any father that we we know. Uh so what we find in the term our father which art in heaven, make sure that We put God in his own category. God is all alone and he's by himself and it he it frees God from the the baggage uh that we might associate with the term father and from the earthly fathers that we know. In our Psalm 50 and verse 21, the Lord speaks a word of reproof and he says, You thought that I was just like you God is like nobody. We're never to think of God as just like us. So even though God is not dishonored by the title Father, God is pleased to reveal Himself to us in the role as father, but he's not to be thought of as a reflection of earthly fathers. And there's there's two concepts that I'd like to introduce you to that that Jesus teaches us in his prayer, and it's the nearness and the greatness of God The nearness and the greatness of God. Theologians refer to this as eminence and transcendence. The nearness and the greatness of God. One author says this: that God is both far removed from us and close at hand. God is near and yet far, majestic yet approachable, greatly to be feared, yet easily to be loved That is the God we serve, and unlike the conception of God in many other religious systems, Christianity gives us the balance of both truths And uh from the beginning God has demonstrated s himself to us as a God who desires to be near to his people, to be accessible uh to his people. He's not some absentee father. God is a God who who shows himself as a God who wants to be near. uh to his creation. Back in uh Genesis chapter three in verse eight we see that uh God walked in the garden in the cool of the day. Remember that as uh we go through the the narrative there of uh Adam and Eve. And uh the way that the narrative is written gives us the impression that this is just a common practice for God, to just kind of walk with Adam and Adam and Eve in the cool of the day, just to spend time fellowshipping with them, just to be near uh to Adam and and Eve. Uh the father of creation was also uh a father in relationship uh with mankind and he showed himself to be be near to to man. Uh even after the fall of of mankind, God didn't just distance himself from us and say, Hey, I'm done with Creation, God again uh revealed himself to mankind. He uh uh gave to Abraham uh the distinct privilege of being known as the friend of God I mean, imagine that to be called a friend of God. Talks about that in Isaiah 41, verse 8, 2 Chronicles 20, verse 7, that Abraham was considered a friend of God. So God revealed himself to the patriarchs, the fathers, giving them promises, giving them commands, giving them direction. God showed himself as a God who desires to be near. We also continue through the biblical history and we discover that God had interaction with different individuals over history. God chose an entire nation that he would make himself known to. Flip over to Exodus chapter 29. Just to show you this, Exodus chapter 29, when the nation of Israel was formed, they were given specific instructions. for constructing a a tabernacle, for making sacrifices. But the purpose wasn't just to give them busy work. It's not like, you know, they they just needed something to do. So, you know, why don't you guys uh build a tent? You know what I mean? Listen to this. It was to make fellowship with God possible for the entire nation. God wanted to draw near to the entire nation. Exodus chapter 29 , verses 42 to 46. Listen to what it says here. It says, it shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the doorway of the tent of meeting before the Lord, where I will meet with you to speak with you there. I will meet there with the sons of Israel, and it shall be consecrated by my glory. I will consecrate the tent of meeting and the altar. I will also consecrate Aaron and his sons to minister as priests to me. I will dwell among the sons of Israel. And will be their God, and they shall know that I am the Lord their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, that I might dwell among them I am the Lord their God. Do you see how many times it talks about dwell, dwell, be with? I want to be with you. You know, he 's a God who draws near to his people. And this was a privilege. That was beyond words to to be a a nation that God drew near to. In uh Deuteronomy chapter four and verse seven it says, For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as is the Lord our God whenever we call upon him No, this is the God who desires to be near to us. And then we have the greatest example of the eminence of God is in the person of Jesus Christ. As God walked through the garden again, you know, as God walked through the garden in the beginning, you know, God came down and walked through our garden again in the person of Jesus Christ. In this case it wasn't the Garden of Eden, it was the Garden of Gethsemane. But Jesus Christ came, God in the flesh, to walk with us again, to be with us again. In John chapter 1, verse 14. It says the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace. and truth. And uh that word in uh in John 114 where it talks about uh dwelling with, he dwelt among us, it's a a word that means to to spread out as a tent, kind of giving that picture of the Old Testament. tabernacle that he spread his tent among us. He came to dwell with us, to make his home with us. This is our Emmanuel, God, with us. And uh Jesus more than any other person in Scripture communicates to us the concept of God being near, that God is accessible. And when he teaches his disciples to pray, he lets them know that Meaningful prayer recognizes God as a father, that he's that close. But the nearness of God doesn't mean that he's to be treated lightly or casually Because he draws near doesn't mean that you're to take him as, you know, oh it's just kind of common everyday, you know, kind of experience. He is our Father in heaven. And with those words in heaven, with those words, Jesus distinguishes God from any earthly Father and reveals to us the great distance between God and and mankind. Because while God is is eminent, close, near, he's also transcendent, which is just a fancy word to say he's he's beyond us. He's superior to us. He's above us. He's outside of anything that we know. And one of the clearest ways to communicate that and as an illustration was just to say that he's in heaven and you're on earth. To to to communicate the distance between you and God. He's in heaven and you're on earth. And to point out that God was in in heaven was to take people basically to the very end of their limitations and just leave them there. You know, God's in heaven, you know, deal with it. You know, you you can't get any further than that That the heaven communicated to them, to these disciples, when Jesus mentioned that word heaven, it would have communicated to them this infinite distance. Highlighted to them this distinction between God and man, and as advanced as we'd like to think of ourselves today, uh the heavens still communicate to us how small we are, right? I mean how how how powerless we are And the more we know about the heavens is really the more we we don't know, because it's uh overwhelming uh to think about. Uh the Old Testament writers, they understood the the vastness of the heavens. Even though there's not a lot of detail in the Old Testament about what they thought about the heavens, they spoke about heaven in three main categories, three main categories of heaven. First of all, there's that the atmosphere, the space that immediately circles the earth or that encompasses the earth. This is the space that the birds fly in. uh where the weather comes down from, you know, basically it's it's from here to the clouds. You know, they spoke about that as as the heavens. The birds fly through the heavens, the rain falls. from the heavens, the snowfalls, the clouds, the wind, all associated with the with the heavens. It's it's known to us as the the treasury or the storehouse. of God. In Deuteronomy 28, verse 12, it says, The Lord will open for you his good storehouse, the heavens, to give rain to your land in its season, to bless all the work of your hand. And you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow. So that's one category of the heavens that the Old Testament writers would would speak of. And then there's the the space beyond the clouds. You know, you have from here to the clouds, and then you have from the clouds Up through the the stars, you know, all the lights in the skies. That was called the the heavens as well, the sun, the moon, the stars, the planets, all spoken of as being in the heavens. Genesis 114, God said, Let there be lights And the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. Let it be for signs and seasons for years, uh for days and years. Um but there was another heaven that they referred to in the the Old Testament and the New Testament as well. And it was the third heaven. Flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Beyond the starry sky, there is what was known as as the third heavens, the third heavens, which is the paradise of God. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, look at verse 2. Actually, I'll start at verse one. I always do that right. Verse one boasting is necessary, though it is not profitable. But I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord I know a man in Christ who 14 years ago, whether in the body, I do not know, or out of the body, I do not know. God knows such a man was caught up to the third heaven And I know how such a man, whether in the body or apart from the body, I do not know, God knows, was caught up into paradise and heard inexpressible words which a man is not permitted to speak. You know, if he uh was permitted to speak about it, maybe he could write a book and make a lot of money, but um he's not permitted to speak about it. A man is not permitted to speak about these visions in heaven. Uh in contrast to uh uh what little kids are are writing and other people uh kind of fantasize about. Uh this is called the paradise of of God in uh Revelation chapter ten, verse seven. It's the place According to Scripture, where God dwells and manifests his presence. Um the idea is not that the God is in heaven and not on earth. Uh the Bible lets us know that God is everywhere present. We understand that in uh Psalm 139 Uh where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven, you're there. If I make my bed in Sheol, you're there. If I take the winds of the dawn, if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, even there your hand will lead me. There's nowhere where you can go and get outside of the presence God's everywhere. He's in heaven. He's on earth. And uh he's even in hell. Uh what makes hell so terrible is that God is there. And that he's personally present to pour out his wrath on people for eternity. Uh, you know, people talk about, you know, uh hell is just kind of priceless eternity and you know things like that. Um God is there. And he's there to pour out his wrath in Romans chapter 2, verses 5 and 6. It says, Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to each person according to his deeds? That's the work of God. God is the one that pours out wrath. God is the one that renders to every person according to his deeds. It's not, you know, uh demons and Satan around having a party and poking people, you know, with pitchforks. It's God who's present. That's what makes hell so terrifying. Hell wouldn't it be terrifying if it was just demons and Satan? What makes hell terrifying is that God is there. That God is there present to make sure that every person is afflicted with the judgment of God, the wrath of God. So when the Bible speaks of of God in heaven, it's not to say that you know God's in heaven and nowhere else, uh, but it was to communicate that God is above you and you're below him. God's in heaven and you're below him. Turn over to 2 Chronicles chapter 6. And here you have uh Solomon uh when he's dedicating the the temple in Jerusalem, he understood that he wasn't to perceive of God as limited to physical space. the physical space of of the temple in uh uh 2 Chronicles chapter 6. You have uh you have this prayer that he that he offered here which is A wonderful prayer here as he's dedicating the temple to the Lord. In chapter 6, verse 18, he says, But will God indeed dwell with mankind on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you. How much less this house which I have built? Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his supplication, O Lord my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you That your eye may be opened toward this house day and night, toward the place of which you have said that you would put your name there to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place. Listen to the supplications of your servant. And of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Hear from your dwelling place, from heaven, hear and forgive. So even though they built this, you know, kind of uh holding place for the ark. Uh they they knew that God didn't sit in sit in the in the in the temple. You know, they knew that God wasn't confined, you know, to these walls that they built. They said, you know, when when people pray to this place, hear from heaven. We we understand where you are. We know that you fill the heavens and the heavens of of heavens So when when Solomon was dedicating this this temple, he understood that that God wasn't confined to this place. God is outside, beyond, he's superior, he's supreme. And I just the idea that God dwells in the heavens was enough or should be enough to slow people down when they come before God in prayer. When we pray to God, we pray to a God who is in the heavens. In Ecclesiastes chapter 5 and verse 2, it says, Do not be hasty in word or impulsive in thought to bring up a matter in the presence of God, for God is in heaven. And you are on earth. Therefore, let your words be few. Like I said, that could be translated. Let your words be well spoken. You know, you're praying to a God who is supreme. He's outside of you. You know, let your words be well chosen when you come before God. It's not saying, you know, just have short prayers. It's just saying, you know, when you do come before God, make sure that the words that you're using are words that are worthy to bring before Him. This isn't just some kind of light conversation that you have over a cup of coffee with an old friend. You know what I mean? You're speaking to the to the God of heaven. And the vastness of the heavens alone could communicate the majesty of God. When they thought about the God , Who dwelt in heaven. The heavens display, and these are just a couple things that the heavens would have communicated, the heavens would have displayed the infinite person of God. The infinite person of God. Because as as vast as the heavens are, the heavens can't contain them, right? Heaven is my throne, the earth is my footstool. Where's the house you could build for me? You know, even the heavens aren't enough, you know, for for God. The heavens display the infinite person of God. The heavens display the infinite power of God. Why? Because He created it. Created it with the word of His power. In Nehemiah 9. 6 it says, You alone are the Lord, you have made the heavens, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts, all the stars and all the planets. The earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them, you give life to all of them, and the heavenly host bows down before you. The heavens communicate the infinite power of God The heavens also display the infinite sovereignty of God because He rules from the heavens over all creation. He rules In Psalm 103, verse 19, it says, The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his sovereignty rules over all. Nobody can stop a God who rules from the heavens. How are you going to stop a God like that? You can't stop him. If he rules to heavens, what are you going to do against a God like this? Do you realize that when you pray? Is that the kind of confidence that you come before God with when you pray? That this is a God who rules the heavens? I mean, this is the kind of thing that should encourage and bolden your prayer. Our God is in the heavens, Psalm 115, 3 says Our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. Psalm 135, verse 6, whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and in earth, in the seas, and in all the deeps. When you come before God, you're coming before a God who can do absolutely anything. He's limitless. He's made the heavens. Number four, that the heavens make clear that there is no one else who is like this God. He's utterly unique. In Deuteronomy 4, verse 39, it says, know therefore today And take it to your heart that the Lord, He is God in heaven and above, and on the earth below. There is no other. The God in the heavens is absolutely unique. There's nobody who could compare with this kind of God. Nobody else liked this God. And this is the concept of transcendence. So even though the Bible makes it clear that the God is near to us, and the God is everywhere present, uh He's also everywhere present around us, we're also to think of them as always above us, always supreme, always up. And the the Bible uses kind of directional terms to reinforce that. You know, Job twenty two, verse twelve said, Is not God in the height of heaven? Look also at the distant stars how high they are. And God is higher than that, right? God is higher than that. Psalm 123 1, to you I lift up my eyes, O you who are enthroned in the heavens So when um Jesus prayed, uh the the scripture often adds this detail that he always did what? He looked up. Why? Because he's he's recognizing that there's a God in the in the heavens. It's like a visible picture. You know, God is up. God is above us. God is supreme. Men also raise their hands to heaven for the same reason to show that God is above us. in the scriptures. When God looks, he looks down, you know, from above. That's how the Bible describes it. Psalm 102 verse 19, he looked down from his holy height. Psalm 33, verse 13, the Lord looks from heaven. He sees all the nations. He's looking down. When God speaks, he speaks down. Because God has always shown as being above. And uh, like I said, the the question is, is what kind of difference should this make in your prayer life? When you think about coming before the Lord in prayer, how does this impact the way that you pray? Understanding that God is a God who dwells in the heavens. A person who fills the heavens should fill you with awe and wonder. A God whose power created the heavens should fill us with confidence and trust. I can trust in a God like this. He's created the heavens. A God whose sovereignty rules that the heavens should should fill us with humility and respect, that we get low before a God who is in the heavens. A God who dwells above us in the heavens would and would desire to still hear from us. should fill us with gratitude and love for God like this, right? Flip over to uh Psalm chapter 8. Psalm chapter 8 It speaks of this kind of uh wonder of having a a God like this. And I I love the the contrast that it that it gets here in in Psalm 8. Uh look at verse verse 3. It says, When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained, what is man that you take thought of him, and the Son of Man that you take care of him? What what are we that that God would take pay attention to us? A God who who makes the the heavens And um the fact that man has blasted off to the moon hasn't made the heavens any smaller, it's only expanded it. You know, all of our uh modern technology and innovation and everything else it only shows us how how much smaller we are than we thought. You know, whoever can look at the heavens and think that they're, you know, something some hot shot, it's like, what in the world are you thinking? The stars that we can see with our eyes Represent only a small portion of the galaxy that we're a part of. Uh the Milky Way is uh believed to be about one quintillion kilometers. That's uh a one with eighteen zeros after it. And if you could travel at the speed of light, it would take you a hundred thousand years to get from one side to the other. Just our galaxy, just the Milky Way. Mind-boggling to think about that. In uh 2013 it was estimated, you know, okay, so so you get the idea, our galaxy, right? R galaxy a hundred thousand years just to get from one side to the other. If you could travel the speed of light. And uh scientists have uh estimated in 2013 there was a study done, and they estimated that there's about 225 billion galaxies out there. That's what they can estimate. If that doesn't put you in your place, I don't know what will, right? Just looking up at the sky at night is enough for me, right? But to know that the God is is above, beyond, and outside of that is is too much to handle. You know, that the highest heaven cannot contain God. And uh and this is the God that we come before in prayer. We're reminded that our God is in the heavens, and we're given three petitions in addition to that that uh put us in our place. Because the first thing we're instructed to come before God with is uh is not our our needs. We're to come before Him for His name, His Kingdom and His will. Again, just kind of putting us in our place and helping us to understand how great of a God you come before. Look back at uh at Matthew chapter six again. Let's pray then in this way, our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. First thing, like I said, that we're instructed to come before God with is not our needs, but with his priorities. And that only makes sense. Once you understand who God is, Of course I'm going to come to him and say, what do you want? Right? If you really understand who who God is, it only makes makes sense. Uh but if we're honest with ourselves, these these first three requests That show up in this mile of prayer don't don't often show up on a prayer list, right? You know, often when we come before the Lord, it's not typical to pray, you know, hallowed be thy name, your kingdom come. It's unexpected, maybe a little bit strange, because the the majority of of the time we come before God because we have a need, right? Even the the Greek word for for prayer, prosukumai. While it can be used for prayer in general, it was uh and includes all the elements of of prayer. The primary meaning is asking. Petitioning, requesting. You know, that's what the word uh for prayer meant. And uh Jesus assumes that his disciples will come before God with their needs. And we should come before God with our needs. In verse 8, it says, Your father knows what you need before you ask him, you know, assuming that you're going to come to him with your needs. But before we rush into his presence with what's on our list, we need to ask God what's on his. And it's uh it's not that our needs are unimportant. In uh Psalm 4, in uh Philippians 4 and verse 6, it tells us to bring everything, and everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known. Uh so so we need to submit our our requests uh before the Lord, but but when does God get to submit his requests? Right? That's that's the question. And if there there's nothing else that you you walk away from uh This portion of the sermon with what I want you to catch is this, is that there's a God-centeredness to prayer. There's a God-centeredness to the prayer um of Christ and to the prayers of the of the Bible. A. W. Pink says this, that how clearly then is the fundamental duty in prayer here set forth? Self and all its needs must be given a secondary place. We cannot pray right unless the honor of God be dominant in our hearts. The kinds of prayers that the God hears and rewards are the kind of prayers that come before him and engage with what he wants, what his desires are. Turn over to James chapter 4. It's a a verse many of you are familiar with, James chapter 4. This lets us know that that God is not not interested in in being the little genie who pops out of the magic lamp. You know, every time we we get we have a need, you know, God do this and God do that. Um recently I was listening to to a song on the on the radio as a a gospel station and It was some song talking about, you know, uh, you know, I can't lie, you know, I want it to, talking about, you know, the fancy clothes and cars, but I get it through my praise. Kind of I was like, what in the world are you talking about? Basically trying to trying to bathe greed and covetousness uh with the prayer life. You know, I want this and I want that. You know, but I I get it through my praise. I pray to God, you know, to get these things. Trying to trying to make an excuse for your your covetousness and greed and blame God for it. James chapter 4 verse 3, it says, you ask and do not receive. Why? Because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it on your pleasure. It's all about you. You know, you come before me and ask, you're not going to get it. Why? Because you you're you're just focused on yourself. Wrong motives. Spend it on your pleasures. Everything that we we come before God with, it has to come underneath his priorities for for our life. John Piper says this about the even the order that's mentioned in Matthew chapter six. He says, It seems to me that the great designs of God are first and mainly about God. And the rest of the prayer is about how I can be fitted to serve those great designs. My bread, my forgiveness, my deliverance, my health, my hope, my holiness. are for the purpose of being a part of God's great purposes, to glorify his name, to exalt his rule, to complete his will. So even as we ask the other things that come in the list, it's it's all comes underneath this sovereignty and holiness and The God's priorities. You know, everything else that we ask, it's, you know, as as long as it lines up with what what your desire is. You know, that's why I ask for food and for health and for, you know, these different things. in my life as as long as it comes up underneath your will for my life. And it's it's amazing if we uh focus on God and and his attributes. It kind of puts everything else in its proper place. You know, once you put God first And uh really when you you focus on on God it's uh it's amazing how the the other things in our our lives kinda kinda seem like small change once you kinda put the the right things in the right place. Uh real quick, look over at uh Psalm 46 Psalm, the Psalms is uh the Old Testament book of prayer, and uh Lord willing we'll be uh uh going through the Psalms uh probably in in October, uh just kind of walking through the Psalms and using it as our um just kind of motivation for for prayer uh together in our our meditations. But uh through the Psalms, it's just amazing how how it it kind of puts God in in his rightful place and then everything else just kind of falls into place. Look at Psalm 46 God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear, though the earth should change, though the mountains slip into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains quake at its swelling pride. If God is your refuge and strength, I mean everything else is small compared to that. Even though the mountains might shake, God is the refuge. You know, it's who it's in comparison to. Psalm 121. Look at Psalm 121. Verses uh 1 to 4. I lift up my eyes to the mountains. Where shall my help come from? My hope comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. He will not allow your foot to slip. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold. He who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. Once you understand who God is, everything else falls into place, right? Where does my help come from? It comes from the Lord. You know, the Lord is the one who made heaven and earth. You know, again, going back to this uh God of the heavens. If God makes heaven and earth, what am I worried about, right? Psalm 147. 147. Look at verses 1 down to 6 there. Psalm 147. Praise the Lord. For it is good to sing praises to our God, for it is pleasant, and praise is becoming. The Lord builds up Jerusalem, He gathers the outcast of Israel, He heals the brokenhearted, binds up their wounds, counts the number of the stars, he gives names to all of them. God is great as our Lord and abundant in strength. His understanding is infinite. The Lord supports the afflicted and he brings down the wicked to the ground. You see how everything falls into place? Once you understand who God is. If I'm afflicted, I know who's going to support me. If there's somebody who's wicked who's coming against me, I know who's going to bring them down. You know, I'm not worried about these things once I have a proper understanding of who my God is. And that's why we're instructed first to come before the Lord and recognize who He is when we come before Him in prayer This is the kind of thing that we're to do. MacArthur writes, the purpose of all legitimate prayer is not to fulfill the felt needs or material desires. of the one praying, but to acknowledge the sovereignty of God, to magnify his glory. Prayer is not about getting what I want, but about the fulfillment of God's will. The proper objective of God is not to enlarge my borders, build my empire, expand my wallet. But to further the kingdom of God, the point is not to elevate my name, but to hollow God's name. Everything in prayer revolves around who God is, what God wants, how God is to be glorified. That is the sum and substance of all proper praying. If you really understand that you come before a God who's in the heavens, you're going to be a person who's filled with awe and worship when you come before God. You're going to be a person who's filled with confidence and trust when you come before God. You're going to be a person who's filled with humility and respect when you come before God. And you're going to be filled with gratitude and love because what kind of God who created the heavens, spun the galaxies into existence? You know, the 250 billion that they can that's just the ones that they've detected A God who spun the galaxies into existence. What am I? Who am I? The God would take thought of me. But Jesus says he does. Jesus says he does. And through the person of Jesus Christ, we understand that this God came down to us to become our sacrifice. So that we could escape the punishment of God in hell and dwell with him in his paradise forever. Amen? That's the kind of God that we come before. Let's uh bow our heads in prayer and um uh then I'm gonna Ask you to to to just join me in uh in prayer. Uh probably take uh you know just two or three uh people that are next to you in your your aisle and uh just kind of think and meditate on on these things that we've uh talked about just for a couple minutes, for three to four minutes. And then today I have uh Brian uh Plowden uh that's gonna uh come and close us in prayer. Uh so let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for uh this great Wonderful opportunity that we have as uh as a body uh to think about these things, to think about who you are, God. That you are a God who dwells in the heavens, a God who fills the heavens, a God who is above the heavens. And a God who uh would also come near to us, uh a God who would send his Son, uh Jesus Christ, to be our sacrifice, uh to be the one who who lives, who tabernacles, who set up his tent among us. So that he could walk in our shoes, that he could live the perfect life that we couldn't live, and that he could die the death that we deserved. so that you could take us to heaven. Father, we thank you that we come before God with confidence , with awe, with respect. with love, with admiration. My Father, we glorify you. And our Father, I pray that the the better that we understand who you are, the better we understand your attributes and what you've done is is the better that we'll be able to pray. the more that we'll be able to pray prayers that are meaningful um not only to us but to you, Father, which is what our aim is. So Father, I pray that you'd hear our prayers now. As your people, as we focus on who you are and what you've done, my Father, I pray that uh you would help us as a congregation to uh uh to have a better uh communication with you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.