The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well it's uh this is my prayer that the the Lord's been uh using uh the last couple of weeks really to uh to focus your attention on prayer. Uh I know for the uh the the last few weeks it's it's uh truly been a blessing in my own life as I've uh thought more deeply about prayer. I pray that it's uh it's deepened you in prayer, that it's broadened you in prayer. And I pray that your uh prayers would be touching on biblical themes that uh maybe they haven't been in a while, and uh that just this uh focus on the the Lord's Prayer would kind of uh bring those things back to the back to the surface and uh that you even find your prayers being broader, uh praying more often than uh you might have uh before, uh because these things have been brought to the front of your your thinking and it's uh like I said it's been a joy to see the impact of meditating on these truths in my own life and I pray that uh that you'd see a a similar impact on your own So let's recite the Lord's Prayer together, and we'll be using debts and debtors and using the uh the older version, the King James Version of the Scriptures to recite the Lord's Prayer together. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, once again, for uh being able to think more deeply about prayer. Uh Father, I pray that uh you would change and transform our prayer lives. Because of the attention that we're giving to the words of Jesus Christ and how He instructed His disciples to pray. Father, I pray that uh your uh will and kingdom and name uh would be uh glorified, uh that your uh uh name would be hallowed uh among uh this earth where uh people so often malign you or they speak evil of you or they blaspheme your name. My father, I pray that uh your kingdom would come uh where we see uh uh other men's kingdoms set in place, that the kingdom of Christ would come and uh crush every uh kingdom to powder as he reigns supreme and as as he's recognized as the king and majesty that he is. And uh Father, I pray that um uh your will would be accomplished just as it is in heaven, as uh every desire, as every command is fulfilled, uh Father, I pray that that would be the same that is true on this earth. And Father, I pray that as we uh give our attention to the second half of uh of this prayer, uh Father, that you would help us to uh uh rejoice in the great privilege that we have to come before you as our Father. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. Well, this morning we come to an obvious transition in the Lord's Prayer. And it's the prayer, give us this day our daily bread. Give us this day our daily bread. And uh the the pronouns in in this section, the second half of the Lord's Prayer, they're all different. Instead of uh the uh second person singular, you know, your name, your kingdom, your will. Uh it transitions now to the emphasis being the the first person plural, give us, forgive us, deliver us. You know, so there's a difference in the first half and the second half of this prayer. And uh not only is the the subject of this prayer different. The uh the kinds of petitions that are introduced here are are different. Uh Piper writes this, he says, you can see the differences and you can feel the difference between the two halves. The first half feels majestic, lofty. The last half feels mundane and lowly. The Lord's Prayer is very true to life in a sense. Life is a combination of spectacular things and simple things. Fantastic things and familiar things. Awesome things and average things. Exotic things and everyday things. That's the way that life is. And uh well, I want you to see the the wonder uh that's contained in this uh petition for daily bread. Uh you have to admit that in contrast to uh you know, hallowed be thy name and thy kingdom come and thy will be done, that it's it's kind of abrupt shift to say, hey, I wonder what I'm having for for breakfast today. You know, to go from the the lofty heights of God's name, kingdom, and glory to saying, you know, hey what am I going to eat every day? It's it's a it's this abrupt shift And in some ways it seems out of place, at least, you know, right up front it does. And uh there have been people in earlier centuries of the church who decided that, you know, there can't be this dramatic shift between the first half and the second half. Uh so what he's talking about here just can't be regular bread. You know, maybe there's something else that the the Lord is uh trying to get at. You know, maybe this bread is being used as some kind of spiritual metaphor uh for something that's more lofty, some kind of super bread, you know, some kind of wonder bread uh that the Lord is trying to offer us here. Uh the Latins uh use this word, the Latin fathers use the word super substantial. Super substantial. It's got to be something that's above our reality that the Lord is is talking about. So there's been a couple suggestions as to what the Lord might have meant. Some people said that he's talking about the bread of communion. The communion bread. Later in Matthew 26, in verse 26, Jesus would pick up the bread, and he would say, Take eat, this is my body. And it would point to the memory of the sacrifice for him as we uh uh even quoted a little bit earlier today. And there are Christians that actually took communion every day because they said, We need to take our daily bread. You know, give us this day our daily bread and use it for communion. Uh there were others who understood uh the bread to be the bread of the Word of God. And uh in the temptation, uh Christ's temptation back in uh Matthew chapter four, if you'll remember that. Uh remember when Satan tempted Jesus Christ to turn the stones into what Into bread. He tried to trick them to turn these stones into bread. And then Jesus responded and says, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by what? Every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. So some people looked at that and said, Hey, you must be talking about the word of God, the bread of God, which is his word, and that that's what we're asking God to give us every day. There was others that suggested that the bread is talking about Jesus Himself. In John chapter 6, Jesus refers to himself as the what? The bread of life. He's the bread of life. In John chapter 6, verse 35, Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger. He who believes in me will never thirst. And then there were others that suggested that the bread was the bread that we will eat one day in the kingdom of God, the coming kingdom, the kingdom that's to come. In Luke chapter 12 and verse 15 it says Jesus says this. He says, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. This kind of future look into this bread of the kingdom. But uh every one of those suggestions is foreign to the to the context. Um The disciples wouldn't have understood any of that if uh that's what Jesus was uh trying to uh get them to understand uh with this requesting to pray for your daily bread. Uh every one of them would have been thinking about literal, physical, ordinary bread. And uh understanding that is backed up by the context as well. Just a few verses earlier in uh Matthew chapter six, if you look back, um uh Actually, if you look down to uh verses uh 31 and 32, just a few verses later, uh. Jesus clarifies himself uh to say what he's really talking about here. Verses 31 and 32 of Matthew chapter 6. Listen what he says here. He says, Do not worry then, saying, What will we eat? Or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. It's talking about physical bread, physical drink, physical clothing. God knows that you need all these things. Verse 33, look at what it says. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness and all these things. What things? Bread, drink, clothing will be added to you. The Gentiles weren't seeking after the bread of communion or the bread of the Word of God or the bread of Jesus. They were looking for physical bread, you know, something to eat And he says, the Gentiles seek after all these things. But you seek the kingdom first, and I'll add all these other things to you. And it's parallel to what we find in the Lord's Prayer. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done, seek the kingdom first, and all these other things. What? What other things? Bread will be added to ye. So within the context itself, it shows that he's talking about physical ordinary bread. Same order back in uh verse 8 uh Jesus says do not be like them uh the gentiles he's talking about there uh for your father knows what you need before you ask him And again, he's talking about physical bread. The Gentiles were seeking after physical bread. And Jesus says, seek the kingdom, and I'll give you the bread. You know, you worry about the kingdom. Focus on eternal priorities, and I'll give you the bread. And uh every one of these petitions in uh the Lord's Prayer here is is is in harmony with the rest of the prayer. God is pleased to hear the request. for physical needs and he takes those things seriously. It brings glory to God for you to come before him and ask him to give you your daily bread. And uh in fact this idea that God is, you know, not concerned about physical things, that was an idea that floated around in the uh early church. Uh there were even some people that, you know, they had this kind of resistance against physical things and uh would even teach that There wasn't a physical resurrection either. You know, because, you know, spiritual is what's good. You know, the things that are invisible, things that are spiritual, you know, this kind of supernatural kind of stuff. You know, the physical stuff, I mean, that's like, you know, what wh why waste your time on that? You know, God's not concerned about that. Uh so they even taught people that Jesus really didn't rise from the dead in a physical body You know, why would you think so low of Jesus Christ? He rose in a spiritual body, because the spiritual is better. But this is what uh the Apostle Paul uh said in uh 1 Corinthians 15, verse 17. He says, and if Christ has not been raised He's talking about bodily resurrection. If Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. Christianity depends on a physical resurrection of Jesus Christ. And he says you're still in your sins. Because the sacrifice wasn't accepted by the Father. You're still in your sins. And then in uh 1 John, John talked about the same kind of theme in 1 John chapter 4. He says that if you don't believe in a physical bodily resurrection, he says you're of the Antichrist. Of the Antichrist. 1 John chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. He says, By this you know the Spirit of God. How do we know the Spirit of God? Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now it is already in the world. He says, you deny that Jesus Christ came in a physical body, was resurrected in the physical body. He says, you are of the Antichrist. You're preaching a different message. You're preaching a different Jesus. It's not the Jesus of the Bible. So physical physical bodies and everything matter to God, and even our physical needs matter to God. Don't let anybody try to tell you anything different Martin Lloyd Jones says this, and I thought it was just a great way that he put it. He says, is not this one of the most wonderful things in the whole scripture? That the God, who is the creator and sustainer of the universe, the God who is forming his eternal kingdom, who will usher it in at the end, the God to whom the nations are but as the small dust of the balance, that such a God should be prepared to consider your little needs and mine, even down to the minutest details in this matter of daily bread? But that is the teaching of our Lord everywhere. He tells us that even a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without our Father, that we are of much greater value than the many sparrows. He says that the very hairs of your head are all numbered. If only we could grasp this fact that the Almighty God of the universe is interested in every part and portion of us. There's not a hair of my head that He's not concerned about, and the smallest, most trivial details of my life are known to him on his everlasting throne. That's wonderful to think about. That God is thinking about you. The very hairs of your head are numbered. He cares about your needs. That's the kind of God that we come before. And this petition teaches us that it glorifies God to come before Him with our physical needs. It's a prayer that God recognizes. and rewards. And there's three lessons that we learn from this petition. Give us this day our daily bread. Three lessons that we learn. First of all, we're to recognize our constant source. Our constant source is God. We come to God as the one who gives us this day our daily bread. We come to Him and ask Him, give us. We recognize God is the constant source. We also recognize our constant need. You know, give us this day and daily. You know, we always need this, you know, from God. Always to come before God with this request. And then the third thing we recognize is our constant dependence. uh on God. Our bread shows us that that we're not self-sufficient. We need something that's outside of ourself, even to sustain our lives, even to survive. We need something that's outside of us. We need to depend on something outside of us for our daily sustenance. So these are the three things we learn, our constant source, our constant need, and our constant dependence. First of all, let's look at our constant source. This verse, this petition here recognizes our constant source. Give us this day our daily bread. Give us. We're speaking to God, asking God to give this to us. And the Bible consistently recognizes God as the source of everything, right? In Psalm 24, verse 1, it says that the earth is the Lord's. And the all that it contains, the fullness thereof, the world and all who dwell in it. In Psalm chapter 50, verse 12, it says, If I were hungry, God is saying, If I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you, for the world is mine. I mean, what are you going to give me? Right? The world belongs to me. You can't give God something that doesn't already belong to Him, right? He owns everything, and by the same token, you don't receive anything. That hasn't been given to you from God because everything belongs to him. In uh Job chapter 41 and verse 11, God says, Who has given to me that I should repay him? Have you ever given anything to me that I have to write an IOU for? You know, there's nothing that you have that I need to repay you for. Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine. God is the source of all blessings. Uh in the garden of Eden, he gave uh to mankind every uh plant yielding seed for food. In Genesis chapter nine he also opened it up to the animal kingdom for us for food in Genesis nine three, every moving thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give all to you as I gave the green plant. And it's out of God's generous mercy and loving kindness that he feeds all flesh. In Psalm 136, verse 25, who gives food to all flesh for his loving kindness is everlasting. Psalm 145, verse 15 and 16, the eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due time. You open your hand, you satisfy the desire of every living thing. And God is to be celebrated for that. God is to be celebrated as the God who gives to all living things. And there was there were even um uh festivals under the old uh covenant, under the uh the old covenant that actually mandated the celebration of God for giving. The celebration of the God who gives, who who gives bountifully. Uh you have the uh the um uh Pentecost uh the the celebration of Pentecost or uh uh Shavuoth in in Hebrew. It was a mandatory celebration of the harvest. Mandatory celebration for the people of God for the harvest. In uh Deuteronomy 16 uh verses nine and ten it says you shall count seven weeks for yourself You shall begin to count seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle of the staining grain. So from the beginning of the harvest, you know, you start to harvest, you start counting seven weeks. Then you shall celebrate the feast of weeks to the Lord, your God, with a tribute of a free will offering of your hand, which ye shall give, just as the Lord your God blesses you. It was a mandated celebration that God is the God of the harvest. God is the one who gives us all these things freely to enjoy. They were mandated to celebrate God for his gracious gift. And uh there are also uh different offerings, the offerings of first fruits and other offerings that were an expression of gratitude. uh to God for what he had given uh to them and uh all throughout scripture we're commanded to be thankful uh for the food that we have and uh uh 1 Timothy 4 4, we're to receive our fruit with gratitude. We're to uh partake of it with thankfulness in uh 1 Corinthians 10 verse 30. Because we recognize that everything comes from God. And uh and generally as as Christians, you know, we thank God for our daily food, don't we? You know, before you eat food, you bow your head, you pray, you thank God for what He's given to you. There's certain times when we celebrate what God has given to us. So, you know, around Thanksgiving time, we celebrate the God who's given to us during the whole year. We give praise to God. But I I wonder when's the last time you've actually Pray to God to give to you your daily bread. We thank God for it. We might celebrate God for it. When's the last time you actually ask God to give it to me? Give us this day our daily bread. When's the last time you prayed for it? Do you regularly ask God to give you your daily bread? It's a convicting question. Because uh it makes us wonder have we gotten to the place where we no longer believe we're dependent on God for it? That we no longer have to ask Him for it, because we just assume that it's going to come? And uh we may let this prayer kind of fall off of our list because, you know, we have a couple of loaves back home. You know, why do I need to pray for daily bread? I got a couple loaves of bread back home. Why do I need to pray for daily bread? It kind of seems strange to pray for something that you already have, right? You know, maybe people in uh you know some parts of Africa or Asia or you know India, you know, maybe they have to pray for their daily bread, but you know, not me. I've got a couple of loaves at home. What do I need to pray for daily bread for? As one writer said, material affluence is no respect. In no respect lessens my need to rely on God. Actually, it increases it. It increases it. I am in greater spiritual danger when I have plenty than when I have nothing. Hence, there is almost a greater need of the wealthy to cry to God for mercy that they may not fail to trust Him. We have more of a need to cry out to God for our daily bread because we're we're those that are most tempted to forget that that's where it comes from. That that's where it comes from. We need to come before God and say, God, I depend on you every day. I don't I don't just expect that this is just gonna happen because of my own strength and because I got a job and because I got a store down the street that the bread's just gonna keep coming You know, God, I I depend on you every day for my daily bread. Uh, this was a concern that God had for his people that they forget They forget where where these things come from. And Deuteronomy. Uh actually why don't you flip back there? Deuteronomy chapter 31. Deuteronomy was the uh Moses speaking to the people before they entered into the promised land and uh also before the Lord took them off the scene. It's uh uh a group of uh uh really you could almost call them sermons uh as Moses is speaking uh to his people, uh to the people of Israel. Deuteronomy chapter 31 Look at uh verse 20. Verse 20, Deuteronomy 31, look at verse 20. Actually, let's start at verse 19 Now therefore, write this song for yourselves and teach it to the sons of Israel. I want you to remember this. So actually put it to music so you can not forget about it. Put it on their lips so that this song may be a witness for me against the sons of Israel. For when I bring them into the land flowing with milk and honey, which I swore to their fathers, and they have eaten and are satisfied and become prosperous, then they will turn to other gods and serve them and spurn me. And break my covenant. And he says, I want you to put this in into a song so that when it happens, nobody can say, hey, I didn't know that was going to happen. No, you knew it. Put it in a song so they can remember. Flip over to chapter 32, one one chapter later. Look at chapter 32. Moses continues to speak to Israel in chapter 32. Look at verse 14. He says, curds of cows and milk of the flock with fat of lambs and rams, the breed of Bashan, you know, talking about cows here as well. Breed of Bashan and goats with the finest of the wheat. And all of the blood of grapes, you know, the the juice that comes out of the grapes, she drank wine. But Jeshuron, and Jeshurun is a. is a a name that was uh given to the people of God. It was uh it's a word that means the upright one, Jeshurun, talking about Israel. It says, and uh and Jeshurun, but Jeshuran grew fat. And kicked. You are grown fat, thick, and sleek. Then he forsook God who made him, and scorned the rock of his salvation. They made him jealous with strange gods, with abominations. They provoked him to anger. Says you're you're gonna you're gonna get in this land, you're gonna get fat, you're gonna get sleek, and then you're gonna start thinking, hey I got I got something to say. I I I I got this on my own. Got fat and sleek and thick And he says, and then you scorn the rock of your salvation. You forgot where all this stuff came from. You forgot where it came from. And that's the plight of many Americans now, isn't it? They for forget where their their bounty comes from. They forget where their blessings come from. And that's why uh Agar in uh Proverbs he he offers this wise prayer. before the Lord in chapter 30 uh Proverbs 30 verses 7 and 9. He says, Two things I asked of you. He says, I'm going to ask for two requests, God. Two things I've asked of you. Do not refuse me before I die. Keep deception and lies far from me. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is my portion, that I may not, that I not be full and deny you and say, Who is the Lord? Or that I not be in want and steal and profane the name of my God. Two things I want to ask. Don't give me poverty and don't give me riches. I don't want to become so rich that I forget and deny you. And I don't want to become so poor that I I have to be forced to to steal and profane your name. Don't don't let me be in either situation. And the the question that you know really the the challenge for all of us is uh you know to make sure we're constantly saying before the Lord that we don't get to a place where we don't think we need him anymore. There there 's not a lot of times that I've I've prayed for bread. uh when I didn't actually have any, but um there's one time during during the last year of of seminary, uh during the last year I was in in seminary uh when I lost my job. I actually got laid off from four different jobs. You know, got a new job, got laid off, got a new job, got laid off, you know, four times in a in a row. Um so during my last couple of months in in seminary Um, you know, I was looking for for work and uh you know the kind of employment that I was used to. I was uh doing HVAC work and uh couldn't find any HVC HVAC work to to do, so I started picking up some kind of odd jobs, you know, just doing some maintenance work and I got to the point where I'm I'm thinking just like wow do I have to like pull out a seminary? You know, just to make sure I'm I'm you know making ends meet for my my family and I'm looking at the calendar. It's like I only had a couple months left, you know, on the calendar. My seminary was already paid for, so it's not like I had to pay for that. Um so what I did is I just, you know I'll just take the jobs that come, you know, we'll make it work, uh just so I can get through through seminary. And uh I remember one time I was down to a sack of potatoes and uh a couple spices, you know, in the in the cupboard. That was that was it Um and I can remember praying for bread. I remember praying for bread. Uh we didn't we didn't let anybody know what was going on uh because we just wanted to be content. uh with what the the Lord provided for us. I remember my wife actually uh uh came home, she was uh part of a woman's retreat uh that year. Uh she was uh asked to come and speak at a woman's retreat at a Hope Bible Church and she felt bad leaving uh because she knew that we're back at home. eating a sack of potatoes and uh she's going off to this woman's retreat and she's gonna be well fed and breakfast, lunch and dinner and you know, back home, you know, her family's, you know, eating a sack of potatoes, you know, back at home. And uh I remember her just, you know, uh feeling torn about that. And I said, you know, just go ahead, you know, uh you'll be fine, we'll be fine, don't don't worry about us. And uh, you know, I just remember praying. And uh you hear these stories to other you know happen with other people, you never, you know, think about it happening to you. I got a knock on my door. It was uh it was a brother from a Grace Community Church out there in California and he had a van load of food. That he uh brought to us. And um I remember in the in the bag there was bread. There was bread in the bag. And I pray, I pray that I never forget the kind of dependence that I had on the Lord during that time. You know, when it was just like, Lord, you know what I need. You know, we're gonna trust in you, we're gonna be content with what we have. And uh and here the Lord, you know, backs up the van and you know, opens it up with a you know a trunk full of of uh groceries. So uh I pray that I never forget that kind of dependence on the Lord. That we always remember to have that kind of dependence on him. One commentator said, God often and generally gives us far more than enough for the day, but even in the midst of great plenty, our real safety lies in the Father alone That's where our real safety is. It's in God. And while you may work for your food, you need to remember that it's God who gives it to you, right? Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 18 says, But ye shall remember the Lord your God. For it is he who has given you power to make wealth, that he may confirm his covenant which he swore to your fathers, as it is this day. God gives you the power to make wealth. If you got a job, it's because God gave it to you. Make any money this week, it's because God allowed you to make money this week. He's the source. We need to remember that. God is the constant source. Number two , this prayer recognizes our constant need for God. Recognizes our constant source is God. Also recognizes our constant uh need uh and it comes from God. Uh that what we need every day comes from God. We have a constant need, and God is the one who supplies us. So everybody had dinner last night? I don't care how good your dinner was, there's gonna come some time during the day where you're gonna want to eat again. That's that's just the way it the way it works. Your stomach doesn't care how good the dinner was last night. It's going to remind you sometime today that hey I I need to be fed again. That's just the way it works. Our bodies are constantly using energy. Even when our bodies are at rest, they're using energy. NIH National Institutes of Health reports that your resting metap metabolic rate, resting metabolic rate. is the largest component of the daily energy budget. You know what that means? Like doing nothing. Doing nothing. Just to stay alive. Like your body uses 70% just to keep everything functioning on the inside. That's without, you know, going for a jog around the block or whatever else. Just to keep you going. Nutrition professor of North Seattle Community College said that 60 to 70% of the energy your body uses is just to maintain its physiological functions. You need energy just to do nothing. You need energy for nothing. You don't even have to do anything. You're using energy. Our bodies are constantly depleting our resources. And we won't survive unless we refuel, right? Won't survive unless you refuel. And that's why uh hunger is one of the strongest instincts that we have. Even even babies know how to cry out for food. You know, I'm hungry, right? We can go a few days without eating, but it's not long before the body starts to even feed on itself to survive. It needs the energy. And many people would rather choose slavery or suffering over starvation. If you don't think that's true, think about the children of Israel. Children of Israel. Here they are, fresh out of Egypt, where they cried out to the Lord for deliverance. In uh Exodus chapter 3, verse 7, the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt. They have given heed to their, and I've given heed to their cry because of their taskmasters, for I'm aware of their suffering. Here they are suffering under these taskmasters. But what was more terrifying to the Israelites than suffering under taskmasters and these slave owners was to have to wait on bread every day. To not know where the next meal was coming from. That was more terrifying to them than being back in slavery. So they're crying out, just bring us back. Take us back to Egypt. At least I knew where the next meal was coming from. Here I'm having to wait for it to fall out of the sky. At least I could see it over there. I don't want to have to be dependent on God for bread. So they're crying out, send us back. They'd rather be in slavery and suffering. than starvation and depend on on the Lord. R. C. Sproul tells a story about a South Korean orphanage Since after the the Korean War ended, uh South Korea was left with a large number of children who had been orphaned by the war. Relief agencies came in to deal with all the problems that arose in connection with having so many orphaned children. One of the people involved in this relief effort told me about a problem they encountered with the children who were in the orphanages. Even though the children had three meals a day provided for them, they were restless and anxious at night and had difficulty sleeping. As they talked to the children, they soon discovered that the children had great anxiety about whether they would have food the next day. So even though they're consistently being fed three times a day, at night they're laying awake wondering, well, how about tomorrow? And they're restless. They can't get to sleep because they're wondering about well what's going to happen tomorrow. To help resolve this problem, the relief workers in one particular orphanage decided that each night when the children were put to bed, the nurses there would place a single piece of bread in the child's hand. The bread wasn't intended to be eaten. It was simply intended to be held by the children as they went to sleep. It was a security blanket for them. Reminding them that there would be provision for the next day's needs. And sure enough, the bread calmed the children's anxieties and helped them to sleep. But here you have the children and uh children of Israel out in the the wilderness and God says, you're not going to have any security blanket. I'm not giving you a piece of bread to hold on till the next day. I don't want bread to take my place. I don't want you to hold on to bread. I want you to hold on to me. I want you to hold on to my promises. And Moses said to them about the manna that they collected, let no man leave any of it until the morning. But they didn't listen to Moses. They wanted the security blanket. You know, give me the piece of bread to hold on to. I don't want to hold on to the promises of God. I want to hold on to the piece of bread As if there's any comparison, right? Like what would you rather have? The promises of God or a a piece of bread in your hand? And here they are. I'd rather have the piece of bread in my hand. Just give me the piece of bread that I can hold on to. The shelf life for Manna was one day. I don't know, I've heard about like uh McDonald's burgers still looking like the same like you know a couple months later. Got a got a great shelf life. Manna it it wasn't like that. You know, one day and it's done. Except on the weekends. You know, on the weekends you get a little reprieve, but every other day, one and done, you hold on to that manna more than one day and you're you're holding on to worms. Shelf life for manna was one day. He wanted them to hold on to his promises. In Deuteronomy 8. 3, he says, I humbled you, let you be hungry, fed you with manna which you did not know. Nor did your fathers know that he might make you understand that God does that that man does not live by bread alone, but by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of God. I don't want you to trust in bread, I want you to trust in me. I'm the one who keeps you alive. And this was something they had to exercise every day. Every day. This word daily that's used here in Matthew chapter 6. It's a rare word, doesn't occur anywhere outside of the Bible. Um there's uh many believe that Jesus actually created it just for this prayer. It's a word that uh can mean uh uh what's necessary for survival, or it could be mean uh you know for the coming day. Um or if you prayed it at night, you know, if you prayed it during the morning it's for that day. If you prayed it at night, it's for the next day. But uh whatever um uh whatever way you kind of slice it, you know, pun intended with the bread, right? Whatever way you slice it, uh it's talking about immediate needs, okay? Talking about immediate needs. And the best evidence that we have is it does mean daily. It's daily bread. Bread that we need every every day. It was reported that the same word was found on a piece of papyrus. uh which turned out to be a woman's grocery list where she's marking down like what do I need for for the day and going out to to collect those those items. The Lord doesn't give us liberty here to pray for every one of our future needs today. That's not what he's talking about. There was a Jewish prayer that was known as the Shemonai Eshrah, where the Jewish people prayed for the whole year's bread. I'm going to pray for all of the year right now. But uh God wants us to come before Him daily. Every day, I want you to pray. Uh Martin Lloyd Jones says that an earthly father would be grievously wounded by the Son, who is content to enjoy the gift that the Father has given him, but never seeks his company again until he has exhausted his supplies. You know, hey dad, give me what I need and then you forget about 'em until you need something else, right? And God says I I don't want you to just get a whole year's supply of bread and then never come back. You know, some people if they had everything that they needed right up front, it's like why go back to God, right? God says, I want you to come back daily. I want you to be reminded daily that you need me. Doesn't mean that we're not to prepare for tomorrow. It just means that uh we're not to worry about tomorrow. You know, what we have for today is sufficient. You know, the needs of today are sufficient for itself. That's what Matthew chapter 6, verse 34 uh talks about. Uh and the the grace that God gives us, it's daily kind of grace. The strength that He gives us is is a uh actually in in Philippians chapter four it talks about uh that that I can do all things through him who strengthens me, and it's talking about like this present. Active kind of strength. It's not like God just deposits everything that you need and say, hey, that's all you need for the rest of your life, you know, don't have to worry about it. It's it's this constant connection that we need to have with God, daily strength. Just as we need to get daily bread from him, we need to constantly come before him. So it's for these immediate needs, you know, rather than these long-term needs. And it's also for necessary needs. Necessary needs. Why why didn't Jesus just say, uh, you know, um give us this day our daily steak? You know, since we're already coming to form in prayer, why not just pray for daily stake? Why not pray for daily cake? Give us this day our daily cake. Because you don't need it. Right? Because you don't need it. The choice of bread was purposeful. I want you to pray for things that you actually need. Bread was a staple diet. You can make it a long time off of bread. You can make it a long time off of bread. Israel survived off of the bread that they were given in the wilderness. That was sufficient to get them through the wilderness And the Lord burned with anger when they became discontent with what they had. Remember in uh Numbers chapter eleven It says the rabble were among them, and they had greedy desires. And also the sons of Israel wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? Tired of this bread. We remember the fish which we used to eat free in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, the garlic. But now our appetite is gone. There's nothing at all to look at except this manna. And here is God's provision for them. You were just crying a couple months ago, saying, Where are we going to eat? And now God has rained it down from heaven. And now you're saying, Where's the leeks and the onions? Where's the meat to eat? It's like, how dare you? But you know what? I mean, where are we often found? Discontent with the provision that the Lord has given to us. We're not to pray for bounty, we're to pray for bread. We're not to pray for luxury, we're to pray for necessity. We're not to pray for greeds, we're to pray for Luther said that this prayer for daily bread could also include everything necessary for preservation of life, including food, health, home, peace. The Heidelberg Catechism said it this way, be pleased to provide us with all things necessary for the body, that we may thereby acknowledge you to be the only fountain of good. I'm not sure that a sixty-four million dollar jet fits on that list. Like some of our uh our friends would like to tell us, you know, you just need to name it and claim it. Whatever you want. You know, you just write the checkout and God will provide. That's that's not what this prayer teaches us to do. Just pray for daily bread. Not pray for your daily jet AW thinks that if God grants us the luxuries of life, we're to be thankful and must use them for his glory, but we must not ask for them. We're not to come before God asking for luxury. 1 Timothy 6, 8 and 9, it says, if we have food and covering, with these we shall be content. But those who want to get rich, I want more. I want more, I want more. Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction. James chapter 4 says you ask and you do not receive because you ask with wrong motive so that you can spend it on your pleasures. It's all about me, getting what I want. I want to be want to have luxury and all this pleasure. Instead of just worrying about the the needs that that you've been presented with and that you can come before God freely to ask for, and that you even have the privilege to come before Him to ask for that, right? Lastly, so we learn about our constant source, learn about our constant need, our daily need, and lastly, it's our constant dependence. And this is quick. It's one thing to say that you have needs It's another thing to recognize that you're unable to meet those needs yourself. Okay? One thing to say I have needs, it's another thing to say I can't meet those needs myself. There's many people who will admit that they have needs Uh but they also believe that they're completely capable of meeting those needs themselves. I had a a coworker uh who used to you know tell me when I prayed for my food, he says, you know, what what are you thanking God for? You've worked for it. What in the world are you thinking? The point I want to make is really simple. When we pray for bread, we're praying for something that is completely outside of ourselves. Okay? Praying for something completely outside of our ourselves. We're dependent on something outside of us to even keep us alive, to sustain our very life. And that automatically makes you dependent. You're dependent. Farm removed from the the the whole process of making bread, but I looked up the recipe for bread, found some simple ingredients. Water, sugar, oil, flour, salt, and yeast. Water, which God causes to fall. Sugar, oil, and flour, which all comes from the plants that God causes to grow. Salt, which is a mineral that God created, and yeast, which is a microorganism that God's made. Which one of those comes from you? You can't produce. I mean it's like today we have men that that boast of all their great accomplishments. You can't even make a piece of tusk You can't even make a piece of toast apart from God. And then you want to boast of all your accomplishments. There's only one who uh the Latin would say it's I say I say self-existent from himself. There's only one who is self-existent, and it's not you. You are not self-existent Exodus chapter 3 talks about the I am. God is the I am. In Acts chapter uh seventeen it talks about how all these things come from God. We don't uh it's not like we come before God to serve him with human hands like you know he needs something from us. Psalm chapter fifty says if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. Well what am I going to get from you And then there's many who just miss the point entirely when they think about physical things. Miss the point entirely that it's it's all given from God, that you're dependent on God for everything that you you have. God's given us the range from the heavens, the fruitful seasons that satisfies our hearts with food and gladness. And He's left himself a witness. Because all these things that God has given to us, it's not so we could look around. It's not so that we could look within, it's so that we could look up, right? And recognize the one who's given us all these things. Because all these things are meant to point you to himself. In Luke chapter 12, Jesus told the story. It says the land of a rich man was very productive. And he began reasoning to himself, saying, What shall I do? Since I have no place to store my crops. Then he said, this is what I'll do. I'll tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store my grain, my goods, and I'll say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years to come. Take your ease. Eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, You fool Two words you never want to hear directed towards you from the Lord, right? You fool. This very night your soul is required of you, and now who will own what you have prepared? So is the man who stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Everything that we've been given to enjoy is not just to consume it upon ourselves, it's to direct us back to Him. And to recognize that everything that we have is a gift from God. And we need to make sure that we stay in a position where we constantly recognize our dependence on Him for absolutely everything. I I hope you you pray for your daily bread. Pray for your daily bread. Remind yourself that I need every day I need to pray and ask God. God Please, can you give me another day? Would you continue to provide for me? Because I know I don't do this on my own. That's what we need to be praying. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for this opportunity to uh take another look at your word. We thank you for the clarity of it. We thank you for the power of it. Uh Father, we pray that you would convict us, that you would uh challenge us. That you would cause us to look to you, our gracious provider, our heavenly provider, who gives us all things freely to enjoy. But it's it's not to just consume it upon our own lust and pleasures It's to turn our attention back to you, the God who gives all things, the one who deserves all glory. Father, we pray that you would be glorified even as we ask you for the simple, ordinary. familiar things like bread. Father, I pray that you would uh remind us of your wonder and glory in all of that. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.