The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and open up to the Book of Romans? We're in Romans chapter two. We're back in the book of Romans today, and Lord willing we'll be wrapping up chapter two of Romans. So we are making progress, whether you realize it or not. But uh we'll be wrapping up the uh chapter two of Romans. Uh I'll probably come back and make some comments. You know, about Romans chapter two after we leave it, but uh but we are going to to cover all the verses uh today, Lord uh willing. And uh as you take your Bibles, just want to remind you That the book of Romans is a letter that declares the gospel of God and displays the righteousness of God And whether God justifies the sinner or condemns the sinner, God is always defended as righteous. He 's only righteous, he's always righteous, and he's infinitely righteous. And as we turn back to Romans chapter 2 , We understand that there is no partiality with God. Whether you're Jewish or Gentile, whether you're religious or pagan, whether you had access to the Bible or only the the work of the law in your heart, on your conscience. Whether it was the word of God preached that accused you, or just your conscience that you walk around with day in and day out that accused you God will be absolutely impartial in his judgment, and he's absolutely right to do it. And God's judgment is going to be final. And none of our advantages or disadvantages will be an excuse on that day of judgment. There's not going to be any special privileges for the elite. There will be no special exemptions for the underprivileged. There will be equal justice for all, but it's not the kind of equal justice that so many people are talking about today. So many people talk about equal justice, but what does equal justice look like according to Scripture? Romans chapter 2 and verse 9, there will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek. Your lineage won't matter, your knowledge won't matter, your heritage won't matter on that day And what so many people who had a Jewish background were depending on to escape the judgment of God is going to mean nothing. They'll have to stand before God. For themselves without anybody to stand there alongside of them just because they were in their lineage or because they're part of their heritage. They won't be able to tell God what they know on that day The religious people depended on their religious lineage. Verse 17 of chapter 2, it says, if he bear the name Jew, and that name was more than just an ethnic identity, that was a religious identity. Again, think about this, that there was nothing that was ethnically distinct about Abraham when he was called out from among his family. Think about that. He looked just like everybody else. He talked just like everybody else. He had the same cultural expressions as everybody else in his family. But God called him out from among his family. And now says that you're going to be unique. I'm going to start a new nation with you. God called him out and it was. To follow after him. In Genesis 12, 1 through 4, it says, go forth from your country, from your relatives, from your father's house, to the land which I will show you. And I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you, and make your name great, and so you shall be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you. And the one who curses you, I will curse And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. So Abram went forth as the Lord had spoken to him. What was it that made Abraham different? It was the Lord who spoke to him that made him different. He was called out from among his his family. So just being able to trace your physical lineage back to Abraham, I mean, that's a privilege. But it was more than just about being able to trace your physical line back. Like I said, Abraham was no different than anybody else. There were other people who were in his family that he was taken out from. There was something significant about the God that he believed in. Not just his physical birth. And I remind people that Abraham had two sons, and only one was the son of promise. Isaac had two sons, and only one had the birthright. And according to Luke 16, there are going to be sons of Abraham who will lift up their eyes in the agony in the flames of hell. And your ancestry will not be able to save you. Religious people also depended on their religious knowledge. In verse 17, it says they rely upon the law. According to verse 18, they know his will, approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the law, but again, being familiar with the word is not enough. The scribes and the Pharisees were the professional students and the teachers of the law, but listen to how Jesus spoke to them in John chapter 5 and verse 39. He says, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me. And you're unwilling to come to me so that you might have life. Listening is not enough. Knowing the Word of God is not enough. They were the professional students and teachers of the law, but that was not enough. Many of those who were Pharisees, they memorize the books of the law. How many of you have done that? Memorize the books of the law. But it says you're unwilling to come to me that you might have life. You know all the scripture, but you're not coming to the conclusion of the scriptures. You're not coming to me. Listening is not enough Isaiah 66, verse 2 says, But to this one I will look, to him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at my word. What kind of response do you have to the word of God? Just knowing the word is not enough. And also your religious heritage is not enough. The Jewish people boasted because their nation was associated with God. In verse 17, it says that they boast in God. You know, how many times, like I mentioned, is God called the God of Israel? Hundreds of times in Scripture, God is associated with Israel. Psalm 41 verse 13 says, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen. Their family name was associated with the God of the universe. Deuteronomy 4. 7 says, For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God whenever we call on him? But that in itself did not mean that everybody in Israel knew the Lord. Jeremiah 2 verse 8, and it's such a sobering passage. Listen to this, Jeremiah 2 verse 8 says, those who handled the law did not know me. You handle the law. You're in it. You've got your nose in the book, and yet you still don't know me The prophet Jeremiah ministered to a generation of Israel that did not know the Lord. Why don't you flip over to Jeremiah chapter 9? Jeremiah chapter 9. Jeremiah prophesied a judgment that was to come. He called to Judah to repent, to turn to the Lord. But listen what he says over in Jeremiah chapter 9, starting at verse 1. He says, Oh, that my head were waters and my eyes a fountain of tears. I mean, I wish I could just turn the faucet on and just keep it running. That I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Judgment is coming to you, Judah Oh, that I had in the desert a wayfarer's lodging place. A wayfarer was a traveler, a wanderer, you know, a backpacker. Who went from place to place and a lodging place was a simple accommodation for travelers, you know, four walls and a courtyard. It was remote, it was unkept, but Jeremiah said, I would rather be out there in the barren wasteland. With four walls and a porch. By myself, I would rather be there than be among this people. That I might leave my people, go from them, for all of them are adulterers. An assembly of treacherous men, they bend their tongue like a bow. Lies and not truth prevail in the land, for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. They don't know me. And he weeps for Israel because they don't know him. They don't know the Lord. Later on in Romans, Romans chapter 9, Paul will be brought to tears for his kinsmen according to the flesh. Romans chapter 9 and verse 3 he says, For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh, who are Israelites. Why does he say, I wish I could be accursed and separated from Christ? Because that's what they're heading for. I wish I could switch places with them. But my brethren, according to the flesh, those who are Israelites, those who would bear the name Jew, are heading to destruction. They're heading to hell. But they boast in God. Boasting in God, but they don't know him. Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 24 says this: But let him who boasts boast of this that he understands and knows me. That's what we boast about. Not that we just know a lot of scripture, quote a bunch of Bible verses, got a religious heritage, trace our line back to this religious lineage. No, we don't we don't boast in that. We boast that we know the Lord. I know him. But they did not know him. Israel did not know him. And what was true for Israel can be true for the church today, can't it? We have people who depend on their lineage. You know, I I've tried to witness to people before, and they say, you know, my father was a preacher. What does that have to do with anything? I'm talking about you. You know, my father was a preacher. Or what I hear more often is my mother was a preacher. Got another thing to talk to you about, but it's, you know. My mother was a preacher. My grandmother. My grandmother was a preacher. It's often said the Bible says that God has children, but we don't hear about God having grandchildren, right? You have to know the Lord for yourself. It's not just your lineage who you can point back to. We have people who depend on their religious knowledge. Yeah, I've do you know I've been to Bible school? I I I've studied the Bible. I I I study religion. I study Bible. Do you know the Lord? Well I teach Sunday school. I I didn't ask you that. I asked you, do you know the Lord? I teach Sunday school at my church. You know, I'm one of the ushers. I'm a trustee. What are you trusted with, right? You know, I'm a trustee, whatever that means. I'm a pastor of such and such church. I remember going to witness to somebody and they said, well, well, you you didn't know that you came to talk to a pastor. Okay, well, do you know the Lord? Like like we're we're talking about the gospel here. We're not talking about what position you have, who you're connected to. We have some people who depend on the religious heritage. You know, I I was raised in church. Our family has a strong faith in God. You know, I'm from a family of faith. But none of that indicates that you have a personal saving relationship with God. But there's one last refuge for the religious observer, and it's ceremonies and rituals. Signs and religious symbols. You know, something was done to me, something was done for me, something was done on my behalf. But even God-ordained symbols like circumcision is no place to run and no place to hide. From the wrath of God. And that's what's made clear in the verses we'll be covering today. Romans chapter 2, verses 25 to 29. So if you'll take your Bibles with me and we'll read from there. Romans chapter 2. 25 to 29. It says, For indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the law. But if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. So if the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? And he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the law, Will he not judge you, who though having the letter of the law and circumcision, are a transgressor of the law? For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, Nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is that which is of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter, and his praise is not from men. but from God. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, today as we always do, Lord, just asking that you would Speak to us through your word. Lord, we know that it's through your word that we hear your voice. Father, we pray that you would open up your word to us, help us to understand the things that are written in it. Father, I pray that we would apply these things to our lives, that we would not be like those who behold their natural face in a mirror and forget what they look like. Father, I pray that we would make the necessary adjustments that we need to in our lives, Lord, that we might honor you. Well, Father, we pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter 2, starting in verse 25 , what we learn here is that there is a ceremony without obedience that is rejected. Ceremony without obedience is rejected. Look at verse 25 again. It says, for indeed circumcision is of value if that's the condition you practice the law. But if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. The word circumcision means to cut around. It was a word that was used for the removal of the small piece of skin from the male organ, and in most cases it was considered a religious act. Today we practice circumcision for medical or uh hygienic reasons, but for the ancient Near East it was a religious Custom. It was not only practiced by the Hebrew people, it was also practiced among the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Edomites And there's evidence that it was practiced in Egypt as well, generally around puberty or in preparation for marriage. I'm not sure why they put those two together in preparation for marriage, but that's that's what they did it uh when they did it the Egypti Egyptians. And it was the the Philistines. who are known among the the people of uh this area, this region, Canaan, for rejecting the practice of circumcision, which is why they were referred to as The uncircumcised, right? You know, that's why you have uh in uh 1 Samuel 17 when David is speaking about Goliath and he says, For who is this uncircumcised Philistine? That they were known for being uncircumcised. That he should taunt the armies of the living God. Who is that? And again, for Israel, it was not just for hygiene, it was for a religious purpose. First time we encounter circumcision in the scripture is in Genesis chapter 17. If you want to flip over there, Genesis chapter 17, where it's associated with the Abrahamic covenant, Genesis chapter 17. Take a look at verse 9, where we find this practice. Jeremiah 7, Genesis 17, starting at verse 9. It says, God said further to Abraham, Now as for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations This is my covenant which ye shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you, every male among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be the sign of the covenant Between me and you. And every male among you who is eight days old shall be circumcised throughout your generations, a servant who is born in the house, or who is bought with money from any foreigner who is not of your descendants A servant who is born in your house or who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. Thus shall my covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant But an uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Circumcision on the eighth day was a detail for the Hebrew people, you know, for those born into the family. uh or you know those that uh were foreigners that were became part of that household, they were to be circumcised, and the eighth day was apparently something unique for the uh the Hebrews and set them apart from others who performed circumcision at later times. And that's why Paul mentions this detail about the eighth day over in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 5. It was part of his spiritual resume You know, I I'm I'm an authentic Jewish person, a Hebrew among the Hebrews. I was circumcised on the eighth day And according to Luke chapter 2 and verse 21, Jesus was also circumcised on the eighth day when he was also given his name. And it symbolized their inclusion in the people of the covenant. It was a reminder of the promise given to Abraham. And Moses includes circumcision as well as part of the Mosaic law over in Leviticus chapter 12 and verse 3. It says, On the eighth day, the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised. And this right was so serious to God that God was About to put Moses to death, pursuing Moses for death, because he was reluctant to perform the rite of circumcision on his son. Exodus chapter 4 and verse 26. So not only was it part of the Abrahamic covenant, and we find that from Genesis 17, but it was also part of the Mosaic covenant, and we find that in Leviticus chapter 12 and verse 3. But in order to make sense of Romans chapter 2 and its use here, it's important to keep in mind who this symbol was for and what it represented. Number one, it was for Abraham and his descendants and his servants, whether they were born in his house or bought from a foreigner. So for Abraham and his descendants, those associated with Abraham. Number two, it was a symbol of the covenant that God made with Abraham. It shall be a sign. of the covenant between me and you. It's a symbol of that covenant. And number three, it was also part of the Mosaic law So not only was it part of the Abrahamic covenant, it was part of the Mosaic law. And why is that important to keep in mind? Number one, it's important to keep in mind that this is for Abraham and his physical descendants because it explains Why Paul had Timothy circumcised and not Titus. Timothy had a a Jewish mother and Jewish grandmother who taught him the scriptures. He had a Jewish lineage. Abraham was part of his family tree, so Paul had Timothy circumcised. Acts chapter 16 and verse 3. But Titus, on the other hand, was a Greek. And Paul said he was not compelled to be circumcised. Galatians 2, verse 3. And it's important to keep that in mind. It's also important to keep in mind that circumcision was a sign. It was an important sign, but it was still a sign. It wasn't the substance, it was a symbol for something else. And that's why Paul will say later on in 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 19 that circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but what matters is the keeping of the commandments of God. Why? Because the circumcision is just a sign of something else. So the sign can be put away and the substance can still be there, still be present. So when we think about the work of the law that was written on the hearts of the Gentiles, circumcision was not one of those laws. I don't know if you're tracking with me, but earlier in the book of Romans, we learned that the Gentiles had the law written on their hearts. And their thoughts were alternately accusing or defending them. That law that was written on their hearts was the moral law of God, the eternal law of God, that which aligned with God's nature. Circumcision was not part of that law written on the hearts of the Gentiles. You know, it's not just automatic that I know I should be circumcised on the eighth day. But you do know that you shouldn't lie. You should you do know that you shouldn't steal. You do know that you shouldn't commit adultery, but you might not know that I should be circumcised on the eighth day. It's not part of that law that was written on the hearts of the Gentiles. This is different, okay? Just want to make that that clearer. It's not a part of the law of uh creation or the law of nature. Uh this is like the Sabbath day or you know circumcision, other laws. So it's not part of that law written on the hearts of men that's that's eternal, okay? Number three, it's important to keep in mind that circumcision was also part of the Mosaic law. Not just Abrahamic covenant, but the Mosaic law, which is why Paul would say later in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 3, and I testify again to every man who receives circumcision. And again, with the understanding that I'm trying to keep the law of Moses, I'm putting myself under obligation to the law of Moses. Whoever receives circumcision, that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You you can't just pick and choose, right? It's not Bask and Robins where you just pick your flavor. No, if if I'm gonna take it, I take all of it I'm going to to come underneath the Mosaic Law. I'm coming underneath that system. I have to obey all of it. And then he says this, for for those that have put themselves under obligation to keep the whole law, if if that's the direction that you're going in. You have been severed from Christ, who are seeking to be justified by the law. You have fallen from grace. And that's why Paul stood so vehemently against those who thought the Gentiles had to be circumcised according to the custom of Moses, or else they couldn't be saved. Because it's a different way of salvation. You're no longer trusting in Christ alone, by faith alone, by grace alone. Now you're trusting in Christ plus works, Christ plus what I can add, Christ plus what I can do That's the whole reason for the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter 15. And now having that as a background, we're ready to understand Romans chapter 2 and verse 25. Back to Romans chapter 2. So in verse 25, Paul says, for indeed circumcision is of value, now this makes sense, right? If you practice the law. If that's the way that you're going, you have to obey all of it. And circumcision is of value for you if you're planning on keeping all of it. If you're planning on doing it all, if you practice the law, now it's valuable to you because it's part of that mosaic system. And if you're relying on circumcision, As a safety barrier between you and the wrath of God, you're going to need a lot more protection than that. The sign is only going to be valuable if the substance comes along with it. And if you're guilty of committing adultery and you say, but I I've got my wedding ring, the sign of my commitment to my spouse, I've still got the sign. It's right here, the symbol's here, but you're committing adultery. This sign means nothing. The band around your ring finger on your left hand means nothing. If you're planning on cheating on your spouse, you can't point to the sign, you can't point to the symbol as if somehow you're being faithful. The sign means nothing unless you're keeping all of it. You understand the point? So here we have This ceremony without obedience and it's rejected. You've got the ceremony, you don't have the obedience. If you're gonna go this way, you have to practice all of the law So so so it means something if you're going to keep it all, but if you're not going to keep it all, that sign doesn't mean anything. And we see that all throughout scripture that Ceremony is rejected in place of obedience. God prioritizes obedience over the ceremonies, obedience over the rituals. We see that all throughout scripture. Saul was commanded by God to annihilate the Amalekites and all their livestock, but he saved the best of the sheep and the oxen and the flatlings , the lambs, supposedly for a sacrifice. And in 1 Samuel 15 22, Samuel said, Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. Obedience is better than the ceremony. Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 11. This is piercing. Actually, why don't you flip over there? Isaiah chapter 1, just to read what Isaiah has to say as he just blisters the the people of of Israel. Isaiah chapter one starting at Actually, I'll start at verse 10. Now think about this. This is directed to Israel. This is directed to Judah. This is who he's talking to. Verse 1, it says the vision of Isaiah the son of Amos concerning Judah and Jerusalem, which he saw during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. That's who he's talking to. But what does he call them in verse 10? Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. That's painful. So here you're talking to Judah and now you're calling them Sodom. You guys are no better than Sodom. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the instruction of our God. You people of Gomorrah. What are your multiplied sacrifices to me, says the Lord I've had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle. I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls or lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, who requires of you this trampling of my courts? What are you doing, even putting your feet on my pavement? Bring your worthless offerings no longer. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath, the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity in the Solemn Assembly. I hate your new moon festivals and your appointed feasts. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. So when you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from my sight. Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan, plead for the widow But you want to come and bring your sacrifices while you're steady moving forward in your sin. I hate your sacrifices. Amos chapter five and verse twelve. Actually, uh verse twenty-one, Amos chapter five and verse twenty-one. Five and verse twenty one He says, I hate, I reject your festivals. Nor do I delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer up to me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them. And I will not even look at the peace offerings of your fatlings. Take away from me the noise of your songs. I will not even listen to the sound of your harps. But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Again, God prioritizes obedience over the ceremony. And how much of our ceremonies and rituals are just as much of an offense to God because they're not accompanied by obedience? How many people are are baptized? Have their babies baptized and they think that that's the seal of salvation? I'm covered. I've been baptized. I've had that with many people before. Do you know the Lord? I've been baptized. That's not what I asked you. I've been baptized. How many people receive a way for or sip of the wine and believe that grace is being conferred to them? How many people have a pastor apply some oil to their foreheads and believe that they're being anointed by God? Planning on living in sin later on tonight, but I got the oil on my forehead this morning. I'm anointed How many people genuflect before the host or bow before a saint and believe that they're being drawn closer to God? How many make the sign of the cross or hold the string of beads to increase their faith and help them feel closer to God while they're still sinning? Psalm 51, 17 says, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. And here's the sad reality for those who believe their ceremonies contribute to their salvation, that ceremony will only be beneficial to you if you are planning to keep all of the substance along with it. Because if you're a transgressor in any of it, it's just as good as breaking the whole law. James 2 10 says, forever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. It would be like your ritual never even happened. Circumcision never even happened. It's become uncircumcision, the book of Romans says. You have the ceremony, but you don't have the substance with it. And for us to apply it to us, it would be like having the ceremony but not having the faith with it. I've got the ceremony, but I I haven't really repented of my sins and trusted in Christ. But I've got the symbol of trusting in Christ. I've been baptized, I take communion, I'm on the trustee board or whatever else. But I haven't really given the Lord my heart. You have the ceremony without the obedience, but on the other hand, you have the obedience without the ceremony. Look at verse 26 back in chapter 2. So if the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? And he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the law, will he not judge you, who, though having the letter of the law and circumcision, are a transgressor of the law? And now Paul turns to the other extreme. And again, you have to keep the context in mind here, okay? The uncircumcised man is the Gentile who does not have the law of God. That's what we read in the previous section. The Gentile who does not have the law of God. All he has is his conscience and creation. Doesn't have the law of God. He doesn't have the law of circumcision, Sabbath day. He just has what he's got in his mind, what God has written on his heart. What's based on nature and the conscience and the eternal nature and character of God that he can witness? And he says, will he not be regarded as being circumcised? If the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? And for the sake of illustration here, Paul says, what if he were able to keep the law? We know that he can't, okay? This uncircumcised man can't keep all of the law because later on we'll learn that all who have sinned Without the law will also perish without the law. Actually, we read that earlier, and later on we'll learn that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. But just for the sake of argument, Paul says, What if he were able to keep the law? Minus the circumcision. No lineage to Abraham, no knowledge of the law, no heritage behind him that identifies him with the God of Israel. But he was able to follow the law of God in his conscience. God would consider his uncircumcision as circumcision because he would have the substance of what the symbol represented. And will he not judge you who are circumcised? This is what verse 27 says. And he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the law, will he not judge you? Who, though having the letter of the law and circumcision, are a transgressor of the law? And again, just for the sake of illustration, if this uncircumcised man was able to keep the law, wouldn't that place him in a better position to judge you? Who just have the symbol? You know, back in verse 17, the Jewish people consider themselves a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, a corrector of the foolish. But if all you had was the symbol, wouldn't the person who actually had the substance be in a better position to teach you? If all of your learning never results in obedience, wouldn't it be better to actually learn from somebody who obeyed? And just as a footnote here, a true teacher is not known by his facts It's not by his stacks that you should know him, but it's by his what? By his fruits. By his fruit you shall know him. And those who are obedient, even though they have less revelation, are in a better position to judge those who have more revelation, but are less obedient. Like over in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 41, remember where it says uh when Jesus says the men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it? Because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here? You know, what did the Ninevehes have? Forty days and you guys are gonna be judged. That's all they had. Nope, up, that's enough. That's all we need to hear. Everybody on your face. The animals aren't eating. You're not eating. Everybody's on their face. We're going to pray and cry out to God with very little information. That's all they had. But they repented. They took the little they had and they acted on it. That's all I need. Queen of the South will rise up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it. Because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, something greater than Solomon is here. And what did the queen of Asheba have? If you read in 1 Kings chapter 10, it lets us know that she just heard about the fame of Solomon. And she came to test him with her questions, and she saw how he answered the questions and the food on his table and the seating of his servants, and she's like, that's all I need to know. The Lord is in this place. The Lord is here. Very little information. But she came to the right conclusion. And Jesus says, you know what? The Ninevites and the Queen of Sheba are going to rise up and condemn this generation because of all the revelation that you've had and you're still not turning. You're going to be judged by people who know less than you do. And the Gentiles who had very little information and repented will rise up in condemnation. Like the magi from the east who just followed a star. To come to the Christ child. Like the centurion who believed that Jesus could heal his servant by just saying the word. Hey, I know what it's like to be under authority. I tell this one go and he goes. I tell this one come and he comes. That's all I need to know. You're a man with authority. I trust you. And Jesus looks at this man and says, I've I haven't found such great faith in all of Israel. With the very little bit that he knows, he believes in me, he knows that I'm Lord. The Syrophoenician Canaanite woman who begged Jesus to cast the demon out of her daughter will rise up with this generation and condemn it Jesus said to her, O woman, great is your faith. Even after Jesus said that the children have to eat before the dogs. But she had a great faith. She says, even even the dogs get the crumbs. I'm still here. I'm not going anywhere. I trust in you. I know that you're merciful. Woman, great is your faith. Great is your faith. The centurion who saw Jesus breathe his last will stand up and condemn this generation. When he just saw the way that he breathed. The way that he expressed his last breath, like that's all I need to know. This man is different. This is the son of God. Truly, this is the son of God. Very little information. But he understands who Jesus is. How many of us have so much more and don't believe in Jesus? How many people come into church week in and week out, hearing the Bible read, memorizing Scripture for themselves, having people talk to them about the Lord? And they don't repent with so much. What excuse do we have not to believe in Jesus Christ? But here, as one commentator points out, Paul's not pointing the way of salvation for these Jewish people to say that, oh, it's just by keeping the law that you can be saved. What he's actually doing is is just showing that everybody's in the same boat. Don't think that you're any better than the Gentiles because you have the symbols. Because if you have the symbols, you also have to have the reality behind the symbols, and you don't have that. And if there was a Gentile who had the substance without the symbols, he would be judging you. And in fact, we do know that there are people who believed in Christ with very little, and they will rise up to condemn those who knew more. All of this is just meant to put ceremonies in their proper place. And next we get to the third point in verse 28 back in Romans chapter 2. The physical ceremonies only cover the flesh. It only covers the flesh. Look at verse 28. It says, For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. And again, it's important to keep a few things in mind here as well, okay? It's a little bit like a Bible study, but that's you do want to understand the Bible, don't you? A few things to keep in mind here. First of all, Paul's in a section where he is speaking to national, ethnic, religious Jews. Keep that in mind. Keep the context in mind. He's speaking to Jewish people. He says, verse 17, but if you bear the name Jew, you rely upon the law, you boast in God. He's speaking to Jewish people. That is his audience. It's also important to keep in mind that verse 28 is speaking about those who have the mere external outward signs versus the inward work of the heart. So it's a contrast between what's outward and what's inward. Okay? Keep that in mind. And it's also important to remember that the physically uncircumcised man who kept the requirements of the law is a hypothetical person. He's fictitious. He does not exist. There is not an uncircumcised Gentile who's just keeping all of the law and has been received by God because of his obedience to the law. That person does not exist. I point that out because there are people who want to make this a contrast between the uncircumcised Gentile who keeps the law and the circumcised Jew who keeps the ceremonies. But that's not what's going on here. Because Paul's going to conclude later on that all are charged under sin Jews and Greeks. So he's not talking about an uncircumcised Gentile who's actually keeping the law and a Jewish person who's not. He's just saying that everybody's a sinner. Everybody's in the same boat. So the Gentile who's keeping the requirements of the law is a hypothetical person. He's only brought up as an illustration to make Paul's point. Just meant to show us that keeping the law is better than the ceremonies. And that you can't trust in ceremonies to save you. That's the point that's going on here. But this does not mean that this uncircumcised person who keeps the law exists, and it's not meant to teach us that Gentiles become Jews if they keep the law. Why is it not teaching us that Gentiles become Jews if they keep the law? Because Gentiles can keep the law. It's just meant to show us that ceremonies only cover the flesh and don't change the heart. That's what it's meant to show us. So, what does it mean to be truly Jewish? Again, he's speaking as a Jew to the Jews. So he's telling them, like, let me let me let you let me let you know what it means to be truly Jewish. You're a Jew, but let me tell you what it means to be truly Jewish. Not just on the outside. Let me tell you about what it means to be a Jewish person on the inside He's not a Jew who has won outwardly. If that's all you have going on for you, you can't really give yourself the title of Jew. You're not the Jew in the truest sense of that word. Jewish. Because it's not about what's on the outside. Nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. If it's all just about the ceremonies, you have not changed the heart. You might have everything on the outside, but you don't have have the Jewish kind of spirit on the inside. So what does it mean to be truly Jewish? Does it mean that I observe the Sabbath? Does it mean that I eat kosher and go to the Jewish bagel shop in Pikesville? Is that what it means? And by the way, you don't need to be Jewish to go to the Jewish bagel shop in Pikesville. They have the best bagels, by the way. Does it mean I attend synagogue on Saturdays and and walk there? In all black? Wear a kippah, kippa, or the yarmaka on my head? Do I wear a prayer cloth with the strings that show on the outside of my shirt? Does it mean I speak Hebrew? Does it mean that I pray in Hebrew? Does it mean that I'm circumcised on the eighth day? All of that is on the outside. And does not touch the heart. It's all on the outside. So if being Jewish was just about what you wear and what you eat and what you celebrate, it's not very deep. And that's what Paul is saying. Is it just all on the outside? You just got circumcised and you obey these rituals and ceremonies and you keep these feast days? I mean, is that what it means to be Jewish for you? It's like what Jesus said over in Matthew chapter 15, after the Pharisees rebuked him for eating without ceremonially washing his hands. Remember the Pharisees had a law about how he was supposed to wash his hands? And Jesus says this in Matthew 15 and verse 10. After Jesus called the crowd to him, he said to them, Hear and understand, it is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth that defiles the man. And then he says this in verse 19, For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. These are the things which defile the man. But to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. Now, Jesus is not saying you shouldn't wash your hands before you eat. And if you come to my house, my wife will remind you before you eat. Wash your hands. Remember going on a cruise ship and every time you came to to eat is washi washi, washi washi for yummy yummy, washi washi. Every time you're told to wash, it's like good grief, just you know. I get it, I get it But what you had for breakfast can't make you lie. What you have for lunch can't make you commit murder. If you eat your dinner without washing your hands first, it doesn't make you commit adultery. Because that's not affecting your heart. That doesn't affect your heart. It doesn't get down to that level. What's the most important thing about you is what's coming out of that. What's coming out of your heart? What's coming out of the inside? That's what's the most important. So when Abraham left Ur, like I said, he looked just like everybody else. Sounded just like everybody else? He smelled just like everybody else. He had the same cultural expressions as everybody else. Even his circumcision was not visible to everybody else. Everything that the eye could see looked the same. He's just like one of us. There's nothing different on the outside. But what changed about Abraham? It was something on the inside. Something on the inside changed. The Lord spoke to him, and his heart was changed. He surrendered himself to the will of the Lord. That's what was different about Abraham. Not anything on the outside. Not anything that you could see. It's about the heart. And how do I get a heart change? That's the question. How does somebody get in there and change my heart? Because I can't reach that. There's no cleansing agent that you can scrub that with. How is my heart going to be changed It's not a ceremony that's going to do it. It's the Spirit of God that does that. The Spirit of God converts the heart. Look at verse 29. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter, and his praise is not from men, but from God. So the fullest and truest expression of Judaism, as he's again speaking to Jews, as a Jew, he's speaking to the Jews, and he says, if you really want to know what it means to be truly Jewish. Let me tell you what that means. It means you have to have your heart changed. You have to have your heart circumcised. And that's what makes a person truly Jewish. Even the Old Testament saints understood that, right? Deuteronomy chapter 10. Moses is speaking to Israel. Actually, flip over there. Deuteronomy chapter 10. You don't mind turning pages. That's what we do, right? We turn pages. Deuteronomy chapter 10 Take a look at verse twelve. Deuteronomy chapter ten. This is uh again Moses Speaking to the descendants of Abraham and listen to what he says, verse 12. Now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require from you but to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways, and love him, and to Serve the Lord your God with all your what? Your heart and with all your soul, and to keep the Lord's commandments and his statutes, which I'm commanding you today. For your good. Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it. Yet on your fathers did the Lord set his affection to love them and he chose their descendants after them, even you above all peoples, as it is this day. So circumcise your what? Your heart. And stiffen your neck no longer. So here's a call, and it's basically a call to repentance. Give your heart to the Lord. Turn to the Lord with all of your heart. Turn to the Lord with all of your soul, with all of your mind, turn to him. It's a call to repentance. But then look at what Deuteronomy chapter 30 says, This connection is so fantastic. Because in one section, Moses is saying what needs to happen. Deuteronomy chapter 10, this is what you need to do. You need to turn to the Lord, turn to the Lord, give him your heart, give him your soul. That's what you need to do. But look at what he says in chapter 30. Look at verse 5. Chapter 30 and verse 5. It says, The Lord your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed. And you shall possess it. And he will. Do you see the like the certainty here? Lord. The Lord your God will bring you into the land, and you shall possess it, and he will prosper you and multiply you more than your father's. Moreover, the Lord your God Will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul so that you may live. It goes from the command to the promise. I'm telling you what you need to do, and I'm going to tell you that it's going to be done. Now it may not be this generation, but there's going to come a generation that this will be true of. That they will give the Lord their hearts and souls and minds, and they will live, and they will come back to this land and possess it. Jeremiah does the same thing. Flip over to Jeremiah. Jeremiah Chapter Four. So good So good. Jeremiah chapter 4. Look at verse 1. And here Jeremiah is doing the same thing. He's calling the nation of Judah to repentance. Look at verse 1. He says, If you will return, O Israel, declares the Lord, then you should return to me, and if you will put away your detested things from my presence and will not waver. And you will swear as the Lord lives in truth and justice and righteousness, then the nations will bless themselves in him, and in him they will glory For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, break up your fallow ground, and do not sow among thorns. Circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Again, this is a call to repentance. Turn to the Lord. Circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Remove the foreskins of your heart, men of Judah, inhabitants of Jerusalem, or else my wrath will go forth like fire and burn, with none to quench it because of your evil deeds. You guys are in trouble. You're heading for judgment. You need to circumcise your hearts. Repent. Turn to the Lord. But then Jeremiah goes from the command to the promise. Look over Jeremiah 31. Jeremiah 31, look at verse 33. It says, But this is the covenant, verse thirty-three, which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. For they will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will. Forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. It goes from the command to the promise. This is what's going to happen. I'm going to put my law within them and on their heart I will write it. And that circumcision of the heart will happen by the power of the Spirit and not by the letter of the law We don't come become circumcised because we obey. We obey because we're circumcised. In John 6, 63 it says it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that are spoken to you are spirit and our life. And for those of you who are here who have given your lives to Jesus Christ, you have received the very same circumcision. That the Jewish people will receive in a future time, but you've received it now. Your hearts have been circumcised We are the recipients of a new covenant. And by the blood of Jesus Christ, our hearts have been changed. Our lives have been changed, transformed by the Spirit of God. We've been given a new life. That's why Jesus speaks to Nicodemus and says, You must be what? Born again. You need a new life. You need a new life. So does that mean that we're Jewish? No, it means that we're Christian. It means that we're the church. And the church is considered a brand new man. Where both Jews and Gentiles participate in the same new covenant. I'm not saved so that I can become Jewish. I'm saved so that I can become one with Christ. And I'm a part of his body. And I've become a part of his bride. And I enter into what Ephesians calls the new man. And just as Abraham was called out to serve, so am I. So am I. We've been given a new life, and that happens through the Spirit. And I thought I'd finish today, but you know what? I'm going to save the rest of this for next time. But don't put a ceremony in place of the substance. I grew up in a in a church where I was Just taught over and over again, repent and be baptized. And so much emphasis was placed on the baptism, how the baptism was to happen What was to be said when the baptism happened? So much emphasis was placed on the baptism. I think I got baptized four times. Just because I want to make sure that I did it right, because like if that's going to save me, I gotta make sure it's right. Now did you say what you were supposed to say when I was underneath that water? Don't don't don't fool me now. Because this needs to happen, right? But again, that's where you're placing your confidence in the ceremony. Instead of clinging to Christ, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress, helpless look to thee for grace. Fowle eye to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die. Who's doing the washing? The Savior. It's not about what happens in the water. Now, is baptism important? Yes, we're Baptists. In that sense. We we do believe in baptism. Yes, it's important. Yes, it's something that we should do. We talk about it when people come here for membership. Have you been baptized or are you planning on doing so as soon as it's possible? Yes, baptism is important. But baptism is just a symbol, it's a sign of the reality. And you can't get those backwards. And what's going on in so much of Christianity is everything is turned on its head. Where so much emphasis is given to the sign and the symbol that the substance is, is it even there sometimes? And in many cases it's not. And that's why the robes get longer and the hats get bigger and the ceremony is filled with all this pomp and circumstance. Because that's what's saving. We need to make sure that we do it right. This is where the emphasis is placed. But where's the emphasis placed for us as believers? We won't learn it later on in Romans chapter 10. So faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. It's the word that is spoken, the gospel that is preached that saves the soul. So our faith has found a resting place, amen? My faith has found a resting place not in device or creed. I trust the ever living one, his wounds for me shall plead Enough for me that Jesus saves. This ends my fear and doubt. A sinful soul I come to him. He'll never cast me out. My heart is leaning on the word, the living word of God. Salvation by my Savior's name, salvation through his blood. My great physician heals the sick, the lost he came to save. For me, his precious blood he shed. For me, his life he gave. I need no other argument, I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died And that he died for me. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word, and Father, we pray that you would Use your word in our lives that you would continue to conform us into the image of our dear Savior Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that we would not trust in the rituals and the ceremonies. My father, I pray that we would cling to Jesus Christ, the one who lived the perfect life in our place and who died as a substitute on the cross, who rose again, proving that he was victorious over the grave. And he can give that same resurrection power to anybody who would turn from their sins and trust in him. Father, I pray that today would be the day of salvation For some who are right here, Father. For those who might listen to this, Father, that you would you would speak to their hearts, that you would call them to yourself, that the Spirit of God would do a work and regenerate. And allow the word that's preached, Lord, to have an impact on those who hear, and that you would bring souls to yourself because you're worthy of it. And Father, may you be glorified. May your son be exalted. May the Spirit do his work. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.