The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Good afternoon, church. I wanted to make sure I wasn't coming up here too early. I'm eager to be up here, but I don't want to be up here and cut off more of that glorious singing. What a joy to worship with you and sing with you. how encouraging my how encouraged my heart is to give all praise and glory and adoration to our sovereign Lord together. What a blessing it is to be a pastor of a sister church. And I bring you greetings and joy from Belcroft Bible Church, your sister church. We love you. We pray for you regularly. We are excited to be growing with you. in the grace and the knowledge of Christ. I also bring you greetings from who is the chairman of our elder board who you've gotten to know pretty well this weekend, Neil Lubers Neil said, please, Pastor, please share with with Baltimore how thankful I was to get to know them and spend their time, spend time with them this weekend. I said, I will gladly do that So he sends his love and his joy of spending time with you and serving pretty much everyone that served you at Camp Webana as a member of our church. So just know that you have been served by Belcroft Bible Church well this weekend. And what a blessing, what a blessing that is. I'm so thankful to be here, George. I know you're watching. We love you, brother. We stand with you. It is a privilege for me to serve you in this way and be part of this service. We miss you. We're praying for you to come back quickly. But in the meantime, we're going to open up the Word of God as your faithful pastor would, and I'm going to ask you to turn to Acts chapter 20. Acts chapter 20. Now I um I have to tell you when George called me on Friday and said, hey, I need you to cover the pulpit for me. I'm sick. I said, okay, what am I going to preach? Well I have to tell you, I have been preaching out of Acts chapter 20 for the last two and a half months. I've actually been preaching for the last two and a half months out of Acts chapter twenty, verses seventeen, and we've only gotten to verse twenty-eight. So that kind of tells you where we've been. We have been stalled out here and there's a reason for it. And it I didn't even know this until sitting here this afternoon. It is very similar to what you're about to do in that you're about to look at my dear brother, who is a blessed man of God, Glenn. And you're going to look at Glenn, evaluate Glenn, and by God's grace affirm him. And I can tell you he is a dear brother. I had the privilege to preach in his former church. And seeing the ministry there and all that Glenn has done there is amazing and that you guys get to have Glenn in your church is a treasure. And I just want you to know you are blessed, and that is such an encouragement. We at Belcroft Bible Church just affirm two new elders for our congregation, elders that we have been evaluating and training for over three years. And we just recently affirmed these two men to our elder board. As a matter of fact, next Sunday at the which will culminate my time in Acts 20. for multiple reasons, but next Sunday at the end of that we will spend the rest of that morning and into the afternoon fellowshipping and celebrating as we recommission our entire elder board in a special service at the end and celebrate what the Lord has done in our ministry. And so that you are right there doing very much similar things in your church, I thought, wow, what what how applicable to bring one of the greatest passages in the New Testament on biblical eldership and talk about it this morning. So that's why we're here. That's what we're gonna do. I'm dripping axe all over the place, so I'm not sure where this is gonna go, but I do know I need to get done in time for all the meetings, not the one that was canceled. He said the one was cancelled. Don't go to that one. Don't miss that one. But I do want to get done in time so you can have those meetings. So I have a plan for that. We'll see how that goes. I'm pulling my I'm pulling my phone out now. I'm going to have it right here. So praise the Lord. But I would like to read Acts chapter twenty, and I'd like to read the whole narrative. Now you I'm gonna explain it, give you all the context, but I just want you to know that I am convinced that this is one of the greatest stories in the book of Acts and in the epistles. Okay? This is one of the greatest stories. If I had money, and which I don't, but if I did and I could make a movie, it would be this right here It would be a blockbuster. This is a passage. It's a narrative. It's a story that just drips with deep pathos. It's riveting, it's captivating, and it is foundational, foundational for the church to get it right. And so our time here this morning has potential deep eternal profit for all of us. So I'd like to read Acts chapter 20, starting at verse 17, all the way through the end of the chapter, which is the story. And then we're going to go through, and I'm just going to give us an overview of it and help us get an understanding of it by God's grace. So, Acts chapter 20, starting in verse 17, hear the word of the Lord. Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him. And when they came to him, he said to them. You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time, from the first day I set foot in Asia, serving the Lord with all humility and with tears and with trials. that happened to me through the plots of the Jews, how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable and teaching you in public and from house to house Testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance towards God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, constrained by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there, except That the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city, that imprisonments and afflictions await me But I do not account my life of any value, nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I've received from the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And now behold I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all, for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God, which He obtained with His own blood. I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease, night or day, to admonish everyone with tears. And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel. You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who are with me. In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, It is more blessed to give than receive. And when he had said these things he knelt down and prayed with them all. And there was much weeping on the part of all They embraced Paul and kissed him, being sorrowful most of all, because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again, and they accompanied him to the ship. If you don't have chills, I didn't read it rightly before you. This passage is moving and it is important. Church, I'm here to encourage you what you already know this morning or today, and I'm here to encourage you that you are blessed, blessed beyond belief, to have faithful elders in this church This church is blessed beyond most churches because it has a faithful pastor who preaches the word and faithful elders who support and come alongside their their other elder, their teaching, preaching elder, Pastor George, and they work together to see that you are shepherded, see that you are guarded, see that you are protected, see that you are ministered to as the word of God goes out. This is a blessed church. This is a unique church. This is a healthy church. And that is so encouraging to know and see. But that's not normal. The two most important realities in this church. Never forget it. Never forget this. Tattoo it to the inside of your cranium. It will never change based upon the Word of God. The two more most important aspects of this church, and it goes like this. Number one will be its pulpit The pulpit of the church always, always, always sets the direction of the church. How the pulpit preaches is where the church will always go. Have a liberal preacher, you will become a liberal church. Have a weak preacher, you will become a weak church. Have a healthy, strong, sound, courageous preacher as you do, and you will become a healthy, sound, courageous church. That's the most important part of this church. It always will be by God's design. But the second, and it goes with it, is not just the pulpit of the church, but never forget this: the elders of the church. The elders of the church are imperative. They are foundational by God's design. These are the men that the Lord raises up to be the under-shepherds. The ones who tend and care for the sheep. And they are paramount to the productivity, to the blessing, to the faithfulness of this church. We'll be its elders. Of which Pastor George is just one. And so it's a plurality, a team of men that come together by God's design to serve together. Because the pulpit of the church will set the direction, but the elders of the church, they will set the nature of the church, the character of the church. This is how it works. This has always been God's design. It was that way with Israel, and so it will be in the church even today. This reality of like priests, like people. This reality of of who the leader is is what the people will become. But in the church it goes like this. The elders set the character of the church. The character of the elders will become the character of the church. the the demeanor, the attitude of the elders. Elders who are faithful, elders who are loving, elders who are tender, elders who are passionate. Elders who are patient, elders who are faithful, that will bleed into the church, and the church will begin to take on those characteristics That's the nature of the church. So have weak and weepy, wimpy elders, and you will become that as a church. Have compromising elders, and you will become compromising Christians. That's why the two most important realities of every single church, unashamedly, the word of God is clear, is its pulpit and is its elders. And you're like, really? Is that really the case? Absolutely. And Acts chapter 20 makes that so clear. Here's the context of Acts chapter 20 that will prove everything I just said. So Paul is on his way to Jerusalem. Paul spent three years in Ephesus. This is the one place that Paul served the most. We in recorded scripture have no other city or church by which the Apostle Paul spent more time ministering than Ephesus. This is the one place he stayed the longest, served the most, three years. Paul was a an itinerant preacher, roving missionary, apostol. apostle that moved from place to place, preaching, sharing the gospel, planting churches, traveling and then going back to them, appointing elders, traveling, going back to them. That was his Modus operande in Ephesus, he stayed for three years. That's unheard of for the Apostle Paul. It's amazing. So he stays there for three years, day and night, ministering to them. This is all you can read about it in Acts chapter 19. In Acts chapter 19, he shows up in Ephesus and he ministers there all through Acts 19. It encompasses his three-year ministry. At the end of Acts 19 is the riot and the uproar in Ephesus. Why a riot and uproar? Because the gospel had gone out so powerful through the ministry of Paul that the entire region of Asia Minor was hearing the gospel, being converted, and that region was a witchcraft, demonic, idolatrous region. The Temple of Diana is the one of the seven wonders of the world, and its home was Ephesus And the entire the entire false religion of the worship of Artemis or Diana was founded in this city. And the whole thing was being toppled by one thing, the preaching of the gospel. The preaching of the gospel was brought was brought to these people, and their worship of Artemis and all the witchcraft And sorcery that went with it was was then beginning to be rejected, so that all the idol makers and all the witch doctors and all the people that sold all the amulets and all the Ephesian letters, which is a which is uh nothing more than an incantation that came off of the idol to Diana and they would make annulets and bracelets with these with these letters on them so that they could like a magic spell say them. All these people are getting converted, and you know what they're doing with all of that stuff? They're burning it. They're throwing it away. Acts 19 talks about it They said when they calculated all of the magic books and the ambulance and all this sorcery stuff that they were rejecting and throwing away, it came up to total 50,000 silver pieces. In today's economy, that would be about six million dollars. Think about the impact of the gospel. That's where the riot then comes in in Ephesus as all the silversmiths, all the idol makers say, we got to put an end to this. This apostle Paul is killing our livelihood. So the whole city's in an uproar. And Paul eventually has to leave. That's the end of chapter 19 and the beginning of chapter 20. And so he leaves Ephesus after three years. What we have here in verses 17 all the way through the end of the chapter is a year and a half later. So Paul has left Ephesus, he's gone to Corinth, he's written the book of Romans. He's traveled around and now he's on his way to Jerusalem. He's compelled, as you just saw it in the text, to get to Jerusalem for multiple reasons. But he's more compelled that he has to go back to Ephesus one more time. And he has to pour into these men one more time. He has to share with them one more time. the importance, the priority of what they're doing as elders. Paul knows he's gonna die. Paul knows he's he's never gonna see these guys again. And he wants to spend one more week with them. And he wants to show them how important their role is in the ministry of the church. If Paul knew he was going to die, Paul knew he was never coming back through Ephesus, and he goes by and shares with these men the importance of being faithful elders in the church, that should grab our attention for how important this is. This is an amazing passage where Paul unpacks for them, a year and a half later, all that he did for them. Don't ever forget this. Repetition is the mother of learning. The Bible repeats itself often. Pastors repeat themselves often because this is how we learn. And here's the Apostle Paul that literally goes back to them and basically reminds them of all that he taught them. That's interesting, isn't it? It shows us how often we need to be reminded. And so he goes back to them a year and a half later. We're looking at about AD fifty-seven here, where he's on the beach at Miletus. What is interesting is that he doesn't go to Ephesus. Miletus As you saw there in verse 17, this is where he is. Miletus is another port town on the western side of modern Turkey, and that's where Ephesus is, but it's 40 miles south of Ephesus. So if you if you can imagine the west coast of modern Turkey and Ephesus is up here, Miletus would be straight south from there on another port city right on the coast. And that's where Paul goes. So he essentially sails past Ephesus, stops in Miletus, and he then he sends a messenger up. to Ephesus to say, tell the elders to come down and meet me. Likely would have taken a week for that message to get up there and for the elders to come down. And that's where we are now in verse 17. You see it right there in the text. Look at it. Miletus is where he's at. He sent the messenger to Ephesus. He called the elders. And then he starts verse 18 and starts to share his heart with them. Now I'm going to give you this entire passage in three points. And I'm going to give it to you in three words. Okay? So buckle up, here we go. But I'll give you the three words right up front. And this is how this passage accurately and exegetically breaks down And this will be helpful. Number one, model. Model. That's what the first paragraph, the first part of the story, verses 17 through 27 is all about the model. It's all about the model, the example, the model that Paul was for them. And essentially, if you wanted to put this in a homiletical form, what Paul is doing in Acts chapter 20, verses 17 to 27, he's saying, hey guys. This is time. I'm leaving. I'm done. You guys have got the baton. And here's my first point. Follow the model I left you. This is what he's saying. Follow the model. Follow the example. Here, you want a cross-reference to show you how vital this is and how Paul would often do this? Write down 1 Corinthians 11:1, where Paul says, What? Follow me as I follow Christ. This is what he does for the whole first section of the story. As a matter of fact, the most of the story is nothing more than Paul reminding them of his example, of his model. Listen, elders are f are always, and first and foremost, to be models. Ministry, models for the congregation. This is what uh Peter said in 1 Peter 5. We as elders are charged, responsible before God to be what? Examples to the flock. Examples of what it means to love our wives like Christ loved the church. Examples of what it means to be dedicated to the gospel. and driven by the grace of God. Examples of what it means to be patient. Examples of what it means to have a deep and abiding faith. All of those things The elder is the model. And this is what Paul's going to talk about. He's going to remind them of the picture he painted for them for three years. He says, follow the model. But number two, we'll, again, all of this is overview and we'll swing through it, but he moves from the model starting in verse 28 and he goes to the mandate. The mandate. So you have the model in the beginning, and then he goes to the mandate singular, which is interesting. He gives basically one command. He repeats it in multiple ways using different words, but it's the same command. It's the same mandate. And it is simply this. It is simply this. Guard, guard. So the word is mandate, model mandate. And the mandate that we'll see is guard. Guard the flock. Guard yourselves. And we'll look at that. And then even in verse 28 He then moves from the model and the mandate, and then he starts giving motivations. Motivations, reasons why you must follow the mandate. or reasons why why you should be encouraged to follow the mandate, these motivations, and they are myriad through the rest of the chapter or the rest of the story. So that's how this breaks down. Paul goes back to Ephesus by way of Miletus. He pulls the elders of the church together and he says, brothers. I'm reminding you of the model I left you. I'm reminding you of the mandate I taught you, and I'm reminding you of the motivations I gave you. This is how you faithfully serve. This is how you faithfully serve as shepherds of the flock of God. And now, dear loved ones, there's much we can say about this, and I and I could and we will, but you have to hear me. This is not just for elders. This is a very unique passage. It's the only passage in the New Testament that is where Paul sits down and speaks only to elders. Every other elder passage we have in 1 Thessalonians, in 1 Timothy, in Titus, all these passages we have that references elders or leaders. Hebrews 13. When we see these, they're in the context of letters, epistles written to the church. But here is a story where it's just Paul and the elders. Which is fascinating. It's unique. There's nothing like it in the New Testament. However, by the work of the Holy Spirit, Luke is there, no doubt, writing or recording this, and through the inspiration of the scriptures, we all get to listen in. So therefore, everybody's involved in this. And here's why. Because of what I've just said earlier. Everyone should care about the elders in the church. Because your spiritual health depends on it. They're that important. And therefore, this isn't just for the elders or prospective elders. This is also for everyone who's under their shepherding care. Because we should all care about the church. Think about it. Paul is about ready. He knows he's going to Jerusalem. He's going to be arrested. Afflictions await. Imprisonment awaits. And he already is cued in that death awaits. And what is on Paul's mind when he's about ready to die? Think about it. The church. The precious church. the sweet, precious gift of the body of Christ. And so it should be with all of us because the church is the treasure, the gem given to us by Christ. of which we have been placed into it if we have repented and trusted in Christ alone. So now let me walk you through this first paragraph. Starting in verse 17. And he essentially says, Okay, man, you must follow the model I left you. Well what model? I'm glad you asked. That's the right question. What did he model? What was his example? What should the elders be modeling? Well, look at the text. He says, verse 18, you yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time. From the first day I set foot in Asia, that's Acts 19. You can read about it. Serving the Lord, here it comes, with all humility, with tears, with trials, and on it goes, and we'll look at it. What you see here very clearly is that Paul is pointing back to himself. He is essentially literally looking retrospect to his life and saying, man, look. Look back. Remember how I lived. Remember how I served. Because that's how you're to serve. That's how you're to live. This is what this is. I'm not unique. I'm an apostle. But how I served is how you should serve It's a model. Dear loved ones, we desperately need models. That's why the scriptures talks about the ultimate model Who is Christ? That's why we're told that Christ left us an example, how to suffer. 1 Peter chapter 2, right? He left us an example to know how we are to suffer to the glory of God when dealing with unjust punishment and judgment. And we are to suffer just like Christ did, who set an example for us, 1 Peter chapter 2, by entrusting himself to Him, the Father, who judges justly. And we have that example, but we also see Christ as the ultimate example of the forerunner of our faith, right? Hebrews chapter 12, where we are to fix our eyes on Christ who is the example, the model, who for the joy set before him, endured the cross, scorning its shame, and now sits at the right hand of God. And we are to look after him. We are to follow him. That's what the whole forerunner of the faith means. He's gone before us so that we know w the trail to run. He's left the footprints and we follow him as the one who has gone before. So ultimately, that's what we do as believers. We follow Christ as our Savior, our Lord, and we follow the model, the example he left us. But he left us even more than that. This is the amazing mercy and grace of God. He gives us under -shepherds who are following Christ so that we might follow them who are with us. who are living with us, who are abiding with us, who are walking with us, who then take us by the hand and they walk us closer to Christ because they're following Christ. And that is an amazing design, glorious and perfect in all its ways. And that's God's design for the church and for the maturation of the body of Christ. And so that's what Paul focuses on. Now look at verse 19. He says, serving the Lord. You just need to know right there, this is a whole sermon on itself, but we won't preach it. Rest assured, Jeff, we won't preach it. But This is the verb form of the Greek word doulas, and you know what that means because you're well taught. That is the Greek term for slave, but it's in the verb form. So essentially what he says here most accurately is serving as a slave of Christ. So he right away is a model of what a slave of Christ looks like. He is a model slave on so many levels. And so he m he starts by modeling that my life is not my own. Oh, he'll say that in a minute, because I've been bought with a price. He'll show you that in a minute. So he's modeling what the slave of Christ who ministers for Christ looks like Now let's look at the specifics. Look at the text, verse 19. He says, serving as a slave of Christ with all humility. Ooh. This is where it gets prickly for elders. Because now it's like, yeah, we are to be humble men. We are to be models of humility. of which that is daunting, apart from the grace of God. He says, I served with all humility. That means Paul had an right understanding in relationship to Christ of his own insignificance. That's what real humility is. When it looks to God the Father, it looks to God the Son, and it understands that in relationship to the triune God, I am insignificant. I don't matter. This is the heartbeat of humility. That's how we can serve at the expense of ourselves when we keep our eyes on the glory of God and the blessings of Christ. Because it's all about him and not about us. And that's how Paul could serve this way. Because it was all about Christ and not about Paul. And so he says, I served you with all humility, meaning I died to self daily, as Luke 14 Luke 9 says, I carried my cross daily before you because it wasn't about me. I fulfilled Philippians 2 before you and I took on the mind of Christ. And just as Christ had all humility, he being equal with the Father, left heaven above and came down and took on the form of a slave. unto death, so I did the same among you when I ministered among you. That's what he means when he says serve with all humility. I was a model of humility It wasn't about my rights, it was about God's glory. It wasn't about my comfort, it was about your conformity to Christ. It wasn't about whatever misery I might go through, it was about your maturation. And if I gotta go through misery so that you are matured in Christ, then I don't care. That's what Paul is saying. Served you with all humility. Now look at the text. He was a humble slave. But he was also, I love this, I love this. It's so convicting for me as a pastor, but so, so helpful. He was a humble slave, but he was also a tender slave. Look at it. He's tender with tears. What does that mean? This is the tenderness of Paul, where he, and this comes up many times in the scriptures, where he served with tears, where his tears come out. And this is his tenderness as a tender shepherd caring for his sheep. Clearly, it's not the trials. He's going to talk about those in a minute. This is his compassion. This is his tenderness towards those whom he served as he cared for them. As he had compassion on them. As he commands in Romans 12 to what? Romans 12, 15, rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. We see it at the end of this section where they're all weeping together because they're tender towards one another. And the Bible commands elders to be tender, doesn't it? Commands all of us, 1 Thessalonians 5, 14, to be tender-hearted towards one another. Have compassion towards one another. This is the reality of the model. He was humble and he was tender, but look at the next phrase. and with trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews. He was humble, he was tender, but he was tough. He endured. He was a he was a model of endurance. That though he had nonstop trials, And I could start in the book of Acts and take you all the way through the end, and I could show you literally, literally, basically every chapter starting in chapter 9, Paul is hunted like a wild animal. hunted by the plots of the Jews most often, where they came after him to kill him, came after him to destroy him, and they never stopped. Where he leaves the vicinity of the plotters. And he goes to a whole nother region and guess who guess who sh shows up? The plotters. I mean he no sooner gets there, and there they are again, trying to get him, trying to kill him. And Paul says, You saw that happen to me in Ephesus over and over again. And Paul's like, Did I quit? Though it got hard, did I stop? No, you saw my trials. I endured. Even though they're plotting against me and I did nothing wrong. I didn't quit. I didn't complain. I endured. Well, this is the calling for all Christians, isn't it? Listen, this is how this goes. Everything that Paul models is everything every Christian should be. Not just elders. We're all called to be humble. We're all called to be tender. And we're all called to endure suffering, trials, and afflictions. So again, this is the joy of this. Elders are called to model what we're all called to be. And so it is here with the Apostle Paul He's modeling for these men what these men must now go and model so that the church can be mature, i. e. Ephesians 4, built up into the body of Christ. And so he said that was a model of endurance. Watch this. I love it. He was a model of courage. Verse 20. How I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was profitable and teaching you in public and from house to house. He endured their plots, but he was also courageous in the face of them. That word shrink back in the Greek, it literally means it literally means to pull away in fear. So that's the context, right? The plots are coming. So he endures them, meaning he doesn't quit, but he doesn't either go and hide That's very common. He runs he doesn't run and hide because he knows the plot is coming. He just continues preaching the word. He continues ministering from house to house. Even though people are after him to assassinate him, to kill him, he keeps going out every night. He keeps bringing the Bible study. He keeps bringing the word in the hall of Tyrannus. Usually probably from eleven o'clock in the morning till four o'clock in the afternoon every day preaching the word when the normal people were off for for uh Jewish siesta, which is what they would have had in that time frame, he would have been in the d in the hall of Tyrannis preaching and teaching during that time 'cause it would have been empty of use. And so he would have rented it for that time 'cause most people were either i in their homes resting or doing other things. And so then he could teach and preach during that time if people would have freedom to come. And so there he is courageous. Even though people are watching, even though they're spies, even though all these things are real, he was a currageous shepherd, a courageous slave. And he says, I didn't shrink in fear. From declaring to you what is profitable. That meant I preached to you that which is hard and that which is good. Notice, I didn't just preach the easy stuff that everybody likes, including the plotters. But I also preach the hard reality. Look at verse 21. Testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance towards God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. I believe verse twenty-one helps us see that he was not only a humble slave, a tender slave. An enduring slave. He was a courageous slave, but he was a dedicated slave. This is huge. He that word means devotion. He had a single-minded devotion. He was dedicated to the task. He didn't quit. Look at the text, verse 21. He says, testifying both to Jews and to Greeks of repentance towards God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. You see Paul here dedicated to the gospel message. He never changed it. He didn't twist it. He didn't sugarcoat it. He didn't cover it. He just faithfully proclaimed the gospel message. Now let's be clear. Why were people plotting to kill him? Why was everybody after him? For this very reason, because he preached. Repentance towards God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, his head was on the chopping block. That's why. By the Jews They didn't think they needed to repent towards God, and they didn't want the Gentiles to be right with God. Notice he's preaching to the Jews and to the Gentiles. He's telling them all, you need to be right with God, and you can be right with God. Jews have to be told they need to repent. I don't want to hear that. That's not a good message. And you need to trust in Christ. Well we killed Christ. Why would I trust in him? And then to tell the Gentiles that they can be right with God, every Jew would have doubly hated it even more. And so he's preaching a message. That he's dedicated to even though death is coming after him because of his dedication. He didn't change the message He preached repentance towards God. This reality that the Jew had sinned against God, Psalm 51, that all of their sin was ultimately against Yahweh. And they needed to be right with him and they could never work it off or be right with him. That's what repentance is. It's a recognition that my sin is against holy God, that I have broken his laws, and I've willfully done it with joy. I was a rebel, I've turned away from God and turned to my own self. And so repentance is the opposite where I turned back to God and away from myself. And so that's why he says, repentance towards God. It is God to whom I repent, because it is God to whom I've sinned against. And the Jew would have hated that. And yet that's the beginning of the gospel, isn't it? The beginning of the gospel according to Jesus in Mark chapter 1 verse 15 is what? Repent and believe. Jesus preached the message of repentance because the message of repentance is the beginning of the gospel. And Paul is preaching it. He's dedicated to the message, the one of repentance, but also the one of faith. The one of trusting in Christ alone. We must repent towards God and place our faith, trust, our utter dependence. For the righteousness we need and the wrath of God that must be removed, that can only come through Christ and Christ alone. Through his life, his death, living the law perfectly, dying for my my my sin sufficiently, and raising from the dead victoriously. That's why we trust Christ That's the message of the gospel. And that's what he preached. Again, showing he was dedicated to the message. You see it, but the text goes on. Verse 22. Watch it. And now behold. Notice I tried to emphasize that as we walk through it. This is an in interrogative. for emphasis, as all interrogatives are. He's interjecting here and he's and he's grabbing attention based upon what he just said and he's like Pay attention. Don't miss it. Hear what I'm about ready to tell you. And he goes on and he says, I'm going to Jerusalem, constrained by the Spirit. I know that persecutions, afflictions. Discomfort and ultimately death await me. Look at verse 24. If this isn't one of your life verses, you might want to reconsider. This would make a really good life. This has been one of my life verses for decades, and it has served me well. When I graduated Bible college, this was one of the this was the verse I quoted as I walked across the stage. This verse has has helped me, blessed me, convicted me, comforted me many times. Paul says, I know what's coming, but I'm dedicated. I'm dedicated to the message and I'm dedicated to the mission. Look at it. But I do not account my life of any value. Paul says, I know discomfort is coming, but it doesn't matter because life isn't about my comfort. Life is about Christ Oh dear loved ones, this is the heartbeat or should be the heartbeat of every elder, but so it should be of every Christian, where our life is not our own. We sang it already multiple times. You've been bought with a price. And that's what Paul is saying. But my life, it doesn't matter to me. Compared to the value of Christ, my life is Has no value. It's not precious to me. What is precious to me? What drives me is not myself, my comfort, my life. What drives me is pleasing the Lord. Look at what he says. I only want to please the Lord. 2 Corinthians 5. 9. Look at look at the text. Verse 24. I only want to finish my course. And the ministry I received from the Lord Jesus, Paul says, I'm not worried about protecting my life. I'm just worried about finishing the race. What is the race? The course that the Lord had marked out for him as an apostle to the Gentiles, but most broadly and generally, the course of the Christian life. The course of following Christ, the course of serving the Lord. He had been given a task to serve the Lord, and he needed to serve the Lord, fulfill that task to his dying day. But that's not just for the Apostle Paul. That's for every elder. But that's not just for the Apostle Paul and every elder. That's for every Christian. We have been given a course. We have been given a ministry. We have been given a calling as believers in the Lord Christ to serve Him. to declare him, to take the gospel from him to a lost and dying world, to raise our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. to evangelize them and disciple them if the Lord saves them and to continue that to our dying day. That's the course that we've all been given. And our goal should be like the Apostle Paul as he declares in 2 Corinthians 5. 9, that my aim in life is to please the Lord. Everything I do is to please him. That's what he's saying. This is how we get through suffering to the glory of God. This is how we get through hardships to his praise when it's not about our pleasure. our comfort or our tasks or our dreams, whatever it is you may put on it. Those, listen, what is the greatest hindrance to dedication? We're all commanded to be dedicated, devoted. We're all commanded like the Apostle Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verses 12 to 14, where he says, This one thing I do. That's dedication. Not many things, Paul says, this one thing. My life is about one thing. You know what it was? Christ-likeness. Growing to be like Christ, growing to know Christ, going after Christ. We're all commanded to do that. We're to be dedicated. We're to be devoted. Singular-minded devotion for Christ. What is the greatest hindrance? The greatest danger to dedication? Distractions. Distractions. And you know what's so scary about distractions? They come in multiple forms and fashions. They come in pain. They come in fear. They come in, as one of my favorite writers, John Bunyan, put in Pilgrim's Progress, one of my favorite books outside the Bible, they come in all the allurements of vanity fair the distractions of this world. The distractions of fear for my children, fear for my parents, fear for myself, the distractions of money, the distractions of love, the distractions of cancer. There are so many distractions. That get thrown in our way, and they're all meant to take our eyes off of Christ, to take away the dedication. But how think about all the distractions brought to Paul, and he never took his eyes off of Christ. That's how he can say right here, this is the verse of dedication. I will not be distracted by what the Holy Spirit is showing me, which is guaranteed to come to me. I will not be distracted. Why? Because I want to finish my course. I want the ministry that I've received from the Lord Jesus to be done. And what is that? To testify to the gospel of the grace of God, of which all of us have been called to that. Matthew 28. Paul says the only thing I care about is finishing my course well. Well, how did he finish? I'm glad you asked. Second Timothy chapter four. What does he say at the end of his life? If you don't think this was his life's passion, if you don't think this drove the Apostle Paul. Take in your mind's eye or write it down in your notes, 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses verses uh 6 to 8. And what does he say? He goes right back to this reality and talks about it again. But here he's in A. D. 57 There he's probably ten years later, and he knows the executioner's coming down the hallway. He knows his life is over. And what does he say? I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. And now there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the righteous Lord will award me on that day. And he gives this. awesome encouragement for all of us. And he says, not only for me, but for all who loved his appearing. That means for all who stay dedicated to him, looking unto Christ, anticipating Christ, serving Christ. The Apostle Paul says, you're going to get the crown of righteousness as well. And he's going to bring it with the accolades. Well done, good and faithful servant. You finish the race. And this is what he lived for. He was dedicated. Do you see the model of dedication? That's why my heroes in this world, here you go, some of you, my heroes in this world are always old, faithful Christians. The old men and old women in our church, and I mean that respectively, because I think I'm probably slowly, quickly entering that category. At least my children tell me that all the time. But the old saints in our church are my heroes because I want to be just like them. They model for me what it's like. to s keep praising Christ when your body's falling apart. They model for me what it looks like to stay dedicated when children go rebellious. They model for me what it looks like to remain faithful when our world is in chaos. They show me these things of which I want to do, but I struggle with even as a pastor, and I've got these old saints. that are weather warned and they get it and they know that this world is passing away. But Christ remains and they stay focused. That's the model that every elder is to be. And listen to me, that's the model that every parent is to be. That's the model every faithful sister and brother in Christ needs to be. You need to be models for one another Some of you are going through hardships. Some of you will lose children. Some of you will have children abandon the faith. Some of you will lose jobs. Some of you will get cancer. Some of you will go through emotional distress for myriads of reasons, and you need to trust Christ, follow Christ, so that you can honor Christ and strengthen your brethren. That's what 2 Corinthians says, right? Oftentimes we go through suffering and it's not even for us. It's for those who are watching. So that we can encourage them with the hope that we have received in our trial, and then we can give people hope in any trial. Well, oftentimes that comes from people watching us go through the trial as we model for them What it means to love Christ, to serve Christ, to suffer for Christ, and to do it for the glory of Christ. I didn't get very far, did I? Let's see if we can get through the model. Notice verse twenty-five. This is how this goes. I I didn't even get all the way through verse twenty-eight at our church this morning. Pray for me. Verse 25, and he says, And now behold, there it is again, the interrogative, and now behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom. He was dedicated to the message. He was dedicated to the mission. And I'll end with this. And Jeff's now breathing easy. I'll end with this. Listen to me, dear loved ones. He was dedicated to the method. Notice the method. Proclaiming Keruso, preaching. I've gone about. He's described it in multiple ways. He's used basically all the terms that he could use as it pertains to teaching, preaching, proclaiming. He's used all the different terms, testify, declare, teach, admonish, warn, and hear his preaching. I've gone about, all of you that have gone about proclaiming the kingdom, He was dedicated to the method of preaching the gospel, dedicated to the method of preaching the scriptures, dedicated to the method of preaching the whole counsel of God. This is the gospel method. We have a message given to us by Christ. We have a mission given to us by Christ. But we also, never forget it, we also have a method. given to us by Christ. A method that the church can never replace. A method that Christians, even for their own life, can never replace. A method that elders can never replace. A method that parents can never replace It is the method of the sufficient, sound, strong Word of God. This is the method by which people are saved. Isn't that what Paul said in Romans chapter 10, verses 14 to 17? Right? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the drama team. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the YouTube clip. and hearing through Disneyland trips with your kids or whatever it is you're trying to do to break into your son or daughter, listen, the best thing you can do is teach them the word of God and live it out faithfully before them They don't need Disneyland and they don't need anything else. They need your time and they need your faithful, truthful living out of the gospel. That's the recipe for faithful parenting. You spend time with them in tenderness as you give them the truth tenaciously. That's how we do it. That's how we do it as elders. That's how we do it as parents. And that's how we do it as individuals with our family members. With our brothers, with our sisters, with our friends. You do the same thing because you only have one method. There's only one way the blind will ever see. There's only one way the lame will ever be here. There's only one way the deaf will ever hear, and it's only as the word of God goes out into the heart by the Holy Spirit and God says, Let there be light. So never change the message. Here you see the Apostle Paul. Despite all the hardship, despite all the difficulties, despite all the peril, he never changed the message. He never changed the mission and he never changed the method. He was a man of dedication. Oh, that we would have churches filled with men and women who were like this, models. Because what does the world need? The world needs to see models. The problem why the church at large has no impact on the world It's because the word of God has no place in the church. And therefore the church has no impact. It's only the word of God that changes us And when you take the word of God out, there's no change that's going to happen. So therefore the church is no different than the world. But when the church, like your church, who is a faithful church. And this is happening. And I'm just here encouraging you. But do it all the more. Don't stop. Don't shrink back. Lean in more, follow more, go harder after Christ and watch and see when the world goes, wait a minute, those people are still smiling. When the world is on fire. Those people are still worshiping when we mock them and make fun of them. Those people are still trusting when there's nothing to trust in. Yes. What are you doing? You're being a model. You see how this has been God's design? What was Israel to be? A model. Examples to the world What is the church? We're not the new Israel, but we're the church. And what are we to be? A model, an example. But unlike Israel, who stayed in one place and the world was to come to them, we are to go out with our example. out into the streets, out into our jobs, out into our homes and our places, and taking the example with us. This is why we need models. This is why you need elders. Elders who will model this. Elders who will live this. This is what we need. Well, I got farther than some of you probably thought. But you have a better understanding of the passage now. A better understanding of what you're doing as you seek to affirm another elder. You need your elders more than you know. By God's design. This is his method, where they would model the word, where they would deliver the word, where they would live the word so that you could go and do the same. Amen. Let me pray. Father God, thank you for your word. Thank you for the blessing of it. Father, I love you and I love this congregation and I'm so thankful. To even be a part of it from extension. Father, I pray your blessing upon George as he heals. Strengthen our brother, our dear friend, and our shepherd. Help him, strengthen him. And Father, continue to drive his convictions deep into all that you've called him to be and do, and to every elder that comes alongside him in this church, both now and forevermore. May they be models. That follow the model, the Lord Christ. May all of us, Father, follow faithful men and women who follow Christ May we be those faithful men and women. For the glory of your name we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.