The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, brothers and sisters, uh turn with me to Ephesians chapter 1. And as you do, I want to uh prepare us for the Word of God this morning by talking a little bit about our response to the good things that we experience. This summer has likely provided a good memory or two for you. Maybe a certain meal, a baby that was born, a vacation, a concert, a movie, a sporting event, something that was so good. And uh your reflexive reaction was to state that it was good and then to share with someone and tell them, I had this great meal, we have this new baby, I saw this amazing sunset, it's just automatic. And the thing is, is that the more knowledge that you were to gain about that moment, the greater your experience and the greater your enjoyment of it. Imagine taking the bite of that amazing dinner and having the chef sitting right next to you telling you about where the food came from. all the spices that he put into it and what you're intended to experience from it and your experience would be greater and your call of praise and response would probably be even more vigorous. Now what's important for us to understand is that we were actually made and saved for this. Not particularly for that piece of steak per se, but the chief end of man, as the Westminster Catechism tells us, is to Glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And Paul, under God's inspiration in Ephesians chapter 1, is going to model and command us to that today. The title of our sermon today is Praising Our Great God Who Has Blessed Us in Christ. And this passage can be broken down into three parts: a Christian introduction, the blessings of our salvation in Christ. And good words for our good God. This is the reading of God's holy word. Follow along with me. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us to adoption as sons, through Jesus Christ, to himself, according to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us. In all wisdom and insight, he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his kind intention which he purposed in him, with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of the times, that is, the summing up of all things in Christ, things in the heavens and things on the earth. In him also we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will, to the end that we, who were the first to hope in Christ, would be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, after listening to the message of the truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, were sealed with him, with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is a gift. As a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. Let's pray. God, we pray that the reading of these great works Would praise and honor you. God, I pray that we would be transformed by this word today, that we would exalt you and adore you in greater ways. That we would see how far you have gone to purchase us, what you have done in our life, and how you have revealed yourself for all to see, both in heaven and on earth. God, I pray that these would not merely be mental assertions, but they would be heart-changing transformational work that you do through your Spirit. We offer you this time and pray that you would be glorified through it and in our response to it. We pray this all in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The book of Ephesians is an excellent book, and it's one of the top Books every Christian should be familiar with. It's like Genesis 1 through 12, Deuteronomy, Isaiah, the Psalms, Proverbs, the Gospel of John, and Revelation. These books provide the bedrock of understanding of who God is and what our response to Him ought to be. This book can be summarized, this letter, this six-chapter letter, can be summarized by thinking of the riches of salvation. and the response of the faithful. The first three chapters of the book are full of promises and facts and truths to be believed. And the second half is a call to walk in a manner worthy of that, and so it's very practical. Think about the instructions to parents and to husbands and to wives and to the people within the church. Paul begins this letter with a Christian introduction. Let's look at verse one. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are at Ephesus and to our faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is Paul? Paul is an authorized author of the letter to the Ephesians. Apostle was an office of authority of someone who represented God on earth But it wasn't for Paul's sake, and it wasn't based on his merit. It is Jesus Christ that he represents, and it is by the will of God by which he serves This is a Christ-centered man who had a relationship with this church for Christ-centered reasons. The audience of whom Paul is addressing is obviously the church at Ephesus, and they're described In uniquely Christian terms, look at what it says about these people. Saints are what they are declared to be by the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's their title. Now, this is not an erroneous version of this term, as the Roman Catholic Church has perverted it, that a saint must earn this title by merit. Rather, every Christian is set apart as holy. That's what the word means. Set apart as holy as a saint of the Lord through their faith in Jesus Christ. They take on his righteousness and are now declared holy as they wear his robes of righteousness. Secondly, these people are faithful. They're full, full of faith in Christ for sure, but also they have remained faithful. They have not fallen away, and therefore all of the promises and all of the commands of the remainder of this letter apply to them in confidence. But if that is not your starting point, nothing of this letter can be taken in confidence. That is where the book parts ways. If you are in Christ, you take everything and obey everything rightly. If you are not in Christ, this letter stands over you as a distant shore reality that you do not have access to. And it is through faith in Christ that you will bridge that gap. And lastly, Paul offers a truly Christian greeting, and he says, Grace and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And this shows not only the origin of these blessings, but the unity of the audience. Now watch this. Grace or chorus is a typical Greek or Gentile greeting. And peace or shalom is a typical Hebrew or Jewish reading. And in Christ, they are both. 1. God offers both grace and peace to us, and in Christ, Jew and Gentile are one. This is a distinctly Christian introduction. And now to open his letter, Paul provides, as we transition, a summary statement of the blessings of salvation in verse 3. And then he expands upon these realities in a magnificent run-on sentence from verse 4 through 14. It's a growing avalanche of adjectives and modifiers and actions of grace by God that is meant to sweep up any audience of saints. either in Ephesus or here today at BBC, into a growing adoration and praise of our great God. May time allow us to get through it. And I know that our pastor would would choke on his chicken if he knew that I was trying to cover 14 verses in one hour, but I'm justified because I'm going on the grammar because it's one sentence. So there was no way that I could grammatically break it down. So we're gonna drink from the fire hose. Are we all good with that? Let's look at the eternal source and the total extent. Of our blessing in Christ. Look with me at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. The source, the fountainhead of everything we are going to see is the Divine Father, the Eternal Father. The Father of whom? Jesus Christ. Our relationship with God as Father is through our union with Christ. Now catch this. We do not have an independent relationship with God the Father that is outside of Christ. The Father relationship that's focused here in Paul's mind is that between God and his eternal Son Jesus. Christ. Now we get caught up in this because of our relationship to Christ. But this is significant. This difference is significant for many reasons, and one of them is this. If we minimize our relationship and and our understanding of God as Father to his relationship to us, we limit its capacity and its awesomeness. Because who God is has existed eternally. Eternally. And we are now grafted into that. So when Jesus comes and teaches us how to pray, And he changes everyone's paradigm and he says, this is how you ought to pray. And he says, our Father. Everyone stands back and says, wait a minute, no one comes to God like that. But they do now, because we are coming through the sonship of Jesus Christ What has this eternal God and Father done? He has blessed us. He has blessed us. The tense indicates a current possession of a historic action. This is not a future hope. This is something that has not happened in the past that stays back there. It has occurred, and we have continual access to these blessings. Catch these words. Bless us with every spiritual blessing. Literally, this means to do good to us by giving us good things. Our God is a good God. And he is and was good before we existed. And now, out of that nature of goodness, he gives good things. The blessings that we're going to read about are not just meant to be understood as true things. This isn't a passage about right and wrong. This is about the difference between good and bad. This isn't just about what is useful and what is helpful. It is about what is good. And what we also have to understand is God is not trying to do good. That often describes our intentions, doesn't it? Someone might misunderstand us or or we we we survey the situation incorrectly and they say, hey, I know you meant good, but that just didn't work out very well. That is never said of God. He never means good and then messes up. Every good thing he intends to do, and every good gift that he seeks to give has its full fruition of effect. That is what he has blessed us with. And to what extent? Total. A total extent. Every blessing. There's no gap, no limit, no need unmet, no good thing left retained. And God describes these blessings, these good things in one other way. In the spiritual and heavenly places. This describes where they originate from God's nature as a spirit. It describes that they are protected. The spiritual world is untouched by evil and selfish men and a prowling devil It describes how they can be accessed anytime, anywhere, not restricted by the location or your place in history, how much money you have or don't have. You have access to these blessings always. And it describes where they will be most fully expressed and experienced, when the heavens and the earth are united in the eternal state And with this opening statement in verse 3, the floodgates of the heart and mind of this authorized apostle are going to fling open. And allow a gorge full of blessing to flow out. Paul is going to get started and he just won't stop. Until he gets all the way down to verse 14. So let us join in and get caught up in the flow with all of the blessings that we have in Christ. Let's look at the second blessing. Verse 4, we are chosen for a purpose. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him. That word chose is in the middle voice, which in Greek means that the action is being done on behalf of the actor. He chose us for himself. Jesus makes this clear in John 15, 16, writing notes down. This is a great cross-reference when he says, You did not choose me, but I chose you. And I appointed that you would go and bear fruit, and that your fruit would remain, so that whatever you ask of my Father in my name he may give you. You bear fruit through the Spirit to glorify God And it is Jesus who has chosen you to do that. It is completely circular and self-contained. We can look in the Old Testament also and see this sovereign election and this sovereign choice. when we see the nation of Israel being chosen through the patriarch Abraham. Abraham was a pagan man who was alien to God. He carried another name, Abram. And God came to him. And God renamed him. And God gave his barren wife a child, and subsequently a nation, and God chose them for his own possession. They were to be holy people for himself, as Deuteronomy 7. 6 tells us. And brothers and sisters, in the same way, God chose the believers in Ephesus And those of us who are believers here today from before the foundation of the world. Now what does that mean? Well, first that it means that God's capacity is inconceivable. We're talking about a God who before the world made a plan for billions upon billions of people. Uh I have a problem organizing my six kids for tomorrow. Right? Can you imagine the plan 10 or 20 years out for just six people? Now let's talk about six billion and that's only right here in this point in history What about all of history past and all of the history in the future? God's capacity is infinite. Infinite Secondly, we can be comforted by this doctrine because God has chosen us independent of merit and without favoritism. Thirdly, we are blessed to know that God has chosen us to glorify Him in a manner that centers on His glorious plan and not our individual life. And that's what sometimes creates the rub when we're talking about these types of doctrines because we are too focused on me and myself and I, as opposed to recognizing that God has a plan and we're just swept up into it He's the one who existed from all of eternity. And he's the one who set out a grand story by which we are an actor But even individually, seeing ourselves as an actor still misses the point because the context of this is Paul addressing the entire church. All believers are fulfilling this particular role of being chosen by God. Now we know that this choice was determined before the foundations of the earth, but when did this choice take effect? When did it take effect? When we were dead in our trespasses and sins. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 2 at verse 1. This is when that sovereign choice from before the foundations of the world, this is when it took effect. And you, verse one, were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked, according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them, we all too formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh and dissulging the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. even as the rest of mankind. And when God was going to execute his plan of choosing us out of that, he was not persuaded away from it because of what he saw that we had become. We can be confident that what God chooses will come to pass, and that we can do nothing to undo that. To the believer that is here who is struggling with whether or not God still has concern for you as you are living in secret sin. He knew that that was going to be there when he chose Christ to be your propitiation before everything began. We sometimes think that God didn't know the sins that we were going to continue to commit after we came to Christ, as if it's some new thing to him. When he purchased you. When he bled for you, it was for everything you did in ignorance, and then it was everything also that you would do in willingness after you came to Christ It's amazing. Unpersuaded away from his sovereign choices. What else has God provided? Not only this choice, but that we have been called to a purpose. We have been called to be holy and blameless before him, holy, set apart, and blameless without blemish. This is your calling. This is your vocation. This is your job. Before you think about majors in college, before you think about spouses to marry and jobs to get and mission trips to go on and all the other things that you need to do this week. Your primary vocation and calling is what? To be holy and blameless before Him. That job title and description never changes. Wherever we go in relationships and circumstances, we carry that task with us. We carry that task with us. We are not merely chosen by God to be saved, but to live in a particular manner. And this is so important for us to understand because This decimates the ticket to heaven reductionism that can come with saying a prayer and walking the aisle and having an experience or feeling guilty about sin, but never seeing your life change. The highest purpose of our life's calling is not to escape hell. The highest purpose of your calling is what? To live a holy life I remember talking with someone at Evangelism Week, and they were talking about how they were worried about hell, but they still seemed apathetic around the situation. And I said I understand that that seems like this far-off decision, but what about all the days, including today, that you aren't living for God? You aren't loving God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength right now. Why are you only worried about that? Do not define your life in the negative. I didn't get hell. But in the positive, I am glorifying God. We have been chosen and called to a purpose. In verse 5, we see a similar but a unique blessing on display. We are predestined for adoption. In love, he predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the Beloved God's sovereign choice does not elect us for a purpose as if we were only cogs in a wheel or tools in a box. Rather, we now peer into a different aspect of his character. Loving adoption into an eternal family. This is the relational blessing by which God does good to us. We are placed into God's family as a son and a daughter of Christ. Now, physically, we can understand that God is the Father of all peoples, is the creator, the source, the author of all of life. But spiritually, we were a part of a different family. This is what Jesus says in John 8. You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires. of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies. God convicts all of us and assigns all of us to this family in Romans when he says, There is none who are righteous, none who seek after God. This is our family position. Now, what is life in that family like? What is life in the family of the devil like? Psalm 5 says this: there is nothing reliable in what they say. Their inward part is destruction itself. Their throat is an open grave. They flatter with their tongue. In Psalm 10 it says, In pride the wicked hotly pursue the afflicted. For the wicked boasts of his heart's desire, and the greedy man curses and spurns the Lord. Titus 3 describes more of these family dynamics. You were foolish amongst yourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending your life in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. This was the family that we called home Adoption Adoption creates a total break From our old family and a total union with the new family. And the father's estate, the old life is completely erased. The deaths, the obligations, the ways, the habits, and the rhythms, you are removed. Adoption provides access and rights to the way of life of the naturally born children. And who is the only naturally born child of God? Our brother, the Holy One, Jesus Christ. Adoption provides us everything that he has access to. And yet, here's my question for you. How many days, brothers and sisters, do we live as if we are under those old house rules, those old debts, those old habits, and that old namesake? God says you are no longer a part of that family. Paul further elaborates the process and the purpose of this good work when he says, in love. And according to the kind intention of his will. You see, these new family dynamics are about agape, unconditional, sacrificial, infinite, and benevolent love, kindness and care and provision. This is the family of God. This is to what we have been adopted. And for what purpose? For what purpose The verse says, to the praise of his glorious grace. God does not want us staring at ourselves at the end of the adoption process. He desires for us to praise his grace, which is glorious. It is brilliant, it is radiant, and it is beautiful. What is grace? Unmerited favor. Unmerited favor. That's the definition, and we praise God for it. The Father and the Son and the Spirit are fully aware of how amazing their grace is. We have sung about it, but they know it to a degree that we never could. And they have put it on full display, and our brother Paul cannot contain himself to just end the sentence with grace. He adds one more sentence on top of it. This grace, this unmerited favor is freely bestowed upon us in the beloved. What poetry. What poetry. Grace is freely given, and it is in the beloved. Not just the name of Jesus. It's not just in the name of Jesus, but the precious one. The precious one in God's sight. The apple of his eye. As God says in Jesus' baptism, this is my beloved. And for those of us, beloved, who are redeemed into the family of God, what word, what word does God have for you who have been adopted? Beloved. Beloved. Your formal former father called you all kinds of names. Your Heavenly Father considers you beloved. This concludes the first section of Paul's Avalanche, the good works done on our behalf by the Father in salvation. Let's shift and look to the work of the Son in salvation. Before we do, I want to ask a question. How familiar are you with guilt? Guilt. It's powerful, isn't it? The lack of forgiveness can dry up your bones. Consider the choices that people make to resolve their guilt and shame. Many times alcoholic pursuits, drug and pornography addictions, bouts of anger and rage, self-harm, cutting, eating disorders. are an act of rebellion in and of themselves, but there are oftentimes that they are a coping mechanism for the true guilt and the true shame of the sins that we carry. The law of God teaches that our sin against one another and against ourselves is only the beginning of our problem. Of greater concern, we have failed to love God and to worship Him first before we've pursued any other sin. Or maybe we're like the rich young ruler, right? We're earnest and respectful and moral and seeking eternal life, but we are a lover of something other than God. Jesus explains that our resume of sin goes even deeper when he says the desires of our heart put us in opposition to God. For if you have hatred in your heart, you are considered a murderer. David captures our plight so well. In Psalm fifty one. For I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me, against you, and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Beloved, what sin and guilt and shame has enslaved Your life verse seven in him We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us. This is the fourth blessing: redemption from sin. The phrase in him refers to the preceding word, beloved. There is not a name under heaven by which men can be saved. Because no other blood is as precious as Jesus' blood. And this is the blood that has provided redemption. Redemption defined is the purchasing of the freedom of one who is in bondage. It can be an economic term referring to lands that you are purchasing and redeeming back to your family. It can be uh in terms of uh the slave market, the slavery of people who again were in financial debt would enslave themselves to someone. And then another person may purchase them back out of that slavery. Jesus tells us in Mark 10, 45 that he has come to offer his life as that ransom. as that payment for enslaved and guilty and indebted people. But to whom did he pay? To whom did he offer this ransom and this payment? From what are we released? It's not Satan. Jesus does not come to offer a price to Satan. We are adopted out of the family of darkness, of which the devil is our dad, but he holds no deed over any life You see, we are redeemed from God's justice and the penalty of his law that condemns us and holds us as a prisoner for judgment. Romans 6:6 tells us that we are slaves to sin and bound to the penalty of sin which the law requires, for the wages of sin is death. And that's God's proclamation. That is not Satan's proclamation. We are held under the bondage of the law for which we failed and under the penalty of now what the law of God requires. And apart from Christ, we continue to store up the wrath of God against ourselves. We are held under God's judgment, and rightfully so for our record. And as we know this redemption, this transaction, the Bible teaches, is to God because the blood is paid to satisfy his demand. Scratch down Isaiah 53:10 in your notes. But the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him, Christ, to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. To who? To God. Galatians 3. 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. But you see, we are not merely traded as commodities or objects, but we are relationally forgiven for our trespasses, because the costly payment was made. We have been forgiven by the one we have sinned against. And how much guilt, how much guilt was there for you? Well, how much more grace has been given? God tells us that clearly through the pen of Paul. Look what he says. According to the riches of his glorious grace. Not out of his riches, but according to or consistent with his richness. A rich man may have a lot of money and give you a small portion out of it because he is Merciful or has pity on you. But a man who gives according to his riches is giving richly, abundantly, without concern for how much he has given away. And if we have any concern about understanding that phrase, Paul gives an illustration to make it more clear. He says he lavishes his grace of redemption upon us. I want us to leave here thinking of the comparison between a bathroom sink and a downpour of a torrential rainstorm. My fellow believers, God has opened up the storehouses of the heavens and poured down grace upon guilty people. MacArthur only in the way that he can do sets redemption in a gatling gun kind of manner against all of these doctrines that we see in Christ. He says this in justification. We stand before God accused and he is declared righteous. In forgiveness, the sinner stands before God as a debtor and receives cancellation of his debt In adoption, the sinner stands as a stranger and is made what? He's made into a son. In reconciliation, the sinner stands as an enemy and he's made a friend. And in redemption, he is a slave that has now become free. Declared righteous, debt cancelled, son, friend, free. Oh, how precious is the flow! That makes me white as snow. No other fount I know. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is our redemption and our forgiveness. Paul transitions from the good work of what Christ has done in the past in redemption and forgiveness. to a different type of blessing. I hope you all are not getting tired. There's more The next blessing is his divine wisdom and insight. Look at verse 8 and 9. In all wisdom and insight, he made known to us the mystery of his will. according to his kind intention which he purposed in him, with a view to an administration suitable to the fullness of times. That is, the summing up of all things in Christ, things in heaven and things on earth. When you're in school, how do you study history? There are several methods and perspectives that impact our view of ourselves and the world. But the majority of these are taught from a viewpoint of a particular culture and a starting point that leads up to that group, and then the future is seen along those same presuppositions. Westerners will likely study history according to the values and the presuppositions of our culture and look into the future of the continuance of what we value as virtuous. Those from the East will have a different paradigm by which they do that. Another view, however, of history and the future is based on the special revelation of God, who is outside of time and space and enters directly into those things. Consider the faulty foundation of that first view, and now pair it with a denial of the sovereign ruler. Then imagine pairing that with naturalistic, evolutionary, and materialistic perspectives. And now we're talking about a story that comes from nothing and is going to nothing, but has all kinds of suppoded supposed meaning and significance somewhere in the middle. It's a joke. This is the grand contradiction of secularism, and it is a joke. Unless, however, God provides a plan and reveals that, everyone is guessing and is fighting over authority in the matter, and that's what we see in our culture and around the world. Everyone is fighting for the authority to say who says so. Based on what? We've come from nothing and we're going to nothing. What are we arguing about? We all recognize, however, that we are a part of a story and some chronological narrative, but to what end? And from what beginning? And it is in this moment that Paul comes in and reminds us, with all wisdom and insight, the great and good God gives his people the central story. That is hidden from rebellious man of his plan for both the history behind us and the future that is to come. If you're taking notes, this is the way to think about this. This is not about a salvation plan only or a redemption plan only. This is a Lordship plan. The phrase, an administration suitable for the fitfulness of times, describes something. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 15. Actually make that Revelation chapter eleven. The phrase an administration suitable for the fullness of times describes the ordering and the ruling and the execution of a plan for all things by someone worthy of the culmination of all of history All the workings and dealings of God, every people group, every moment of the entire timeline of history, when the time is ripe, The Lordship of Christ will unfold, and not in a partial and dim view that we have now, but in full and absolute splendor, and all of it will drip with the perfection of Christ. Let's look into the future. Revelation chapter 11. Look what we need, verse 15. Then the seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God, saying, We give thanks to you. O Lord God the Almighty, who are and who were, because you have taken your great power and have begun to reign. And the nations were enraged, and your wrath came. And the time came for the dead to be judged, and the time for the reward of the bondservants, of the prophets and the saints, and those who fear your name, the small and the great. And to destroy those who destroy the earth. And the temple of God, which was in heaven, was opened, and the ark of his covenant appeared in his temple, and there were flashes of lightning and sounds of thunder. and an earthquake and a great hailstorm. Brothers and sisters, this is where heaven or history is going. No Christian needs to worry about the particulars of our life and our community or our nation because the plan is far greater and far grander than any of that. We are protected from crushing anxiety and worry and from the pride of triumphalism. And as I was thinking about this again this morning, we can be reminded that we do not have to sin. When are we as believers prompted to sin as we're looking at history in the future when we think That's what we are supposed to get is being threatened. And so we may make concessions that violate our constants or violate the scripture because we're worried if I don't do this, the ministry is going to come to an end, and then the whole thing's coming down. Jesus doesn't need any one of us particularly, or even this church, to make his plan go forth. He works in and above all of that And we have confidence about where we're landing so that we may remain holy and steadfast and trusting right now In our day-to-day life, we know where we've come, we know where we're going, and so we can live faithfully here. This is a good blessing, isn't it? This is good. This is a gift from our God who does not want us to live in worry and concern. In verse 3 to 6, we have the work of the Father. In verse 7 to 10, we have the work of the Son in the past and in the future. And now we shift. To the final member of the Trinity. God presently gives us a good gift of the Spirit to apply his ordained and redeeming work in us, the faithful Let's look at the possession of an inheritance. Verse 11. In him also we have obtained an inheritance. having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things, after the counsel of his will, to the end that we, who were the first to hope in Christ, would be to the praise of his glory. In these two sentences, Paul continues with many of the same wonderful realities that God has provided us in salvation. He says, in Christ, we've seen that phrase over and over again: In Him, in Him, in Christ, in Christ, blessing is found. In Christ. and Christ alone. You are either in Christ or you are outside of Christ. Now how clear is this delineation? We only need to look about when Jesus walked on this earth. Either you were following after him or you went home to do whatever you needed to do, and Jesus says, Well, you're not with me then. It is that same clear delineation that is happening today. You are either in Christ and receive everything that is in him, or you are fully outside of him. What of you today? Are you here today as someone who has been around the blessings of God? That you've been around the work and the mission of God? That you are aware of some of these things. You maybe have even felt guilty for your sin, but in some ways, like the rich young ruler, you are still trying to figure things out on your own. The scripture teaches that you are not in Christ. You are around Christ, and one day the floor is going to drop out from underneath of you, and everyone who is not in is gone. Today is the day for you to release all control, to submit yourself fully to the Lordship of Jesus Christ and recognize that there is nothing. Nothing that you can do to save yourself, to rule this world, or even to please God apart from Christ. Your record of debt is too long, and the standard of holiness is too high. You need a substitutionary exchange And it is that exchange that Jesus provides. I will take your record, and you may have mine. You can have my sonship. You can have my relationship to the Father and all of my promises. If today you are here as an unbeliever who has thought that you were a believer, I beg of you To repent of your sin and turn to Christ. Let's look back at this passage Paul also talks about this phrase of being predestined according to his purpose. Again, the giving of the Spirit of God was the plan all along, and it's not going to be thwarted by anything. When Paul says, who works all things according to the counsel of his will, God's plans are not subject to democratic vote. His original plans work out in time, in space, in the way that he wants. And then that last phrase at the end of this sentence, to the praise of his glory, all of what he does is motivated by his glory. everything that he does. So then what specifically is Paul talking about here? When he uses the word We, that pronoun we is referring to those who were the first to hope in Christ after his salvation work on earth. Who is that? It's the Jews. The gospel first came to the Jew and then to the Gentile. You see, the faithful remnant of who God ordained would do what the faithful remnant of God's people throughout all history had done. They would respond to Christ in true faith. And that faith in and of itself glorifies God because it's the fulfillment of a prophecy. This is what Isaiah says. Though the number of the sons of Israel be like the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that will be saved. And Paul says, We are that remnant. We are that remnant, and so we who were the first to hope in Christ are to the praise of his glory. This salvation is glorious, but there's something else that they have received besides salvation, and it is this inheritance. What is Paul talking about an inheritance? An inheritance is a portion of a lot. It's an appointment as an heir to receive the gifts of a benefactor. Typically, people would understand this as the inheritance that a father gives to his children. The land, the money, the name, the reputation, the influence is given to them in a future promise and blessing The Jewish converts to Christ not only received redemption and divine wisdom and insight and forgiveness, but a sure and certain and secure inheritance, allotment, and portion from God in the future. In the future. And although they don't already have it yet physically and fully, they already have it now spiritually through Christ. This is the framework of what we call the already and not yet fulfillment. Now, how did they obtain it? They obtained it because it was given to them. The word obtained is a passive verb. It was not earned. It was given as a gift. But there's something else unique to understand about this word. In Greek, if you wanted to describe something about the future that was so absolutely secure, you could type that in a past tense verb. It's called the past future tense. I don't understand it. I'm just reading what smart people say. Okay? So for example, in Ephesians chapter 2, when it says you were seated in the heavenly places. That's a promise, right? You were seated, right? It seems past tense. And but it's talking about the future, and you say, well, I'm not seated in the heavenly places, I'm seated here at BBC. How's that possible? You are surely seated in the heavenlies spiritually And you will with absolute confidence be sitting there physically when the time comes. That's the spirit of what Paul is trying to communicate about this inheritance. Now, what specifically is this inheritance? What is this inheritance that is so sure to be physically received and that is now spiritually actualized? It is the same inheritance that is given to everyone who is in Christ. In the next verse, Paul describes our inheritance, and he includes the Jews and the Gentiles together. But what is this inheritance? This is what you write down. The complete fulfillment of every promise that God has ever made. That is what we're looking forward to. The fulfillment of everything that he has said. That's what we're looking forward to. The snake crusher will crush the head of the snake. The seed of Abraham will lead to total blessing of all the nations. The throne of David will be filled on earth forever. The suffering servant will be fully glorified for his savoring work to save. Every tear will be wiped away, every disease will be gone, every sword will be beaten into a plough. And above all the gifts themselves We will fully inherit and experience Jesus Christ our Lord. This is the inheritance And it's glorious. And yet, how dim is that picture sometimes? How distracted are we? How doubtful. How dismayed can we be over the fulfillment of those things? Paul comes in with the last blessing. Verse 13. In him, you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed. In him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. You also, that pronoun is referring to the Ephesians, that includes the Gentiles and the Jews who've now come into salvation through the hearing and the preaching of the gospel and have responded in repentance and faith, and they were sealed with the Spirit. Who is God's pledge that all of his promises would come to pass? He does not leave us on our own strength to be secure that all of those things are going to happen. The ceiling of the sphere provides four things to us. It gives us security, it gives us authenticity, it provides us ownership, and gives us authority And this is not something that we provide to ourselves, that we just think about. There is something about God in the Spirit that He provides to us independent of our strength. And independent of our ability. And he provides us that confidence that we are authentically his. The security that we have that nothing will be taken from us. The joy and the peace of knowing that we are owned by the God of this universe and the authority to approach the throne of grace with confidence. as we pray to him and look forward to the day where we will meet him. It was Jesus, remember, who said that it would be better for him to go away. So that every believer could have the Spirit of God with them. And what a gift that is, isn't it? The very Spirit of God, who existed in the temple, in the Holy of Holies, that was unaccessible by nearly every person on earth except for the high priest who is granted access in there. And when Jesus says it is finished and offers up his substitutionary blood on our behalf, the curtain is torn open. as a symbol to us that access to God is now completely free as it is mediated through the blood of Jesus Christ. And that spirit is now sealing and indwelling, and we are able to rest in the power of that spirit. It's important for us to understand that this ceiling and indwelling is not a second blessing. but that it occurs at the time of believing. Look at the tense. Having also believed, you were sealed. The tenth indicates that the ceiling occurred when you believed, which is exactly what is stated in 1 Corinthians 12:3. No one can say that Jesus is Lord except in the Spirit. The down payment is given to us immediately upon rebirth and conversion to Christianity. There is not a single moment that you are in Christ and without the Spirit of Christ being within you. Let us close with a little phrase, a little phrase with a remarkable implication. Who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God 's own possession? Turn with me to John chapter 6. John chapter 6, verse 37. The Spirit of God seals us. that we would know that we will receive our full inheritance. And the view by which we are pointed to, the future of what is ahead of us, Is about this phrase of a time when God is redeeming his possession. The Spirit draws our attention to when we will receive the Father And that is the day when what? The Father receives us. Matthew chapter six, or John chapter six, verse thirty-seven. All that the Father gives to me will come to me. And the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. This is the will of him who sent me, that of all that he has given me, I lose nothing but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who beholds the Son and believes in Him will have eternal life, and I myself will raise him up on the last day. To put this in equal terms, God is our inheritance and we are His. And if we're doubtful of this, Paul explains this in Ephesians chapter 2 when he talks about how he's praying for the Ephesians that they would know the riches of God's inheritance in the saints. We can't look, we can't wait to receive God. And God is there saying, I can't either. I can't either. And this is why it's pictured in marriage. I, my beloveds, and he is mine. If you were with the bride all day, you would think she's the one who's getting all the goods. I'm gaining him, I'm gaining him, I'm gaining him. And for us, Sometimes living amongst the church, we think, oh, we're the only ones who's getting anything. But if you were to go over to where the groom is, he'd be saying, I can't wait. I can't wait. Not this can be nice for her Real nice when she comes and marries, No, no, I can't wait, I can't wait. And then the doors open and they see each other and everybody else disappears. Right? I remember that moment with my dear bride, and many of us do, and if we've witnessed it, we know what it's like This is God's and our view by which the Spirit brings together in full unity, with a view to a time when God gathers His own possession. Beloved, this is the exclamation point of Paul's great praise. The work of the Father, the work of the Son, the work of the Spirit. And what are we to do? I'm glad that I learned something today. Is that our response? Would we walk away from that great meal saying, I am grateful that I learned how that sushi was made? I learned so much. I know true things now. I understand the difference between truth and error If we leave today thinking that Paul was trying to communicate truth and truth only, if we walk away thinking, I learned some new things, or I was reminded of some things that I had forgotten. We have missed the central point of what this is all about. And I left it as the last point, even though it's the first three words of the passage. Look back with me in our final point. Good words for a good God. Verse 3. Blessed be God. That's the point of this passage. That's the point of this passage. If you want to know what the primary point is, the primary application, the primary response from examining all of these Blessings. It is blessed be God. The word that is used here, blessed, is different than we would think of blessing from the uh from Jesus talking in Matthew chapter 5. When he says blessed, meaning happy. Happy are the persecuted. That's not what blessed means here. Blessed is the word yulogetos, which means to offer good words, to speak well, and to praise. You might be familiar with a little bit of that phrase because we get the word eulogy from it. And what do we do at a eulogy? We offer good words. We offer good words. This passage begins with a high calling to praise for us to speak well of God. And then that refrain carries through in verse 6 to the praise of his glorious grace. And in verse 12, to the praise of his glory. And in verse 14, to the praise of his glory. We are to respond when we see and taste the goodness of God with saying, God is good. And that's your application. That's your obedience. That is your right and natural reflexive response before you talk about the holiness that you need to pursue and the prayer and the confession and all the other things that Paul gets to at chapter four. But before he allows us to talk about what we're supposed to do in chapter four to six, he says we just got to stop and praise. and offer good words to God. If we were to look in Genesis chapter 1, We would see God look upon his good works and say, that's good. That's good. That's very good. If we were to look in the Psalms, we would see them looking at what God has done, and they would say, That's good. If we were to look at how Jesus teaches us to pray, he looks upon the Father who is in heaven, and then he says, Hallowed be his name. And so we, as Christians, emulating and imitating the nature and the actions of our Father and the forerunners of our faith who have gone before us and imitating what Paul has done here and obeying the command, brothers and sisters, the chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And so in what opportunities and what ways do we do that? In congregational song. And when Nazarene is here, she shows us one way to do it too. And you know what else? I know that Isaac Green does it too, but it's in here, and then he writes amazingly marvelous things, praising God in the postscript every Monday. In our conversation, in our fellowship with one another. How's your family? How's the weather? Can I tell you something great I learned about God? And then what is your response? That's good. That's good. And amongst unbelievers, why would we, in a moment of grace, when someone is healed of a of a medical illness who doesn't know Christ, would we not say, Praise God? But we enter into that secularistic thought and say, well, I'm glad you're better. I'm glad that the medicine worked out. If we were with a believer, what would we say? Praise God. And so let us offer good words to our good God who has given us good blessings in Christ by offering continually good words to Him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we Are amazed and overwhelmed at everything that you have provided us. And today has provided just a small picture Of this sovereign choice, the total extent of blessing, predestination for adoption, redemption, and forgiveness. divine wisdom and insight and inheritance and the Holy Spirit of promise on and on. Your blessings for us in Christ continue God, we offer you praise and we say you are good. We thank you for these good things. And I pray, God, that we would be prompted to never go silent, no matter the audience. Of the things that we have seen and have learned, and we look forward to how you will grow our glorification and our enjoyment of you As you continue to reveal how deep and wide and wonderful and high is the blessing of love of Christ to us. Lord, we offer this time to you. May you hear our words of praise as we obey the call and respect and reflexively respond to surveying all of these things that you have done. In Christ's name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.