The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you want to, I'm going to start with a word of prayer, but you can turn to Psalm 111 We're going to begin the great Psalter today. If you don't have a copy of God's Word, the Black Bibles in front of you, we're on page 646, Psalm 111. Let's go before the Lord in prayer. Almighty God, you are so faithful. You are the one that holds the oceans in your hands. You have stretched out the heavens like a tent. And yet you've been so mindful of me. So mindful of us, rebels without a cause, loving our sin Coming up with all kinds of false gospels to appease our guilty conscience. Shaming the name of Christ and your means of salvation. But yet you have sent your redemption. You have declared your covenant Jesus Christ is the means by which we can be forgiven, by which we can receive the credit of righteousness. By which we may be united and restored to you. What a God that you are. We pray that today as that we survey your nature and your character, that all the other things in our life that seem to take precedence and priority, would disappear, would melt away, would fall in line to the priorities that they are, which is nowhere near number one. For that position belongs to you. We thank you, Lord, and we pray these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Life is full of questions, isn't it? Full of different seasons, different obstacles, different opportunities, times of victory and comfort, times of wanting and struggle. But what is the most important and defining reality about you is not those seasons. It's not those victories. It's not those decisions. It's not those moments. It is God and your relationship to him. Amen? What we know about God will determine how we walk through life, both now and forevermore. Last week, Sean Drynen blessed us with a reminder and a teaching of the sufficiency of Scripture. That is sufficient to lead us to salvation, to sanctify us, and to equip us in every good work. In the area of discernment, having the perfect and the true standard means that we have the first and final word. on life and godliness, and that is a good gift, isn't it? So Sean, thank you, brother, for ministering that to us last week. This week, we will focus on the character of God. For it is God Himself that transforms our corrupted hearts, our faint hearts, and he brings clarity to our cloudy vision. Because even if we have this perfect standard and we have access to perfect wisdom, if our hearts are deceptive and wicked, and our eyes become cloudy with selfishness and worldliness, we won't be able to see or receive God's word as the guide and the gift that it is. Psalm 111 and 112 are paired poems They are across six. You can't see it in uh in some of our translations, but every letter of each new line begins with the next letter of the alphabet. A, B, C, D, all the way down from Aleph to Tav. Psalm 111 is a praise psalm and it focuses on God and His work and His words. And Psalm 112 is a wisdom psalm. that guides the man of God to reflect the works of God in him. In 111 we see God as the standard. In 112, we see man as the reflective image-bearer. And the fear of God, if you look down at verse 10, is the hinge that results from this praise psalm that enables true wisdom and insight, that propels a life that glorifies God. They cannot be seen as separate. They are together. God and us as his reflective image. About 25 years ago, Ed Welsh wrote a remarkable book that recently just went through a second printing because of its popularity and its need. Maybe you've read it or heard of it. If you haven't, put it on your bookshelf. It's called When People Are Big and God is Small. You've read it or you've heard of it. His focus was on the idol and the entanglement of the fear of man, of peer pressure. But this title serves as a framework for what we are prone to do with all things, isn't it? When problems are big and God is small. When decisions are big and God is small. When the strife in my marriage, when my children, when this, when that, when these things are big and God is small. So I ask you as we begin today to set our hearts to prepare for this passage. What is big in your life right now? What do you fear? What do you love? And sometimes we're not willing to admit that question. Let me ask you this. What do you spend time thinking about? You wake up in the morning, first thing on your mind, if it's not God, what is that thing? Because it's all kinds of things in my mind. What is that? That's the thing that's big. You think about it, you dream about it, you worry about it, you plan for it. What is that big thing in your life? As we come into Psalm 111, we will see the praise of the eternal God. From now to forever. In verse 1 to 2, we will look at the call to praise. In verse 3 to 9, we will see the focus on the Lord and his works, his grace, his words, and his name. And then we will see the resultant fear of the Lord that produces wisdom and insight in verse 10. As I mentioned before, Psalm 111 is an acrostic, which means that each line of poetry begins with the next. sequential letter of the alphabet. And there are several purposes for this poetic device. One is it helps with memorization. ABC means the American Broadcasting Corporation. We know that really easy, right? It's also to be used to help understand the comprehensive or the exhaustiveness of the topic. From beginning to end, from A to Z, the theme is exposed. It's also to highlight the beauty or the wonder or the thoughtfulness that goes into the poem itself. Some of us can have experienced this with English poetry or spoken word or even hip-hop when we're listening to the poet or the singer say a line of prose or their song and then they hook a term that you weren't expecting, you're like, that was amazing. Not only did they communicate something, but they communicated it wonderfully. So when you restrain yourself to start the next line with a word that starts with C, you don't have all the words that you can choose from. But you still need to make sense. And so that is why we look at this and say, wow, there is intention that goes into describing the glory and the wonder of God. But there is another purpose. To an acrostic that I want to highlight, and that is the purpose of sequence. A leads to B, B leads to C, C leads to D And as we can see on the screen, the call and the commitment to praise leads to a focus on God. And a focus on God grows our fear of God. And when our fear of God grows, so we have access to his wisdom and have good insight to live a godly life. That's the sermon. If you want to leave now, you've got it. Now we're going to take a few minutes and bring all that out. But let's gaze upon the character and the work of God and let Him grow. Our fear and our admonition and our awe and our and our adoration of Him. Look with me at the call and the commitment to praise. Verse 1. Praise the Lord. Praise Yahweh. I will give thanks to Yahweh with all my heart in the council of the upright and in the congregation. The first word here is the word praise, the word halel, and it comes from the root word to shine. What is praise? But taking the candle, taking the flashlight, and bringing the attention onto one object. And what is that object? It's God. It's God. To celebrate, to elevate, to glorify. The author begins with a call to shine and direct attention to God. And this is a plural call. It is for himself and it is for the congregation. That praise you can see in the second line is paired with thanksgiving. There is a totality of praise and thanksgiving. Look at the phrasing, I will give thanks with what? All my heart. Not part of it, not a divided heart, but all of it. And this goes beyond private prayer. The worth of God and the gratitude due to him becomes public. He says, in the council or in the company of the upright, this is a more intimate setting. Maybe it's a small group, or maybe it's a tribe of Israel. Then it says, and in the assembly or in the congregation, this is when all the tribes gather together, God is worthy of our praise and our thanksgiving. When we come together on Sunday, he's worthy of it all You see, there's no showmanship here. Someone that's not seeking praise by a lot of people that are willing to praise and give thanks to God in a small setting But there's also no embarrassment, no fear of man, because when you get with everyone, you're willing to say, I'm with him, and he deserves all the glory. What is the state of your heart today? Does everything start with the praise of God? Do you shine light on Him or something else? Are you undivided in your gratitude in private in small settings and unembarrassed in larger groups? What about out in the world? An important observation as we look back down at this text, notice that the author does not say, I give thanks with all my heart. What does he say? I will. I will. This could be because he's on his way to church and he's saying, Oh, when I get there, I'm going to give thanks with all my heart. But I think he's already in the midst of the congregation. I think what this is actually talking about and the verbal form indicates that he's actually expressing a desire that is not his full reality. If we were to translate it literally, it would say, I desire to give thanks with my whole heart, but I'm not quite there. Maybe he or maybe you are burdened. Maybe you're discouraged. Maybe there's a division in your desire. Maybe it's suffering, and you keep asking the question, why, why, why? Maybe there's a winning decision and you're you're captivated. What should I do? What should I do? Maybe it's sin, selfishness, weakness, fatigue, sickness. The first step that we see here by the author is to take a step of faith. to articulate our desire to make a personal commitment. I will give thanks with my whole heart. And this leads him then to look at God. And he's transformed because of it. How about us? Has there ever been a Sunday afternoon or a Sunday morning by which your heart was not in it? You came screeching into the church parking lot on spiritual fumes, working out your kids or being worked out by your kids? Or your wife or your own flesh. You were doing battle with somebody, but you said, you know what? I really desire to give God all of my undivided thanksgiving. And then what happened? You got here And the Psalms were read. And you offered confession. And the words were sung. And the sermon was preached. And you saw our attention get focused on God, on the Lord Jesus Christ. And what happened to you? You left, as the psalmist says here at the end of verse 9, holy and awesome is his name. This is the sequence of Psalm 111. We put our eyes on the Lord and let him change us. Let us begin to focus on the great works of God. Look with me at verse 2. Great are the works of Yahweh. They are sought or studied by all who delight in them. The word here is great and it means magnitude or intensity. This is different than the word good. It's impressive, it's categorically above others. This word is used in Genesis to highlight the great lights Not the magnitude and the multiplicity of the stars, but the two great lights in the sky, the one that stand out above everything. What are they? The sun and the moon. Derek Kidner says that the word work here refers to creational work. Psalm 83 says, when I look at the heaven, the works of your fingers. Psalm 119 or Psalm 19. 1, the sky above proclaims his Handi work. Psalm 104 24 says, How manifold are your works? The earth is full of your creatures And the intimate experience that we all have with creation, I praise you, Psalm 139, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. And how many of these works have has God made? I love how my children string together these words when they're trying to think of something that's really large. Well, it's million, billion, quadrillion, zillion, tillion, billion. And you're laughing because your kids have done the same thing. Mathematicians and scientists can't talk like that, so they they create mathematical uh terms to say, listen, we're gonna take ten And we're going to put this 23 really small above it. And what that means is that you take the number 10, you put 23 zeros after it. That's how large the universe is. And apparently that sounds more professional than saying quadrillion, billion, billion, Zayan. We cannot measure the size of the universe. We cannot count the number Of grains of sand. How many cells are there within your body? We could go on and on and on. We are out of words to describe the greatness of God. of God's creation, aren't we? We need poets and musicians and videographers and HD cameras that just try to grasp it and we say, oh, it's just still not the same. You had to be there to see it. Romans 1 teaches us that men suppress the truth in unrighteousness, but they suppress who made everything. They still agree wholeheartedly and completely that what is outside this room is awesome. The greatness of God's creation is undeniable. You see the next phrase that these are deep and delightful words. They are studied, they are sought after by all those who delight in them. They sustain, they're attractional. Consider this. The entire scientific apparatus is a testimony to the greatness of God's creational works. Shalom's laughing because he's a scientist. Disciplines are committed to the study and examination of all parts of the things that God made within six days. You could study a semester at high school biology, you could commit years to a master or a PhD, and a lifetime seeking to understand, to evaluate one small part of this universe. human anatomy, physiology, and medicine, astronomy, the stars through a telescope, cells and part uh particular motion through a microscope Chefs and artists and photographers, even our hobbies and recreation, interact and study and enjoy the things that God has made. Do you follow all of these to the right destination? Praise God. Look at the cycle of delight and study Delight leads to study which breeds more delight. I'm sure as we think about four years ago when we were in the midst of COVID, we all developed a little bit of a hobby. We got into something, didn't we? Some of you have a bunch of children who are about four or five years old, so we know what you did during COVID. For me, it was br that's a comedy grenade. That'll go off later on For me it was bread. And some of you have enjoyed some bread with me. I love bread. And I remember getting this book by this master chef, and I I just trusted that he knew the Lord because the way he wrote about bread, I was like Do you know the one who comes from the house of bread? He didn't write just these wonderful recipes. He began talking about flour and all the kinds and and how these things get mixed. It was this story and I was all in. I was all in. And he was talking about yeast and bacteria. And this is where he caught my attention. He said, until refrigeration was invented. There was a flavor of bread that no one knew about. And I said, I gotta have that flavor of bread. And I I thought, okay, it's gonna be getting some extra spices or spending a lot of money on some really intense spices. Nope. When you're talking about baking bread with four elements, flour, yeast, water, and salt, there's something invisible that you can't see and it's bacteria. And the bacteria is where the flavor comes from. Okay? The yeast, if you let it go too long to allow the bacteria flavor to mature, the yeast will turn your dough into soup. But if you can slow down the yeast and let the bacteria mature with refrigeration, you can have flavor profiles that never existed before. Now I'm hooked. Now I'm ready. What is going to happen? So I go through the recipe, do the whole thing. And he said this. He says, you're not looking for what the bread tastes like while you're chewing it. I didn't know that there was a taste that you could add without chewing. And he said, you need to chew. Your saliva needs to mix with the product of the bacteria. You need to swallow it. It needs to go across the the taste buds on the back of your tongue, and then you're going to taste and smell a nutty finish. And I said, there's no nuts in this recipe. Where's the nutty finish coming from? And my kids were there, they witnessed this. I'm sitting there with my first piece of this bread, having read all of this, I'm having my own moment of worship And I take a bite of this bread and I'm chewing it. I'm like, I don't taste no nuts. What is he talking about? And all of a sudden I swallow, and in that moment, there it was. There it was. And what caused me still causes me to tear up because the God of this universe, thousands of years ago placed all of those things into his creation for his people, whether they hated him or not, to be able to enjoy that. after refrigeration was made. Amen? We could find that in all manners of recipes in all areas of creation by when we look at it we say, Who is this God who does this? Who is this God? Are you moved to worship because of these great works? Let's look down in verse 3. Splendid and majestic is his work. There, Tidner here indicates that this word work is different than the previous verse. This is not talking about creational works. This is talking about sustaining, providential, preserving works. The word splendor here is the word vigor or imposing. Gravitas. The word majesty is radiant and glorious. The work of God is gravitas and radiance. These traits not only describe his work, but himself. His nature and his work are described in unified ways in the Psalm. Amen. Psalm 104 captures this so well. It says, Oh God! You are very great. You are clothed in splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. Radiance and an imposing force. What does it require to stretch out the heavens? Recall with me the covenant to Noah. The flood had ruined the entire world, but God was not done with this planet. There was an imposing force of his covenant that established and holds seed time and harvest. Cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night. They're fixed and they're not immovable. Amen? And a flood to swallow up this world would never repeat. And yet, after a rainstorm, the earth is decorated with a radiant rainbow. Splendor and majesty are all around us. Do you see it in the changing of the seasons? That hard-packed snow that seems immovable runs away with the imposing force of 33 degrees Fahrenheit. Do you marvel at the colors of the death of leaves? I know the cockis love to drive out and look at the reds and the yellows on the mountains, and they say, that's majestic. They're dying. Not the coffees, the leaves. And it's beautiful. And what about the work of man? Psalm 8, oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. We look at the glory of the heavens, and what is man that you be mindful, or even care about him? And then what does he do? He says I'm going to crown you and I'm going to put you in charge of everything. And so, brothers and sisters, when you see the effect of man's dominion Whether it is your son cutting grass and it looks good, or men who have built skyscrapers, we should say, splendid and majestic is God's dominion on this earth. It's everywhere. The psalmist goes on, and his righteousness stands forever. This is not merely ethical rightness. This is the language that is connected to God's rule and to his reign over everything. This is the right ways of the sovereign. Psalm 115, you know it. Our God is in the heaven and he does all that he pleases. And what pleases him? Righteousness. Psalm 9, verses 7 and 8 brings these things together. The Lord sits and throne forever. He has established his throne for justice. And he judges the world in righteousness. He judges the people with uprightness. And for how long? What does the text say? Forever. This is the eternal God. The phrase of the word forever or forever and ever are used five times in this psalm, and they mark the different sections. We are talking about the eternal, unending, immovable God. The ending picture of the Bible looks to the forever future, and what language does it use of God's people? They will reign. forever and ever. Daniel says, blessed be the name of God forever, who changes times and seasons and removes kings and he sets up new kings. And then Isaiah 46, 10, I am God. declaring the end from the beginning, saying, My counsel shall stand. Can you look back over history? Can you look at what God's doing now? And can you find worship? And so we have the great creation of works. We have the splendid and marvelous and majestic preserving and providential works. We see the sovereign works of God. What is your response? I wonder what's on Facebook. Wonder what my boss wants from me. What are my kids going to say? I got this decision I gotta make. When is this suffering gonna end? Everything around us is saying, look up, Jeff. Look up, BBC. And look at me. Look at me. We transition from looking at God's work to recalling his grace. Verse 4. He has made his wondrous deeds to be remembered. Yahweh is gracious and compassionate. The phrase wondrous works could be translated wonders and is yet another word. It is related to his saving acts, which flow out of his saving character Papa Mac mentioned this earlier, that what God does flows out of who God is. Exodus 34, 6. Write it in your margin. The Lord passed before him, Moses, and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, flow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. From Genesis 3 onward, God has been performing wonders of grace and mercy, undeserved favor for the guilty, and help for the weak. Are you one of them? How about in your own life? What wonders of God's grace has he shown to you? Not long ago when you first became a Christian, but yesterday. Last week. How did he help you? Have you forgotten it already? I know I have But the act of God's salvation is wonderful, but this is not what the verse focuses on. Look with me. It says how he has caused these works to be what? Remembered. We just got back from the beach and uh tropical storm Debbie was making her way up on Friday and everybody locally was calling her Debbie Downer, which I thought was pretty, you know. Creative, right? And uh the the surf, the change in the surf was just remarkable from the day before. I mean everything's on a diagonal, there's rip currents everywhere, there's red flags, the lifeguards are like, please don't go in Because we got to go in after you. I'm surprised they didn't shut the beach down. It was a day to save drowning people. And to witness the saving of a drowning person is a wonder. And what would it be to experience it? But what I want us to imagine is if the Lifeguard Association invited that person and their family back to the beach a year later for a celebration of life and that wondrous event. Brothers and sisters, that is exactly what God has done. He has established feasts and festivals and memorials to share with his people and the generations beyond a saving event to remind them. It's another reason why he's gracious and merciful to us. Think about the things that he has called us to participate in. The feast of the unleavened bread. The Passover feast recalled the substitutionary atonement of the blood over the door and the freedom from Egyptian slavery. Fifty days later was the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost. Where they celebrated the arrival of Mount Sinai and God telling them that they were going to be kingdom priests set apart for holiness. Not only freed slaves, but my rulers on this earth. And the feast of booths, remembering God bringing them through the wilderness. Joshua set up stones next to the river to remind everybody. Do you remember when the water just stopped and we just waltzed right into the promised land children? Do you remember? Deuteronomy 6, Psalm 78, generations calling down to the next. Ponder, consider, let me tell you about what God has done. Dear Christian, God knows the people whom He has saved. He knows our fragility, He knows our weakness, He knows our short-term memory loss regarding the things that He has done, and He has established things to keep us fresh. and attentive. For us we have baptism in the Lord's table, wonders to behold, and graces to be enjoyed. We look back to what Christ has done. We look within for the sin to be confessed. We look around for the potential division and the needs to be met. We look forward to the return of Christ. Do you participate in the memorials and the ceremonies with a mechanistic spirit? Because if you do, you are spurning a grace of God that is meant to provoke your worship. This grace is further described in verse 5, the grace of provision. He has given food to those who fear him. He will remember his covenant forever. The physical provision of God falls into two categories. The sheer and utter grace for his enemies and the commitment to his chosen ones. We know that the rain falls on the just and the unjust, doesn't it? And this is absolute and sheer grace, but that's not what God has in mind here. But I will ask us to pause and answer this question. What kind of God What kind of king, what kind of sovereign supports the life of people who deny his own existence for weeks, months, years, decades, and generations? This is the patience and the compassion of our God that is meant to lead us to repentance. And of that should be praise. But the emphasis here is the provisional work for his people. You can see the language of covenant and there's something to do with fear. As we think that this is related to Israel, we may be thinking, oh, he's talking about the manna and the quail and the water. Look at the provision that he gave while they were wandering in the wilderness. The only problem with making that What he's referring to is there's one word that preceded every one of those miracles. Grumbling. It wasn't fear. It was grumbling. So what's the connection? Genesis 37 through 50 catalogs the amazing man Joseph and the fear of God that he had that brought a physical provision for his family and his people. Do you remember the story? What a blessing that Joseph is. Because of his fear of the Lord, Israel was protected from seven years worth of famine. And in Genesis 47, 27, this is what it says. Israel settled in the land of Egypt, in the land of Goshen, and they gained possessions in it, and they were fruitful, and they multiplied greatly in the midst of seven years worth of famine. What was this fear in Joseph? This is not something that he woke up with and he had. It was a fear that was cultivated from the very beginning of the narrative. Joseph retold his dreams, despite being despised by his brothers. Despite being sold into slavery, he feared the Lord when Potiphar's wife made advances and he ran away from her. When he was in prison, he feared the Lord. When he rose to tremendous power, he feared the Lord. When he could have had a spitefully, when he could have spitefully repaid his brothers, he feared the Lord. And that trust and his commitment is what enabled a blessing for his people and his family and all of Israel. Do you trust and fear God like Joseph? Jesus brings this home in Matthew 6. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things, the food that he was talking about, the clothing, the shelter, all of them. will be given to you. Look down at verse 6. We moved from grace into the display of power. He has declared to his people the power of his works in giving them an inheritance of the nations. We may think that this declaration and the display of power refers to the conquering of God's enemies in the book of Joshua. A single moment, a single narrative, a single generation, undefeated, victory by God. But is that how this story of power played out? Surely not. This power began hundreds of years and generations before with a promise. This tower began when it was declared that a man old aged, with no children, no nation, no army, or anything else that would please the Lord would have all of those things. Abraham was called to go from his country into a land that God would give him. The promise powerfully continued through Isaac and Jacob and Joseph to Moses. It went from Ur to Cana to Egypt through the wilderness across the Jordan and back into Cana. All along the way, God was giving his people different spoils and different gifts from the nations that they would have victory over. His power was tremendous over time. And that's what we need, don't we? We so often in our momentary afflictions say, God, do something. And he says, I am. It's not just in the six months worth of time frame, Jeff, that you're looking at. It's over the course of 60 years, my friend. Do you trust God 's power across time? When we think about the inheritance of the nations, we have to remember that the conquering that took place in Joshua were not the works of Joshua and the mighty men, were they? Thank you for saying that so loudly. Joshua 1042 says, Joshua captured all these kings and their land at one time because the Lord God of Israel fought for them. Chapter 1, verse 13 says, the Lord your God is providing you a place to rest. As the text says, these are his works. It is his effort. Through you, yes, but this belongs to God. Consider the power that was displayed between Numbers 13 and Joshua 2. In Numbers 13, the 12 spies are sent out to go get a first look at the land and they come back. This is not good. We are like grasshoppers to them. And then the Lord purges that generation of faithfulness, unfaithfulness. And then in Joshua chapter 2, spies are sent out again, and what do they say? Truly the Lord has given all the land into our hands, and the inhabitants there melt away because of us. The power to provoke confident faith. You see it? But it's important to remember that this gift of the land didn't come without defeat. In Joshua chapter 7, we saw that Achan took some of the possessions that he ought not to from Jericho. And the parts of the people of Israel were the ones that melted like water. But then Joshua repented. Achan's sin was exposed. God delivered the enemies into the hands of Israel. And the narrative ends by saying: 31 kings fell to Joshua. How great will this preview be in the future? Every knee will bow. Every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And I know that there are moments, brothers and sisters, when we leave here and we look on our phones and we look at the world around us and we say, There is no way. There is no way. Who are you talking about? No way for you, no, you're right. What is impossible for man is easy for God. The meek will inherit the earth. Consider how small Egypt is compared to the entire globe. And the meek and the humble and the trusting will own it all. Great works, delightful works, preserving works, saving works, provisional works, works of power. We're going to transition from focusing on the God of great works and recalling his grace to the surety of his word. Look with me at verses 7, 8, 9, and 10. We see a connection between four realities. Look in verse 7. We see the work of his hands. In verse 7, we see his precepts. Verse 9, we see his covenant, and we see his name. I want you to pay attention to look at the intersection. and the unity between his work, his words, and his name. Verse 7, the works of his hands are truth and justice. All his precepts are faithful. This is a sobering transition in this passage from what God has done to how he has done it. We're given an illustrative device here of his hands in these two character traits. And this is instructive. Turn with me to Psalm 85. Just like our physical hands work in complementary balance to tie and to knead, to turn, to touch. So we are taught that the character of God is at work in a multifaceted and complementary nature. We sometimes may ask, what is God doing here? And we're looking for one answer. As a great theologian said, for any one thing that we think God is doing, he's doing a thousand Psalm 85, verse 10. Look at this illustrative picture on display. Steadfast love and faithfulness meet Righteousness and peace kiss each other. Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky. The pinnacle of this complimentary work is displayed in what God does on the cross, isn't it? In Romans chapter 3, we understand that this was to show his righteousness. so that he may be what? Both just and the justifier of the one who has faith. God's mercy does not melt away his justice. He will be vindicated as just in the end. And in verse 7, God is bringing together truth, that which is without falsehood, deception, or deficiency, and justice. That God acts without partiality, without bias, no unbalanced scales, no favorites. As an example of his complimentary work with his hands. I want you to consider what he says to Israel in Deuteronomy chapter 9 as to the reason why they are inheriting the promised land. You are not inheriting this land because of your own righteousness, for you are a stubborn and rebellious people. Truth Rather, it was because of the wickedness of this people, justice, and God's commitment to electively show mercy on Israel, although they didn't deserve it, but rather because God was remaining true to his covenant. and to his commandments showed his faithfulness in his precepts. He doesn't lie, and he's not unjust. This is our God. Psalm 119, 160 says, The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever. But I need to ask you, do you hear this with the sober words we ought to? There are in the scripture promises and blessings and the things we like to read about what we have in Christ. Oh, I like that verse. But there are also warnings and restrictions restrictions. There are blessings and there are woes. Leviticus 26 contains blessings for obedience and cursings for disobedience, and God is faithful to both. He doesn't wink at disobedience and says, oh, it's okay. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. God 's faithful to it. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. I never knew you. He will be faithful to it. Which category do you fall into? For where two or three gather together, there I am. Matthew 18. I am with you always until the end of the age, Matthew 28. If you are ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of you. God is faithful to both. Where do you stand? Are you pretending? Are you pretending to follow Christ? Or do you have a true faith that saves? Dear brothers and sisters, I weep for you. I plead with you to understand that God will not be mocked. If you are here pretending to be in Christ, turn. You do not know if today is it. Or he will expose you, not in front of us, but in front of something far more terrifying. Himself And you will stand naked and exposed, not able to talk about your good deeds, your attendance here, your good works there. Because all of that apparent righteousness is filth to God Verse 8. These precepts are upheld forever and ever, and they are done by God in truth and in uprightness. To further emphasize God's point about faithfulness, he adds this time frame on it and he talks about how he carries out his work. This is the eternal God. Do you know him? God is eternal. His words are eternal. His actions are eternal He is truth and just, and so are his words and his actions. And this is quite different from our experience, isn't it? Our internal life is full of mixed motivations. Paul describes what we often think. The good I wish to do, I can't do it. And the evil wish I wish to avoid, I still do it Not so with God. Then there's the contradiction between our words and our actions. We have to be reminded to let our yes be yes and our no be no. We are caught saying one thing and we do another And then there's the temporary and fleeting nature of our words and commitments here today and gone tomorrow. Not so with God. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Take a step back with me and look at the Ten Commandments. Are these abstract rules that God yokes mankind with? Or are they a declaration of who God is and who he is not? We are commanded not to have any idols. Why? Because God is not an idolater. We are called not to murder, because God is not a murderer. No adultery, no theft, no covening, because this is not who God is. We will become like that which we worship. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians 3:18. We will resemble that which we dwell upon. If you have children, you know that this is how they learned how to speak. They just imitated you How do we become like God? Psalm 112 has parallel verses to the generosity of God and the generosity of man. The riches of God and the wealth of man, the fear and the trustworthiness of God and the trustworthiness of man. But in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, I hope that we come to see the point that is being made so clearly here. And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. What's the mechanism? Look at God and you will become like God. Fix your gaze upon him and who he is and what he said. What does he hate? To help the learn to hate like he does. What does he love? To grow our loves like he does. How does he respond? Look at Jesus Christ. As we look and study the works of God, we have the ability to become like him. Turn with me back to verse 9. He has sent redemption to his people. He has commanded his covenant forever. God has sent, he's at work, he's commanded his word. Here again we see the link between his work and his words, and you'll notice that both of these are past tense. There is a completion of this work that the people of God should rest in. And surely there are components of God's redemption that have greater fulfillments, but what he has sent is meant to be trusted in with full faith. At this point in time, Israel awaited that snake crusher from Genesis 315. He hadn't yet come, but the fact that Eve had a child and offspring that continued to be at enmity at Satan showed that God was still committed and on the move. To Abraham the covenant was commanded and it was unconditional. You could not lose what you did not earn And a son and a nation would be birthed, and the land of Cana and kings would come forth, and there would be a fulfillment of Christ that they were waiting, but God could be trusted. The substitution and repayment of sin was sent to Adam, clothing him and Eve with animal skins. To Abraham in providing a ram so that he did not have to sacrifice his son. And we talked about the Lamb of Passover earlier. God has granted to his people the redemption for them to trust in. Would they have it by faith? Today we look back to Christ, a redemption that has come and that is sufficient. But there's a second reason why this is placed in past tense. The point that we cannot miss, and that is that the redemption that has come and the covenant that has been commanded means that there is nothing else to be looking for. Don't look somewhere else. Don't look within. Don't look around to the nations around. Don't delay. The solution has been sent and the response to repent and trust has been commanded by God. Have we done that today? And so here we stand, going from creation and the great works, the splendor and the majesty of God's preservation to salvation, to revelation, and now an exclamatory conclusion. Look at where the psalmist, who desired to give thanks with his whole heart, as he has gazed and he has looked and he's focused and recalled the Lord. What does he say, BBC? Holy and awesome is his name. This is not another statement, but it is rather a conclusion to the summaries of everything that he's focused himself apart. God is holy. He is set apart. He is unlike anything else. And what we've seen in creation, preservation, sovereignty, provision, conquering, generosity, and redemption, it's all unmatched. You remember that little big idea that you had at the beginning? What is the resume of that thing and the God that we've just been considering? For us who have made ourselves into gods, what is our resume compared to Yahweh. He is to be feared, esteemed, and elevated. His justice and his grace require us to understand that there is none greater than And yet he will not allow the guilty to go unpunished. Our psalm began. With the call and the commitment to praise and to thanksgiving, it focused on the Lord, and now we conclude with the resultant fear of the Lord that produces wisdom and insight. Verse 10. The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom. Good insight belongs to all those who do his commandments. His praise stands forever. Proverbs and Ecclesiastes teach us that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. But Psalm 111 grows and develops that fear. This statement comes with the capability built in. By the time the worshipper gets to the end of these twenty-two lines, their reverence and their awe of God has grown, and they're now at a point to be able to receive his wisdom. The sequencing is essential. We commit to praise, we focus on the Lord, our fear grows, and we have access to wisdom and understanding. What is this fear that is spoken of? It is a combination of terror, reverence, awe, love, adoration, respect, and humility. If you are here today as an unbeliever, that fear is a terrifying dread. Because nothing but eternal judgment awaits for you. But for the Christian, as John tells us, perfect love has cast out the fear of wrath. And what remains now is an awe and a reverence of God, a respect, a fear of disappointment and discipline, an awe of worship and of reverence. This is the foundation of wisdom. And it's simple to understand, isn't it? If God is all-wise, the only ones who can access his wisdom are those who humble themselves and say, There's nowhere else for me to go but to you. And so if we rightly hold God high, we can read this and glean from it. If we don't, we won't be able to see. And that is the promise of this good insight. The fear of the Lord produces good insight that is owned. It belongs to the man who fears God. Good insight means I can see. I'm sure some of you who have glasses or contacts remember what that first experience was like. For me I thought my vision wasn't that bad. I was just seeing some halos out there at nighttime driving. I was like, well maybe I'll get some night glasses, just something s you know No easy prescription. I go in there and of course they put the big apparatus in front of your face and they're saying, Which one's better, one or two? And I'm like, I don't know. I don't want to get this wrong. It seems like the test I shouldn't fail And then the they they they give me the uh they they they get it right and I'm like, I can I can see. I wasn't seeing before This is what the fear of God does. It enables us to see. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 6 In Matthew chapter 6, we're going to see Jesus make a connection between our heart, our desires, our loves. Do we love God or do we love money? But he's going to add in a picture of another organ. He's going to talk about the eye. Verse 21. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. It goes on in verse 24 to say you can't serve two masters. You will hate one and love the other, be devoted to one and despise the other. You can't serve God in money. So we know that there's an issue that he's speaking of a clutching demand, a desire, a greed for money. But then he adds in this insight, verse 22, the eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. And how great will that darkness be? A clear eye is equated to a good heart. A good insight is preceded by a fear of the Lord. If we do not have a fear of the Lord, we cannot expect to be able to discern with wisdom because we will see what we want to see. How many of you have been in that place in your life before? Man, why is this happening to me? I don't like this season of suffering. Let me go find a verse in the Bible that talks about that. Well, I don't know what that says about endurance Let me find something else. Let me find this YouTuber who says if I just name it and claim it, my suffering will go away. Yes! That's what the Lord wants for me. Your eye is so diseased. We need clear insight. And we can't do that without the fear of the Lord. And that is how this psalm ends, isn't it? His praise endures forever. The psalmist has come to understand this is the eternal God who deserves all praise and all adoration, and that's going to last forever. When we rightfully fear the Lord, we have the opportunity to see rightly. As we think about applying this psalm, I want to give a couple points of application and then we'll close up. First, is I want us to think of this as the discernment sequence. Instead of being consumed with our circumstances and our sufferings, We should look and make a commitment to praise the Lord. We should focus on Him and allow our fear of Him to grow and outsize and displace our concerns for the things around us. What's the alternative? This is the despairing sequence. Have you been in this sequence before? A difficult circumstance leads to discouragement. Then you focus on your discouragement and that leads to depression. You focus on the fact that you're depressed and that leads to despair. And now you're in a hole and you can't get out of it. How about the paralyzed or the foolish sequence? There's a decision that's put before you. And you don't know how to move forward because you're paralyzed in fear. Or you just feel the urgency of that decision, you make a foolish one. Look at the Lord. And allow his fear, your fear of him, to grow your wisdom and clean out your eye, so you can see your circumstances and see the scripture. for what it is. As we look to a couple other applications, I want to give for you is Psalm 111 and the character of God in our discernment. I want you to begin by asking the question, what Is the big thing in your life? What do you fear and what are you focused on? There are biblical examples of clarity that have come to men as they have seen and perceived God. We can look at Job, the demand to know why of his suffering. But Job came to understand that this was not about him. And he said, My ears heard of you, but now my eye has seen you. And he was set right. Asaph and the temporary success of evil men, Isaiah and the greatness of his sin And the people's sin, Habakkuk and the victory of his enemies, the demon-possessed man, pleasing men and pleasing God. We'll send these out in an email or you can take a picture. But these are all examples of those who looked and perceived and come to a greater understanding of the fear of God, and they found themselves set right. They were able to see what God saw because they looked at the Lord. Number two, examine yourself for the signals of a waning fear of God. Do you have itching ears? Are you people pleasing at work? Do you have the fear of man and evangelism? Is there a silence of the hope within you, a harshness to critics? Is there a demand to escape difficulty, or you'll sin to avoid it? Is there a lack of maturing growth, contentment with your sin, persistence and difficulty in honoring and loving others? All of these are evidences that your fear of God is waning. And if your fear of God is waning, you cannot expect to have access to his wisdom or have good insight to discern. 3. When you find that your gratitude of God is half-hearted, immediately set some time to focus on and recall God's works and his words. There's some passages that you could look up and spend some time meditating on. Psalm 104 to 106 talk about his creation and his preserving work. Isaiah 40 through 48, God's nature and his character in contrast to idols. Job 37 to 40, a zoology experience. Revelation 5 to 11, who Jesus Christ is, and Revelation 1 and 19. Maybe you need to create a journal that documents and catalogs the work of God that you've witnessed. It's creational work, providential work, salvation work, and on that goes. Ask yourself this question, how do I start my day? You hit the alarm clock, what's the first thing you're thinking about? The difficulties you're going to face or the problems you need to solve, or God Himself. Maybe there's a little index card you need to put right next to that clock. And you need to put a verse of scripture right there. Oh, that's what I'm thinking about. Are you facing a season or a time of suffering and you're asking why, why, why? Intentionally focus on the Lord. Are you in a season of discernment asking what should I do? What should I do? What should I do? Take some extended time to study the nature and the doctrines of God. And lastly, are you in a time of peace and life is good? But a season of suffering and a season of discernment is coming. I'd like to be married. I'd like to go to college. Should we have another baby? Should we move? Should I become a missionary? I don't know. How do you prepare for that time? Study and focus on growing in your fear of the Lord. So when that time comes, you have a clear eye to be able to discern what God puts before you. His praise endures forever. Amen. Amen. Almighty God We thank you for who you are. I pray that your spirit would impress upon us, teach us, correct us, reprove us, train us in righteousness, help us to see you, clear out. The clowniness of our vision that is so easily gazing upon ourselves and our problems in this world and of lesser things, and help us to see you as great and gracious. eternal and just. We offer this all in the name of Christ. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. C Ds and digital files