The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you take your Bibles and uh open with me, turn with me to the book of Romans. We're going to continue in our study of the book of Romans. chapter 2 and starting at verse 17, Romans chapter 2 starting at verse 17. And this is a message I've entitled Preaching to the Choir. Preaching to the choir. And the subtitle is Unmasking the Sin of Hypocrisy. And I say that this is unmasking the sin of hypocrisy because the hypocrite is the person who hides behind a mask of something that they are not. The word hypocrite is taken from the ancient Greek theater where the actors would wear these large, exaggerated masks. uh to portray you know whatever emotion that they were trying uh to act out so you could be in the back row and still see, you know, are they being happy, are they being sad, are they being angry? Because they would wear these huge masks so they could let you know what was going on. And the person who played that part was the hypocrite Because behind the mask he could be something totally different than he was portraying on the outside. They pretended to be somebody that they were not. But when these actors enter into real life and try to pretend to be something that they are not in order to feed their lusts, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. Wearing a mask isn't entertainment anymore. It now becomes dangerous. Because they're seeking to feed themselves. And the Bible warns us about the dangerous sin of hypocrisy. In Luke chapter 12 and verse 1 Jesus began saying to his disciples, first of all, beware, watch out for this, be on your guard for the leaven of the Pharisees. Which is hypocrisy. We need to be warned often about hypocrisy because it's such a subtle and dangerous and common form of sin It's a subtle kind of sin because if you think about it, hypocrisy is one of those sins that you can commit and seemingly get away with it because it's all taking place in your heart. You can even be doing the right thing on the outside. People can be commenting about how virtuous you are, how giving you are, how sacrificial you are While the whole time you can be masking behind that a selfish heart of pride, arrogance, desire for self-glorification. At the end of Acts chapter 4, there was a man by the name of Joseph. We know him as Barnabas, the son of encouragement, who owned a tract of land. He sold it, and he brought the money and he laid it at the apostles' feet. And there was this married couple in the church who saw the way that Barnabas was recognized, how he was treated, and they started to reason between themselves, you know, we want some of that recognition. We'd like to be honored like that in the midst of the assembly. So they also sold a piece of property and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet, but they did it all behind a mask. And it was with the assumption that they were giving the entire amount, and they pretended to give the full amount while they were secretly holding back part of the amount for themselves. Pretending to give all the glory to God when they're really seeking to give glory to themselves. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 1. It says, but a man named Ananias with his wife, Sapphira , sold a piece of property and kept back some of the price for himself, with his wife's full knowledge. They're both in on this. And bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles' feet. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last, and the mask finally fell off. And if the Spirit of God didn't make an example out of this, who would have known besides Ananias and Sapphira? Nobody would have known. They would have worn the mask, constantly being praised for what they did, but the Holy Spirit had to make it known. That's why I say it's a subtle sin. They could have kept this up for years. Who would have known? Right in front of everybody's sight with this dangerous end of hypocrisy in their hearts And if we're not careful, the sin of hypocrisy can creep right in to the holiest of moments. God considered hypocrisy to be so dangerous that he sent a warning shot for the entire church to hear. And Ananias and his wife Sapphira sounded the alarm. God is dead serious about hypocrisy and so serious that the first example of church discipline was disciplining the sin of hypocrisy. Think about that one First church case discipline, first case of church discipline was hypocrisy in the church. And the Holy Spirit carried it out himself. Hypocrisy is not only subtle, hypocrisy is dangerous. There's a reason that Jesus said to his disciples, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. Just for a moment, flip over to Luke chapter 11. I want to just quickly show you the connection that Jesus is trying to make here. Luke chapter 11 This is right after Jesus pronounces the word of judgment over the Pharisees who were the professional practitioners of the law. They were the professional hypocrites in the Israel in Israel. Look at Luke chapter 11, look at verse 39. Luke 11, 39. But the Lord said to him, Now you Pharisees, clean the outside of the cup. He's speaking this to a Pharisee. He said to him, a Pharisee, Now you Pharisees, clean the outside of the cup, and of the platter, but inside of you You are full of robbery and wickedness, you foolish ones. Did not he who made the outside make the inside also? You know, again they were all about what people could see. But drop down to Verse chapter chapter 12, drop down to chapter 12, look at verse 1. This is what Jesus continues to say. He says, under these circumstances, After so many thousands of people had gathered together that they were stepping on one another, he began saying to his disciples, first of all, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. You know, they clean the in the outside, but the inside is still filthy. Beware of that. But there is nothing covered up that will not be revealed and hidden that will not be known. Accordingly, whatever you have said in the dark will be heard in the light, and what you've whispered in the inner rooms will be proclaimed upon the house tops Verse 4, I say to you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. I don't know if you've ever made the connection here between what Jesus is saying about hypocrisy, trying to cover things up. But everything's going to be revealed. Whatever you said in the dark is going to be heard in the light. You know, you try to cover up your sins, but one day it's all going to be revealed anyway. You know, the whole time you're trying to play the hypocrite and play everybody else for the fool, but one day it's all going to be exposed. Whatever you were playing around with is finally going to be exposed. And the one that you should have been worried about was not the men around you, but the God above you. That's the one that you should have been worried about. I will warn you whom to fear. Fear that one. Fear the one who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. That's the connection that Jesus is is making. Whatever your sins are are going to be revealed, and you're not worried about the most important person you should be worried about. And there are some people who spend their entire lives pretending to be people that they're not and not worried about the one who already knows who they really are. The Pharisees were so consumed with what people thought about them, they gave no thought to what God thought about them. Hypocrisy is subtle, it's dangerous, and sadly it's common. Common. And the passage we're going to consider today in Romans chapter 2 is not just about the sin of the Jewish people. Hypocrisy is an equal opportunity employer. It's after everybody. It doesn't know any boundaries and it can attach itself to the very best that we have to offer. Hypocrisy can be present when we give. Matthew 6, so when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do. Hypocrisy can be present when we pray. Matthew 6. 5, when you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners so that they may be seen by men. Hypocrisy can be present when we fast. Whenever you fast, Matthew 6. 16, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men. And as we'll see today, hypocrisy can be present when we share the Word of God. Even when we're teaching the Word of God, hypocrisy can be present In Matthew chapter 7, verse 3, it says, Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, the log is in your own eye. You hypocrite. You're hypocritical. First take out the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. We we don't need to just be busy preaching to other people about what they need to change. We need to be turning the mirror around And taking a good look at ourselves and what do I need to change? Before I preach to anybody else, I need to make sure that I'm preaching to myself. And that's the word for the preacher, okay? I need to make sure I'm preaching to myself. And even the Word of God can be delivered behind a mask of hypocrisy. So let's take a look at Romans chapter 2, and we'll look at verses 17 to 24. Romans chapter 2, verses 17 to 24. Says, but if ye bear the name Jew and rely upon the law and boast in God and know his will and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the law. And are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth. You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that one shall not steal, do you steal? You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples You who boast in the law, through your breaking the law, do you dishonor God? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, today, as we do every Lord today. Lord, asking you for your help, Father, that you would uh Allow us, Lord, as we take a look at this text, Lord, that we would not be like the man who beholds his face in a mirror and forgets what he looks like. Father, I pray that even in listening to a message about hypocrisy, that we wouldn't be hypocritical even in that Listening to the very message about how we need to change and unwilling to change, Father, I pray that that would be none of us. Father, I pray that we would see ourselves in the light of your word. And uh Father that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The last time we were in the book of Romans, we learned that even pagan, unbelieving Gentiles who never were exposed to the Bible They never heard the gospel. They are still accountable before the Lord on the day of judgment. Even people who didn't have a Bible. Because God has revealed enough to them in creation and the conscience for them to know that there's a God and that they've sinned against that God. And that they should seek after that God that they've sinned against. And how do we know that they have this knowledge, even without the Mosaic Law, back in verse 14 of chapter 2? It says, For when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law to themselves. So even without formal written law code of Moses, the Gentiles have a law among themselves, and there's a recognition among the Gentiles that certain things are right and wrong. There's a God who created them. They know that it's wrong to lie, to commit murder, to steal, to be unfaithful. It's not just that we prefer certain behaviors over others, it's that we know that certain behaviors are wrong and others are right. That's what theologians refer to as the law of creation or the law of nature, the moral law of God. And this is why even bad people do good things. Why why is that? Because even if a person has never been exposed to the written law of God, he instinctively knows within his heart, because God has written his law on his heart. He's written a law there that they would respond to that and their conscience convicts them when they turn away from that law. So the Bible lets us know that even the pagan unbeliever has this un this code that's been written into his very conscience. Stamped on his very heart, where he would be able to understand the difference between right and wrong, and when they violate that law, there's a judgment for violating that law. So Paul talked about that in the last couple of verses and let us know that even those without the law are heading for judgment, condemnation if they don't seek after the Lord. And now there's these Jewish listeners who are listening into Paul as he's talking about these Gentiles, and they say, well, you know, well, that's the Gentiles. I mean, we understand that. You know, they're they're without Moses, they're without the law, they're without the ceremonies, they're without the rituals. We uh we understand why they're be incondemned, but Paul, you can't possibly be putting us in the same category. As a pagan, unbelieving Gentile. Certainly you can't put us in that category. So he enters into this dialogue with this imaginary partner, you know, this uh you know person who's interacting with them, but it's real persons, because they're really bringing this up in their their minds. And he he begins to engage with this dialogue representative to dialogue with this representative Jew. And what he has to do is he has to tear down this flimsy edifice that they're trying to hide behind to say that, you know, we're we're safe. We're not like the pagan unbeliever. We're safe. I mean, Paul, come on. We've got the law. We have the law of Moses. And before Paul can apply the remedy of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, he has to knock down the flimsy structures that the hypocrites have built up to protect themselves. To think that they're safe behind this edifice. And the first support that Paul knocks down from beneath them is their religious connections. Their religious connections. Look at verses 17 and 18 again. It says, But if you bear the name Jew and rely upon the law, and boast in God, and know his will, and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the law And we could summarize this with three words, lineage, knowledge, and heritage. These are the things that they they hid behind. Their religious connections. You know, first of all, they had a They had a a lineage. They had a religious lineage. They bore the name Jew. And that name was more than just an ethnic identity. It was also a religious identity. MacArthur writes, the chosen people of God took great pride in the name Jew. In centuries past, they had been referred to as Hebrews, so-called, because of the language they spoke. They also had been called Israelites after the land that God promised and had given them according to his covenant with Abraham. But by the time of Christ, the most common name they had was that of Jew. The term was derived from Judah, the name of one of the twelve tribes, as well as the name of the southern kingdom, after the division following Solomon's death, but during and after The Babylonian captivity, it had come to refer to the whole race that descended from Abraham through Isaac. The name represented both their racial and religious heritage. and in their own minds it denoted their distinctiveness from all other peoples of the world. And it was one of the ways the Jewish people defended placing themselves Above other people and placing confidence in their flesh. In Philippians chapter 3, remember Paul, as he's talking about all the privileges that he had. Chapter 3, verse 4, he says, Although I myself might have confidence in the flesh, If anyone else has mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more circumcised the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. That's who I am. And being able to trace your physical lineage back to Abraham was a privilege, but your ancestry. com will not give you an automatic pass on the day of judgment. In Luke 16, Jesus told the account of the rich man in Lazarus, and there was a son of Abraham who again lifted up his eyes in the flames. A son of Abraham descended into torment and wanted just the tip of Lazarus' finger to be dipped in water so it could cool his tongue. Your family heritage is not going to help you out. Luke 3 and verse 8 says, Do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. You know, Jesus could have uh created bread from stones and he could have created sons from stones. But they sought confidence in their lineage. I remember one time speaking to a Jewish man who said that he didn't have anything to to worry about because he was born a Jew. And I reminded him that Abraham had more than one son, and only one of the sons was a son of promise. Just this being able to trace your lineage back doesn't say anything. Now that's not enough just because you can trace your lineage back to Abraham, Isaac, and and Jacob. So you can't trust in And this lineage. That's not anything that you can trust in. Yes, it was a great privilege to be able to trace your line back, but that's not enough to save you on Judgment Day. Not only did they trust in their lineage, they also trusted in their knowledge. Look again at verse 17. If you bear the name Jew and rely upon the law. And it's clear from the rest of the passage here that this reliance upon the law, or literally resting upon the law, wasn't because they obeyed it, but because they possessed it. We just we just have it. We own it. We we handled it. We we know it. We've approved of it. We teach it Drop down to verse 18. It also says that they know his will. They know what God desires, not just in general ways like the Gentiles. I mean, we we've got specifics about what God wants. We know his will. He's made that clear to us in Scripture. And we approve of the things that are essential. Literally, that word essential or excellent in some of your translations means the things that differ. Like like we know how to separate good from better and better from best. Because the the Word of God gives us that. We know how to make distinctions. We we understand that because of what's in the Word of God. The law teaches us these things. And how do we know all these things? Again in verse 18. Being instructed out of the law. We've been instructed from our youth The word for being instructed is catech 'o, where we get our English word catechism from. We've been instructed since childhood, the earliest ages. We know all about God's will. We know all about the difference between better and best. We've been instructed in the Word of God. We're children of the commandment. We're children of the law. You know that word bar mitzvah means a son of the commandment. We understand the law. We've been given the law of God. There's actually one ancient Jewish writing that says, For we are all people of the name. We who have received one law, we have received one law for the from the one. That law that is among us will help us, and that excellent wisdom which is in us will support us. Happy are we, Israel, because we know what is pleasing to God. We have it. And the Jewish people boasted in the law. We've got the law. But here's the problem. All their boasting in it did not say anything about them keeping it. We've got it, but does that say anything about your obedience to it? Not at all. Verse 23 says, you who boast in the law, through your breaking the law, do you dishonor God? You boast in the law, but you still disobey it. So being familiar with the word of God was not enough. Remember when Paul was in Athens in Acts Chapter 17 , we learned that there were people who wanted to converse with him. They wanted to hear what he was saying. But for them it was just hearing something new. We want to be informed. We like to know. So even these philosophers, these Greek and Roman philosophers, they just wanted to hear something new. I want to hear it, I want to know it. But just hearing it and knowing it is not enough. You can sit down and hear the word of God. You can come to church and listen to sermons. You can be an avid sermon listener. I'm subscribed. I'm tuned in. You know, you got the downloads ready to go for your morning walk or whatever else you do. You can be listening to sermons, and for for you it could just be an intellectual exercise. I don't know how some people do it, but you can even sit around a table and have a podcast and read through the gospels. And it's all just an intellectual exercise. We just like studying these ancient documents. You know, there 's something useful here for us to ponder, to think about. I'm intrigued by this. This is remarkable literature. But it doesn't mean that you're prepared to obey what it says. You know, you're just a literature critic You enjoy reading. You enjoy figuring it out. You might even hail the scriptures as the most worthy piece of literature that's been known to man. But says nothing about the submission of your heart towards it. You can just want to know about it. Or it might even be entertainment for you. I just like listening. If you remember in uh Mark chapter 6 After Herod arrested John the Baptist, he initially wanted to put him to death, but then he feared the crowd, so he didn't put him to death, because the crowds regarded John as a prophet. But then he also feared John because he was a holy and a righteous man, but he enjoyed listening to him He brought John the Baptist before him because he just he just enjoyed what he had to say. I like listening to John. I mean, that guy's got conviction. Yeah, I know he talked about I shouldn't have, you know, you know you know this wife, but you know, hey, that's okay. I just like listening to what he has to say. That's that's a man with some conviction Enjoying listening to the word of God is not enough. Isaiah 66, verse 2 says, But to this one I will look, to him who is humble and contrite of spirit, and who trembles at my word. There's got to be a conviction about the Word of God and a desire to submit to the Word of God. But they just had the law You know, the the Masoretes would study the word backwards and forwards. They'd count up the the words, count up the letters, they'd know the middle letter of the middle word of the middle of the book. I mean to that kind of detail Actually I you know in the when I studied Hebrew in seminary there's what's called an an apparatus that actually would have all these like numerical notations to to show that they are they're looking for for this letter at the middle of the the word. Just to know that they wrote it down correctly. They would count it up. But that wasn't enough. We're thankful. We're thankful for the scribes. We're thankful for the scholars. But just having an appreciation for the Word of God isn't enough. But not only did they boast in in these things, they also boasted in their heritage. They boasted in their lineage, they boasted in their knowledge, and they boasted in their heritage. What was their their heritage? Back to verse 17. But if you bear the name Jew and rely upon the law and boast in God. God was part of their heritage as a nation. How many times is God called the God of Israel in Scripture? Hundreds of times. The God of Israel. Psalm 41, verse 13. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. What would it be like to hear that as a nation? That God is the God of Israel. That's how he identifies himself. He self-identifies as the God of Israel. You know, what would it be like to hear that I am the God of Nigeria? Or I'm the God of Jamaica. Or I'm the God, and most people already think this, but I'm the God of America. If God were to say, I'm identifying myself with this nation. I am the God of this nation. And that's what the Israelites had. That's what the Jews had. No, God has identified himself with us. He said that I'm the God of Israel. Or can you imagine your family name being associated with the God of the universe? How many times in scripture do you read that I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? I mean a family name. That's how God identifies himself. Exodus 3 verse 6. He said also I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, and Moses hit his face, for he was afraid to look at God. God shows up and he identifies a family name, and I'm the God of this family. Can you imagine God using your family name to identify himself? You know, I'm the God of Landers. I'm the God of Williams. I'm the God of Hicks You know, you might be tempted to think, well, I must be okay. I mean, if God is identifying himself with me, I mean that's that's great. He's identifying himself with my family. I mean, I'm in the family, I'm part of the family, I'm on the team And for Israel, there was this superficial connection with the God that they boasted in. And there's nothing wrong with boasting in God if there's a saving relationship. Jeremiah 9. 24 says, let him who boasts boast of this that he understands and knows me. Deuteronomy 4. 7 says, for what great nation is there? that has a God so near to it as the Lord our God whenever we call on him. And Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. 31, so that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. So it was it was right to boast in the Lord. There's a place for boasting in the in the scriptures, but it's directed towards God, and it's in the context of a saving relationship. And the boasting in Romans chapter 2 was connected to their lineage, their knowledge, and their heritage. And the very next verse rehearses what they knew about God rather than that they knew God. They knew about him. Verse 18 says they know his will and they approve of the things that are essential. They're instructed out of the law. But where's the boast in saying that I understand and know God? I know him. I've got a relationship with him. He saved me. It's not a boast in that. It's a boast about what they know. It's all on the outside. It's all external. And that is the playground for the hypocrite. The hypocrite can boast in what they know. They might even be discerning in what they know. They might be insightful. They might make careful distinctions. They might have known these things since they were young. They might have been raised with the Bible, you know, with a Bible in a bottle. You know, that's how they were raised. I know all about the Bible from the youngest age. They speak highly of God and their connection to God, but all of that can be true and your heart can still be far away from him. And you might wonder, how do I know the difference between being a real believer and being a make believer? I stole that from one of my friends. I enjoyed that one. A real believer or a make believer? How do I know the difference? One of the questions that you can ask yourself is, what kind of person am I in secret? What kind of person are you in secret? That's what Matthew 6 to 7 presses on us, doesn't it? When I give, do I give in secret, or is it for the gram? When I pray, do I pray in secret? Or is it for the likes? When I fast, do I fast in secret or is it for the post? Do I notice the log in my own eye and allow the Word of God to convict me in secret that I'm allowing the Word of God to do a work on my own heart? Or do I have to broadcast that for everybody to see? My private practices. I need to post my progress. You shouldn't have to tell people that you're growing. They should just be able to see it. You shouldn't have to tell anybody. And Paul had to knock down these religious kind of places that they sought refuge in. They're seeking refuge in these connections, you know, the family connections and lineage So Paul has to knock that down. That's not what you're looking for. And also they have to knock down their religious corrections because it's not just about them. They're looking at others. They're looking at who they have to correct on the outside. Look at verse 19 It says, and are confident that you are yourself a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of the immature, having in the law the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth. Verse 19 is a continuation of the assumptions of the this Jewish listener he made about himself. He objected to Paul considering him under the wrath of God. And he says, uh, you know, not only do I bear the name Jew and I have the law and I've got this heritage, I boast in God, but I'm also a guide to those that are on the outside. I'm a teacher I correct the foolish. I'm a teacher of the immature. I've got in the law all that I need for knowledge and truth. And again, the focus here is on the law of God, but now there's the shift from knowing it to teaching it. And the hypocrite is confident in his ability to teach. I love what Martin Lloyd-Jones says about this verse. He says, why he is absolutely complete. He never knows what nervousness is. He's the antithesis of the Apostle Paul, who went to preach in Corinth, and he said he did so in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. The hypocrite is a man who is full of confidence, self-confidence, a man who bounces into the pulpit or on a platform. Everything is perfect. He does not know anything about the fear of the Lord. He has no queries as to his own capacity or to his own honesty or anything else. He's on perfectly good terms with himself. He never has imagined that there is anything wrong with him. That is what Paul is saying about the Jews. It is always true of hypocrites. This complete absence of humility, complacency, confidence, and boastfulness. They lack humility and in its place it's complacency, confidence, and boldness. And the problem here is that not that the correction that's being offered is necessarily wrong. I mean we don't find that. But it's about who's saying it. You're confident in yourself that you're the guy. Paul's narrowing is critiqued down to the individual level. Do you see that? Yes, the law is the guide, yes the the nation of Israel is the guide, was supposed to be a guide, but but you're making yourself out to be the guide That you yourself personally, so the the the hypocrite is self-sufficient. He doesn't need anybody. And and there's four responsibilities that ancient Israel uh uh was given that are assumed by this single individual. Let's take the the first two together, a guide to the blind and the light and darkness. Flip back to Isaiah 42 real quick. Isaiah 42. Take a look at verse 6. This is what Israel was called to be. Says, I'm the Lord, I've called you in righteousness. I will also hold you by the hand and watch over you, and I will appoint you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the dungeon and those who dwell in darkness from the prison. I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. And what we find out here is that Israel was called to be a light You're to open up the eyes of the blind, and the Gentile nations existed in spiritual darkness apart from the Word of God. And Israel was tasked with the responsibility of being A mission to the nations. You know, calling the nations to themselves, it's a different from what we do in the New Testament by going out. But this was a specific ministry of the Messiah. In Isaiah 9, 49 and verse 6, it says that we learn about the capital S, servant of the Lord. Flip over to Isaiah 49. Take a look at verse 6. He says, It is too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob to restore the uh and to restore the preserved ones of Israel. I will also make you a light of the nation, so that my salvation may reach the end of the earth. There was a responsibility that they had. And over in Matthew 4 and verse 16, quotes from Isaiah 9 and verse 2, it says, The people who walk in darkness will see a great light. Those who live in a dark land, the light will shine on them. And Israel had a role in pointing people to the light. Although they never fulfilled that mission. You know, sometimes we tend to think of the Old Testament as exclusively Jewish, but it's not. God's desire for the Gentiles to know him was not just in the New Testament, it's also in the Old Testament. So it's not a plan B. I mean, God always wanted the nations to know about him, always wanted the nations to be called to him. And throughout scripture and from Genesis through the prophets, we find all these different calls for Israel to come to know him. But Israel was supposed to be this kingdom of priests. Exodus 19, verse 5 says, although the whole earth is mine, you will be to me a kingdom of priests, and priests were to intercede on the behalf of others. So this was Israel's role. This was the heartbeat of God, and many of them missed it. They neglected this responsibility of reaching out to others. And this person is saying, but I'm the one that's doing that. I'm reaching out to others. I'm teaching the law to others. I'm a guide to the blind. The next two roles that we're given in Romans chapter 2 is a corrector of the foolish and a teacher of the immature. And these responsibilities were actually connected to the giving of the Word of God over in Psalm 19, just really quick. Psalm 19, take a look at verse 7, Psalm 19 and verse 7. Speaks about the word of the Lord. It says the law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes, the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever, the judgments of the Lord are true, they are righteous altogether. And the foolish can be corrected, the immature can be taught, and in both of these responsibilities, you know, there's this idea of caring for the infants, you know, the spiritually immature, the young ones. I'm a corrector of the foolish. That word for being a corrector was used of educating a child, educating a young one. And teaching the immature is the it's used uh the the word for immature is the word for for infant children. And the idea behind this is that those who are in darkness, as the Gentiles, are coming to the light, and they're like these spiritual babies. And and this person is saying, I I can take a spiritual infant, somebody who's just come to know the God of Israel, and I can lead them, I can take them to where they need to go, I can help them to grow up. The religious hypocrite says, I can do that, but he's not prepared to do that. Why isn't he prepared to do that? Because he has too much confidence in himself, and he's actually not practicing what he's preaching. You can't teach anybody if you're not practicing what you preach. And Jesus likened the religious hypocrites to blind guys. You know, you think you can lead somebody somewhere, but you're blind yourself. Jesus says in Matthew 15, 14, let them alone. They're blind guides, blind guides, who trying to lead the blind. And if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into the pit. Matthew 23 and verse 15 says, Vote ye scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because ye travel around on sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much the sons of hell as yourself. Woe to you, blind guides. You think you're going to help somebody out and you make them twice as bad off after you're done with them Everybody who's rushing to teach somebody doesn't belong there. James chapter 3 and verse 1, that needs to be the warning label. You know, on a lot of uh social media platforms, you know, the the Surgeon General's warning or something. You know, put it on the social media platform, James 3. 1. Let not many of you become teachers, my brethren. Knowing that as such we will incur a stricter judgment. And I'm thankful to have access to faithful teachers and I make use of You know, faithful teachers. I'm thankful we have the opportunity to reach out, especially on a day like today. We can still reach out to to people through social media. But today anybody with a Wi-Fi connection and a laptop can start their own channel. And all of a sudden they're the expert. Expert for what? Why? Who are they? Who knows them? Who are they accountable to? Does anybody know anything about their life besides what they put out for us to see? And anybody who puts anything on social media should be able to read through that right away. Because you don't post what's reality You post the greatest moments of your life. Look at everybody's smiling. Everybody's enjoying themselves. Look at this great vacation that I went on. You know, that's what people post for the world to see. But how do I know who you really are? That's one of the reasons why it's so important to have a local fellowship. To be part of a local congregation where you can actually know the people that you're learning from, where I can know the people that I'm being influenced by. You know, I I I shouldn't be influenced just by the influencers. I should be influenced by the people who who know me, who who who can pray for me, who know what's going on in my life, that that I know who they are and what they're account who they're accountable to. Those are the people that should influence you the most. So be careful about who you're following. Get some counsel, get use some discernment, test everything. 1 Thessalonians 5, 21-22 says, But in everything, but examine everything carefully, hold fast to what is good, abstain from every form of evil. And I'm nervous about those who are eager to promote themselves. As uh Lloyd Jones says, the Apostle Paul went to preach in Corinth in weakness and fear, but the hypocrite is full of self-confidence. You know, the the way the things used to be published is, you know, you had to write and rewrite and edit and send it to a team and then they send it back to you and then you had to write again and you know then finally, you know, if it made it through all that, you know, you could actually uh could see the the light of day. But today, you know, the first draft and it's out for the world to see. No accountability, no review, or what's worse, you get on social media and just say the first thing that comes to your mind. How dangerous is that? You know, you have the definitive word that quick, you know. I'm fearful about what I write when I'm asked to write. I'm not chomping at the bit to do so. And I'll let opportunities pass by because I understand that there's a responsibility that comes with that. But these hypocrites are so confident in themselves that they say, hey, I'm ready to teach people, and fools rush in where angels dare to tread. And what follows is really the central point in the text, and we'll try to cover this quickly, but it's so straightforward, it hardly needs to be interpreted. Their reluctant confession. Look at verse 21, back in Romans chapter 2, reluctant confession. So this is the person who says, I'm the corrector of the foolish, the teacher of the immature, having the embodiment of knowledge and truth. And verse 21 says, You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You preach that one shall not steal. Do you steal? You say that one should not commit adultery. Do you commit adultery? You abhor idols. Do you rob temples? You who boast in the law through your breaking the law, do you dishonor God? These people are reluctant to confess their sin. And the first part of verse 21 is really a summary statement for everything that follows. Because the point was they did not practice what they preached. Just like the Pharisees, you know, Matthew 23, you know, who do who say things and do not do them. And the first person, like I said, that you need to preach to is yourself. And I remember making a commitment a long time ago that I wasn't going to preach until the word of God actually convicted me. You know, Ezra 7 in verse 10 says, Ezra set his heart to study the law, to practice it, and then to teach it. Set his heart to study, to practice, and then to teach. And the problem with so many teachers is that they study and then they teach. And they miss the part in the middle about practicing. They don't practice what they they preach. And after this introduction, there's three rhetorical questions. He asks, do you steal? Do you commit adultery? Do you rob temples? And as Martin Lloyd Jones comments, these are put in the form of the question because the it makes the point more incriminating because the objector actually has to think about it. You know, D still, he actually has to answer that question. So so now he's convicting himself because he's reminding himself that, yeah, I did steal. Yeah, I I I did violate that that command. So so these are are really meant to to incriminate the uh the person who's uh objecting. So what did that look like? What did it look like to steal? Did they steal? Of course they did. But they masked it by hypocrisy. You know, for example, they took advantage of the poor. Who could not afford to buy food. They charged them this enormous interest, and they stole money from their neighbors. Deuteronomy 23, 19. You shall not charge interest to your countrymen. You don't charge interest on food, but that's what they did. And they stole money from their neighbors. They delayed to pay their workers so they could make more money off of What they were owed. In James 5, verse 4, it says, the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields has been withheld by you and cries out against you. Then in the temple, right, where where the priests serve, they refused the offerings of the people and said, Oh, that offering's not acceptable. But we have an offering that you can Give for the for the low, low price, right? And all of a sudden they're taking from the people who are coming to serve. And Jesus says, it is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you're making it a what? A den of thieves, a den of robbers. You're stealing from people. So yeah, they they stole. All kinds of ways that they stole. They devour widows' houses for appearance's sake. They offer up the long prayers. You know that's that's the you know the the first century version of the prayer line where you have to pay to pray. They had all kinds of ways that they stole money from the people. Did they commit adultery? Sure they did. They they put a mask over their adultery though. You know, in uh Matthew 5, Jesus spoke about adultery, and he says, you've heard it said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. He says you're already doing it in your heart. And if you're regularly viewing pornography, you know, the first thing that you need to do is repent, you know, cry out to the Lord. You know, you need to come and talk to a leader, but you also need to confess hypocrisy. Because I'm acting as if I'm being faithful when I'm not. But there's more down in verse 31 in Matthew 5. It says, it was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastity, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And basically there is a school of thought that you can get rid of your wife for any reason whatsoever You know, so I find somebody more attractive. I don't like the way that she cooked my meal. You know, there's somebody else that I had my eye on anyway. And you can leave your wife, go with somebody else, and and and Jesus is saying that is adultery It's adultery. And then there was just the outright captivating weak women the Bible talks about, 2 Timothy 3. 6. And we don't have to rehearse the stories of those who commit adultery in ministry today. Did they rob temples? Yes, they did. And there are ways that they robbed their own temple in Jerusalem by failing to pay tithes and offerings in Malachi III. There's also an example of uh those that you know sought uh uh uh uh money from from people that supposedly for the temple, but they would take it instead and packet it. There were ways that they robbed the temple, but but it says temples, plural. You robbed temples. And this they did. It says, you who abhorred idols, do you rob temples in verse 22? How did they rob Temples, these these multiple temples. These are the pagan temples. How did they rob that? Real quick, back in Deuteronomy chapter 7. Deuteronomy 7, look at verse 25. It says the graven images of their gods you are to burn with fire. You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, or you will be snared by it, for it is an abomination to the Lord your God. You shall not bring an abomination into your house and like it come under the band. You shall utterly detest it, and you shall utterly abhor it, for it is something banned. And what happened is some of these uh Jewish people, you know, even when they, you know, when God had them come into a foreign city, you know, and they took over a foreign city, they'd also take these idols for themselves. You know, these idols that were supposed to be abhorred, detested. But it's gold, it's silver. And they would take these things. They couldn't keep their hands off of the the images. And sometimes taking those images would even lead them into worshiping the images. And so the Jewish people were actually guilty of robbing temples. But we have another indication over in Acts chapter 19 of robbing pagan temples that was actually a concern in Ephesus. In Acts chapter 19, if you remember, uh Paul began to minister uh there in Asia, uh started to disrupt the uh the sale of uh these silver shrines that were to the goddess Artemis or Diana in Latin. The riot came about and Because these converts were coming to Christianity, it started to disrupt the trade and you know these idols weren't selling like they were before And in Acts chapter 19, look at verse 37. After this riot breaks out, they come before the governor in Acts chapter 19 and verse 37. And it says, For you have brought these men here who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of our goddess. What is that indicating? There was actually a concern that people were robbing the temples. People were coming into the temples and stealing idols because of the gold, because of the silver, and Jewish people were actually involved in that. It was part of their practice, seeking to benefit from idolatrous practices. Seeking to benefit from idolatrous and sinful practices. Like I heard Jamal Bryant suggesting that uh the the church property be used to grow cannabis as a way to uh fulfill the Great Commission. Taking somebody's you know, uh sin that's trip easily tripping them up, an addiction, and saying, oh, we're just going to bring it into the church as a way to spread the gospel It's the same thing, seeking to profit from idolatrous practices. And all these charges are brought before the Jewish subjector, those who bear the name Jew, those who say they rely on the law. Who say that they're honoring God, but Paul turns around and says, no, you're not. You're dishonoring God. You're dishonoring God. You boast them the law, but through your breaking the law, you dishonor God. You dishonor them. And they pick up the word and they try to represent God. And basically Paul's saying, what right do you have to represent God as a hypocrite? What right do you have to take his law in your mouth while you're blatantly disrespecting and violating his law? Real quick, flip over to Psalm 50. Psalm 50. Look at verse 16. Psalm 50, look at verse 16. God says, but to the wicked, God says, what right have you to tell of my statutes? And to take my covenant in your mouth. For you hate discipline and you cast my words behind you. You don't want my law. You don't want my word. You're taking it and casting it behind you. When you see a thief, you're pleased with him. You associate with adulterers. You let your mouth loosen evil, and your tongue frames deceit. You sit and speak against your brother, you slander your own mother's son. These things have you have done, and I have kept silence. You thought that I was just like you I will reprove you and state the case in order before your eyes. He says, what right do you have to take up my word when you're not willing to follow it? It's like enough with the sacrifices, enough with your Bible studies. I don't want to hear it. You're not ready to follow me anyway. And then finally there's the regrettable consequence. And this is it, the regrettable consequence. Back in Romans chapter 2. Verse 24, the last last verse we'll consider today. It says, For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, just as it is written. Regrettable consequence, or if that's not strong enough, reprehensible consequence. The name of God is blasphemed. And that's what should grieve our hearts is that God is blasphemed. God's name is dishonored. God's name is brought through the mud, under reproach. And that was the history of the nation of Israel Their disobedience, rebellion caused the nations to blaspheme God. And the very Gentiles that they were supposed to be a light to, that they were supposed to be a kingdom of priests for, are the ones who are reviling God. They actually caused the name of God to be shamed by their actions. They weren't honoring God. And when God punished Israel, it was his name that was being brought under reproach. If you remember back in uh Daniel chapter nine, you don't have to turn there, but in Daniel chapter nine, if you remember when uh Daniel was crying out to the Lord uh for the people to be released from their captivity He says in verse 15, he says, And now, O Lord God, you who have brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand and have made a name for yourself, as it is this day, we have sinned. We have been wicked. O Lord, in accordance with all your righteous acts, let now your anger and your wrath turn away from your city Jerusalem Your holy mountain, for because of our sins, and the iniquity of our fathers, Jerusalem, and your people have become a reproach to those around us So now, our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his supplications. And for your sake, listen, not because of us, but for your sake, O Lord, let your face shine on your desolate sanctuary. Oh my God! Incline your ear and hear, open your eyes and see our desolations in the city which is called by your name. For we are not Presenting our supplications before you on account of any merits of our own, but on account of your great compassion. O Lord, hear, O Lord, forgive, O Lord, listen and take action for your own sake, O my God. Do not delay. Because your city and your people are called by your name. God, this is your name that's at stake. God, your name is being dragged through the mud, and it's because of our sins that it's happening. And that was the same history of That Isaiah recounts over in Isaiah 52, and this is the last passage we'll take a look at, but Isaiah 52, it was the same Same history that Isaiah is recounting. Daniel's recounting that same history. Oh God, we've been brought under reproach and and your name is now being dragged through the mud because of our sins, because of our hypocrisy. And this is where Romans 2 24 comes from. It's from Isaiah 52, look at verse 3. It says, For thus says the Lord, you were sold for nothing, and you will be redeemed without money. For thus says the Lord God, my people went down at the first into Egypt to reside there, so that's their captivity in Egypt. Then the Assyrian oppressed them without cause, and that was the the northern kingdom that was taken. Now therefore, what do I have here, declares the Lord, seeing that my people have been taken away without cause? And now he's talking about the Babylonian captivity. Again, the Lord declares, those who rule over them howl, and my name is continually blasphemed all day long. You're taken into captivity, and the people are just having a great time. They're howling over this. Look at this, this is great. Dragging the name of God through the mud. They're howling, they're laughing. And what's the answer for this? You know, these people are brought under reproach. God's name is being dragged through the mud and all of this. The hypocrites, those who take the name of the Lord. What's the answer for all of this? What's the answer for the reproach that God's people bring him under? Take a look at Verse 13. What's the answer for this? Verse 13. Behold now my servant will prosper, and he will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted. Just as many were astonished at you, my people, so his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men Thus he will sprinkle many nations, kings will shut their mouths on account of him, for what had not been told them they will see, and what they had not heard they will understand. Who has believed our message, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely our griefs he himself bore and our sorrows he carried, yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgression, he was crushed for our iniquities, and the chastening for our well being fell upon him. And by scourging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. What's the answer for hypocrisy and this dragging of God's name through the mud with those that call on his name? He sends his own son. That's what he does. And his son was the one who was stricken and smitten and afflicted. He was oppressed and afflicted, and he did not open his mouth. Goes on to say that, verse 8, by pressure and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation who considered that he was cut off and out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due. His grave was a sign with the wicked, yet he was with the rich man in his death, because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth, but the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief. that if he would render himself as a guilt offering, he will see his offspring, he will prolong his days, and the good pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. What's the answer for the the reproach that's been brought upon the Lord? He will send his own son to bear that reproach and to suffer for the sins of his people. And the nation that's turned away from God will one day be brought back and will one day Isaiah 52 says, awake, awake. Clothe yourself in your strength of Zion. Clothe yourself in beautiful garments O Jerusalem, the holy city, for the uncircumcised and the unclean will no longer come into you. Shake yourself from the dust. Rise up, O captive Jerusalem. Loose yourself from the chains around your neck, O captive daughter of Zion. There's coming a time when the Israelites, the Jewish people, the Hebrews Who have dishonored the name of the Lord will be brought back? Their hearts will be circumcised They will never be trodden down again, and it's because the Lord Himself sends his son to bear the reproach, to take away the shame, and to give them A new heart that actually pleases and serves their God. That's the answer. The answer is found in Jesus Christ And as we close our time together, I just want to remind all of us that that for all of our hypocrisy, you know, for the times when we've brought the name of of Christ under reproach, that there is a solution. And the solution that's been offered for us is the Son of God, Jesus Christ, has been offered for us. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. And Father, I pray that You would uh help us as as your people, uh God, that we would not make excuses for our hypocrisy. Father, that uh if we teach others your word, that we would be careful also to obey it ourselves. And Father, that we would not bring reproach upon the name of Christ by failing to uh uh to live up to what we actually say we believe. Uh but Father, we know that ultimately None of us are able to keep the law, that the Jewish people cannot keep the law, or that they weren't able to remove their reproach, or that they brought the name of Christ and dragged it through the mud, and that Your name was blasphemed among the Gentiles because of them. But Father, there's going to come a time that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And where they will be raised up and that their hearts will be circumcised and that they will finally, Lord, be the people that they were intended to be. So Father, we're grateful that your word gives us everything we need. Lord, it gives us all the hope that we need. And Father, we're thankful that Jesus Christ has come to be the Savior from our sins. to unmask our hypocrisy and that we can preach these words to ourselves and be encouraged, that the Son of God has come to take upon that reproach himself so that he would be glorified and honored in the end. So Father, I give you all glory and honor. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media Cs and digital files