The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. We're privileged to welcome Michael Black. Michael Black is the professor of theology at Shepherd's Theological Seminary. He also taught at the Master's Seminary for 15 years where he served as professor of theology. Dr. Black has an MDIV from the Master Seminary and a PhD in systematic theology. uh from Southeastern uh uh Baptist Theological Seminary. Uh he's most known for his books, Has the Church Replaced Israel, and He Will Reign Forever, a biblical theology of the Kingdom of God. uh had the privilege of studying uh under Dr. Black at the Master's uh seminary and uh he's regarded by many as the foremost authority on premillennial eschatology in our day I recently had to read through his book again, He Will Reign Forever, because I'm taking a class at the Master Seminary. And I'm thankful for the attention to detail in the book, but I will say that when I had to read it in two days, I wish it was a little shorter. But uh very detailed and thorough and Dr. MacArthur uh writes in the foreword of the book, I've never seen a finer treatment of the subject. It is a careful, thorough, superbly documented survey of what Scripture teaches about the kingdom. From the first page of the introduction, it is clear that this is no dry academic treatise. Dr. Black writes from the heart, yet with profound scholarly insight, in a way that I believe will fill your heart with excitement and expectation, and you will find that book In our bookroom, there's a book table where we're selling some of the books from the conference speakers. And you can find that book there. It's an excellent book And uh Dr. Weif and his wife uh Holly have three children and please welcome Dr. Black. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor George. Just want to thank the Masters Fellowship Mid-Atlantic and Baltimore Bible Church for allowing me to be part of this Thy Kingdom Come conference. So we're uh gonna have a PowerPoint that we're gonna be going through here. So but but but as we're getting that set up, I I just want to again just super grateful to be a part of this. Uh You know, I've always uh you know as I've done my studies, there's you know there's a lot of great themes in the in the Bible, uh, but I become convinced that the kingdom of God, with Jesus having the ultimate kingdom reign, is actually like the primary theme of Scripture. Now not everybody holds to that, and sometimes people hold to other themes, and there's obviously a lot of great themes, but to be able to come to a conference and talk about the issue of the kingdom is uh very exciting. So anyway, you know, so obviously there's going to be a lot of uh a lot of messages, helpful messages on the kingdom of God. You know, the the kingdom of God is something that plays out from Genesis 1 all the way throughout Revelation 22. And so it's a big theme. But there also ends up being millennial views that are a part of this kingdom program. And so what I've been assigned right now is to look at the issue of premillennialism and the kingdom of God. Now, I have this PowerPoint up here, and I've also sent it to Pastor George. So but anyway, I want to let you know that I that there there's quite a bit of information, quite a bit of slides that are on here. I sent this powers uh PowerPoint to Pastor George that he will uh make it available uh to anybody who wants it somehow. So it might be hard to just take notes for all of it because I'm going to move fairly quickly. So just just be aware of that. And this is somewhat of like kind of a broad overview. So, um, you know, as as this is being worked on, we'll we'll go ahead and uh start with scrolling. So Ted uh so the the message is premillennialism and the kingdom of God. And so when we're talking about premillennialism, let's explain this a little bit. The context for dealing with premillennialism is two things in particular, the timing and the nature of Jesus's thousand year kingdom that's mentioned in Revelation chapter 20. So we're talking about the timing and the nature of Jesus' messianic millennial kingdom, particularly as discussed in Revelation 20, but it also has implications for many Bible passages even before Revelation 20. Now I'm not going to read Revelation 20, but there are going to be several references. to a thousand years in Revelation 20, and it talks about Christ uh reigning for a thousand years, Satan being bound for a thousand years. It talks about the saints reigning with Jesus for a thousand years. So when we're dealing with millennial issues, obviously it's going to be related to the thousand years that are mentioned in Revelation chapter 20. Now, when it comes to the issue of the millennium, the millennium itself comes from two words. Milae means a thousand and annum means a year, so put together it's referring to a thousand years. So you might be surprised if you look in your Bible, you don't see the word millennium, but basically it's Latin for a thousand years. Now, when it comes to the issue of pre-millennialism, what is the pre about? So the pre means before. And what is before? Well, we're talking about Jesus' coming again or his second coming being before the millennium. Okay, we got it up there. That's good. All right. So that's what we need uh the re So basically what we're saying with pre-millennialism is you need Jesus to return. to have the millennial kingdom, the thousand-year reign that's mentioned in uh Revelation twenty. That's going to be different than other millennial views which will put the millennium in this age and then in a sense comes to an end with the second coming of Jesus. Now to give a definition of premillennialism, premillennialism defined is the view that the second coming of Jesus will bring a 1,000-year reign of Jesus and his saints on the earth. that precedes the final eternal kingdom. So you have this age, and then Jesus returns to earth, and then you have the thousand-year reign of Jesus on the earth, and then after that there's an eternal kingdom, which is like the aftermath and the reward. of that millennial kingdom. Now premillennialism asserts that Jesus' millennial kingdom is going to transform every area of existence. So with premillennialism, obviously being related to being in a saving relationship with Jesus as Savior and His Messiah is super important. But Jesus' kingdom is more than just salvation. Salvation in one sense is the ticket in order to get into the kingdom. But when Jesus' kingdom is established, the earth will be healed, the animal kingdom will be restored, nations, even geopolitical nations will function as they should, and you're going to see a transformation of all areas of reac reality, including the political, the social, the cultural realms, the economic realms. Basically every area that's part of our existence is actually going to be transformed by Jesus. In a fallen world, those things are distorted. But Jesus is going to fix all areas of reality with his with his kingdom range. So it's a very multidimensional I like to think of the words holistic and multi-dimensional. And when you think back to creation, creation is very multidimensional, very holistic. The fall has affected all those areas, but when Jesus comes again, he fixes all of those areas. So this is going to differ from other millennial views, which often see the millennium as occurring between the first and second comings of Jesus. And thus there's going to be more sessions on this coming up, but there's other views called post-millennialism and amillennialism that would say that this age between the two comings of Jesus, this is the millennium. that this is the uh millennial reign of Jesus and the saints in this age. Now as we mentioned before, and this is where you when you're dealing with a lot of complex issues, Sometimes it's good to really focus on what's most essential. So when we're dealing with millennial issues and then the three millennial views, we have to deal with the issue of the nature. of Jesus' millennial messianic reign and then also the timing. So with premillennialism, Jesus' kingdom is an earthly kingdom Now there are spiritual requirements to be a part of it, and it's going to be characterized by things like righteousness and justice, but it takes place on the earth. And also, again, concerning its timing, it occurs in the future after Jesus' return to earth. So although it's i people are saved and related to King Jesus today, the actual kingdom reign of Jesus the Messiah according to premillennialism, takes place in the future. And then we also want to note, too, that after Jesus' millennial kingdom There is a transition to what we can call the eternal kingdom, and that's discussed in Revelation 21, 1 through 22. 5. And so there ends up being an eternal state and the eternal kingdom after the reign of the 1,000 years that's mentioned in Revelation 20. In 1 Corinthians 15 verse 24, we're told, Then comes the end when he, Jesus, hands over the kingdom to the God and Father. So First Corinthians fifteen is talking about a reign of Jesus the Messiah, and then when the end comes, there's a transition. He hands the kingdom over to God the Father. If you get into Revelation 21 and 22, you'll see that you have the Father and Jesus on the same throne at that particular time. So the millennium comes before the eternal state, but after the second coming. So now what I have here is, and hopefully this will this kind of put puts it in a in a picturesque way here, is uh With premillennialism, obviously, you know, you have Old Testament era, and then that leads up to the cross. And then there ends up being, you know, this age that we're living in right now, you know, post-first coming of Christ. And then you know we believe you know there's going to be a tribulation period, a day of the Lord, you know, 70th week of Daniel, which we believe takes place for seven years. I also believe there's a rapture that we're not getting into the rapture at this point. I do believe the church does not go through the tribulation and the day of the Lord. But after the tribulation period, there's a second coming of Jesus to earth. And then there's also that that's and then that's when you get the millennial kingdom and then eventually the eternal state. So it's very important to understand that like when you when you look at this uh slide, we have this present age then the millennium and then the eternal kingdom. So hopefully that helps kind of set out kind of the the chronology of events that are still to come in a big picture way I also think it's the case when you look at the book of Revelation, we see this chronology where obviously Revelation chapter 1, you have introduction to the book. Chapters 2 and 3 are about really the church in the present age. Chapters four and five describe a heavenly throne scene. And then really believe like chapters six through eighteen is describing the tribulation period, the day of the Lord. And then in chapter 19, you have the second coming of Jesus. Revelation 20 talks about the thousand-year reign of Jesus, which follows the second coming, and then Revelation 21 and 22 talks about the eternal state. So that actually kind of pattern where you're seeing kind of present age and then tribulation day of the Lord and then the return of the Lord and then Messiah's kingdom. You see that pattern actually a lot in Scripture. Revelation 21 and 22 gives us even more detail on kind of the eternal state after that. But this is an important pattern to understand in Scripture. And again, to put it in another way. You have tribulation, day of the Lord, and then Jesus' second coming, and then Jesus' messianic millennial kingdom, and then you have the eternal kingdom after that. Some other things that we want to note about premillennialism is Jesus' millennial kingdom also brings with it the binding and removal of Satan's presence from the earth. So premillennialism believes that when Jesus comes again, according to Revelation 20, verses 1 to 3, Satan as a person is confined in a spirit prison called the abyss. And since he's in that abyss, he has no access to the earth and therefore can't deceive nations or do anything bad during that thousand-year reign of Jesus. And according to verses 4 to 6 of Revelation chapter 20, Jesus' millennial kingdom also brings the reign of Jesus. and the saints on the earth for a thousand years. So one of the things that's going to be important too is that when Jesus reigns in his millennial messianic, you know, kingly kingdom, those who have believed in him also reign on the earth during that time as well. So if you're in union with Jesus through salvation through faith alone, through justification. uh you're going to participate with Jesus in his kingdom reign uh upon the earth. So our destiny is not just uh you know uh just a spiritual existence in heaven forever, but actually reigning with Jesus uh upon the earth. I think it's quite uh exciting. Okay, and so therefore, when it comes to premillennialism, like what what are its essential elements kind of boiling it down. I think what we're seeing here according to the premillennial view is that Jesus' millennial kingdom, it's a future kingdom. So sometimes our view is called futurism. Because we believe that like when it comes to the day of the Lord and then the second coming and reign of Jesus, that that that's future from our standpoint. And again, we also believe it's an earthly kingdom because it takes place in the realm of creation. You know, Adam, when Adam was made, he was put on the earth. He was supposed to rule and subdue the earth. He fails. Jesus is the one who succeeds in that. So there's gotta be a close connection between Revelation 20 and the original mandate given to Adam to rule and subdue the earth. So there's an earthly kingdom. And again, when we're talking about earthly kingdom, we're not denying spiritual characteristics. I mean, one must be born again in order to enter the kingdom of God. It's a kingdom of righteousness and justice and fairness and all those sorts of things. But it does take place in the realm of earth, in the realm of reality that of creation. And then it's also Messiah's kingdom. It's the direct reign of Jesus the Messiah. When you get to the eternal state, you'll see the Father and the Son on the same throne, but there's something particular about the millennium where God, the Father, wants it this way for his Son and for the Messiah to rule the earth successfully. to to to complete and perfectly finish what Adam failed when it came to the kingdom mandate of Genesis 1. So it's Messiah's kingdom. And of course if you're in him you'll participate in Adam well. And then it'll last for a thousand years before the eternal kingdom. begins. So, no, those first three components that I mentioned, you actually find them throughout the Bible. So in other words, like those those first three things that we mentioned, you find Uh actually even in Old Testament passages. In Genesis 1, 26 to 28, man is told to rule and subdue the earth for the glory of God. That was a task given to Adam as the representative of mankind. Rule and subdue the earth. And again That's even before the fall occurs. That's even before the need of salvation. That's part of the reason why we think kingdom is theme of scripture, is because the original command given to man is a kingdom mandate. It's to fill the earth, it's also to rule it and to subdue it. Oh, there's all kinds of passages going on to that second block on the slide there, Genesis 49, 8-12. That's actually a messianic prediction that when the Messiah reigns, he will reign over all peoples and bring prosperity to the earth. And so there's going to be all kinds of passages. particularly like Isaiah 11, Isaiah 35, and others, where the Messiah is going to bring healing and restoration to planet Earth, in addition to there being a lot of people who are saved. So Isaiah 11 actually talks about restoration of the animal kingdom. If you read Isaiah 11, 6 to 9, the animal kingdom which has suffered from the effects of the fall is also going to is going to be restored. So when we're dealing with a you know a future kingdom of the Messiah that involves the earth, there's all kinds of text uh in the Bible that that talk about that concept. Zechariah 14,9 says, the Lord will be king over all the earth. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 5, Jesus said that the meek will inherit the earth or inherit the land. In Matthew 19, 28 to 29, that's a passage you should be familiar with because Jesus says that, you know, when he comes again and he sits upon his throne, the Davidic throne, there's going to be a restoration of the twelve tribes of Israel. And there's also going to be a a regeneration, which in that context refers to of the earth, like a cosmic renewal, kind of a gen. Really the word in Greek polynesi is like Genesis again. So Jesus is going to to to fix fix the earth. So there's all kinds of passages talking about like a f a future earthly kingdom of the Messiah. And again, we really do want to emphasize something of kind of alluded to already is that we're making a strong connection between Revelation twenty and Genesis one, twenty-six to twenty-eight. Adam is created, he's to fill the earth, but he's also to rule it and subdue it. Terms that are used of kings uh in the Bible. And so indicates that man was to rule the earth and its creatures for the glory of God. Again, that involves all areas of reality that are associated with the earth, its natural resources, the animal kingdom. Everything that's associated, it will have cultural, social, political, economic uh dimensions to that as well. Of course, uh Adam sins, not only does Adam Sin plunge him personally, into condemnation and to death and in need of spiritual salvation. But it also means a failing of the kingdom mandate. So when Adam sins, uh the ground is cursed, we know what's gonna happen. You know, A Adam fails the original rule and subdue command. That rule and subdue command will also be given to Israel. It will be given to Israel's kings, and they will also fail. Guess what though? Who is the one that will make that all happen when he comes again into the second coming? So we do believe that in Jesus' millennial kingdom, there's a sense in which it is the fulfillment of the rule and subdue mandate of Genesis 1. And just as Adam was put on the earth to rule from and over the earth for the glory of God, When Jesus comes, he will rule from and over the earth to the glory of God and have a perfect successful reign. Now, Revelation 20 ends up telling us how long Messiah's earthly kingdom will be. Now, so when you get when you get the mention, the six the six or seven mentions of a thousand years in Revelation 20, that is new information So that tells that we we already knew there was going to be a future earthly kingdom of the Messiah upon the earth from all kinds of texts in the Old and New Testament. But Revelation 20 tells us, oh, it's a thousand years after he comes again. And then Revelation 21 and 22 makes clear that after that, that's when you go into the eternal kingdom. So it seems to me like the eternal kingdom is almost kind of like the reward and the aftermath of Jesus' successful reign upon the earth. And of course that goes into uh goes into eternity. So again, other beliefs that would be associated with premillennialism, you know, we mentioned that you know Satan will have no access to the earth. When you read Revelation 20, he's actually personally confined, imprisoned, thrown into jail as a person. And as a result of that, he's no longer able to deceive the nations or do uh nefarious things. It's also true with premillennialism, the premillennial view that we do believe that there is a there's three stages to the king to the uh three stages to the resurrection program. So, yeah, obviously, you know, 1 Corinthians 15 presents Jesus as the first fruits of the resurrection. It also talks about then those who are his at his coming. That's the second phase. Then it talks about, you know, then comes the end, which we think is after. Jesus' messianic reign upon the earth. I think also from what you see on the slide here that there's uh uh there ends up being a turn I called Ezazon, which means came to life. In Greek, it's used of Jesus' resurrection, the saints who came to life when Jesus returned with the second coming. And then there's also another coming to life that's mentioned after the thousand years. So both 1 Corinthians 15 and Revelation 20, if you include uh Revelation 2 as well, when you put that all together, there ends up being uh three stages and phases of the resurrection program. So one of the things that comes with with with premillennialism is we we do believe that there uh when it comes to judgments and resurrections, the scripture teaches that there's phases uh to those. Now, those who are sometimes opposed to premillennialism claim that premillennialism is a one-text doctrine based only on Revelation 20. So the argument goes. Well, that's the only place where you have a thousand years mentioned. If you didn't have a thousand , you know, if you didn't have Revelation 20, then you would have actually uh no premillennial view. And that and so therefore Next slide. Again, this would be how opponents of premillennialism put it. So it's kind of like an upside-down pyramid or triangle where Revelation 20 is at the bottom. It's the sole support. And then premillennialism is totally reliant on Revelation 20. And so I'm actually here to tell you it's actually the opposite. Revelation 20 is telling us how long Messiah's kingdom is after the second coming and before the eternal state. But Revelation 20 is not the only passage in support of premillennialism. Like I said, there's a lot of passages about a future earthly kingdom of the Messiah. Revelation 20 tells, oh, it's for a thousand years. So it's not the case that this is the only supporting text. Now I know that this is very hard to read, and I'm not I'm not even going to read it. I'm just Wait, wait, wait, when you get the PowerPoint slide from Pastor George, you'll be able to see that there's actually like layers uh to premillennialism. I actually think I have I have a uh um a chart coming up here that will, in a sense, kind of lay out the you know what was just mentioned here. So the the case for premillennialism And let me see here. I think on this next chart here, you know what I'll do here is I'll probably stick with this chart. So I moved on to the uh a few slides to the uh the gold chart. And so um so so basically what I'm saying here, I want you to notice that like when it comes to a foundation and structure for like the case for premillennialism from the Bible, actually put Revelation 20 at the top of the top of the chart, not on the bottom. Not as the sole support for premillennialism. I like to say Revelation 20 is kind of like the uh the cherry on the top of the Sunday. It's not the whole Sunday. And so now on the bottom, and again this may be hard to read, but on the very bottom, what you have as foundational premillennialism is the kingdom mandate of Genesis 1. 26. to 28, for man to rule and subdue the earth for the glory of God. So Adam's task to rule. Those terms that are used for rule and subdue are very strong terms, talking about man was to be very active. He was to use his hands and his might and his energy and his creativity and all those things to fill the earth, to rule it, and subdue it. So the original task given to man was a kingdom mandate. Genesis 1 26 to always link Genesis 1 26 to 28 with Revelation 20, verses 1 to 6. And then what happens after that is there ends up being After that, Old Testament passages that predict a coming earthly kingdom of the Messiah. So there's going to be all kinds of passages. I wish we had time to go through this. If we had another couple hours. Take you to Isaiah two, which talks about the Messiah ruling over the nations where there's no more there's no more warfare, there's international harmony. Isaiah 11, 6 to 9, which talks about transformation of the animal kingdom. If you read Isaiah 35, the Messiah is going to remove disease. If you read Psalm 72, the Messiah is going to bring economic prosperity to the earth. And we could go on and on and on again. There's all kinds of text. The Isaiah the uh I'm sorry the Genesis 49, 8 to 12 text we mentioned earlier. To him will be the obedience of the peoples, and then there's all this language describing uh physical prosperity upon the earth when the Messiah reigns. And then the third, kind of in the middle of this chart here, is there ends up being Old Testament passages that predict Conditions that are better than they are in this age, but not quite perfect like the eternal state And so we're going to come back to that in a little bit here if I have time. But there's going to be these passages where you get like people are going to be living long periods of time. You end up having all kinds of fairness and justice in areas. You actually the nations as geopolitical entities are serving the Lord. You don't we don't see that today. But this still talks about times where there could be sin. Isaiah 65 talks about that. If somebody dies at the age of 100, they'll be thought accursed. Because why would some, you know, in other words, the expectancy is long periods there. Zechariah 14 talks about there's going to come a day when the Lord is reigning upon the earth. Isaiah 14, 9. And the nations are worshiping as nations, not just peoples from nations, but the nations themselves. But we're told that if a nation doesn't come up to worship exactly as they should, but there there's some sort of plague or something that comes from the Lord upon them for disobedience. So there's going to be passages that talk about nations serving the Lord, and yet there's still some consequences that they don't do things exactly as they should. Of course, when we get to the eternal state, there's no sin whatsoever. for any reason the nations or I mean you do have nations in Revelation 21 and 22. They never sin again. So just saying with this that there ends up being passages That talk about an era that's better than this present age, but it's not quite perfect like Revelation 21 and 22, and it perfectly fits with Revelation 20, where you have the Messiah. And remember, he does rule with a rod of iron. So that does indicate there can be a coercive aspect. It's a kingdom of righteousness, but it's also a reign where you don't quite have perfect conditions yet. And then the uh we're still on that um we're still on that chart there. The second one from the top will be where you have New Testament predictions that talk about a coming earthly kingdom, like Matthew 19, 28 and 29. So when Jesus comes again and he sits on his throne, the Davidic throne, and the tribes of Israel are restored, you have the Plin Genesia, the Genesis again, the restoration of the cosmos. And then Jesus says, hey, and by the way, if anybody has followed me in this age, if they've given up farms or houses or relationships, they're going to get them back multiplied. during that regeneration. So you get passages like that. Again, the meek will inherit the earth, will inherit the land. So there's all kinds of passages that talk about the significance of the earth and the Messiah comes again. And then guess what? Revelation 20 comes along, that doesn't tell us that there's a i it it's not the first passage that tells us that there's a future earthly kingdom of the side, but it tells us, hey, it's gonna be for a thousand years. It's gonna be for a thousand years after the second coming, and then you roll into the eternal state. So again, I know there is probably too small, it's too much to grasp, but my main point is Revelation 20 is not the only text for premillennialism. It's the text that tells you how long Messiah's kingdom is before the eternal state. And so again, some of these slides I'll move a little bit quickly because I think we've discussed that, but kind of on that first layer, again, you had the kingdom mandate. Now I'm on so I'm on the the slide that says Adam is the representative, a couple down. So I think this is important. When you think of Genesis 1, 26 to 28, where Adam's called, you know, they're told to fill, rule, and subdue the earth. It's important to understand that Adam, as representative of mankind, was created to rule. And then I highlighted two prepositions here. Now these are two English prepositions, but these are presenting the biblical idea. That Adam, representative of man, with implications for mankind, was created to rule from and over the earth. So when God made Adam, he put him on the earth. He didn't create Adam and say, come up to heaven and rule. No. Adam's supposed to be on the earth. He's supposed to rule from the earth and then over the earth. So this is not a spiritual only kingdom. This is an earthly kingdom mandate. So this is man's destiny and why he was created. Interestingly, in Psalm 8, I'm not going to read all of Psalm 8, 4 to 8, but many have noted that Psalm 8 is a lot like, it's playing off the ideas of Genesis 1. So now again in Genesis one you have this beautiful creation and then man's the one who's supposed to you know he's man's made last six days, rule and subdue the earth. So we're told, you know, in the middle of this section, you know, and you, God, crown him, man, with glory and majesty. That's kingly language. You make him, mankind, to rule what over the works of your hands, and you have put all things under his feet So even in a fallen world, this psalm is telling us that that destiny for man has never gone away. It's never been the case that once the fall occurred, it's just all about just being saved as an individual and living in heaven forever. you know, important as being saved spiritually is. So uh this psalm is telling us that the Genesis 1 kingdom mandates still exist. Now, because of a fallen world, it's not being fulfilled in the present age, but we look forward to it being fulfilled. Also in Hebrews chapter 2, verses 5 to 8. What ends up happening here is the writer of Hebrews, you know, writing a few decades after the death, resurrection, ascension of Christ, quotes Psalm 8, the passage we just looked at about man still having a destiny to rule the world. And so we see that quoted, hey man, you know, man's still supposed to rule creation. And then we're told in the latter part of this text that for in subjecting all things to him, to mankind, He, God, left nothing that is not subject to him, but now we do not yet see all things subjected to him. So that points towards the future And the next verse is going to bring up the significance and centrality of Jesus when it comes to that. But very significant, we do not yet see all things subjected to Him. So that's pointing towards the future and future fulfillment of the Psalm 8 Kingdom mandate, which goes back all the way to Genesis 1. Next slide here. So thus man's destiny, when we're thinking about like what's the destiny of man? The destiny of man is not to the man's destiny is not to reign from and over heaven, it is to reign from and over the earth. Because there is going to be a millennial view, which we're going to talk about later today, that's going to say Jesus' kingdom is primarily a spiritual kingdom. And Jesus is reigning spiritually from heaven. Now Jesus is in heaven at the right hand of God, but they have a very significant role to play. But a reign from heaven over a spiritual kingdom was not part of the ultimate or was not part of the original kingdom mandate that you see in Genesis 1. Now again, we do want to affirm spiritual realities are true. One must be born again. You should be concerned about your spiritual state before God. But we're talking about the big picture purposes. God's purpose was never for man or the ultimate man, Jesus, to just have a spiritual heavenly kingdom. It's related to creation. And it's related to the Earth. And therefore, you know, coming back to that second level up from the Coming from the bottom for the argument for premillennialism, I basically just list a bunch of texts here that are, again, talking about a future earthly kingdom of the Messiah. So we already mentioned Genesis 49, we mentioned Isaiah 2, which is talking about the nations laying down their weapons of warfare so that there's international harmony. And they're also seeking the wisdom of the Lord from Jerusalem. You know what's interesting about that other one that refers to Isaiah 19, 16 to 25? If you read that section, it's talking about the future kingdom, and it talks about Israel's role as a benevolent superpower during Jesus' kingdom, kind of the headquarters. with Jerusalem as the capital city. But you end up having Egypt and Assyria, which represent other nations as well, be called the people of God. And they're coming together along with Israel to worship God. So you actually see international harmony among geopolitical nations in Isaiah 19, 16 to 25. We're even told that Egypt's going to make a monument to the Lord near their border. So you get real some real specifics about how nations are going to be looking in the millennial kingdom of the Messiah. Daniel 2 is another text that tells us, and again, we don't have time to go through the whole statue dream was going on with Nebuchadnezzar, but you know, you end up having this statue. which refers to these Gentile powers that will have authority over Israel throughout human history. But then there ends up being the stone cut without hands that comes from heaven and smashes the foot of the statue. makes the statue blow into smitherenes, and then this stone cut without hands, which refers to a kingdom that comes from heaven, itself will become a great mountain. And the mountain refers to a kingdom, and basically it's talking about the dominance of Messiah's kingdom on the earth. Basically, when you read Daniel 2, in the end, it's talking about Messiah's kingdom replacing the geopolitical kingdoms. in the sense of being the the dominant power at that particular time. You also have to think of Zechariah chapter 14 verse 9. Zechariah 14 talks about a siege upon Jerusalem in the last days. It looks like the people of Israel are about to be wiped out. So you end up having the Lord coming, which in this case is a messianic text, and we're told that the Lord will be king over all the earth. Let that single be king over all the earth. And in that day. The Lord will be the only one and his name the only one. So when the Messiah reigns upon the earth, there are no false philosophies, there's no other false religions. Everybody knows it. And one of the things premillennialism asserts is that when Jesus reigns in his kingdom, everybody knows it. There will be no discussions about who is reigning in the millennial kingdom when Jesus comes again. And so there's no other name. He's going to be physically visible. from Jerusalem during that time. And then you know I mentioned earlier that there are some uh you have some passages that talk about kingdom conditions predicted in the Old Testament where it's it's it talks about a time period better than what we see in this age, but also not quite perfect, like Revelation 21 and 22. Just to quote Wayne Grudom, a scholar on this issue, just so you know I'm not just making this up. Wayne Grudom says, several Old Testament passages predict an era on earth far better than the current age. We live in, but not yet as perfect as the coming eternal state. It fits perfect with the millennium. For example, next slide. For example In Isaiah 65. 20, we're told, when it's talking about new heaven, new earth conditions, no longer will there be in it an infant who lives but a few days. So there's actually going to be there's going to be procreation in that millennial kingdom. You're actually going to have childbirth working like it was supposed to, where there's there's no pain, there's nothing negative happening. Obviously in this age, there's a lot of tragedy often associated with childbirth. There's not going to be an if and Elizabeth a few days. Isaiah 65, 23, they will not labor in vain or bear children for calamity. So you're having that which is uh indicating conditions involving childbirth, which is way better than today. So these conditions do not fit either the present age or the eternal state. The millennium involves childbearing with no negative consequences. That's not something that we haven't seen yet. Also, when it comes to this issue, those who die at an older age are considered cursed. So here's that text I referred to earlier, Isaiah 65, 20. For the youth will die at the age of 100, and the one who does not reach the age of 100 will be thought accursed. You know, there's supposed to be these long lifespans and then If somebody does something they shouldn't, there's consequences. People are going to say, wow, what happened? Like we don't do that today. Somebody lives to 100. We don't say, wow, you died early. We're like, wow, so-and-so made it to 100. But in the millennial kingdom, that would be a shock if somebody died at the age of 100. So in this age, life spans of 70 to 80 years. In the millennial kingdom, though, lifespans well beyond 70 to 80 years, but death still occurs, although on a very small level. And then in the eternal state, people live forever with no presence of sin, death, or curse. So those passages like this Isaiah 65 fit really nicely with the coming millennial kingdom. And then I you know I made reference to this earlier with Zechariah chapter 14, and I can read it all for time's sake. But Zechariah 14, 16 to 19 says that after the Lord comes to earth and he's reigning and his name is the only one The nations are going to be required to celebrate and to come to Jerusalem, but we're told in this passage, and I put some of the sections in bold, that if some nation doesn't worship like they're supposed to, there will be no rain on them. And it will be the plague with which the Lord smites the nations who do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Booths. This will be the punishment of Egypt and the punishment of all the nations. who do not go up to celebrate the feast of booth. So that would be part of that reign with a rod of iron. Revelation 19, 15, other text talk about in Psalm 2. 9, the Messiah is going to reign with a rod of iron over the nations. And so there can be coercive consequences if that's not done right. Again, you don't see that today. You don't see any nations really even trying. Just serve the God of the Bible. In the eternal state, they all do and willingly. But in the millennium, as most are doing what they're supposed to, hey, if if some nation decides, hey, we're not going to do this, then there's consequences. That fits really well with a coming millennial kingdom. So Wayne Grudom, when commenting on Zechariah 14, said, here again, the description does not fit the present age, for the Lord is king over all the earth. in this situation, but it does not fit the eternal state either, because of the disobedience and rebellion against the Lord that is clearly present. So in this present age, so in this age we're in now, Jesus is in heaven at the right hand of God. He has all authority And the nations do not yet submit to Jesus as King. Now we have people from nations getting saved, but we don't have geopolitical nations that serve the Lord. uh just go watch the United Nations get together sometime. Not not aware of any or all or some that are openly worship, you know, serving Jesus as King. Now again, there's going to be people within those nations that do, but you don't have those nations officially doing it. In the millennial kingdom, you have Jesus rules the nations on earth and punishes those nations that do not act as they should. That's Zechariah 14. But in the eternal state, the nations act exactly as they should with no need of punishment. So Revelation 21 and 22 talks about the peoples of the earth. It talks about the nation the nations with their kings bringing their glory into the new Jerusalem. So when you're dealing with the geopolitical nations of Revelation 21 and 22, it is only presented positively as they worship the Lord. And then on that fourth aspect of that golden chart that we were looking at, New Testament predictions of a coming earthly kingdom, Revelation 5. 10, you have this heavenly scene. That's discussed right before the outbreak of the day of the Lord in chapter six. And you have this great tech, you have this worship of Jesus the Lamb, and we're told that you, Jesus The Lamb have made them, those for whom he died. If you read in the verse before this verse 9, it talks about Christ says, purchased with his blood, men from every tribe, tongue, people, and nation. So you, Jesus, have made them to be a kingdom and priest to our God, positionally a kingdom, related to King Jesus. And then notice the next part of the verse. And they will what? Reign upon the earth. And therefore, when you hit Revelation chapter 6, that's when the day of the Lord breaks. And the day of the Lord, which isn't my topic. I know Matt and others are going to be covering it. The day of the Lord is when Jesus starts to take back of planet Earth officially. So Jesus opens the first seal, Revelation 6, it leads to the other seals, it leads to the trumpets, it leads to the bulls, and what does that lead to? The second coming of Jesus to earth, and it leads to kingdom. So the day of the Lord, I'm like so I'm getting it, I wasn't planning on getting the day of the Lord, but you have this present age, and then you have Messiah's kingdom after a second coming. The day of the Lord functions like a seven-year period where Jesus Jesus is throwing and and God are throwing their wrath upon the earth in preparation for the second coming and the kingdom. And then Matthew 19, 28, I told, I'll go ahead and read it since I mentioned it. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me, those will be Jesus' followers, those who are saved. In the regeneration, again, Paulin Genesia in Greek, Genesis again, cosmic regeneration. Now there's personal regeneration of individuals talked about in Titus This is a cosmic regeneration. So those of you who followed me in the regeneration, notice this when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne. So when the earth is being restored, Jesus is on his glorious throne. And if you were to read Matthew 25, 31, Jesus tells you it's the time of the second coming. When the Son of Man comes in glory, all of his angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. That's the Davidic throne. the throne of David. And then also you, the apostles, also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. So I haven't gotten much into Israel in this message, but Israel is a big part of things too. And so there's going to be a restoration, salvation of Israel, Romans 11, 26. Restoration of Israel as a nation. And if you read passages like Isaiah 19 and others, Israel is not the only nation that's around when Jesus comes again. You have other geopolitical nations. Seems like Jerusalem, Israel headquarters. during that time, the blessings poured out upon Israel spill out to the entire earth. So those are some passages that talk about a coming earthly kingdom. It's also important to mention 1 Corinthians 6. 2. Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? 1 Corinthians 6. 3, do you not know that we will judge angels? Are you judging angels today? I don't think so. But that'll be part of it in the future. 2 Timothy 2. 12, if we endure, we will also reign with him. So Scripture presents this as the time of persevering during a time of persecution. Satan being very active, deception, those kinds of things, but if we endure, we will reign. We'll participate in Messiah's kingdom Revelation 2, 26 to 27. I love this. Now this is a message given to the church. I think it's the church side tyra, but extends to all of the church. This is where Jesus actually quotes, I think it's Psalm 2, I think it's Psalm 2. 9, where Psalm 2 is a messianic psalm about the Messiah ruling the nations with the rod of iron. God's going to give Jesus the Messiah, the nations as it is as his inheritance, he'll rule them with a rod of iron. And then what Jesus does in this these two verses is Jesus says, for those who endure in this age, I'm going to share my reign with you. So he who overcomes To him I will give authority over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. As the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces, as I also have received authority from my Father. So Jesus is going to share his rule. Now you might say, well, does that mean the saints rule, but Jesus doesn't? Well read Revelation 19, 15. And it says Jesus is going to rule the nations with the rod of iron at the time of his second coming. So that's very significant because that brings us into it too. This is the age for endurance and perseverance and faithfulness. And for those that do that, that are true believers, when Jesus reigns upon the earth, we participate in that reign with him. Revelation 12, 5 says she gave birth to a son. a male child who is to rule all the nations. So that talks about Jesus reigning in the future. Notice Revelation 19, 15. Revelation 19, 11 through the end of the chapter is a second coming text. So it says, From his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. The second coming brings a rod of iron rule of the Messiah upon the nations. And then when you come to Revelation 20, as I finish up here in the last couple minutes, Revelation 20, remember we called that the cherry on the top of the Sunday. Revelation 20 teaches a millennial kingdom after the second coming before the eternal state. And so what I what I'm pointing out here is You have this chronology. There ends up being in Greek these chi -idon formulas which say this is going to happen. Then that's going to happen. Then this is going to happen. So in Revelation 19. 11 through 21. 8, there's these series of events. Revelation 19. 11 through the end of the chapter talks about the second coming of Jesus to earth. Revelation 20 talks about the binding of Satan so he doesn't have any access to the earth, and then the reign of Jesus and the saints on earth for a thousand years. And then when you get to Revelation 21, after the thousand years are over, I mean there ends up being judgment, resurrection, and then you end up having the eternal kingdom. So it's presenting in a flow format there the chronology of events. Okay, so I need to be done. Um I do have I do have a sec a section again for those who want to get the uh the PowerPoint from Pastor George. I I do have another section to talk about four reasons premillennialism must be true. I don't have time to go through those because we need to get our next speaker up here. I I I do want to point out one in particular though, the first one. which is the original mandate given to Adam as representative man was to rule and subdue the earth for the glory of God. That has been failed in history. Adam has failed, Israel has failed. The kings of Israel before Jesus have failed, you and I have failed. But Jesus is going to complete that as the last Adam. He does several things that are a part of that role. But when Jesus rules in his millennial kingdom, there must be a successful reign of man for the glory of God from and over the earth. That has not happened yet, but will happen with Jesus when he comes again. So, all right. I'll close in prayer. Lord, we do thank you for the kingdom of God. Even though in this age we see things that often are not right, that are evil, that are sad, we know that you're coming again and you're going to fix all things. In Acts 3. 21, it's called the restoration of all things that's linked with the sending of the Christ. So we take encouragement in that now, but also look forward to your reign and our participation with you in that because of you. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.