The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well I greet you in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and I'm grateful to be with you all. I've been behind this pulpit before, and it is a privilege every time, George. Thank you for your faithful ministry and for doing this. I'm excited to be here. Dr. Vloch, thank you for this morning. It was encouraging. Uh I'm grateful for for you all. Harry, thanks for the great uh kind words about the Masters College and it's just encouraging to hear all the Lord is doing there. I'm glad you're here as well, brother Well let me pray for us and then we'll begin. That we are grateful for your word. Uh we know that it is living and active, that it pierces our minds and our heart, our soul, our spirit. And so we pray, Lord, that we would grow into mature doctrine as your word pierces us, that we would grow into the full man that you'd have us to be, the full stature of Christ. We know as we grapple with your word, we see some things in shadows, we see some things dimly, and so we have to navigate, we have to wrestle these truths, we have to discipline ourselves to move beyond the elementary truths of your word and into um substance, into meat. And so we pray uh now this next half hour or so it'd be used for your glory, causing us to grow in our understanding of your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen My assignment as uh communicated to me was post-millennialism, America and the kingdom of God. I might have added the America part, George, but I had a cool drawing of an eagle and I wanted to use it, so A hymn that perhaps you grew up singing, I Love Thy Kingdom Lord, by Timothy Dwight. I love thy kingdom, Lord, the house of thine abode, the church, our blessed Redeemer saved, with his own precious blood. You know that him? What an encouraging hymn. You might not know Timothy Dwight, though. He was grandson of Jonathan Edwards. The apple did not fall from the tree, so to fall far from the tree, so to speak. Dwight graduated valedictorian from Yale at age 17. Jonathan Edwards had graduated valedictorian from Yale at age, I think, 14. You know, the second generation is never as good as the first. Edwards gave his valedictorian address in Latin, Dwight gave his in English. It's just one compromise after another. It was in his valedictorian address that Timothy Dwight declared, quote, We have the best foundation to believe that this continent will be the principal seat of the new kingdom. The year he gave his validatory address, if I failed to mention that earlier, seventeen seventy-six. Did anything else happen in seventeen seventy-six? It's not coincidental either that in 1776 Dwight declares that this location Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York. That's the place where he and his family were living and were from, where he went to school. would be the focal point of the new kingdom. Dwight believe that the means of establishing this kingdom of God in America, and he said this in his speech, would be quote, the preaching and hearing of God's word, the reading of Scripture, public prayer. correspondence with religious men, religious meditation, and the religious education of children, these would apply to everyone, regardless of their own church affiliation or participation. Let that sink in for a little bit. Dwight, who let's not go too overboard. He's 17 years old, but he is Jonathan Edwards' grandson. So, you know, give and take. The means of establishing the kingdom of God will be through New England, through the preaching of God's word. public prayers and the education of children in the Christian faith, whether or not their families choose to follow the Lord, regardless of their own participation. Participation was Dwight's word. After graduation, Dwight enlisted in the military. He became a military chaplain and was eventually stations alongside George Washington, as George Washington went up north through Ticonderoga, Dwight was the chaplain there. They rescued all kinds of people that were uh imprisoned by the British, including Lemuel Haynes, the black preacher who went on to pastor in New England, was rescued from his prison by the regiment that Timothy Dwight was part of. He helped disciple Lemuel Haynes, and eventually Dwight himself would go on to become the president of Yale. They threw out Edwards, but Dwight became president. He gets the last laugh, I guess. For Dwight, eschatology could never be separated from ecclesiology, or for that matter, soteriology. In his mind, your eschatology, your view of the end times, was so connected to your view of the church, which was of course connected to how the gospel went forth. And it became a very Americanized mix of theology. A woman named Beth Spaulding in a journal article written for the United Methodist Church has a really incredible biography of Dwight and she writes that he quoted is my favorite line from her whole article. It's a summary of it right here. I'm sparing you the whole article. that Timothy Dwight personified the theology of the New America. What was uniquely American about his theology? Well it required a notion that this country was in covenant with God. That a nation was in a covenant with God, and a covenant, of course, if you're familiar with that language, is the idea that there's a promise that you enter into. The promise has blessings and it has conditions, it has curses For obedience you receive reward, and for disobedience you receive sanction. This is kind of the old covenant language of Israel, that they were in this kind of covenantal relationship with God. Timothy do I end Uh, not just Timothy Dwight, but many of the American Puritans, from Samuel Willard all the way on down, viewed this new nation as in a covenantal relationship with God This distinction was largely American and really only made sense in a post-parish world. They taught throughout the United States, but particularly in New England. There is a distinction between the regenerate who are gathered for worship and the unregenerate who are not there. And that that distinction is the heart of the covenant. So again, this doesn't this wouldn't make sense in Europe or in in England anyway, which is divided by the parish. The parish system viewed every member of the neighborhood as under the authority of the church. Infant baptism, of course, baptizes you into the the authority of the church into the covenantal conditions of salvation, so to speak. But in America what you saw was the discarding of the parish system, replacing it with this idea that the church was narrow And the church was only made up of the regenerate members, even by those who were practicing infant baptism. This is where Jonathan Edwards had the rebellion on his hands in his own church when he excluded people who weren't following the Lord from from the Lord's table. He said you have to be in submission to the Lord to participate in communion. This was a novel idea to people. It really was. Well, you have two truths that seem to be contradictory that Dwight and many of the early American Puritans taught. That one, the church is narrow. The gospel is narrow, and the church is only made up of believers. We're the few, the minority. But seconds, that the church constitutes the kingdom of God, and the kingdom of God is going to be established through the nation of the United States. You think, how can they both be true? How can they both be true? How can the church be narrow and yet in a democracy anyway be the backbone of morality in society that will eventually give sway to a nation that yields to God and God's word That's the tension that was in that early American theology. In fact, White wrote his own hymnal The hymn, I love thy kingdom, Lord, the house of Landabod, is in his hymnal. And he designed it to be paired with Psalm 137. Psalm 137, if you're not familiar with it. It's more of an obscure psalm. It's the psalm that by the rivers of Babylon we sat down and wept. By the rivers of Babylon We hung our lyre on the tree. How can we sing a new song when we're in the land of our enemies if I forget thee, O Jerusalem, and my mouth forget its tongue? It's a song of lament. Like it's one of the sad psalms. You picture the Israelites at the rivers of Babylon weeping because they don't know how to worship the Lord anymore. And Dwight said that scripture verse should be paired with, I love thy kingdom, Lord, the house of thine abode. And you hear those two and you think they have at the very least they need different music Dwight embraces the tension. You think, how can the church be the new Jerusalem and yet be in Babylon? How can the church be the Jerusalem, the temple of God's people, and yet be exiled along the river in Babylon? Well that tension right there You know, when when I say it like that, you might think that sounds contradictory, but you as an American who just sat through there was an election at some point recently, right? You just went through it. You're familiar with that tension, aren't you? Like it is in the DNA of American religion. Oh, the church is narrow. The church is narrow. There are so few of us. So few of us. The way is so narrow and the world out there is so dark and lost and Going to hell and we have the truth and we're so narrow. And yet if the church rises up and votes, then we can return our land to its Christian heritage. I mean that's it. We all have that in us, don't we? And you think, if you pause for a second and just do the math, if you're the narrow way, in a democracy does the narrow way win? Generally not. Election integrity notwithstanding. I'm not a conspiracy theory theorist. I believe most elections are on the up and up How can both be true? This captures the Americanized version of postmillennialism. This is the doctrine of postmillennialism, really, and postmillennialism. Uh you uh you have the chart in your mind from Dr. Vlock earlier that you have the the millennial kingdom, the thousand-year reign of Christ. Premillennialism is what he taught that the the kingdom of God will begin after the return of the Lord to the earth But all millennialism and post-millennialism take a different approach to Revelation 20. Their approach to Revelation 20 is that the return of Christ happens in a sense after the kingdom of God. Whether the kingdom of God It it covers the whole church age from the ascension of Christ all the way to his second coming, or if it's a more localized part, maybe starting in seventeen seventy-six New England and lasting for a thousand years, whatever. That's all millennialism and postmillennialism Postmillennialism is very much part of America's founding. Part of Print Princeton was the first probably seminary in the world that had postmillennialism as one of his core doctrines. And it casts a long shadow uh even to this day, the people that wouldn't be able to articulate post-millennialism and grow up in a political society that really by and large embraces it. So I want to walk you through post-millennialism here. I have three points. The first few points, I'm going to try to explain in a way that will you'll think that I'm actually postmillennial. I'm going to try to sell you on postmillennialism for the first few points. No that I'm not. Put your sons down. I'm not I'm not The third point we'll get to the the flaws of it. But because it is an Americanized form of eschatology, I'm going to use an Americanized outline for you. You'll catch on as we go through. First, a new hope. And New Hope, which is the gospel. Postmillennialism begins with a new hope. As postmillennialism millennials wrestle with Scripture, they begin with this idea that God engages with people through covenants. That God invites people into a covenantal relationship with Him. The covenant begins in the garden where God says, if you do this, you will live. If you if you Refrain from eating the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. You will live and keep the tree of life. But the moment you reject that, you'll receive the curse of the covenant, death. And that's the promise. That promises for all people that are through Adam and Eve, because Adam and Eve represent the whole human race. So that's the kind of start of post-millennialism here. But after, of course, they sin and they're scattered and then the flood and the nations arrive out of the flood, the nations are now divided, right after the nations are established in Genesis 11, God enters the world through Abraham and reissues that covenant. Through Abraham, he says, now the covenant is going to be through you and your offspring, of course, offspring leading to Christ, and the nations will be blessed through you. That's an expansion of the covenant. It's a personalization of the covenant through Abraham. But it's an expansion of it now beyond just the individuals to the nations. That nations can be in a right relationship with God through bowing the knee to the seed of Abraham. Nations can come into God's blessings or curses through how they respond. To Abraham and his offspring, his offspring being Jesus. The covenant's a part of this is key, that nations now can relate to God through the covenant given to Abraham. This is reissued and repeated in different times in the Old Testament. I won't drag you through all of it, but 1 Kings 8. 37 is a key one. This is Solomon's prayer to dedicate the temple where he says, if a foreigner hears of the good news. And calls on Yahweh's name, then in 1 Kings 8. 43, that God will hear them, and then all the peoples of earth will know your name and fear you. So in other words, through the temple, when the nations of the earth bow their knee to God, they call on God, the God of Israel, the God of Israel will hear them and honor them and restore them and give them life through their turning to The temple. It's a promise in Psalmist Prayer that is given to the peoples of the earth. Foreigners, this ethnic identity is part of it. The idea is that this is a promise or covenant that is expectance that the nations will join in. The nations will in hope and faith turn to the promise given to Abraham. They won't take Israel's place But they will participate in his covenant and be blessed through Abraham. There's other examples of this in the Old Testament I won't go through. But the key verse for Postmillennialis is in the New Testament, Luke 13. Luke 13, verses 18 and 19, which is an often overlooked parable, the mustard seed is what the uh ESV margin notes call it this is where Jesus says what is the kingdom of God like and to what shall I compare it? It's like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden It grew, it became a tree, and the birds of the air made their nests in its branches. The expression, birds of the air, is from Ezekiel 17, Ezekiel 21. Daniel chapter 4, other passages as well, the ideas of the birds of the air represent the nations of the world. And so in Luke 13, Jesus says the kingdom of God is like a seed that's planted small. Very small. I mean, Jesus and his twelve disciples from Galilee in the Sermon on the Mount kind of setting where Luke 13 is taking place out in the Galilee regions is where Luke 13 is explained. It's so small and so isolated. It's nothing. It's a seed that will be forgotten. But that seed will fall and it will die and it will resurrect and give birth to a massive tree and the nations of the earth will come find refuge. in the tree of the gospel. In postmillennialism, that parable becomes paradigmatic. It becomes the paradigm that the rest of their system is derived from. It's a picture of the gospel growing slowly and steadily, but noticeably over time, in a massive way that then offers shade to the nations. That's paired with the Great Commission. Go into all the nations. Go into all the world and make disciples of all nations. Nations, the key word there. Ethnos is the Greek word, ethnicity, ethnic groups. But nations is a fine translation of it. What does it mean to make disciples of nations? It's not just the people, that would be the word Laos, the argument goes, the Greek word for people. No, it's got something more specific in mind. The nations the people gathered in. Nations will be disciples. What does it look like to deciple a nation? Certainly that would include government. Certainly that would include culture. Certainly that would include families, but families are just a small part of it. If you're going to disciple the whole nation, you want the nations to represent the teachings of Christ. So what would that look like? That leads to my second point. The new hope was the gospel, the second point The Empire strikes back. If you're going to decipher the nations You're going to have to have governmental involvement with it. Like your goal in discipling the nations is to get the government to reflect biblical morality. In this post-ascension time from the ascension of Jesus, all the way until the second coming, which we'll go ahead and call the church age, but this era of time, it is worth asking, how does the gospel take root in the world? And how do the birds come to rest in the shade of the tree? How do the nations come to rest into the shade of the gospel? Now how you answer that question really just setting premillennialism aside, how you answer that question really determines whether you're all millennial or a postmillennial. An all millennialist would answer that question, how do the the birds of the how do the nations go to find shade in the tree of Christ? An all-millennialist would answer that question by covenant, by family, by raising our kids in the truth, that the church is going to be narrow and small, kind of an outpost of the gospel in the dark world. But we bring our families up in the church and hold on to the gospel throughout the ages. That's an all-millennialist answer to that question. A post-millennialist would answer that question. The church will grow stronger and more powerful, its roots will grow deeper, its trees will grow broader, and it will disciple not only the families, but all of culture. The arts, the governments, the laws. It will build covenant communities, not just in the home and in the neighborhoods, but in the nations. It's very optimistic. It will produce legislation that matches biblical ethics, and it will turn the kingdoms of men into the kingdoms of Christ. That's a post-millennial answer. And when you think about it, if you were to put the timeline of all millennials and post-millennialism next to each other, they overlap a lot. In fact, most postmillennialists even today would argue that the whole thousand-year reign of Christ encompasses all of the church age. In America's founding, it was common to argue that it begins when a nation ushers in some kind of renewal experience, but for the most part, postmillennials would say. In the thousand years, this is the whole church age. If you were to overlay postmillennials and all millennials on top of each other, there's not a lot of difference in the contents. But there's a huge difference in the tone. Postcolonialism is very optimistic. The gospel is going to keep growing. It's going to keep drawing. It's going to transform the world. It's going to make the world better. The nations will will beat their swords into plows. They'll produce food instead of war. They'll expand life. They'll produce justice and equity in society. They will transform the world. All of the things on the chart that Dr. Vlock had on the screen earlier, all that gold chart, which I could see in the background I could see half of them. All of those things though, that's in the post-millionaire world, that's being brought about through the expansion of the gospel. Some of it of course figurative. a long life. That's just saying that as society progresses and adjusts, people will live longer and have happier lives through the Christianization of the culture. It 's legislation that matches biblical ethics. In all millennialism, the church is dark and they're persecuted. But in post-millennialism, the church is triumphant and expansive. One author, Marcelius Kirk, writes, The postmillennialist looks for a fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies of a glorious age of the church upon the earth through the preaching of the gospel in the power of the Spirit. He looks to all the nations to become Christians and live in peace with one another. And this explains why it's a very American view. Why, as I said earlier, Princeton is arguably the first seminar in the world to adopt it. Because you really do need those two contradictory truths. That the gospel is narrow, but that through national involvement, the gospel will transform the society into more and more righteousness and usher in the victory of Jesus. And when I say usher in the victory of Jesus, most post-colonialists are very clear it's not through the church's work and labor that you establish the kingdom of God. No, it's God who establishes the kingdom of God, but through the church, through the work, just like We would say, you know, it's God who saves, but through a work of evangelism. A post-millennialist would say it's God who transforms society, but through the church's work to usher in that kingdom. Kim Ridelbager writes that, quote, in this era of world history, the entire world is progressively subdued by Christ through the church's preaching until there is a near universal acceptance of the gospel. Now, that can include legal justice systems, you know, Christian representatives, Christian quote-unquote laws, and all that. But it's not just confined out, it's the culture. If you're familiar with with Tim Keller and and in his ministry, he was very much postmillennial in his outlook and very much targeting not the laws. I mean he was in Manhattan, so he's not targeting the the laws. You're not going to win an election anywhere, but definitely not there. So he's targeting the culture, transforming the arts and the business business ethics of Wall Street and the the street artists. And you know if you ever went to Uh Tim Keller's website, you saw all the their outreaches to like the sidewalk painters and the the guys who are doing street performance art and they would do ballet in their church and all that. And if you're not from there you watch that and you're like, why are you what's ballet doing on the stage. I mean I'm open minded, but put some pants on. You know, what it's doing is in the in the post-millennial rubric here, you're transforming the culture. You're bringing the culture into the church and you're starting to see the whole ethos of society change towards a Christian flavor. It's not just of course the culture, it's also the laws. The idea, Lorraine Butner writes, quote, is that evil in all its forms will eventually be reduced to negligible proportions. Christian principles will be the rule of society and not the exception, and Christ will return to find a Christianized world. It was Greg Bonson who described this view as, quote, an eschatology of hope, of power, and of prayer. And that's the phrase that goes on to define postmilonialism even to this day. Most people will even refer to it as an eschatology of hope. because it's optimistic about the vic victory of the church in the world. Now many Fosmale people around the world are clear that the kingdom or the thousand-year reign goes from Jesus to This is first advent all the way to his second. But the American version of it, as I mentioned earlier, is distinctly theonomic, if that's the word. It's theonomy. It expresses the idea that the government should be enacting Christian laws. The church has a role in sanctifying the nations through the leaders that it puts forward in the world of government and its laws. And this remains embedded in the American evangelical culture to this day. If you find yourself quoting before an election, 2 Chronicles 7. 14 If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and cry out to God, turn their face to me, and I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive them their wicked ways and their sin and I will heal their land. If you find yourself quoting that before a presidential election, You might be postmillennial. Because that is a very covenantal promise, isn't it? If you do this And if my people, well what proportion of people is it are we really talking about is God measuring that by the popular vote or the Electoral College? You know, what's it gonna take for him to forgive us of our wicked ways What's the grounds of claiming that promise? Of course in two chronicles seven it's given to Israel through the promise of Abraham, repeated in Deuteronomy through through Moses, of course embodied by David and all that. Chronicles 7, that's what's in focus there. How does it become America 's? Well, that's just as American as apple pie and the Antichrist right there. Edwards and his history, his book, History of Redemption, where Edwards, which is really an incredible book, where he tries to chart the whole history of the church from Jesus all the way to present day, present-day being 1740s, America, as he's writing that, he says that all of redemption has to hinge on the crushing of Satan, which would take place at the cross, and yet Satan is still roaming about, Edward says. And so Edwards is anticipating a time in the United States where the kingdom of God would be established, and he says there that before the kingdom of the post-millennial kingdom of God comes. And he didn't use the language pesticonial, but that's what he's describing. Before the the kingdom of God on earth comes, there's going to be a period of oppressive darkness That that the devil will seem to have victory. He'll seem to be cr and this is Edwards' way of dealing with the fact that, you know, Edwards is third generation in America, even though it's before the Declaration of Independence, his third generation in the United States. He's wrestling with the fact that Most Americans at this time were not believers. Church attendance was so small. The churches were empty. How do you grapple with that if this is the kingdom of God? And Edwards did so by saying it will be very dark. Very dark before the light of Christ breaks through into society. And here's where the Puritan view, or at least the John Owen view, of the kingdom of God matters. It's the church who regulates worship, the government who regulates the people through the laws, but Owen would argue there has to be some partnership between the two, and Owen's View of government, the it's the government's job to execute people for blasphemy, but it's the church's job to tell the government who to execute for blasphemy. You know, that's in the background of the whole salem witch trials in the United States. Judge is like, well, what should we do with the witch? Call the minister. Minister, what does the Bible say she'd be done with the witch? The you should be killed. Who's decides who's the witches? Well I guess the pastor does, not the judge. The judge, when you read the transcript of some of the Salem Witch trial cases, which are widely available. The judges didn't want anything to do with this They're like, Taster, you tell me who the witches are and what to do. I defer to you. What a faraway world that is It becomes the church's job in postmillennialism to call the nation to repentance, to direct them towards Christian laws. Your country and you can see the appeal for this, can't you? I realize there's no clock on the wall anywhere, so that means I can go as long as I want here. Oh, I got time. I'll talk slower now. You can see the appeal to this kind of Christian nationalism, can't you? If you live in a society That is all in on gay marriage. You remember when gay marriage was a big deal on the ballot? I was living in California at the time. California resoundly elected President Obama and also passed a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. The same election. Oh, what a what a far-off world that is. You know, you live in a country that's all in on gay marriage. You live in a country that has rainbow flags in the elementary school classrooms, that, you know, the boys playing with girls, all that. You live in that kind of country and then comes along a view of theology that says it's the church's job to rise up and put an end to this nonsense. If the church would be the church, we would get the gay stuff out of the elementary schools. And you can see how that would start to be appealing to people's hearts. And they start to turn inward, firstly. Of course they turn in. you know, cannibalize the church and get angry at the pastor for not preaching more about moral issues or not preaching more about how you should vote kind of thing, because if the church should be the church, then all this stuff would be gone from our culture and our society That is post-millennialism. If my people did this, then God would do that and deliver them. The draw from for it, especially in the American culture today, is from people that have had it with the way society is It used to be common to say that post-millennialism was going the way of the dinosaurs, because after World War II, how could you argue the gospel was making the world's better. You know, Germany was like a largely Christian nation, so to speak, and yet they usher in the Holocaust and all that. So how can you argue that the you know as the tree grows bigger, the nations find rest. We're going to war to stop it And so the conventional wisdom is that post-millennialism would go away. Instead, what you're seeing now is the rampant darkness in society, the moral decay of society. And people going back to postmillennialism and saying, if the church would rise up, it is our job to transform society through culture, the arts, the ballot box, everything. Everything. thing. That's the Empire Strikes Back. What does it look like as the government starts to take control and legislate Christianity, so to speak? And you know what I mean by that. I'm not saying you have to become a Christian or die, but legislating Christian morals and Christian laws to turn the culture into a Christian society. Well That's the big problem with post-millennialism, which leads to the third point, which I'm sure you see coming from a mile away. The return of the Jedi. Also known as premillennialism. What's the main problem with post-millennialism? And I'm not even talking like a biblical problem, although I have biblical problems on my list here. I'm not even our engaging with post-millennialism anymore at a biblical level. Like I'm not gonna exegete Luke 13 and talk about what is the actual image of the birds of the air throughout scripture. And was it Nebuchadnezzar the tree in Daniel 4 that got chopped down? I mean I have biblical ways to engage with it. But setting the biblical arguments aside just for a second, what's the most obvious problem with postmillennialism? It's never happened. It's never happened. The Christian churches have not transformed the governments to usher in the kingdom of God that leads to the return of Christ. We're still here The lure of postmillennialism is fun, of course. It's triumphant and it's victorious and it gets the gay flags down and all that, but it ultimately fails because it doesn't actually work. And it's not that it doesn't work because you didn't vote hard enough. You can only press the button so hard in the voting group. Like that's not the problem with it The problem goes back to the basic math equation earlier. The way is narrow. The church is narrow, even in Jonathan Edwards' day, which led to the Great Awakening, which led to Timothy Dwight writing, I love thy kingdom, Lord, which led to the second great awakening. And the cycle repeats itself, doesn't it? Over and over and over again. Prohibition, evolution, Billy Graham. It's a cycle that keeps on going The most notable post-millennials today, Timothy Keller, of course, is no longer living, but at the end of his, I mean he went all in on this, to transform the culture of Manhattan Was it effective? Or in a different part of the country with different personality and all that? Douglas Wilson, probably the second most well-known post-millennials today. Is it effective? I mean they went in all in a couple elections ago on the school board in Moscow, Idaho, and they lost the school board election. Like if you can't get the Christian nationalism at the school board level, it's going to be a harder sell at the Senate seat Is it actually effective? Not really. Which is going to lead me to the biblical reasons. It is not a biblical eschatology. First, in the most obvious one, it was Dr. Vlock said it so well earlier. In Revelation 20, the kingdom comes after Christ returns, not before it. Like that's just a basic timeline of Revelation 20. In Revelation 20, there's the first resurrection, Jesus returns and ushers in the kingdom. The reason we fail is because Christ hasn't returned. We can't establish a Christian country now because Jesus is not here to reign over the world now. He reigns in the world through the church. But he's not reigning over the governments of the world from the throne of David as is described in the scriptures and as is encapsulated in Revelation 20. The chronology is all wrong. So what a post-millennialist does with that in Revelation 20 says the first resurrection is talking about regeneration and a new birth, that salvation comes before the kingdom, not Jesus. But that really doesn't hold up when you're talking about what resurrection means in Revelation and all kinds of other reasons. It's just a chronological problem. The truth is the Bible describes the kingdom coming after Christ's returns, not before. Secondly, the kind of changes envisioned by post-millennialism are not described in the Bible. The whole church transforming the culture And transforming the laws of the nation is not the vision for the New Testament era that the New Testament gives us. The New Testament doesn't tell us what kind of laws to pass. It doesn't. The New Testament instructions on government are very much assuming Christians are living under Nero. Christians are living under Caesar. We're supposed to render under Caesar that which is Caesar's, not bring Caesar under that which is God's. You're supposed to submit to the government as long as it's keeping God's plan for government. And that's what you're supposed to do. You're submissive. That's the kind of language that's used. The whole kind of post-millennial ethos is not the ethos of the New Testament church. Which uses language like sojourners. That's a very common New Testament phrase. Dula, slave , narrow path. Counting the cost, all of that kind of language. Very different. And so what what does the post-colonialists do with this? Well they have to go back to the Old Testament and take the kind of laws given to Israel and try to advocate for those to return to the church. Those to return to the world. It's incorporating the Old Testament promises and covenant to Israel as if it were for the church. And this is where when it becomes practical, the wheels come off of it very, very quickly. Like once you start talking, okay, pretend that we the the the Christians get a a Senate majority, filibuster proof, 60 senators elected from Baltimore Bible. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Great. What's the first laws they should pass? If you want to bring about postmillennialism, what's the first laws they should pass? And again, when it begins practical is where the wheels start to come off. Like Sabbath laws is what most people say. Sabbath laws. Like close go back to closing the businesses on Sunday. I'm going to feel like I got oversold on Mount One. I was ready for Reformation and instead I got Chick-fil-A, which I'm all in favor of And then the third objection, third objection, is that Jesus' return in the New Testament is described very differently than post-millennialists describe it. Lots of passages about this. Matthew 19 verse 28, Jesus says, Truly I say to you, in the new world, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, You who will follow me will also sit on twelve thrones. So he's talking about his second coming, the new world. Everyone who's left houses or brothers or sisters or fathers or mothers. This is the next verse. for my sake or lands for my sake will receive rewards in that time period. That doesn't sound like Christian nationalism to me. That doesn't sound like post -millennialism. That doesn't sound like Jesus is coming back to nations that have been so Christianized the Christians have have free reign of the place when Jesus' very first instructions about his second coming is, I'm going to reward all of you who left lands for me. The people I find who were persecuted by their families and left their lands is a key word. I'm going to reward. Luke 18 verse 8. This is after the parable of the judge, remember who the widow is annoying him and he finally gives her what he wants and Jesus' point is that God is not uh slow to respond to injustice. God is eager to correct injustice. That's Jesus' point. The very next verse, Luke 18, verse 8, I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, will the Son of Man find faith when he comes to earth? At his second coming, is he going to find faith? And the way Luke 18 is set up, the implied answer is no, he's not. Even though God is so generous and answers prayers and hears the call of the needy and loves justice, people aren't going to turn to him. And he's going to come back to a dark place. Faith will be rare. In fact, in Luke 18, it's compared to the days of Noah. How many people were on the eight on the ark? I mean, that's the idea. Jesus is going to come back to eight people in the ark, not the nations who have beat their swords into flowshares. Matthew 24, verse 6, you'll hear of wars and rumors of wars. Don't be alarmed. These must take place, but the end isn't yet. For nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning. Then they will deliver you to tribulation. And then they will put you to death. And then you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. The word nations, that's the same word from the Great Commission. They're going to hate believers. Actually, it's not compatible with the idea that as the gospel goes forward, the nations will stop wars. Matthew 24, 29, at the end of that same chapter. immediately after the tribulation. So I mean the post-millionary argument would be like, yeah, that's the darkness that comes before the light, of course. You know, that's just describing all the world history until the kingdom comes. And then Jesus returns. But if you keep reading the chapter immediately after the tribulation of those days, which you would expect in a postmillennial system to be followed with the Kingdom of God on earth and Jesus reigning through it. No. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will not give its light, the moon will be darkened, the stars will fall from heaven. The powers of heaven will be shaken. Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. That's the second coming. And what's the attitude on the earth when that happens? The nations will be mourning. There's no denying the main point of postmillennialism. The gospel envisions a time of massive joy and massive rebirth and massive prosperity on the earth. The swords will go away. All of the things the gospel describes the Bible describes a future period of time that is is lush and peaceful and righteous and joyful. But it does not describe that period of time coming before the Lord's return. The Bible describes a time period where conditions are better than they are now, but not quite perfect like the eternal state. All the things that post-millennialism looks at, those are all true. But they require the Lord to return to personally establish those things and bring about those conditions. Instead, the kind of global peace and gospel triumph envisioned in the Bible is brought about through the return of Jesus Christ. So we long for him, we look for him, we pray for speedy coming from him. But we understand that dark is the night, and we understand that things go from bad to worse. That doesn't mean that the gospel doesn't change families. Of course it changes. It changed your family. You're here on a Saturday at an eschatology conference. My goodness. Like the gospel is changing people's lives. It is effective. It does work. But we have to wait for the Lord to return to bring in his kingdom to the world. In the meantime, vote harder. God, we're grateful for the promise of your second coming. We do long for it. We know there's so much mysterious about the future. We don't know all of the kingdom will be like. We even look at our own time period dimly. It's hard for us to see ourselves properly, much less the future. And so we're just left to rely on your descriptions, your prophecies. You could have told us more, of course. What you gave us was enough to instill hope and an eager expectation for the future. Lord, in our hearts we do have sympathy for those in the post-mill world, the desire to See the reign of Christ on earth as a good and godly and holy desire. We share it. So we understand. Lord, temper That desire with the reality that we are in the world but not of it. The reality that you have called us to be strangers, pilgrims, aliens, ambassadors, all those terms. That's who we are. We embrace that identity for now. We're comfortable with it. We look forward to the day where we will be kings and reigning with you. In the meantime, Lord, we are servants. We're slaves. Ambassadors, aliens, and exiles, help us embrace that identity for your glory and the gospel's advance. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.