The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Being a Christian, even though it's free, salvation is free, being a Christian is not easy. Being a Christian is not easy. If anybody tells you that it's that it's easy to follow after the Lord Jesus Christ, uh they haven't Done the due diligence to look in their Bibles and see what Christ has actually said himself about following after after him. The Bible lets us know that it's a painful journey. that those who follow Christ have to deny themselves, pick up their cross, and follow after him. It's a painful experience, but it's one that's all worth it. The journey is absolutely worth it in the end when we see our Savior face to face. Amen. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew or in the Gospel of Matthew this morning? We're continuing a series of messages that I've titled Preparation for Ministering Because in this chapter in Matthew chapter 10, Jesus is preparing his disciples for what we could call a short-term missions trip. The instruction that he gave was for a specific time. It was a limited mission that he sent them on, a limited ministry. But the principles that Jesus gave were general and enduring principles that all of us can learn from. We began in uh verse five through fifteen where Jesus covered the the duties of discipleship. Jesus answered some of the basic questions like, uh where should his disciples go? What should they say? Uh what should they do? And the disciples learned that they needed to trust. in a power outside of themselves and a provision outside of themselves. And we need to do the same thing, don't we? And we need to trust in a power and a provision and a wisdom that comes from outside of us, trusting in the Lord. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 5, it says, not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves. But our adequacy is from God. God is the one who is adequate, and it's because we're in Him that we're adequate for the work that He calls us to do. We rely on His wisdom, His provision, His power for everything that we do to accomplish for His glory. In verses 16 to 23, Jesus began to explain that the dangers of discipleship. His disciples were sent out as sheep in the midst of wolves. They were told that there were no guarantees that the wolves wouldn't bite. You'd expect Jesus maybe to say something like, oh, you're going out as sheep in the midst of wolves, but don't worry, the wolves won't trouble you. Jesus says the exact opposite. The exact opposite. He talks about being handed over, being scourged, being persecuted, being betrayed, even being killed for the sake of the name of Jesus Christ. So discipleship is a dangerous business. But even though we're told to beware of the wolves, we're never told to be quiet. We're never told to back down. The dangers that we face are no excuse to back down from obedience to Jesus Christ. And then last week we started to wait our way into verses 24 to 33. Where Jesus then covers one of the primary difficulties of discipleship. And Jesus addresses one of the greatest temptations that we face, and one of the greatest temptations that we face as disciples is fear. Being a being afraid, like I mentioned last week, three times in this section we're told about this idea of fear. It's explicitly mentioned in verse 26, therefore do not fear them. Verse 28, do not fear. Verse 31, so do not fear. And one of the greatest obstacles that you'll face in your pursuit and following after Jesus Christ is to fear. And once you begin to fear men, And what men can do to you, you'll begin to serve and obey them instead of your master who who bought you, who paid for you, who gave his life for you. I love the words of the psalmist in Psalm 56 and verse 11. He says, In God I have put my trust. I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me? Psalm 118, verse 6, the Lord is for me. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Let's read Matthew chapter 10 and we'll remind ourselves about this great God that we serve, that we don't fear men, we fear a great and an awesome God. Matthew chapter 10, starting at verse 24. It says a disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. Is it enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher and the slave like his master? If they have called the head of the house Beelzebal, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known What I tell you in the darkness speak in the light, and what you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim upon the housetops. Do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a cent? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not fear. You are more valuable than many sparrows Therefore, everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny him before my father who is in heaven. Bow with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, as we do every week, Lord, dependent on you, knowing that without you we can do nothing. And Father, we are eager to hear from you and hear from your word. And Father, I just pray that uh you would open up your word to us, uh, that you would help us to uh uh submit ourselves to your teaching and Uh Father, that you'd use me as an instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's a a film that I watched uh a number of years ago about a company of of soldiers. They were part of the 101st Airborne Division during World War II. And uh there are this elite group of of soldiers that were uh actually they were trained to parachute behind enemy lines and kind of drop down and engage the the enemy in battle And uh there's this one scene where uh after they had already landed, they're engaged in this kind of heavy enemy fire. Uh there's explosions everywhere, there's bullets that are whizzing past, the soldiers in every direction and there was this one fearful soldier who who bowed down, he got himself into the foxhole and he just kinda covered his head, you know, covered his ears and he just kinda screamed in like terror until the battle was, you know, the engagement was over And uh the whole time that he's, you know, crouched down inside this hole, you know, there's this lieutenant that's just like firing away, you know, standing like unflinching in the enemy fire. And after the engagement was over, this lieutenant turned to the soldier and he says, Um, do you know why you hid out in that foxhole? It's because you think you're still alive. The only hope that you have is to accept the fact that you're already dead. And the sooner you accept that, the sooner you'll be able to function in the way that a soldier is supposed to function And there's really a great kind of example and reminder for us is believers, even a greater spiritual reality, because the true believer has already died. The true believer is already dead. The Bible makes it clear that this world is not our home. We're just passing through, right? This world is not our home. We're not seeking to set up shop here. You know, Philippians chapter 3 verse 20 says, our citizenship is where? It's in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven, from which we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible lets us know that we've already died in Christ. In Colossians chapter 3, in verse 3, it says, You have died, and your life is hidden in Christ in God. Romans chapter 6, verse 8, it says, If we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. And it's only when we start to think of ourselves as alive here in this world Instead of you know there and then l living for the here and now that we get ourselves into trouble. Because somehow we think that we're getting out of this deal alive. We're not. Somehow we're trying to hold on to this life as if this life is where it all matters. You know, everything that matters, I've got to hold on to everything that's here and now because this is it. This is not it for the Christian. This is not life for the Christian. Our true life is hidden in Christ and God. And the moment that you can really understand that and grab a hold onto that, then you'll start living the way that Christ commands you to live. Then you'll start living as a true soldier is supposed to live, with a a loose grip on this world, because this world is not our home. I'm not trying to build up a reputation and get people to like me and have every all my comfort and everything now. This is not it. Let go, let go. It's not about now. And there's at least five fears that Jesus warns his disciples against. And in this passage, we uh we looked at the first two last week. The first was the fear of people speaking against you If you're really dead to the world, why are you concerned about what people say, right? What are you concerned about what they say? Look at verses 24 and 25. A disciple is not above its teacher, nor a slave above its master. It's enough for the disciple to be like his teacher and the slave like his master. If they've called the head of the house Beelzebul, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Don't worry about being spoken about, because you are. You will be spoken about. You will be spoken evil about. Why worry about it? As a disciple, you just need to expect to be spoken evil of. And it shouldn't be a surprise when it happens. It doesn't doesn't mean that words don't hurt. It's not to say that, you know, whoever made up that uh that uh you know little line, you know, sticks and stones may hurt my bones, break my bones, but words will never hurt me. That was somebody who was hurt by words, believe me You know. That's somebody somebody who was deeply hurt by words made up that little line, oh sticks and stones or whatever. They were hurt. They were hurt or else you w why didn't you come up with the saying, right, if you weren't hurt about it? You're hurt. That's why you came up with it And the Bible has a lot to say about being hurt by slanderous speech. Psalm fifty seven, verse four says, The sons of men whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue is a sharp sword. When people speak against you, they speak lies against you, they slander you, they slander your character. That hurts. And the Bible is honest about that. It hurts. Words hurt. But when we're being attacked because of our likeness to Jesus Christ, Our likeness to the Savior, it's an honor to be cut. It is an honor to be cut by their words. And Matthew chapter 5, 11 to 12, it says, blessed. are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of of me. And there's the qualification. It's false evil. You know, it's not real evil, it's false evil, and it's because of me, it's because of Jesus Christ. If that's the category that you fall in, rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You're in good company. You're in the company of the prophets if they're slandering you and attacking you because of your likeness to Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter 4, 14 it says, if you're revile for the name of Christ, you are blessed because the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. That's a privileged position to be in. In the past and uh church history, Christians were called atheists and haters of mankind. That's what Christians were called. Atheists and haters of mankind because they didn't worship the gods of Rome. Christians were called cannibals. Because they celebrated the Lord's Supper and repeated the words of Christ, this is my body and this is my blood. So people from the outside they started saying, oh, those Christians are cannibals. They're eating flesh. They're drinking blood. They said Christians practiced incest because they called one another brother and sister. Called their wives brother, sister. You know, uh called their wives' sister their husband's brother. You know, this is my my brother Brother in the Lord. You know, only marry in the Lord. Marry your brother or your sister in the Lord, right? And they say, oh, they're practicing incest. They're marrying the family. In the family. All wronged, right? All of it wrong, all of it false, all of it hurtful, but all of it gave them more in common with their Savior because Jesus Christ was also maligned and spoken evil of. Jesus was called a drunk and a glutton because he hung around with sinners. He was called a child of fornication because he was born of a virgin. He was called the Lord Lord of the demons because he cast them out. You're in good company. You're being slandered, you're in good company if it's for the Lord. Second thing we looked at is the fear of speaking up before people. One is being spoken against, the other is speaking up when you know It's against what people want to hear. You know, you have to speak up sometimes and say things that people don't want to hear, and we have this fear of speaking up in verse 27. Let's us know that what we hear whispered in our ear were to proclaim upon the housetops, and that the point that Jesus was making there is that when the Son of Man is revealed, when Jesus Christ comes back, you're not going to be able to hide the reality of it, are you? I mean everybody's gonna know. Every eye will see him. Everybody's gonna know. In Revelation chapter 1, verse 7, behold, he's coming with the clouds. Every eye will see him. You're not gonna hide it when he comes, so why try to hide it now? He's gonna come and and make himself known to the whole world. Why try to hide it now? And too many of us are like you know the uh like I said that we're the the sheep in wolves clothing. You know, we try to get around with the wolves and mix up with the wolves, make sure nobody knows who we really are You know, you're gonna hang w hang with the wolves, smell like the wolves, maybe growl like the wolves every now and then, just so they don't don't catch us, don't want to blow our cover. I remember a pastor used to say, uh, if if your friends found out you're a Christian, would they be shocked? Hey, I'm a Christian. What? You? That is that is the wrong place to be. You know. It needs to be on the outside. I'm I'm a believer, and if you find out I'm a believer, it shouldn't be like a big shock. You know, because you've been walking around in the wolves c clothing the whole time. We don't we don't need to fear being publicly identified with the Savior. Don't fear being publicly identified with Him. You might as well speak up. They're going to find out the truth sooner or later anyway When he comes back, you're going to be revealed with him. Might as well let him know now. Hey, I'm on his side. Right? We need to speak up. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 34. It says, Some have no knowledge of God, and I speak this to your shame. That it 's actually a shame that people don't know the knowledge of God because they're not hearing it from you. You need to be open in your mouth. It's our responsibility to spread the word and don't worry about what people think. Don't worry about what they think. We've died, and our life is hidden in Jesus Christ. And there's three more fears that Jesus addresses in this passage. The fear of intimidation. And verse 28, do not fear those who kill the body. The fear of insignificance in verses 29 to 31, you're more valuable than many sparrows. And the fear of identification in verses 2032 to 33. Therefore, everyone who confesses me before men. Let's take a look at number one, the fear of intimidation. Look at verse 28. It says, Do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell As a people, we've been given and designed by God with a healthy, natural, built-in sense of self-protection, right? You know, according to some studies, it takes just a tenth of a second between the time you're exposed to something dangerous and your reaction time to that danger, just a tenth of a second. You know, the blink of an eye. Our our bodies naturally protect themselves, that's why you automatically blink when something touches the outside of your eye, that's why you flinch when there's like a loud noise or something, you know, comes past you, you you flinch a little bit If we didn't have that kind of reaction, we'd we'd get into danger all all over the place, right? You know, we'd be uh you know getting knocked down, pushed over, whatever else. But there's nothing wrong with avoiding danger. Uh in even in this context, in verse 17, we're told to beware of men. In our verse 23, whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. It's not like, hey, stay in stay in the middle of danger. That's not what Christ is trying to argue for. Proverbs 27, 12 says, A prudent man sees evil and hides himself. You know, so it's not, hey, walk into the face of danger. But as Christians, we're not subject to our natural desire to protect ourselves. We're not subject to that. And even if uh we were to be threatened by death because of the the message of the kingdom, we have no need to be intimidated. We don't need to be intimidated by that. And that's the idea behind verse 27, that the disciples were encouraged in verse 27, uh that what they hear in their ear to proclaim upon the housetops, to expose the message of the kingdom. And the thought that would have occurred to these disciples is, well, well, what happens if the message kills me? What happens if I if I explain this message and now people want to attack me for it? What if what if they threaten to take my life? Should I still get out here and proclaim the message of the of the king of the kingdom? And Jesus doesn't say, oh, don't fear, that'll never happen to you. Nobody will ever try to threaten your life. That's not what he says. He says, don't fear, because death is only the worst thing that can happen to you. Like that's the worst thing. There's nothing worse that can happen than that. And the reality is none of us, like I said before, are making out of this life alive. We're not making it out alive. And the worst that can happen to us in this life is physical death. We're we're we were we were not designed to to die from the beginning. You guys understand that, right? We're not designed to die from the beginning. We speak about death as uh a natural part of life, but uh in the reality there's nothing more unnatural than looking at a dead body, right? Even as unbelievers, there's something that tells us that the death is the enemy. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 26, it lets us know that death is an enemy. But even though it's true that death is the enemy, it's what comes after death that should frighten people the most. It's not death, it's what comes after death. And people can do all the wishful thinking that they want to, all the hoping that they want to, but your soul will not be annihilated. Your soul doesn't evaporate. You don't disappear out of existence once you pass on from life into death. Your soul will live forever someplace. Your soul is going to live forever someplace. In Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 11, it says, He has made everything appropriate in its time, and he has set eternity in their hearts. In the hearts of men, eternity has been placed in the heart of man. Everybody knows intuitively that I'm going to exist beyond my death. Everybody knows it Everybody knows it. You know, you may try to, like I said, wish it out of existence. You could suppress the truth of God and unrighteousness, but inside you know that death is not done. After death, it is not done. There's something that goes beyond death. An eternity has been set in your heart. We've been created in the image of God with a soul that will experience pain or pleasure. Horror or happiness, sorrow or gladness for the rest of eternity somewhere. We're all spending eternity somewhere. And the one you should be fearful of is the one who has power over your soul after you die. That's where what you need to fear. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27 says, In as much as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes what? The judgment. After death comes the judgment. Death does not have the last word. Who does? God does God has the last word. And this is utterly terrifying to think about because God has the power to destroy both soul and body in hell. The word hell It's the Greek word gehenna. It was a word that was used originally for a valley of henom, which was an accursed place where child sacrifice was actually performed uh during the days of Manasseh, one of the kings of Judah. If you want to, you can turn back to uh 2 Corinthians chapter, uh 2 Chronicles, I'm sorry, 2 Chronicles chapter uh 33 , actually find Find this uh uh spoken about this valley of of Hinnom, uh where Gehenna you know actually came from. But in 2 Chronicles chapter uh 33 Starting in verse 1, we read this awful account about the sins of the king Manasseh. It says in uh chapter 33, starting in verse 1, Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. He did evil in the sight of the Lord according to the abominations of the nations whom the Lord dispossessed before the sons of Israel. For he rebuilt the high places, this is for their idolatry. Worshiping false gods, which Hezekiah his father had broken down. He also erected altars for the Baals and made Ashereim and worship all the host of heaven and serve them. He built altars in the house of the Lord, of which the Lord had said, My name shall be in Jerusalem forever. So he's desecrating the place that God had designated for himself, for he built altars for all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. In verse 6, he made his sons pass through the fire. You know what this is? Passing through the fire was uh it was a euphemism for child sacrifice. Making his children pass through the fire, offering his children up as a sacrifice to these false deities. Made his sons pass through the fire in the valley of Ben-Hanom. And he practiced witchcraft, used divination, practiced sorcery, dealt with mediums and spiritus. He did much evil in the sight of the Lord, provoking him to anger. And because of the activities that took place in this valley of Hinoam, it became a place for for burning the city's garbage. You know, people wouldn't even go there. This is an unholy place. This is a a desecrated place. They burn garbage there. They throw the bodies of dead criminals over into this valley of Hinnom. And there was a belief that there was a fire that burned there continuously to burn the refuge that was there. Uh there's a certain place that was uh accursed by the the people of God. They they they cursed this place. And during the intertestamental times The period between the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Valley of Hinoom, the Greek word for Hinnom was uh the valley of Hinnom was Gehenna, and the Greek term was used for the place of punishment for the wicked. And uh Jesus used this popular terminology of this this place of punishment for the wicked to refer to the eternal place of torment And uh but the idea of eternal punishment wasn't something new. It's not a invention of the people in between the the the Old Testament and the New. It was an idea that actually came from the Old Testament itself. If you flip over to Isaiah chapter 66, if you're still there, Isaiah chapter uh 66. If you look at uh starting at verse 22, right here at the end of the book of Isaiah, it speaks about the new heavens and the new earth. You know, this this place in the future that we we look forward to, the new heavens and the and the new earth. Look at verse 22. It says, uh, for just as the new heavens and the new earth which I will make which which I make will endure before me, declares the Lord, so your offspring and your name will endure. And it shall be from new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath. All mankind will come to bow down before me, says the Lord. So here he speaks about the faithful, those that trusted in God, enduring before him, in this new heavens and new earth. Then in verse 24 it says, Then they will go forth and look on the corpses of the men who have transgressed against me, for their worm will not die, and their fire will not be quenched, and they will be an abhorrence to all mankind. Even in the Old Testament you have this idea of a fire that will not be quenched, of a worm that will not die, and those that were sinners, those that transgressed against the Lord, who will forever endure in a place of torment. Jewish commentator commentator uh Alfred Egersheim he spoke of the the history during the time of Jesus Christ. He says at the time of Christ the punishment of the wicked was certainly regarded as eternal in its duration. So during the time of Christ, people understood when Jesus used this term Gehenna, they had in their minds that this is what he's talking about, a place of eternal damnation. And it's a place where the fire is never quenched and where both body and soul are destroyed. And uh that's the the next thing we find that both body and soul, which is kind of interesting to think about, that both body and soul are destroyed. As Christians, we talk a lot about the glorified body, right? You know, as Christians, we look forward to that. You know, we get old, you know, the outer body wastes away, but the inner man's gaining strength day by day, and we look forward to that new body that Christ is going to give us, that we're going to be given by God. Second Corinthians five verse two says, uh for indeed in this house we groan longing to be clothed with a dwelling from heaven. Inasmuch as we having put it on will not be found naked, for indeed While we were in this tent, we groaned being burdened because we do not want to be unclothed, but clothed. We want the new body, right? So that what is mortal will be swallowed up by life. As believers, we look forward to a glorified body. But did you know that unbelievers also receive a body? That the wicked also receive a body? They receive new bodies that are fit for eternal destruction. Even in the Old Testament, uh the prophet Daniel spoke about this time of the resurrection of the damned. The resurrection of those that are in damnation. Daniel chapter 12, verse 2, it says, Many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake. These to everlasting life, but others to disgrace and everlasting contempt. There will be a resurrection, not only of the believers to glorification, but also of unbelievers to damnation. Resurrected body. That is fit for eternal punishment. There's going to be a physical resurrection to everlasting disgrace and contempt. In Revelation chapter 20, verse 13, it talks about this time when the resurrection happens. The sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged. These people are resurrected again, so they can be judged, and their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And they'll be destroyed eternally. The word for uh destroy that's used here, the Greek word destroy is uh apolume. It's uh not a word that implies annihilation, it's uh a word that refers to loss. Ruin, destruction. It's an eternal destruction that's never completely, that never completely wipes out the existence of the sinner. Eternally being destroyed, eternally being condemned. That's why Matthew 25, 46 says, These will go away to eternal punishment. These, the people, go away to be punished eternally, but the righteous to eternal life. And who's responsible for this? The Bible says that God is. God is the one who has power over death. God is the one who has power over hell. Hell is not Satan's playground. You know, some people have this kind of false image of uh you know Satan running around with the pitchfork, you know, as if he's in charge. Satan is not in charge of hell. Satan is being tormented in hell. He will be tormented in hell. He's not in charge of anything. He's going to suffer just like everybody else will suffer in hell. There's there's no enjoyment, there's no ruling in hell, it's not a kingdom of hell where he reigns and rules. God is the one who destroys both soul and body in hell. So so here's here's the question. Why would we be intimidated by what men can do? Why are you going to be afraid to tell them what God can do? There's just don't no sense in it Why do we need to be afraid of men? They need to be afraid of God. You need to turn it on them. It's not I who need to be afraid. It's you who needs to be afraid. I love the account of Polycarp. He was a disciple of the Apostle John. Eighty-six years old, when he was faced he faced the intimidation of the Roman Empire. Rome began to consider Christianity a threat. They tried to force Christians to renounce their faith. To sear, to cry out to Caesar as Lord, serve Caesar as Lord, make an offering to Caesar as your Lord. When they finally captured Polycarp, the disciple, they commanded him, swear, reproach Christ, and I'll set you free. He says this, 86 years have I served him, and he has done me no wrong. How can I blaspheme my king and my savior? They answered him, We have wild animals. We'll throw you to them if you don't repent. Call them, Polycarp replied. It's unthinkable for me to repent for what is good to turn to what is evil. I will be glad, though, to be changed from evil to righteousness. If you despise the animals, I will have you burned, they replied. You threaten me with the fire which burns for an hour and is then extinguished, but you know nothing of the fire of the coming judgment and eternal punishment reserved for the ungodly. Why are you waiting? Do what you want. That's the kind of testimony that we need to have before the the unbeliever, right? Before the intimidation they try to try to fear you to kind of push you into silence. What what do we need to be silent about? What do I need to be fearful? What do I need to be fearful about? You're the one that needs to fear. Polycarp understood that he wasn't the one who needed to be afraid. Fire only lasts the fire that you can set only lasts for a couple minutes The fire that God sets lasts for eternity. Don't fear being spoken against. Don't fear speaking up. Don't fear the intimidation of the world. Number four, don't fear insignificance. Look at uh Back to Matthew chapter 10. Matthew chapter 10. Look at verse 28. Matthew chapter 10. He says, do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a cent? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered, so do not fear. You are more valuable than many sparrows. And and here we have this this fear of of being forgotten. The fear of insignificance. The fear of uh being forgotten is really a powerful temptation during a time of affliction, and uh we be can can begin to start questioning God when we're going through suffering, right? I mean it's it's it's common. You start questioning God, like, does God even care? You know, it's like the disciples when they're uh in the boat and the boat's filling up with water. Remember that in uh Mark chapter uh four? And they say, Teacher, don't you care that we're perishing? Like like like God doesn't care about them. You know, they they start to face some kind of affliction and it's like, God, do you care? Don't you see what I'm going through? And for the for the believer, we can be be tempted to have those same kinds of thoughts, right? You know, does does he even care that we're perishing? Here I am about to give my life. Is he even paying attention to me? Does he care? And verses 28 to 31 are meant to alleviate any concerns that we would have about the care of God. You know, back in Matthew chapter 6, when Jesus warns his disciples about worrying, he instructs them to why don't you just look at the field? Why don't you look at the birds of the air? And then tell me about what you need to worry about. You know, if if I can clothe the the the grass and I can feed the the birds, you know, you don't think I'm gonna care for you? What are what are you worried about? And here he points them to the example of the the sparrow. The the sparrow was one of the most common birds in the world. Uh is listed as the cheapest bird for food, according to to one um uh resource, one of the the smallest coins in the New Testament period was the Assarion, uh which is uh translated here as Ascent and uh the King James is translated as farthing. But it was the smallest one of the smallest coins for one of the most common and smallest birds. It's like the cheapest bird that you could buy for food. Two sparrows could be bought for one of these small coins. And you could actually buy five sparrows if you had two coins. They kinda like threw one in for free. You know, it's like, you know, if you if you if you buy two, you know, if you use one coin, we'll give you two. If you uh give two coins, we'll we'll actually throw in one. We'll give you five. You know, five, five for two. Pretty much the the size of a chicken nugget. You know, you look at these little sparrows. There's not much meat on them, right? This little chicken nugget didn't make much of a meal for anybody. Small, cheap, you could find them in abundance. Nobody walked out of the market with these two little chicken nuggets and started wondering about the personal history of their snack. Where did the sparrow grow up? Which tree did he nest in? What was the exact time he fell to the ground? Nobody's caring about that. It's just the snack. You know, give me the barbecue sauce. When I eat this thing, right? But but Jesus says that your father knows the personal history of your snack food The personal history of your snack. Jesus says not one of them falls to the ground apart from the knowledge of your father. We serve a God who's concerned about your snack food and you don't think he's concerned about you? You don't think he's concerned about you? It's important that we pay attention here because the the way that it speaks of God here. Let's listen to what it what it says here. It says, Are not two sparrows sold for a cent, and yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your who? Your father. You have a father that cares for you. You have a father that that's intimately acquainted with everything about you. Everything about you He's your father. And how can you doubt a God and his care for you when he counts the numbers of hairs on your head? And the language is purposeful. He could have just said, you know, God knows every hair on your head. He says that he counts them like he's paying attention to each individual strand. He's numbering them up. It's estimated that we lose somewhere between 50 and 100 strands every day. Fifty and a hundred strands of hair every day. You've you've probably lost a couple since you've been sitting here listening to me. A couple of strands have fallen out. You can sweep them up later, but they're yours. Right. A couple strands have already fallen out of your head since you've been sitting here You didn't even know that it happened. Didn't even know. But but God says, well, there goes, you know, 88,473 over there. You know, he's counting them all up. Not one hair falls to the ground without his now. It's incredible. Incredible. And right before uh remember right before Paul was shipwrecked on the island of Malta, he says, Not a hair from the head of any of you shall perish. How can he say that? How can he say that? Because God knows every strand of hair. God counts them all up. And this is what's called an argument from the lesser to the greater. If God is concerned about a strand of hair and a sparrow that falls to the ground, don't you think he's more concerned about your life? Which is much greater than many sparrows. Think about that, right? Verse 31. Don't fear, you're more valuable than many sparrows. You have the image of God. It's been stamped in you, the image of God, your soul is more precious than the whole entire world. The Bible says that uh, you know, what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Like your soul is more valuable than the whole world, all the material possessions in the world, your soul is more valuable, and you don't think that God is going to be concerned about that? And you're a child of God, he's your father? That doesn't mean you're going to escape difficulty, doesn't mean you're going to escape danger or even death, but it does mean that you never have to fear being forgotten. God is concerned about you as an individual. Individual. And Isaiah chapter 49, verse 15 and 16, it speaks about the people of God. It says, can a woman forget her nursing child? And have no compassion on the son of her womb, even these may forget. You know, even your mom might forget you, like, and how how likely is that? Even if your mom did forget you, behold, I have inscribed you on the palm of my hand. God says, I'm not going to forget you. I'm intimately acquainted with all of your ways. You don't have to fear being forgotten. You don't have to fear insignificance. You're on the mind of the most significant person in the universe. Don't fear being spoken against, don't fear speaking up, don't fear intimidation, don't fear insignificance, and finally, don't fear identification. Look at verses 32 and 33. Says, therefore, everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny him before my father who is in heaven. Are you ashamed of being identified with Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ isn't always popular, is he? Jesus Christ isn't uh isn't popular. The idea that people have of Jesus might be popular, you know, in our culture. But the real Jesus, the the the Jesus as he's described in the Bible, that is not popular with people. Not popular. The Jesus of the Bible is not popular. And what are you going to do when the Jesus that exists is no longer popular with the people that you're around The very real temptation is to take off the Jesus jersey and switch sides. You know, cover up, hide yourself, because you know that you're going to start to receive the attack and the scorn that would have come against Jesus Christ. But what reason has Jesus Christ ever given you to be ashamed of him? What reason? The one who loved you? The one who gave his life for you? And now we have the nerve to be ashamed because he's not popular with the crowd. The word confess that Jesus uses here, everyone who confesses me. It's the the Greek word hama, legato comes from two words hama, which is uh t the same, you know English word homo comes from that. And the the second word is legato, which is the word for for to speak, to say. Uh literally it means to speak the same thing, to say the same thing. It's to confess something as what it really is. It's to speak the truth about something. It's to say the same thing that God says about something What does God say about Jesus Christ? Matthew chapter 3 verse 17, he says, This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. Is he beloved to you? Is he well pleasing to you? Hebrews chapter 10. God says, the Father says of the Son, but to the Son he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. He's God and He's King. Do you acknowledge Jesus as your God and your King? God says that his son is chosen and precious. 1 Peter 2 verse 4 says we come to him as to a living stone which is rejected by men. The men reject him. But his choice, he's chosen, he's precious in the sight of God. Is he chosen and precious to you? Martin Luther calls us uh attention to the difference between who we are confessing and who we are confessing him before. You know, think about the difference between the two. We're confessing the perfect Lord of glory. The people who are known in Scripture as an adulterous and a sinful generation. So here we are professing and proclaiming the Holy One, the perfect one. To people that are sinful and rejecting him, rebellious sinners, and then we have a hard time speaking up before them. It's painful to think about how we're ashamed to acknowledge him before The people that were called to acknowledge him before. Why would we care what an adulterous and sinful generation thinks about our Lord? Why why do I need your approval before I I proclaim who my God is? I don't need your approval for that. We have one example of somebody being ashamed of Jesus Christ, and he's found at the head of the list of the disciples, isn't he? Peter, Matthew chapter 26, verse 74, he began to curse and swear, I don't know the man, because he's fearful of what might happen to him. Timothy, he's exhorted in 2 Timothy 1, verse 8. Therefore, don't be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord or of me as prisoner, but join with me in the suffering. Join with me in suffering for the gospel. Join me, Timothy. Don't don't stand on the outside. Don't be ashamed of the Lord out there. Join me. And in both cases, Jesus wasn't popular. It was at a time when identifying with Jesus was was dangerous. Could have costed their lives. That's when the temptation is the strongest. You know, when you're in a room full of Christians, it's it's not hard to confess Jesus Christ, right? Oh, I love Jesus. Oh, amen. Praise God. Oh, all the time. God is good. God is good all the time, right? But then when you get before some unbelievers, well, you know, that was really lucky what happened to me today, you know, Mother Nature, and it's like, what? Seriously, is this the same person? You know, you get around the believers, oh God mump, amen, God is good. Mm-hmm. It's like speak the same thing If you give God thanks when you're in here, give God thanks out there. We're not ashamed of who we are. You know, it's like those evangelistic crusades when they tell you, you know, you stand up, you know, if if you confess God here, you know, he'll confess you before. It's like it's easy to do in a room full of Christians. How about when when people don't like you? When they're not giving you a an applause when you're walking down an aisle. Like that's when it counts. That's when it counts. Are you willing to identify with Christ there? And I'm ashamed to say that there's been times in my own Christian walk when I've failed to identify with Jesus Christ. All of us do, right? Not speaking up when we should, intimidated by fear, what people think, what people say. But for the true believer, he can't stay silent for long. Like he he can't stay there, right? Peter, you know, he he first denied Christ, but then what did he do afterwards? He went out and he wept bitterly for denying the Lord. And then he became the first evangelist on the day of Pentecost, right? Opening his mouth, proclaiming, You by the hands of wicked men put the Lord to death. Proclaiming loudly who Jesus was, counted it an honor to suffer shame for the name of Jesus Christ. It was martyred for his faith Yeah, if Timothy had to be encouraged. You know, don't be ashamed of me. But you find Timothy towards the end of his life in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 23, the writer of Hebrews says, Take notice that our brother Timothy has been released. Been released from where? From jail. Timothy went to jail. Paul says, join with me. I'm a prisoner. Join me. Timothy joined. Why? Because you can't stay silent for long if you're a true believer. You've got to identify with your Lord. Timothy went to jail because of his faith. And if you're a true believer, you won't be able to hide that reality for long before unbelievers. We don't have some kind of private faith. You know, oh my faith is my own. I don't share my faith. That's not a Christian. That's not a Christian. We don't have some kind of private, you know, in the closet faith. And a true believer can slip, but it's not his nature to stay down If you're a true believer, you will be characterized by confessing Jesus Christ as Lord. It's in your blood. As a believer, it is in your blood. It's part of your nature to confess Jesus Christ as Lord. In the 16th century England, there was a division over the Protestant Reformation. There's many who believe that the break from the Roman Catholic Church was right, including a God by the name of Edward VI of England. whose last recorded prayer was, O Lord, defend this realm from papistry and maintain thy true religion, the king of England. But his sister Mary didn't share his same opinion. After King Edward died in 1553, his sister Queen Mary rose to power and she began a brutal attack on the Protestant church and she was named Bloody Mary because of her attacks against the Christian Church. During the last four years of Irain, 288 people were burnt at the stake for their profession of Jesus Christ. And one of the men who got caught in the crossfire was a man by the name of Thomas Cranmer. J. C. Rowell writes this in his book Light from Old Times. There is no name among the English martyrs so well known in history as his. There is none, certainly, in our list of reformers to whom the Church of England, on the whole, is so much indebted. He laid the foundation of our present prayer book and articles. I say all these things in order to break the force of the great and undeniable fact that he was the only English reformer who for a time showed the white feather or you know waved the white flag For a time and shrank from dying for the truth. Flattered and cajoled by subtle kindness, frightened at the prospect of so dreadful a death as burning, he was tempted, led away by the devil. Thomas Cranmer fell and put his hand to a paper in which he repudiated and renounced the principles of the Reformation for which he had labored so long. But England decided to put him to the stake anyway for his past crimes. On March twenty first, fifteen sixty six, he was brought out before an assembly, and he was expected to acknowledge before them his transgression against the Roman Catholic Church and his support for the Pope. Instead of renouncing his former, you know, the the the uh instead of renouncing Protestantism, he instead renounced his recantation, you know, and said that I was wrong to sign the paper and declared the Pope to be the Antichrist. He continues, he says, with a light heart, this is what Raoul says, with a light heart, clear conscience, he cheerfully allowed himself to be hurried to the stake amidst the frenzied cries of his disappointed enemies. His enemies were disappointed that he didn't say what they expected him to say. Boldly and undauntedly he stood up at the stake while flames curled around him, steadily holding out his right hand in the fire. He said, For as much as my hand has offended, in writing contrary to my heart, my hand shall be the first to be punished. For when I come to the fire, it shall be the first to be burned. And he repeated this, this unworthy right hand, this unworthy right hand, and placed it in the fire while he stretched his left out towards the heavens. Raoul says that this stands as an everlasting proof that the best of men are only men at best, right? Best of men are only men at best. We sometimes slip as Christians But it's against our nature to stay down. It's in our blood to confess Jesus Christ, and that's the characteristic of a true believer. And at the end, he confessed Christ. Let my hand be the first in the fire. Why? This unworthy right hand wrote down those words. I should have never rejected Christ. And at the end he made bold testimony to the faith. And uh for those who confess Christ with their mouths and believe in their hearts, Jesus says, I'll confess you before my Father. Why does that make a difference for Christ to confess you before the Father? Because if Christ does not confess you, you don't get into the in heaven, right? You're not accepted by the Father if Christ doesn't confess you. So we talk about people accepting Christ all the time, but the real question is, will Christ accept you? Will Christ confess you? Because the only words that matter in that day are his words, when he acknowledges you. Galatians chapter 4 verse 9 says, But now that you have come to know God, or rather be known by God. That's the important part. That you're known by God. Are you known by God? Are you confessing Jesus Christ? Are you following after him? And if there's anybody that you want to say that they know you and uh to welcome you and accept you, this this is the one, right? Jesus Christ. What kind of words would you bring before the judge of the universe on that day? You know, we looked at this earlier in uh Matthew chapter 7, that many bring before them these supreme words of honor and adoration. Lord, Lord! But it wasn't in their hearts. They said it with their lips, but it wasn't in their hearts. It wasn't true confession. There's many that come before him with their works. Look at all the works that I did. In your name, in your name, in your name. But he says to these same people, depart because I don't know you. We have no relationship. A true confession of Jesus Christ is a confession that that comes from the heart. Anything else is empty. Because even demons can say that they believe in God, right? True true Christians confess Jesus as as Lord and they submit their lives to Him. They follow Him from the heart. supernatural work of of God that He does in our lives. Everything else is is meaningless. And there's one confession that matters and it's and it's his. So did you know that your profession counts? Because it counts for absolutely nothing if the Lord does not confess you. And eternal life is directly tied into our relationship with Jesus Christ Himself. What we find here are the difficulties of discipleship. And uh a lot of us are tempted to fear. Tempted to fear following after after God and what he tells us to do. Tempted to fear because uh People might speak against this. But it's going to happen anyway. What are you fearful about? They spoke against the Lord. Why are you afraid to side with them? People afraid of speaking up. But it's all going to be made known in the end. Why try to hide the truth now? People afraid of those that kill the body, but why be afraid of those who can kill the body but have no power after death? Like we're we're looking forward to another life, right? Why are you afraid of insignificance? You know the Lord counts the hairs on your head. There's a guy who cares for you and he's called your father. He's your father. He loves you. And why would you be afraid to identify yourself with Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ in uh in in the book of Hebrews it says that he's not ashamed to call us brethren. He's not ashamed to identify himself with us. And on the last day, he'll stand up and say, that one belongs to me. That one, that one's mine. You know, there's no more words that you no better words that you want to hear on that that final day than than he's mine. He belongs to me. And we belong to him. Amen? Let's let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we've had to uh take a look at your word. And Father, I pray that you'd convict us, that you challenge us, that you'd encourage us, my father, that you'd remind us of The great task that's before us, but also remind us that we have a great God who empowers us to do what we do for your will and for your glory. Father, we don't do this alone. We don't walk this road alone. All the difficulty is matched by the glory that we'll experience in the end. The things of this present life are not worthy to be compared with the glory uh that we'll have one day. Uh so Father, we thank you uh for uh giving us an eternal perspective. Uh Father, I pray that uh we would keep that perspective in mind. When we are tempted, Lord, to keep quiet, Lord, to be intimidated into silence, Father, that we would remember the great God and King that we serve. And that all will be made known one day, that you will be revealed, Jesus Christ, that you will come in glory and power, and all those that belong To you, Lord, we'll return with you. My Father, we look forward to that day, even quickly come, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. . Please visit us online . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.