The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're in the Gospel of Matthew chapter 10. We're in the middle of a series of messages that I've titled Preparation. for ministry. Preparation for ministry. Matthew 10 is a summary of the teaching that Jesus gave his disciples before he sent them out on his first mission, on their first mission. In this chapter in Matthew chapter 10, Jesus is preparing his disciples for service. And while this short-term mission was a specific and a limited mission by design, we find general and enduring principles for disciples of every age and all of history. There's something here for for all of us to learn from. And uh what we're introduced to here is uh really like the top shelf of discipleship training. Um it's like being invited into the the huddle of You know, the starting lineup of your favorite team. Uh these are the all-stars of of Christianity and the most winningest coach of all time is uh going the he's going over the plays before he sends them out onto the field or onto the court and what the you know what Christian in his right mind wouldn't want to pay attention uh to the words that he's giving his disciples, you know, the the all-star lineup as he's about to send them out onto their first mission. And uh while our circumstances will be different than what the apostles face and uh you know the the different uh uh things that uh some of the apostles were able to do and uh the the specific mission that they had is different than ours But yet we find that the principles that Jesus gave to his disciples remain the same for all of us. So follow with me as I read Matthew chapter 10, starting at verse 5, just for the sake of context. So as these twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them, do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any of the city of the Samaritans, but rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And as you go, preach, saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons. Freely you receive, freely give. Do not acquire gold or silver or copper for your money belts or a bag for your journey or even two coats or sandals or staff for the worker is worthy of his support. In whatever city or village you enter, inquire who is worthy in it. And stay at his house until you leave that city. As you enter the house, give it your greeting. If the house is worthy, give it your blessing of peace. But if it is not worthy, take back your blessing of peace. Whoever does not receive you, nor heed your words as you go out of that house or that city, shake the dust off of your feet. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. So be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves. But beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and scourge you in their synagogues, and you'll even be brought before governors and kings for my sake as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles But when they hand you over, do not worry about how or what you are to say, for it will be given you in that hour what you are to say. For it is not you who speak, but it is the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you Brother will betray brother to death and a father his child and children will rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death. But you will be hated, you will be hated by all because of my name. But it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved. But whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next, for truly I say to you, you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master If they have called the head of the house Beelzebubal, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known But I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light, and what year whispered in your ear, proclaim upon the housetops. Do not fear those who kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a cent? And yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not fear, you are more valuable than many sparrows. Therefore, whoever everyone who confesses me before men, I will also confess him before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men I will also deny him before my Father who is in heaven. Bow with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for the words of Christ, the words of our Savior, the words of our Master, our King, our Shepherd. And Father, I pray that as we look and examine what he has to say to us here, Father, that you would speak to us, Father, and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's a documentary that my my family watched a number of years ago about a British explorer named Sir Ernest Shackleton. It was a fascinating story about a man who organized an expedition of the South Pole with the intent of being the first person to cross the Antarctic continent from sea to sea. He called the expedition the Imperial Transantarctic Expedition. And according to a book by Julian Lewis Watkins, which is titled The The Hundred Greatest Advertisements, Shackleton placed an ad in the British newspaper in 1900 that read this way Men Wanted for hazardous journey, low wages, bitter cold, long hours of complete darkness, safe return doubtful. Honor and recognition in event of success. Who responds to an advertisement like that? Danger, difficulty, darkness Possibly death. Safe return is doubtful. Who responds to an ad like that? It's reported that at least five thousand men applied, as well as three women. And in speaking of it afterwards, Shackledon said this. He says, it seemed as if all the men of Great Britain were determined to accompany me. The response was so overwhelming. And uh Watkins in his book he tries to analyze the success of this ad, and then he writes this, he says, of course the lure of adventure had a great deal to do with the success of this simply written ad But so did the power of deadly frankness. In other words, Sir Ernest Shackleton was painfully and brutally and deadly honest Just honest. Anything short of the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth would have been worse than just false advertisement at this point. It would have been criminal. To ask people to come along with you for this kind of journey without letting them know what they're signing up for, right? I mean, can you imagine trying to sell a voyage like this as, you know, some kind of cruise around the Atlantic? Hey, come with me for a cruise, sign up. I mean, you owe it to these men and to their families for them to count the cost. To be painfully and brutally honest. Safe return is doubtful. It's likely that you may never see your families again. It's right for him to have an ad like this. That's the kind of careful consideration that needs to take place because of the dangers and the difficulties ahead. And there's no time for beating around the bush when it's signing up for this kind of voyage, right? And I'm convinced that American Christianity is trying to promote the kingdom of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ with false advertisement. False advertisement. Selling the gospel of Jesus Christ as if we're signing people up for some kind of weekend cruise instead of a dangerous and a deadly journey. That's what this is. That's what Christianity is. And in American Christianity, one of the greatest deceptions that we have going around in the American evangelical church is that the gospel and following Jesus Christ is easy. It's just easy. Churches today trying to sell the gospel as if it's, you know, uh just an easy kind of adventure. You know, why don't you sign up and join the team? One of the greatest deceptions that we hear is that being a Christian is easy. Now I want to be clear that salvation is free. Salvation is free, right? Grace is free. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. It's a free gift. But where did Jesus ever give his disciples the impression that following him would be easy? Anybody can take on? Where did he ever give them the impression that it was easy? All throughout the Gospels, we find Jesus forcing his disciples to wrestle with the high cost of following after him Just a few chapters early, if you want to turn to Matthew chapter 8, if you want to flip over there, we saw that Jesus wasn't interested in gathering uncommitted spectators. He was interested in making dedicated disciples. And he didn't jump at the first sign of interest, even if it meant turning people away who had power and influence. If you look at Matthew chapter 8, look at verse 19. We have an example of that. We have a scribe. It says, then a scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. I mean, you want to talk about instant credibility, right? Here's a person of influence. To boost his ratings? I mean, certainly this would have been it, right? I've got a scribe who follows me. This guy actually calls me a teacher. Can you imagine that? The scribe calling me teacher. You know, this is Jesus having the scribe who said, I'll follow you wherever you go You know, if you want to go up in the Jewish poles, just let them know a scribe follows me. You know, I've got I've got a couple followers. One of them happens to be a scribe, right? But in verse 20, Jesus turns down what seems to be a gracious offer. Jesus said to them, The foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. He might want to think about it before you sign up. And like I said when uh we covered the section earlier, basically what Jesus says is, you know, are you ready to be treated worse than an animal? I mean even the foxes have holes. Birds have nests, but I don't have anything. You don't even have the home that the birds and the foxes do. Are you ready to sign up for that? If the scribe had the idea that following Jesus was some kind of easy road, he wanted them to wake up and smell the matzah, right? You know, wake up. Following me is difficult. And having heard that, another of Jesus' would-be followers kind of overhears him talking about the Son of Man having nowhere to lay his head. And look what he says in verse 21. Another disciple said to him, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father. And again, it's important for you to remember that this disciple's father is not dead yet. Because if he was dead, he would have been with him. You know, it was the Jewish custom to bury people immediately. What he's trying to do is he's trying to wait around for the inheritance. Like, hey, Jesus doesn't have a hole or a nest to give me. You know, at least let me wait around for the inheritance. At least I'll have something. He's trying to wait around for uh for the inheritance and Jesus basically tells him, you need to make a choice. Verse 22, Jesus said to him, follow me and allow the dead to bury their dead. Following me is difficult. You can't be distracted because you're waiting around for some kind of comfort or material possession to hold you over. He touched his commitment with that statement. Follow me, let the dead bury their dead. Following me is difficult. Over in John chapter 6, if you remember, Jesus made statements that were cringeworthy. You know, he thinned out the crowd by saying things like, in John chapter 6, verse 54, He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I'll raise them up on the last day. See how that works for you. Eat my flesh and drink my blood. And then a little later in chapter 6 in verse 16 and 61, when some of the disciples heard this, they said, this is a difficult statement. Who can listen to this? What kind of preaching is this, Jesus? Why don't you make it easier for people to follow you? You got this massive crowd just the day before he fed five thousand men in addition to women and children. You got this massive crowd, Jesus, this is a perfect opportunity. Strike while the iron's hot You've got the makings of a mega church right here. What are you going to say? What's your first message, Jesus? Eat my flesh and drink my blood. What? The crowd is just like disappearing right in front of their eyes, and they're like, Jesus, this is don't don't you know this is hard? Don't you know this is difficult? Who's gonna follow you like this? Jesus, conscious of his disciples grumbling, said to them, does this cause you to stumble? You want to leave too? Jesus doesn't pull punches. It's difficult to follow after Christ. Over in Luke chapter 14, if you want to flip over there, Luke chapter 14 Jesus again presses the issue of discipleship before a large crowd. Some of this crowd thought that Jesus was some kind of quick ticket to material wealth and possession, comfort. Jesus is quick to pop that bubble and bring them right back down to reality. Luke chapter 14, look at verse 28 It says for for which one of you when he wants to build the tower does not first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it. Otherwise when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who observe it begin to ridicule him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king, when he sets out to meet another king in battle, will not first sit down and consider whether he's strong enough with 10,000 men to encounter the one coming against him with 20,000? Or else while the other is still far away, send the delegation and ask for terms of peace. So then none of you can be my disciple. None of you can be my disciple, who does not give up all his own possessions. And uh basically Jesus is saying if you don't give up on this dream of yours for wealth and prosperity and comfort and ease, you can't follow me because following me is going to be difficult. If you're going to sign up for this, it's not going to be an easy road. But today, and today's kind of a commercial version of Christianity, we teach uh promises of health and wealth and prosperity, success, worldly fulfillment, and it is a lie. It is a lie. When people try to pawn off Christianity as some kind of get rich quick scheme, you know, this is the path to blessing and fulfillment and success in this life, they are telling you a lie. It's not what Jesus has to say. Jesus never advertised following him in that way. Jesus always let people know that following me is going to be difficult. And you owe it to men, you owe it to their families to warn them to count the cost of discipleship. Lensky said it's uh the person who sees the soldiers on parade. fine uniforms and glittering arms and is eager to join. You know, that person who's just, oh, I want to join, I want to become one of them, is forgetting the exhausting marches, the bloody battles, and the unmarked graves. You're forgetting what being a soldier is really all about. It's not about marching. It's not about, you know, forming a line and showing off your sword. It's about getting into the battle. And if you're signing up to be with Jesus, you're signing up for a battle. That's what this is And Jesus never hid the truth from his disciples when he prepared his disciples for ministry. And that's what we've been seeing throughout Matthew chapter 10 in verses 5 to 15. We've already covered the duties of discipleship. Where Jesus answered basic questions like, where should they go? What should they say? What should they do? Jesus was honest about the kind of stretch that this would place upon their faith. This is difficult. And they're called on to depend on the Lord for their provision. You're not going to bring along a bag of money. You're not going to bring along an extra pair of clothes. You're not going to bring along an extra staff. You're just going to go and trust me that I'm going to provide for you. This is what Jesus has to say to them. And we today exercise that same kind of trust in God, don't we? We need to trust on him for his provision. In verses 16 to 23, Jesus began to reveal the dangers. of discipleship. The disciples were told that they were not lions in the midst of wolves or shepherds in the midst of sheep. They are sheep in the midst of wolves. Discipleship is dangerous business. And they were to beware of men. And even sadly, sometimes even their own families would turn on them. This is the kind of thing that Jesus says. Are you ready to sign up for this? This is the path of discipleship. And now as we move into verses 24 to 33, Jesus continues to uncover the difficulties of discipleship. So we've had the duties of discipleship, the dangers. And now the difficulties of discipleship in verses 24 to 33. And Jesus begins to uncover this for his disciples. And in this section, Jesus addresses one of the greatest temptations that we face as believers, and it's the temptation to fear. The temptation to fear. Three times in this section he mentions the same thing. Three times. Verse 26. Therefore do not fear them. Verse 28, do not fear. Verse 31, so do not fear. Over and over again throughout the section, we're reminded of this idea of fear, which lets us know that one of the major obstacles to discipleship is what? Fear. And maybe you never thought about fear being one of your greatest obstacles to discipleship and the obstacles that we face as believers, but when you think about it, people obey who they what? Fear. People obey who they fear. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 20, it says, You shall fear the Lord your God, and you shall serve him. Fear and service connected to one another. You shall swear by his name. Joshua chapter 24, verse 14. Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. 1 Samuel chapter 12, verse 24. Only fear the Lord and serve him. So fear and obedience, fear and service are connected together. That's why in 2 Kings 17, verse 35. God says this you shall not fear other gods, nor bow down to them to serve them, or to sacrifice to them. If you begin to fear these other gods, you're going to begin to do what? You're going to begin to serve them. Who do you need to fear? You need to fear me. Fear God. We're not to fear men. We're not to fear other gods. We're to fear God alone and obey Him instead of obeying others. And if you begin to start fearing people and start fearing what they say about you, you're going to begin to start serving people. And start obeying people and doing what they want you to do instead of what the master who bought you and gave his life for you is asking of you. And there's at least five fears that Jesus warns his disciples against. In this passage in verses 24 to 25, the fear of people speaking against you. In verses 26 to 27, the fear of speaking up before people. And verse 28, the fear of intimidation. You know, do not fear those who kill the body. Verse 29 and 31, uh the fear of insignificance, and he says you're more valuable than many sparrows. Verses uh thirty-two to thirty-three, the fear of identification. Therefore everyone who confesses me before men, identifying themselves with Jesus Christ. So let's take a look at the first one. The fear of people speaking against you. Look at Matthew chapter 10 one more time, 24 and 25. A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the head of the house Beelzebol, how much more will they malign the members of his household? And uh in these short verses, we have three metaphors that describe the relationship to the disciples uh of the disciples to Jesus, which really should take the shock factor out of being spoken evil of. You shouldn't be fearful of people speaking evil of you. Why? Because they will. Don't be afraid of it happening because it's going to happen You know, it kind of takes the the shock value out. You know, if you already know what's coming around the corner, it's like, you know, I already know what's happening, you know, I don't have to be afraid of it. It's not like, oh I'm surprised. It's like, no, I knew this was gonna happen We should expect people to speak about us. And this is what basically what he's what he talks about here. And he uses these three different metaphors to try to describe uh the relationship between the disciples and the master. Uh number one, uh you are a disciple of your teacher. Uh the the word uh disciple in the verse 24, disciple is not above. His teacher, the word that he uses for disciple there, it's a matheetase in the Greek. It's the word for student, a learner. And an ancient disciple did much more than just receive instruction. uh in information. He imitated the life of his teacher. The goal of discipleship was to be like the teacher. In Luke chapter 6 and verse 40 it says a poop a pupil It's not above his teacher, but everyone after he has been fully trained will be like his teacher. You know, today it's not the goal of going to school to become like the teachers just to get the information. And this day, you go to class so you can become like the professor. You know, that was the whole goal. Learning had a whole different kind of uh connotation in biblical times, um uh but this is how it was understood a student was to become like his teacher. So uh If the teacher is known for being maligned and mistreated, what do you expect to happen as you become more like him? It's going to happen to me too. It's not going to happen to him and not happen to me. And uh it should actually be frightening if the world speaks well of you. It doesn't have anything evil to say about you. That should be a greater fear than being spoken evil of. Why? Because the Lord lets us know in Luke chapter 6, verse 26, Woe to you when all men speak well of you. For their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. You know, if nobody ever speaks harshly against you, never has anything critical to say about you, you might be in the wrong category. You might be in the category of the false prophets, who the world thinks well of. Everybody wants to say, you know, kind things about. If you're spoken evil of, you're actually in good company. In Matthew chapter 5. 11 through 12, just a couple uh chapters earlier, says, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you. And uh, you know, one of the key words there is falsely. You know, you're not being spoken evil of because you're actually evil. You know, you're being spoken evil of because you're you've identified yourself with Jesus Christ. And people can't stand Jesus Christ. So you take upon yourself the same kind of affliction that Jesus Christ took on during his life. So you're a disciple of your teacher. Number two, you're a slave of your master. And again, in in this relationship, there's there's no way to separate the connection between slave and master. Uh it was actually the slave's responsibility to carry out the will of the master, right? That's your responsibility as a slave, to do what the master wants me to do. Not just to imitate his life, but to accomplish his will. So as we accomplish the will of the master, what's going to happen to us? Whatever attack would have gone to the master comes to us Because we're accomplishing his will. So why would a slave ever expect that he could accomplish the master's will and not be associated with the master's reputation? In fact, in verse 25, it points out that the goal of the slave was to become like who? Like the master. Again, the goal was imitation. And again, if the master is malign, spoken evil of, what makes you think that as a slave of the master, you're going to escape that? The the slave was just an extension of the master's will. So do we actually expect to be be treated better than our master? Do you really expect to be treated better than him? And this is the argument that Jesus returns to several times in the Gospels, that a slave is not above his master. John chapter 13, verse 16, truly, truly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master. Nor is the one who is sent greater than the one who sent him. John fifteen twenty, remember the word that I said to you, a slave is not greater than his master. And as a Christian, the the the more you align yourself with the will of the master, the more you will be attacked for the will of the master. And that's where we are. We need to align ourselves with what does the master want? And that's what we're about. We make it our ambition to please him. And the more we align ourselves with Jesus Christ, the more we'll receive the attacks that come against Jesus Christ. And number three, you're a member of the household. You're a member of the household. As a Christian, you're a member of the household of Jesus Christ. So not only in verse 25 it says that it's enough that the disciple become like his teacher and the slave like his master. If they've called the head of the house Beelzebal, how much more will they malign the members of his household? We're members of the household of Jesus Christ. We're part of the family. That's a position that comes with a lot of privilege, doesn't it? Part of the family of Jesus Christ. Philippians chapter 3, verse 8 says, more than that I count all things. to be lost in the view of the surpassing value of knowing Jesus Christ my Lord, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. You know, becoming connected to Jesus Christ, being part of his household, we have resurrection power. You know, we're going to be raised again from the dead one day. We have this connection to Jesus Christ, but we also fellowship with his what? With his sufferings. I have this resurrection power, but I also have sufferings along with it. And as Christians, we take on the family name Matthew chapter 10 verse 25 says, If they've called the the head of the house, you know, the one who's over the house, Beelzebul, how much more will they malign you? If they've called the perfect one after the name of a demon, what do you think they're going to say about you? There was some debate over what Beelzebel means in uh 2 Kings chapter 1 and verses 2 to 16. Uh we learn about a false God. who was worshipped in uh one of the Philistine cities, the Philistine city of Ekron, who was called Beelzebub, which actually uh meant Lord of the Flies. It was apparently one of the ways that Hebrew people would ridicule the god of Ekron. You know, uh his name originally probably meant something like Lord of the Dwelling or uh Lord of the High Place, uh, but the Hebrews referred to him as Lord of the Flies. You know, that's who your God really is. He's the the Lord of the flies. And even the the Lord of the dung pile is what they would call him, according to to one commentator. Uh so it was common to to kind of make fun of uh the false gods and those who set themselves up as gods. In uh 175 to 164 BC, there was a a man who ruled over the the Greek uh kingdom who called himself Antiochus Epiphanes. And uh actually this this was a name that meant something like Antiochus, the God who has been made manifest. You know, this is what he called himself. I am God manifest to you, Antiochus Epiphanes. Uh the Hebrew people referred to him as Antiochus Epimones, which meant the madman. Antiochus the madman. So they'd switch the names up to kind of make fun and ridicule these people who called themselves gods or these false idols. So this Beelzebol, you know, this kind of Lord of the dwelling, the Lord of the high place, they said he's the Lord of the flies. He's Lord of the Dung Pile. And uh a few chapters uh uh We find the Pharisees later in Matthew, we find the Pharisees referring to Jesus as uh the one who cast out demons by Beelzebol. The ruler of demons in Matthew chapter 12, verse 24. When the Pharisees heard that he was using his miraculous power and people were believing on him, they said, oh, he's he's just doing it by the power of Beelzebub. You know, he's doing it by the power of a false God, the ruler of the demons. You know, he's in league with the demons. That's what they said about Jesus Christ, the perfect one. And now somehow we're going to come behind him and think that people are going to think better of us. You know, we want people to have these kind of high praise and accolades for us. Believe we're going to avoid the ridicule of the of the world? It's not going to happen. If you're going to be faithful to Jesus Christ, it's not going to happen. There's this ad that comes on Christian radio sometimes that uh It's kind of kind of funny when I think about it, but uh it can only survive in today's Christianity. This this ad can only survive in today's Christianity. Uh the ad says something like this. Do you want to be famous? Be famous for Christ. Do you want to be a star? Be a star for Christ. You know, let's let's just be famous and be stars and you know forget the fact that you you know that fame and stardom shouldn't be your you know your goal in life. But uh I I just wonder how long will that last if you're going to hold to your convictions? I'm not saying that Christians can't act or sing or whatever else, but the Bible doesn't say, you know, uh don't be surprised when the world loves you. But don't be surprised when uh that the world by what? Don't be surprised, brethren, if the world does what? Hate you. Don't be surprised by that. We're going to be hated We're not out here to become famous and become stars and everybody's gonna like me. You like me. You really, really like me. You know, that's not for the Christian. It's not the Christian. We should not fear being ridiculed, mocked, laughed at, scorned, maligned. Because we should expect it to happen. This is what happened to the Lord. This is what happens to us. Number two, we also shouldn't fear of fear of speaking up before people. Look at verses 26 and 27. It says, therefore do not fear them, for there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed or hidden that will not be known. What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light, and what you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim upon the house tops. So here you have those that are that are sheep. Those that are sheep being sent out into the midst of wolves. And now what the master, the shepherd, tells the sheep to do is I need you to bleat. You're going to come out into the midst of these wolves, and I want you to speak up in the middle of these wolves. And it's almost like, you know, the Christian would rather be undercover. You know, can't I like growl or something? You know, get in the middle of the wolves and act like a wolf. You know, where like Christians are like the you know, the the the the the sheep in wolves clothing. You know, we want to get out into the middle of the world and we don't want to be noticed. But here Jesus says, I want you to speak up and let let it be known who you really are. You're not you're not out here to just kind of blend in with the world, to become part of the world. We're not we're not we're not uh uh sh uh uh wool uh sheep in wolves clothing. He wants us to come out and blow our cover. You find uh uh Peter uh when he was in the the middle of this unbelieving uh group right before uh You know, uh at the um at the place where Jesus was being uh tried in uh Matthew chapter uh twenty-six, you can flip over there real quick in Matthew chapter twenty-six. You find uh Peter uh trying to blend in uh with the wolves. Didn't want to be noticed, wanted uh to kind of make sure that uh that the attack that was coming against Jesus didn't come against him as well in uh Matthew chapter 26. Look at verse 69, it says, Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him and said, You too were with Jesus the Galilean. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you're talking about. When he had gone out to the gateway, another servant girl saw him and said to those who were with who were who were there, This man was with Jesus of Nazareth. And again he denied it with an oath, I do not know the man. A little later the bystanders came up and said to Peter, Surely you too are one of them, for even the way you talk gives it away. You talk like one of those Galileans. You talk like you've been with Jesus. And listen to what he does to try to prove that I'm not with Jesus. Then he began to curse and swear. To try to fit in with the wolves. I used the same kind of language you do. Began to curse and swear, I do not know the man. And immediately the rooster crowed, and Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said before, Rooster crows, you will deny me three times And he went out and whipped bitterly. We're supposed to get out with the the wolves, the unbelievers, the people who deny Christ, and we're supposed to speak up. I'm I'm one of Jesus' people. Yes, yeah, you caught me. I'm I'm one of his followers. Actually, I want to come and let you know that I'm one of his followers. We're not trying to fit in with the crowd. And Jesus says here in Matthew chapter 10, don't fear them. For there is nothing concealed that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be made known. And you might wonder, you know, on the surface, you know, how am I supposed to be encouraged by the fact That nothing is concealed that will not be revealed. Like how does that encourage me to speak up more? I really think this is a fantastic motivation. This is fantastic motivation. Look back at uh at verse 7. In verse 7 Jesus had already let them know that as you go, you're to preach, saying that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The disciples were to go out to preach the message of the kingdom. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now they could keep quiet about the uh the kingdom, but but here's the here's the the question. Is that going to stop the kingdom from coming? The kingdom's gonna come Whether you speak about it or not, you might as well get out and talk about it because nothing's concealed that's not going to be revealed. The kingdom is going to come. Why don't you warn people about it coming? You're not going to stop the truth from it coming out. The truth is going to come out. Why not be a part of proclaiming it? And the kingdom of Christ in the present age is uh covered. It uses uh the Greek word uh kalypto. Uh it's uh uh a word for for being covered, it's concealed. Do not fear them, for there is nothing that is concealed calupto that will not be revealed that uses the word apocalypto. It's uh where we get our English word apocalypse A word that we used to refer to the end times when Christ Himself is revealed in all of his glory. And uh during the time that Christ was here on earth, uh he wasn't revealed for who he really was. When uh Christ walked the earth the first time uh uh the world didn't know about his manifest glory, uh it wasn't uh uh expressed on the outside. Uh the disciples knew who he was, uh, but it's because it's been revealed to them who he was, but it was covered to the world, the world didn't know. If you remember, that was one of the questions that the tender-hearted disciple Judas or Thaddeus, as he's also known, he asked Jesus during the Last Supper. In John chapter 14, uh Judas not Iscariot said to him, Lord, what then has happened that you're not going to disclose yourself to the whole world? Why don't you let everybody know who you are? Why don't you show your glory to everybody? And Jesus answered him and said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him It's not the time for me to display myself before the world. I'm displaying myself to people individually. And it wasn't time for the glory to be revealed. Even uh Jesus' Unbelieving brothers wanted him to reveal himself to the world. Remember in John chapter 7, it says his brothers are talking to him and says, No one does anything in secret. When he himself seeks to be known publicly, if you do these things, why don't you show yourself to the world? Why don't you just let everybody know who you are? Even Satan. Remember Satan in his um uh the temptation of Christ. He tried to bring Jesus to publicly reveal himself, brought him to the pinnacle of the temple. Matthew chapter 4, verse 6, and said to him, If you're the Son of God, why don't you throw yourself down? Why don't you like Float off of the top of the pinnacle and let everybody know who you really are. But it wasn't Jesus' time for that. It wasn't Jesus' time for that That would have bypassed the cross. And Jesus had a saving work that he needed to accomplish first. So he wasn't going to be king without being a savior. He's going to be both king and savior. And through the preaching of the Word of God and the work of the Spirit of God, Jesus is revealing himself to us in salvation. In our Romans chapter 10, verse 17, faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. In James chapter 1, verse 18, in the exercise of his will, he brought us forth by the word of truth. 1 Peter 1. 23, you have been born again out of seed which is perishable. but imperishable through the living and enduring word of God. God is bringing salvation to us, revealing himself to us through his word and through his spirit. But that's not to say that there won't come a day. When Jesus will be revealed to the whole world in glory. Jesus spoke of a day when the Son of Man is to be revealed. And John in Luke chapter 17, verse 30, it speaks about that. And uh this is a good place to kind of finish up what we talked about last week in verse 23, if you want to flip back there. Matthew chapter 10 in verse 23. It says, whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. For truly I say to you, you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes. The Son of Man is going to come. And uh there's some interpreters that wonder, you know, what does it mean when he says the Son of Man is going to come? There's all kinds of you know different uh you know interpretations of what that means. Some people say that You know, he was just saying the Son of Man is going to come basically like, you know, I'll just, you know, you guys go ahead and I'll just catch up with you. You know, the Son of Man will come. You know, I'll come and catch up with you as you're going on this trip, and I'll just catch up with you guys later. But that doesn't make sense of the context because he talked about them being tortured and killed. And that didn't happen when he sent the disciples out on their first mission. So that doesn't make sense of the context. Some others say that uh this was a reference when he says the son of man will come, that this is a reference to 70 A. D. And uh somehow Jesus was coming in the person in the in the the works of the the Romans uh Roman government as they destroyed the temple that this is Jesus Christ coming. Nobody would have interpreted that like that. Nobody would have interpreted the coming of the Son of Man as the destruction of Jerusalem Especially not the Apostle John, who wrote in 90 A. D. after the destruction of Jerusalem, and he says in Revelation 22, verse 20, Come Lord Jesus. He's still expecting the Lord to come in the in the future, so that's not what he's talking about. The only option that makes sense of the context is the use of the phrase when the Son of Man comes is a a reference to his future glorious return Jesus Christ will come in the future. And basically, Jesus was telling his disciples that the work I'm giving you to do is going to continue until my return. You won't even finish all the work in the cities of Israel before I come. Because there's so much work to do. And how true is that? There's more people that still need the gospel, right? We need to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he says, the Son of Man will come. So get busy. Get busy spreading the gospel. I'm going to come for you. So a man will come, and that's a day when every eye will see him. Everybody's going to see him. Matthew chapter 24. He says, Behold, I've told you in advance, so if they say to you, Behold, he's in the wilderness. Do not go out, or behold, he's in the inner room. Do not believe them. For just as lightning comes across the east and flashes to the west, So will the coming of the Son of Man be. He says, the Son of Man's going to come. Everybody's going to know about it. Nobody's going to have to say, hey, I think Jesus Christ might be over here. Because everybody's going to know for themselves. You don't have to point him out. Second Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 7. The Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel. of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will come back. And he's coming back and he's going to deal out retribution. Flip over to Revelation chapter 6 one time. Revelation chapter 6. Like I said, when when this when this when this event occurs, when the Son of Man returns, nobody's going to have to ask a neighbor, you know, what do you think that is? There's nobody that's going to have to ask a question about this. Revelation chapter 6. Look at verse 14. This is phenomenal. Revelation chapter 6, look at verse 14. It says the sky was split apart like a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. Then the kings of the earth and the great men of the commanders and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, and they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come. And who will be able to stand? When the Son of Man is revealed, you know, people are going to look to the rocks to hide them, to the mountains to fall on us. Jesus is uncovered and the people take cover. It's described as the day when the believer's true life is also being revealed in Colossians chapter 3 verse 4. It talks about Christ being our life. And then in the day when he's revealed, we will also be revealed with him in glory. When Jesus Christ comes back in glory and power with the angels, the believers will actually be with him. 1 Peter 5 verse 1, it talks about being a partaker of the glory that is to be revealed. It's also a day when the hypocrisy of unbelievers is also revealed in Luke chapter 12. Verse 1, it says, under these circumstances, after so many thousands of people gathered together, he says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. But there is nothing covered that will not be revealed and hidden that will not be made known. On that day, the hypocrisy of unbelievers will be made known. It's going to be a spectacular and glorifying scene as well as a troubling and terrifying scene. And Jesus' point back in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 26 is this you're not going to be able to hide when this happens When Jesus breaks through the sky and the skies opened up like a scroll and the mountains are shaking and people are hiding from the mountains, you're not going to be able to hide the truth of what's taken place. So why would you try to conceal it now? Why are you gonna try to act like this is not the future? This is what's going to happen How are you going to cover this up when it takes place? There's nothing concealed that will not be revealed. There's no use trying to play the world's games as if this isn't reality. The Emperor has no clothes. You need to tell him. Tell them. You might as well open your mouth and speak about it. And then verse 27, what I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light. What you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim on the housetops. What Jesus told them privately was for the public square. There's nothing to be ashamed of. We're not ashamed about the gospel. We're not ashamed about the kingdom. And what Jesus whispers in the air was to be proclaimed. Uh there's actually a a practice among the the rabbis according to the Talmud, which is a a collection of Jewish oral laws and commentary to the law, which spoke about the ways that rabbis would train their their students. And one of the ways that they would train their their students was they would stand next to the student and actually whisper in their ear and let the student be the proclamation. You know, so I'll tell you what to say and you say it. You know, so the rabbi would stand by the student, whisper in the air, and the student would proclaim it. And uh basically uh this is what Jesus is saying to his disciples, I'm gonna tell you what to say, you're gonna go out there and say it. You're gonna go out there and proclaim. And this might have been the practice that Jesus was referring to. Jesus would give the words, the disciples would give the voice, and the word was to be broadcast. The rooftop was a common place to make announcements. Uh in this day that the Talmud speaks about uh religious officials who would get up on their rooftops and blow a horn to announce religious festivals and to give announcements. And what we're announcing is the kingdom of God is coming. And there's nothing to be ashamed about. But the world around us tries to intimidate us into silence. Intimidate us into silence. There's threats of rejection, threats of persecution, threats of death because of the message. But Jesus doesn't hide any of that from us. He doesn't say, oh, go out and you know none of that will ever happen to you. You'll never have an attack. Nobody will ever reject you. You know, that's not what Jesus says. And next week we'll learn more about the fear of uh intimidation and insecurity and insignificance and the identification with Jesus Christ. But uh uh like I said back in uh verse 23 that we looked at before, Jesus predicted that the disciples would face persecution. He actually promises persecution for those who imitate Jesus Christ And uh 2 Timothy 3 verse 12 it says, indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. It's gonna happen. And Jesus doesn't shield that from us. But what Jesus does promise is that I'll come for you. You're going to go out, you're going to proclaim my name. But after it's all done, I'm going to come for you. I'm going to come for you. Remember that story I told you earlier about uh Sir Ernest Shackleton, how he organized this expedition to the South Pole. What I didn't tell you is that uh the team never made it. Never made it to the South Pole. Two days after leaving uh South Georgia, the endurance, the ship that they they were on, encountered a a pack of ice in progress slowed down. For weeks as they try to work through this pack, they were only like within 200 miles of their destination, but it was evident that the progress couldn't be made. The crew remained on the on the ship for uh uh several more weeks and when the ice broke up they used three lifeboats to try to reach an island that they were next to. They got to the island, they took the one ship that they had and uh Shackleton and two other men left and uh left 22 men sitting on this island for three months. While Shackleton went to to go and find rescue. And what kind of started out is like this expedition actually turned into one of the greatest rescue efforts. in history because uh it took a while to penetrate this ice and for the sni uh for the ice to thaw and uh like I said what began is one of this uh you know uh uh uh expedition turned into a rescue and uh he returned three months later and every single crew member was alive. Rescued every one of them. Came back three months later and rescued every one of them. And uh I really think that uh a lot of parallels could be made because we've been been left here on a foreign land, right? But the master 's coming back. And there's not one of us that will be lost. Not one will be lost. Amen. And 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 5, it says that we're protected by the power of God through faith for salvation. Ready to be revealed in the last time. And Romans chapter 8, verse 18, it says, I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed to us. We're going to face tribulation. We're going to face persecution. We're going to face difficulty. But one thing that we don't have to worry about is that the master won't return because he will. The master is going to return. And what we're doing right now is we're proclaiming that news. That the master's coming back. And and for those that get on his side now, he'll come before you in glory and salvation. But for those who reject the Master now, when he returns, you're going to be considered an enemy. And you're going to face the same destruction that all of the enemies face. And that's what we call people to do today. You know, become a disciple of Jesus Christ. Is it going to be easy? No. No. It's not going to be easy. It's a difficult road. It's a difficult road. But it's a worthy road, right? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for uh this opportunity to come before you. Uh Father, we thank you for uh the truth of your word and uh for the brutal honesty of your word. And Father, the things that you've revealed to us, Lord, they're not just to be held in our minds and just kind of whispered between those that already believe. My Father, these things are to be proclaimed on the housetop. To make it public, Lord, who we follow, whose we are, and who's coming back for us. Father, we thank you that you haven't left us, Lord, without any protection. that you will return. Jesus Christ will return for those that call on him. And even if we lose our life, Father, we know that we're protected in the arms of God. So Father, I pray that we wouldn't fear, that we would open up our mouths, that we would be, make it clear, Lord, whose we are, and that many would come to know you as we're honest about the truth of salvation. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.