The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Thank you for being with us for service. We're grateful that the Lord has brought you here. And one of the things that we want to make sure that everyone hears before they leave is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh and there is there is good news. And that's that's what we are the proclaimers of. We're proclaimers of good news. And the good news is that God has sent his son, Jesus Christ. To be the salvation that we needed. He himself is salvation. He is our righteousness Jesus Christ is the one who lived the righteous life that we could not live. He lived perfectly before the Father in heaven, always doing what pleased God. He died, but not for himself. He died as a substitute for those who have sinned against him for all the wickedness that we continue to commit before the eyes of the Almighty God. In our our thoughts, in our words, in our actions. And like we read in the text, God sees, God's not ignorant of the sins that we commit before him. And every one of those sins is sufficient to send us straight to hell. I want you to hear me on that. Every one of your sins is sufficient to send you to hell. God is so holy that he cannot receive wickedness in his presence. And every one of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. If you were to stand before God and your sin, you would be immediately incinerated because of your sin, cast out because of your sin. It only took eating fruit from the wrong tree to send Adam and Eve out of the garden. And you think that you can stand before the righteous judge with all of the sins that you've committed over your whole entire life? But God is so merciful that he sent his son to be the sacrifice, to take upon himself the wrath That you deserved. He took upon himself the wrath of God in your place. He died as a substitute. All your sins, if you've trusted in Jesus Christ, were wiped away on the cross. Full satisfaction on the cross. And if you've trusted in him, you don't pay for your sins for eternity. You actually receive the righteousness of God and receive his blessing for eternity. What a gift that is. That God would make that exchange, that his son would take your sin and that you could take his righteousness and stand before him as clean, as purified, because you stand in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. What a gift. And he rose again, proving that he had power over the grave. And one day, for those of us who trust in Christ, even that body that lays dormant will one day rise up, bust up out of whatever cemetery it's laying in. Whatever ashes are there will be reconstituted, and you will have a glorified body to spend eternity in the presence of your Savior. What a joy. What a gift. The gospel is such good news, isn't it? Anyway, why don't you take your Bibles uh with me and let's turn back actually not back, let's turn forward to the book of First Peter. We've been in Romans, uh, but we're gonna turn forward to the book of uh First Peter. I'm looking forward to uh Being back in the book of Romans next week, Lord Welling, but for this Lord's Day, we're going to turn our attention to the book of 1 Peter and Peter's exhortation regarding the spiritual house and temple of God, which is the church. One of the sweet blessings like I mentioned earlier about the conference that we had, and I've been telling people this, that it was just simply our church meeting at a different location. It was just our church being the church outside. And uh it was simply the uh the church in a different location as we sang, as we prayed, as we served in another place just in the same way that we do uh while we're right here. And uh so that's why as people have asked me if am I going to bring the Roots and Reformation Conference to a different uh location, I've answered, well if you can fly the entire congregation out You know, we can do that because uh reaching reformation is the ministry of our church. And it was just our church being the church uh outside. Uh the church is the people, as we know, it's not the the building And as the we may even be preparing to purchase a physical house for the church, and just to let you know that that's uh underway, that the negotiations are happening, and uh we're excited about what the Lord uh might do there Uh but I want us to remember that fundamentally, yeah, you can praise God for that. But we understand that the building is not the church, and of all people we should understand that the building is not the church. Because we've been in 14 different locations in 13 years of ministry and uh multiple years we're talking about three to four moves a year. How many people have been with us for all the moves of the church? Just raise your hand real quick If you want to know that the church is not the building, talk to any one of these people with their hands up, because we definitely understand that the building is not the church Uh we've been in all kinds of locations from rec centers to uh movie theaters and you know every other place in between. Uh but we're grateful uh that uh we understand that the church is the people and we've been committed to one another as a church. And it's it's really been sweet to see that among the congregation, uh the commitment that we have to one another, the love that we have for one another. Uh I remember when we started the church, it was a Bible study from 2012 to 2013 Uh it was just a Bible study in a basement. You know, we started with uh fifteen people uh meeting together, working through the book of Titus. Uh but when we started uh to meet officially as a church and we kind of opened a service up to the public You know, many people were asking, you know, how long have you been at church? And we're like, first day, you know, it's today. You know, but they they saw that there was just this connection between us on day one of the church plan. That there was already that that love that was just baked into who we are, who we were, and still are. So we're just grateful for what the Lord has done to connect us together, to bind us together, and the building is not the church And we have to fight for who we are as the church. We are the church of God. The building is not the church. If you just meet with your family and you're praying together, that's not the church, as good as that is, as necessary as that is. A Bible study is not the church. Even if you're meeting with an ordained minister, that's not the church. A small group is not the church. As important as small groups are for us and the shepherding of our people, a small group is not the church. That's why we don't call them house churches. Because it's not the church. It's a small group. It's a gathering of people, but it's not the gathering. It's not the gathering of the church. A lady's book discussion is not the church. Stopping by a member's house to visit with them is not the church. Watching a service online is not the church. As great of a ministry as that is for sick and shut-in believers, we we appreciate having that ministry, but we also understand that it's not a substitute for the church. We must gather together as the church. Hebrews chapter 10, starting at verse 24, it says, Let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and to good deeds, not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, meaning that some were not assembling. As is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. Do you think that Jesus Christ is sooner to come now than he was last year? Are you seeing more evidences of the approaching of Jesus Christ as we look all around the world? As you see the day drawing near, what should you do? You should be stuck like glue to one another. We need one another. We need to be together with one another. We need to encourage one another all the more as we see the day drawing near. The church is a fellowship of believers overseen by elders who will give an account for the members. It's where the ordinances of baptism and the Lord's Supper are practiced. It's where church discipline is exercised. It's a fellowship that receives and denies membership. It's where we share our spiritual gifts. If you have a gift, a spiritual gift, that gift is not for you You know, if you have the gift of encouragement, you don't go home and encourage yourself. Have the gift of service, you don't go home and serve yourself. If I have the gift of teaching, I don't go home and look in the mirror and teach myself. If I have a spiritual gift, it's for the rest of you. And you all have spiritual gifts and it's for the rest of us And this is the place where we gather together to exercise those spiritual gifts. It's where we're exhorted in sound doctrine. It's where we refute those who contradict. And according to 1 Timothy 3. 15, the church is the household of God. It's the family of God, the pillar and support of the truth. We're up holding the truth for the world to see. The pillar and the support of the truth. But what Peter does in 1 Peter chapter 2 is he addresses the importance of the corporate gathering from a different perspective. We often think about the church from the perspective of what the church offers to us. Or even of like what the church offers to one another. And all that's true. But what Peter does is he speaks about the church from the perspective of what does the church offer to God? What does the church offer to the Lord? There are spiritual sacrifices that we can only offer to God corporately, and it can't be replaced by your personal quiet time and home. They're offerings that we bring to God corporately, and that's why we need to protect this house. And when I'm talking about the house, I'm not talking about the bricks. I'm talking about the people. We need to protect this house. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2 starting at verse 4. Says, in coming to him as to a living stone, which has been rejected by men, but is precious choice and precious in the sight of God, you also as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house For a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ, for this is contained in Scripture, behold, I lay in Zion. A choice stone, a precious cornerstone, and he who believes in him will not be disappointed. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you as we do every Lord today, asking for your blessing. My Father, that you would open up your word, that you would speak to us through your word. Father, this is a sufficient word. This is an authoritative word. This is the word that governs the church and all that we do in it. And Father, I pray that today as we sit underneath your word, that our lives would be changed, that our lives would be transformed. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. In the old city of Jerusalem, there's a place of prayer that's sacred to the Jewish people called the the Wailing Wall. It's a retaining wall where the temple once stood on the top of this wall on the temple mount. It's the only structure that still stands, this this wall, this retaining wall, it's the only structure that still stands from the construction of the uh the the temple and the mount that was destroyed in uh 70 A. D. And just as Jesus predicted, uh the temple was torn down piece by piece Matthew chapter 24 and verse 2 says, Not one stone here will be left upon another, which will not be torn down. And that's exactly what happened in 70 A. D. The Romans tore down every piece of the temple. And the only remains of that construction is that retaining wall that surrounds the Temple Mount. And that site is considered to be uniquely holy by the Jewish people. And to this day, Jewish people lament the destruction of the temple and they pray for its restoration. It's visited by millions of worshipers every year. Jewish people travel from all over the world to be as close as they can to this physical site to get to the original site where the temple once stood And it's their custom to pray at the wall and to to write prayers and to slip these little slips of paper into the cracks in the wall. When my wife and I were were there, I actually uh wrote a little prayer and and prayed that they would come to know Jesus. And slipped that piece of paper into the wall as uh I was there and was able to pray. Like I said, Jewish people from all over the world visit this site. Tens of thousands every day, up to a hundred thousand or more every day visit the site. But what our text introduces us to here is something that's far greater than what any tourist can ever experience, could ever hope for. According to our text, if you are a true believer, you have a greater privilege than sitting at an ancient site. You are part of the temple. You haven't come to visit the ruins and to see where the temple once stood. You collectively, as the church, are the temple of God. And beyond that, you're part of the spiritual priesthood in the temple of God. You don't have to catch a flight to visit a holy site. All you have to do is jump in your car and find Baltimore Bible Church, wherever we might be. Because we collectively together are the temple of God. And this is an incredible text. I'm not sure how often we really consider how mind-blowing this is. And how mind-blowing it would have been to the original readers. The temple was the center of Jewish life, just as the tabernacle would have been before that. The tabernacle and later on the temple represented the presence of God with his people. It was where God met with his people. The tabernacle was actually given the name the Tent of Meeting. It's where you went to meet with God When Solomon constructed the temple to replace the tabernacle, he understood the significance of that place. Actually flip back to 2 Chronicles. 2 Chronicles chapter 6. Just want you to see this here. 2 Chronicles chapter 6. When Solomon constructed the temple, he understood that God would make his presence known especially there. And he prayed that God would pay special attention to the prayers that were offered in that place and directed towards that place. It was a place of intimacy and connection with God. Take a look at 2 Chronicles. chapter 6 and verse 18. 2 Chronicles chapter 6 starting at verse 18. Solomon says, but will God indeed dwell with mankind on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you. How much less this house which I have built? Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to this supplication, O Lord my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you That your eye may be opened toward this towards this house day and night, toward the place of which you have said that you would put your name there, to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray towards this place Listen to the supplications of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place. Hear from your dwelling place from heaven, hear and forgive. God hears heard prayers from everywhere, in any direction, but for the Jewish people, the temple was more than just a pile of stones Paulo rocks. It was the visible reminder that God was with them. That he heard them. That he received their supplications. That he forgave their sins. It was a connection point for them with God. So how significant is it, and you can flip back to 1 Peter, how significant is it that Peter would say, you also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house? God is saying through Peter that the place of intimacy and a special connection with God is in the gathering of his people. That's the place of special intimacy and connection. God is no longer in a in a in a in a a building. You know, you don't turn towards a building, but you turn towards the people. And I hope you're hearing me on this. Coming to church is about much more than the pile of bricks that we worship in. It's about the people who gather there. Like I said, we've we've moved 14 times in 13 years. Recreation centers where we've had to clean it up before we could use it. Assisted living facilities where we crammed into small rooms, elementary schools where we were kicked out every summer, movie theaters where the communion smelt like popcorn. And church buildings that never belonged to us. And if our identity was connected to a meeting place, we would have been done years ago. But it's it's never been about the bricks. It's always been about the people. And the places are only significant because of what happened there. That's what made them significant. Just as there was nothing significant about a bush in the wilderness until God showed up. That's when the bush became significant. That's when the ground around the bush became significant, and God says, Don't come near, remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you're standing is holy ground. What made it holy? God showed up. That's what made it holy. What what makes this gathering of people holy? God shows up. We worship God together God is active in specific ways among the giftings of his people. Like what makes this significant? God is here. That's what's significant about this place. The only reason the ground became holy is because he showed up there. And when we gather together as the people of God, God meets us in particular ways. And the central idea that we're going to look at in 1 Peter chapter 2 is this idea that we are being built up as a spiritual house. I don't want you to miss that. That's the whole point of this text. We are being built up as a spiritual house. The spiritual house is a house of worship. Holy priesthood, ministers, worship to God. Spiritual sacrifices are offered up to the worship of God. That's what we do when we gather together. We worship. It's all about the worship that's given to him, and God is the one who sets the conditions for worshiping him, and God is the one who prepares us to worship him And here's our first point. God is the one who prepares us for worship. Take a look at verse 4. And coming to him as to a living stone, which has been rejected by men, but is choice and precious in the sight of God. He is the one who makes us living stones who worship. The word stone that's used here, it's used to uh often used to speak of lifelessness. You know, when we say that someone's heart is is like stone, we're saying that person is like cold and lifeless. Sometimes you'll hear the expression stone cold. You know, like a stone-cold killer. Like he's not even human anymore. He's just like out there attacking people without any remorse. Stone cold. Like his heart doesn't even beat anymore. Somebody stone dead, you know, to say they're gone. Or somebody, you know, they often use this other term, you know, stone drunk. It was actually used for people who almost seem lifeless. They're so drunk that he just like lay on the ground lifeless, stone-drunk or stoned. So what do we mean when we say that we're living stones? It means that we're we're I don't want you to look at this word stone and think lifeless No, no, we're construction we're we're constructing this temple, but but we're full of life. We're not dead. We're we're full of life because of who we're connected to. We're connected to the living one And we too are alive. And the construction of this house of worship is made up of living people, spiritually alive people. We're made living stones because we're connected to the living one. And that word stone is actually not the normal word for stone. The Greek word petras was often used for uh a detached stone or a field stone. It was used for Peter. You know, his name was Petros in the in the Greek. It was a nickname for Simon. uh that the Lord gave them uh referred to a field stone, a detached stone, natural, unfinished stone. The word for a rock bed was petra Jesus used that to speak about Peter's confession in Matthew 16. Upon this rock, this petra, I will build my church upon this confession that you've made, that I'm the Christ, the Son of the living God. I will build my church upon that. But the word that Peter uses here when he says we come to him as to a living stone, he uses a different word. It's the word lithas, which is actually a word that was consistently used for a construction stone. Used of a stone that was chiseled, hammered, filed down so that it fit perfectly. It was an important feature of ancient construction projects and the stones that were used for large construction projects were so heavy uh that they they didn't need anything to make them stick together. They just rested on top of one another. to build whatever they were trying to build. They simply stacked them on top of one another and they were stacked so neatly, so perfectly, that it became like one solid structure after you were done. Many of these stones that Herod used to construct the temple weighed between two and five tons. And according to one source, the largest stone uh that's been found at the western wall in the the tunnel there measures 42 feet long, 11 feet high, and 14 feet deep, and it weighs 660 tons. I mean once you get that thing in place it's not going anywhere. So when we're talking about a stone here, we're talking about a construction stone that was part of a of an edifice that's been filed down and chiseled out and made ready. for construction. And if you are a believer, you are part of this larger structure. Chiseled out, hammered, filed down to fit exactly where you're supposed to be. As Ephesians 2. 10 says, you are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. Each of you has a role to fulfill within that greater structure. So you've been prepared for worship to God. By coming to Him, to the living stone, now you've been prepared as another living stone. You're just kind of placed on top and wherever you fit in the building. And we're not prepared for worship until we come to Him. It's by coming to Him that we become these living stones. Coming to Him is actually a common phrase that's used in scriptures for coming to Jesus for salvation. Back in Matthew chapter 16 and verse 24, Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone wishes to come after me. What's that speaking about? It's talking about coming to salvation. Coming to me is coming to salvation. And how do you do that? Deny yourself, take up your cross and follow me. Deny yourself. Be willing to say no to you. You're not in control of your life anymore when you come to Christ. You're not in control. You submit to a new master. And it's not you. You submit to Jesus Christ, you deny yourself. Have you been willing to say no to you? Do you think you're still in control of your life? Even when you thought you were in control, you weren't really in control. You were led around as a pawn of Satan. Stuck in your sins, a slave to your sins, to your own Selfish and sinful desires. You're not really in control, even when you thought you were. But when you come to Christ, all you do is switch masters. I'm no longer a slave of sin. I'm a slave to Jesus Christ. I'm turning away from myself. I'm turning to him. Deny yourself. Take up your cross. It's not going to be an easy road to walk. Everybody understood what you meant when you said I'm taking up my cross in that day. You know, today it's like I'm taking up my cross. I you know gotta go home and talk to the wife, you know. Taking up taking up my cross, you know, I've got to report to work tomorrow, taking up my cross. We've all got our crosses to bear You know, taking up my cross, you know. I wish I had something else for dinner tonight, you know, but we all have our crosses to bear. You better be glad you have something on your plate What do you mean taking up your cross? When they said taking up my cross, they understood what it meant. I'm going to die. And I'm not coming back. So you take up your cross when you follow Christ. Lord, I'm yours. And my life is no longer here. Like that old guy is dead. Whoever that was. I now belong to you. You take up your cross and now you follow after Jesus. I say yes to Jesus Christ. You want a simple definition of what a Christian is? Somebody who says no to self and yes to Jesus Simple definition of a Christian. Note a self, yes to Jesus. Recognize your sin before a holy God. Turn from your sin. Trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. That's what it means to come to Christ. Jesus becomes the most necessary foundation of your life. He is the cornerstone, as it says, just a little bit later on. Verse 7, the stone which the builders rejected, this has become the very cornerstone. He's the foundation of your life And he's the one who's chosen. He's the chosen one. But he's been rejected by men. And he's still being rejected by men, isn't he? Cornerstone is the most valuable, the most precious, the most necessary stone to the entire structure of a building. Everything gets its direction from the cornerstone. You can't even begin construction until you have the cornerstone in place. And that's the very stone that the builders tossed out and attempted to break into pieces. But you can try to kick against the stone all you want. You will break before the stone does. You reject Jesus all you want. You will break before that stone breaks. Matthew chapter 21 and verse 44 it says, He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces. You know, humble yourself, come contrite before the Lord. You need to break into pieces before this stone. But on whomever it falls, if that stone falls on you, it will scatter you like dust. It will crush you to powder. Fall on him before he falls on you. Come to Jesus. You need to break your heart before Jesus. Rend your heart before Jesus. Understand your sin before Jesus, before he falls on you, and you're scattered like dust. You can stumble over Christ all you want, but he's not budging 1 Corinthians 1. 23 says, we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness. Is Jesus foolishness to you? Is it foolish to follow Christ? Galatians 5. 11 says that the cross is a stumbling block. It's offensive. Romans 9. 32, they stumbled over the stumbling stone. But he doesn't move out of the way. You keep kicking at him, he's still there. And if you stumble over him, you will be the one who's broken, not him. And he's the one who's chosen. He's elected by God and he's precious. He's highly valued. He's honored. This is the living stone. That we're talking about. But don't miss the connection. This living stone is connected to the other living stones. Those who are connected to Jesus are also living stones. And who else has been chosen by God? Back in 1 Peter chapter 1, take a look. 1 Peter chapter 1, look at verse 1. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who reside as aliens, scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, who are what? Chosen. Just like in chapter 2 and verse 4 we learn that Jesus is choice, eclectos, it's the word for the being chosen, it says that we too are chosen ones. In verse 1 of chapter 1. Jesus is the chosen one, the elect one, and we too are elect. We're elect ones. We're connected to him. We've been chosen by God. Who else is considered precious in the sight of God? Look at 1 Peter 2 and verse 9. It says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. So that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. We're now those special, peculiar people, we're God's own possession, we're honored in the sight of God, and who else was? Jesus, he's precious in the sight of God in verse 4, chapter 2. And just like people can kick against the cornerstone without any impact on its stability, people can continue to kick at the church all they want. But Jesus says in Matthew 16 and verse 18, Upon this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell will not overpower it. You can kick against the church all you want, but you will be the one who's broken, not the church. Not the church. Because God has prepared a people to worship him. God is the one who prepares a people for worship. And the church will remain because Jesus promised that the church would remain. And the church is built on top of the cornerstone. You can kick at the cornerstone, but you're not going to move it. And you can kick at the church, but you're not going to move it because we're connected almost as one solid structure with the cornerstone Jesus Christ. So the church will remain because Jesus remains and Jesus has promised that the church will remain. Number two, God is also the one who sets the place of worship. And the place is a people. Look at verse 5. You also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. for a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. You as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house It's clear that the word for house is being used of some kind of structure, but it's clear also that we're not talking about a physical structure because it's described as a spiritual house And Peter's already identified believers as the stones that make up this spiritual house. But again, it's together in connection with the other stones that we make up this house. We're connected to one another. One commentator says this, Peter did not think of them as isolated stones, these believers as isolated stones scattered over a field. He pictured them collectively as forming a great spiritual house Then he goes on to say, scriptures, the scriptures know nothing of an individual piety or holiness that is out of touch with the living body of God's people. In other words, if you think about yourself as you know just striving for godliness, striving for holiness, oh I'm I'm honoring the Lord, but I do that by myself. What does the Bible say? No, you don't. No, you don't. Which is, by the way, what's absent in so many of these mystical books on holiness, because it pictures the Christian life as something that you can master alone and by yourself. But that's never how God has designed us to live. We're not designed to be isolated from the church We're not designed to be that way. I mean you take uh you know uh when we used to do charcoal fires instead of uh you know just the kerosene that you turn on and you know light it up You know, g give me that smell of the charcoal. You know, that's that's how the the the meat's supposed to taste, right? But uh, you know, who who who says, you know, I just love that kerosene smell, you know, I just love that kerosene flavor. You know, it's like, no, it's like that charcoal, you know, get that smoke in in there, you know. But uh, you know, you move one of those pieces of charcoal charcoal away from the the rest of the the pile, what happens to that one piece? Dies out It's not over there burning bright. And you think that you're going to be removed from the people of God and you're just going to be out there burning bright for God by yourself. That's not how it works. It says you're in connection with the rest. We need one another. We're not to think about our spiritual life as growing by leaps and bounds, and it's just me and the Lord. Just out here in the woods by myself, meditating alone, connecting with nature. I'm wild at heart. It's just just me and God. I don't really need the rest of the body. It's just me and the Lord. You're not designed to be like that Ephesians 4, verse 16 says the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. You 're you're you're only as good as you are connected to the rest of the body. If you're an individual member, like your function is with the rest of the body. If if my finger is chopped off and it's laying on the ground It's not doing any good by itself. It's in the connection with the rest of the body that it does good. We need to be connected with one another in the specific place of worship that's set in place here is the corporate gathering of the body of Christ. There's something unique about being connected to one another. And Peter's making this connection between the gathering of believers With this picture of the the Old Testament temple or tabernacle where the holy priesthood ministered that was considered to be God's house. And he says, now you're God's house. You're the place where God is manifesting Himself. You're the place of worship where God is receiving spiritual sacrifices and offerings. The temple is considered God's house. Isaiah 56 verse 7 says it's a house of prayer. God says their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar, for my house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples. God committed himself to paying special attention to this house. We already read about that back in 2 Chronicles. The Jewish temple was later on abandoned by God. We learn about that in Matthew chapter 23 after they rejected their Messiah. In verse 38, Jesus says, Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. You can have your temple, but once you reject Jesus, now your temple becomes empty. You can have all the religion you want, but if it's disconnected from Jesus, it's empty. Just like when the ark was taken in the war and Eli fell off of his chair and he broke his neck because the glory of the Lord was taken. The presence of God, because you've rejected his son, now you have nothing but an empty shell. The temple was where God expressed his glory on the earth, where he met with his people, where he committed himself But that place is gone. Temple's torn down. There's no physical site on the earth where you can go. To be near to the presence of God, but God has not left himself without a place on the earth where he has committed to place his name Where he's committed to hear his people, where he's committed to draw near and to meet with us. And that is in the corporate gathering of the church. It's no longer a physical structure. It's in the people of God Now that's what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 3 verse 21. To him be glory in the church. It's in the church. It's in the church. 2 Corinthians 6. 16, we are the temple of the living God, just as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk among them. I will be their God and they shall be my people. I'm going to dwell not in a place, but in a people I will dwell in them. Walk among them. It's not about a physical location anymore because the place is the people. John chapter 4, verse 21. Remember the uh the woman at the well? Jesus said to her, woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. It's not going to be about a location anymore. You worship what you do not know, we worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews, but an hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. It's about the people. That's why Paul commands Timothy in the context of the church, I want men in every place. To pray, lifting up holy hands without wrath and dissension. But the place is now the people, and we're the ones who are offering up the spiritual sacrifices to God. The place is the people. Number three. God is also the one who designates which people are going to do this worship. Look at verse 5 again. It says, you as living stones are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood. Not only are we the temple, we're also the priesthood. It's kind of like a blending of metaphors here. Just like Jesus is the shepherd, but he's also the lamb. Jesus is the high priest, but he's also the sacrifice. And in this case, we're the temple, but we're also the priesthood. And this is one of the ways that we know that the Spiritual house is a picture of uh the temple because those who are ministering inside this place, the spiritual house, are called priests or holy priesthood. And in the Old Testament there was a specific group of people who were designated to serve as priest. Not everybody served as a priest Aaron and his sons, their descendants, had the responsibility of offering spiritual sacrifices, these, you know, physical sacrifices rather to the Lord Nobody else was offered to make these special sacrifices to God. Actually, flip back to Numbers chapter 16. Flip back to Numbers chapter 16. Number sixteen, Korah and his rebellion had the responsibility to serve the Lord in the tabernacle. But that wasn't enough for them. They wanted to get the priesthood as well. You know, we don't just want to be, you know, serving around the tabernacle. We want to offer up the sacrifices too. Look at verse 8. Since then Moses said to Korah, Hear now, you sons of Levi, is it not enough for you that the God of Israel has separated you from the rest of the congregation of Israel? To bring you near to himself, to do service of the tabernacle of the Lord, and to stand before the congregation, to minister to them? And that he has brought you near, Korah and all ye brothers, sons of Levi's, with you? And are you seeking for the priesthood also? Like who do you think you are? Drop down to verse 31. Verse 31. It says, as he finished speaking all these words, the ground that was under them split open. And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up and their households, and all the men who belonged to Korah with their possessions. So they and all that belonged to them went down alive to Sheol, and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly. Flip over to 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel chapter 13. 1 Samuel chapter 13. The Philistines were assembling to battle against the Israelites. Israel was waiting for Samuel to come and offer up the sacrifice before the battle. He was authorized to do it. But King Saul became impatient. Instead of waiting for Samuel, he decided that, you know what, I'm going to make my own sacrifice. I'll take care of this myself. Look at verse 13, chapter 13. So Samuel said to Saul, You have acted foolishly. You have not kept the commandment of the Lord your God, which he commanded you, for now the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. But now your kingdom shall not endure. The Lord has sought out for himself a man after his own heart, and the Lord has appointed him as a ruler over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord commanded you You're not authorized to make this sacrifice. Saul? You know, we could have been talking about the dynasty of of Saul, but instead we're talking about the dynasty of of David. Why? Because Saul went where he shouldn't have gone, offered what he shouldn't have offered. Flip over to 2 Chronicles chapter 26. 2 Chronicles chapter 26. Uzziah, the king, was only sixteen years old when he became king. He reigned 52 years in Jerusalem. His reign was prosperous, peaceful. He was protected until pride got the best of him. And he went where he shouldn't have gone. Look at 2 Chronicles chapter 26. Look at verse 16. It says, but when he became strong, his heart was so proud that he acted corruptly. And he was unfaithful to the Lord his God, for he entered the temple of the Lord to burn incense on the altar of incense Then Azaraih the priest entered after him, and with him eighty priests of the Lord, valiant men. They opposed Isaiah the king and said to him, It is not for you, Zai, to burn incense to the Lord. But for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense, get out of the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful and will have no honor from the Lord God. But how does Uzziah respond? But Uzziah with the censer in his hand for burning incense was enraged. And while he was enraged with the priest, the leprosy broke out on his forehead. Before the priest in the house of the Lord, beside the altar of incense, Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous on his forehead, and they hurried him out of there. And he also himself hastened to get out of there. Because the Lord hath smitten him. King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death. And he lived in a separate house being a leper, for he was cut off from the house of the Lord, and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land. To enter the temple was a serious thing. To offer up sacrifice before the Lord was a serious thing, holy and high privilege. And God determined who would be those who would be allowed to offer up these sacrifices. It was restricted access. It was only so close that you could get to where God made his presence known. But you know what? All of that changed when Jesus, our high priest, offered himself up as a sacrifice for us. That we're no longer barred out from the presence of God. Matthew chapter 27, verse 50, it says, Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up the spirit, and behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the earth shook and the rocks were split. And what does that indicate? That now we can go boldly before the throne of grace. To receive mercy and help in the time of need. We can have access to God directly to God now. We don't go through anybody else. We go straight to God. And we don't need any kind of uh priest down here uh trying to bar the the entrance to the presence of the Lord. How how dare you get in between me and my God? We don't need a priest to get access to God. We can go before God directly. Access to the Lord. What a joy that is. Who do we go to the Lord through? 1 Timothy 2. 5. There is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. I go directly to God through his son Jesus Christ. I don't go to a saint. I don't go to a priest. I don't have to talk to Mary in order to get to Christ to go to God. I go straight to God through Jesus Christ because now I have access. The veil has been torn and I now enter in And it was passages like like this that led the reformer Martin Luther to what's been called the priesthood of the believer. We are the priesthood. That's what the scripture says. We're the priesthood of God. We are priests. He wrote this. Martin Luther wrote this. If the Pope or Bishop anoints, ordains, consecrates, or dresses differently from the lady. That may make him a hypocrite or an idolatrous oil-painted icon, but it in no way makes a Christian or spiritual human being In fact, we are all consecrated priests as St. Peter in 1 Peter 2. 9 says, you are a royal priesthood and a priestly kingdom. And as Revelation 5. 10 says, through your blood you have made us into priests and kings. Through the blood of Jesus, we've been consecrated and dressed in the robes of his righteousness. And through him we're declared holy. There is no more separation. We're not like the children of Israel who had to stand back at a distance while Moses himself went up into the presence of the Lord. We now enter into that presence of the Lord ourselves. We now go before him. Real quick, flip over to Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews chapter 10. Take a look at verse 19. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19. I love this. Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, we enter into that holy place. By the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way, which he inaugurated for us through the veil that is his flesh. Since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near. Are you drawing near? You've been given access, do you draw near? How often do you just say, Lord, I just I just want to take advantage of this privilege to draw near to you People are traveling from all over the world just so they can get close to the to where the temple once stood, but we have the privilege of drawing near With a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. We have been given the privilege of drawing near to him. Let us not lose the wonder of that, that we can draw near to our God. And we have to remember that we are collectively the priesthood. It's not just singular, not just me by myself, but collectively, we are that priesthood. And I should want to run to the place where the priesthood gathers to offer up these spiritual sacrifices to my God. I have the privilege to do that. And if you keep reading through the book of Peters, it's made clear that um uh that that we don't forsake this assembling of ourselves together, that that that we we desire to stimulate one another to love and to good deeds. That's what we do when we gather together and offer up these Spiritual sacrifices to God. And we encourage one another to hold on to our confession before the Lord. God has designated us collectively as a people, a priesthood to worship Him, and this leads us to our fourth point. Not only does God make the preparation for worship and set the place of worship and designate the people for worship, he also establishes the priority of worship. Establishes the priority of worship. What does the holy priesthood do? What's our responsibility now that we are priests? What's expected of us? Verse 5. You also, as living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood for what? To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. What it what what would it mean to be a priest if I never offered up a sacrifice? That was one of the main functions of the priest in the in the temple. We don't come today with blood of bulls and goats and lambs. Those sacrifices are done away with, but it doesn't mean that we don't still offer up sacrifices. We offer up sacrifices, and what are the sacrifices that we offer up? Hebrews chapter 10 verse 10. By this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. We don't come with these physical offerings of blood. We have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ. And what is our spiritual sacrifice? Number one, our bodies. Our bodies. You yourself are to be a sacrifice to God. You are the offering. Romans 12, verse 1. Therefore, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to do what? To present your bodies A living and a holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. If you are a believer, your body belongs to God. It's not your body, your choice. Your body belongs to God. You don't get to do what you want with your body, with who you want with your body. Your body does not belong to you. Your body, your physical members, every one of them, now belongs to God. Are you offering up your body as a sacrifice to the living God? What kind of defiled offering are you bringing before the Lord? Your very body is to be a sacrifice to God. You're to be a vessel for his use. Whatever he wants, you're the spiritual sacrifice. Is that how you think about yourself? That that all that I am should be surrendered to the Lord? You're singing it often in in the song, I surrender all, all to Jesus. I surrender all to him I freely give. I will ever love and trust him in his presence daily live. All to Jesus I surrender, humbly at his feet I bow. Worldly pleasures all forsaken. Take me, Jesus, take me now. Do you see your body as a sacrifice to him? When we surrender ourselves to him, our his will is to be ours. We're to be a spiritual sacrifice, then. Even our body. Don't be conformed to this world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, what's good and acceptable and perfect. Number two Our sacrifices are the fruit of our lips. Thanksgiving. Praise to God. That's a sacrifice. Hebrews 13, verse 15. Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise. We bring the sacrifice of Praise into the house of the Lord, right? We bring the sacrifice of praise, the fruit of our lips, to give thanks to his name. You may not be able to sing a note. Well, it is a note, but it might be the wrong note, right? You know, like they used to say, you know, some of you can't sing your way out of a wet paper bag, you know, I don't know what that means, but some of you might still be in that wet paper bag today, yeah, I don't know You may not be able to give a lot, but you can give your words to them, can't you? You may come in here with empty pockets, but you can come with full hearts Lord, I want to give praise to you. I may not know all the songs, but I'm going to try to mouth out the lyrics. Because sacrifice of praise is what you desire. You praise him, you thank him for what he's done. You know, and over the years I've had many conversations about music and what we should do in music and who should play the music and what instrument should you bring to offer the Lord in music. I mean there's a lot of conversations out there about music. Do you know what the number one instrument is that you bring in here? It's your own voice, your own mouth, that I come and bring a sacrifice of praise to my God, that God should be hearing from every one of you when you gather here Instead of you just kind of sitting here going, mm-mm, this this is not my song. Wait waiting for m you know, it's not my jam, you know, waiting for my jam to come on. As if it's about you We're we're not in here to sing to you. You know, to play your playlist in here. That's not what we're here for. We're we're here to to play God's playlist. To give sacrifice of praise to him. We all gather together and we're all on different keys or whatever else. But it's like, no, this is praise to God. God wants your praise. Because he's worthy of it, isn't he? He's worthy of your praise. We should bring our hearts before him and out through our our mouths that we bring him worship, a sacrifice of praise. Hebrews 13, 16 What else is a sacrifice? Do not neglect doing good. Sharing. And sharing for with such sacrifices, God is pleased. God is pleased when we do good to one another. Is there a brother or sister who's in need? A need that you can meet, maybe there's an older saint that could use some help around their house, someone who's lonely that could use a visit, an encouraging word, financial provision. We bring our our sacrifices of help towards one another. Philippians chapter 4 verse 18, Paul says, I've received everything in full and have an abundance. I am amply supplied, having received from Epaphroditus what you've sent. A fragrant aroma and an acceptable sacrifice well pleasing to God. When we serve one another within this body, and I'm so thankful for the many ways that we served one another here, that's a sacrifice of praise to God. God is well pleased with that sacrifice. Meeting physical needs is one of the ways that we offer up sacrifices to the Lord. Your ministry, whatever your gift is, when you offer that to the Lord, that's a spiritual sacrifice. Paul labored to the point of exhaustion, Colossians chapter 1 verse 29. He says, for this purpose I also labor Striving according to his power which mightily works within me. He talks about this strenuous activity. He's using his gifts for the benefit of the body of Christ. He says that's a sacrifice. Filipinians chapter 2, verse 17. Even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, whatever I do to do spiritual good to you It's a sacrifice. I use my gifts for your benefit. That's a sacrifice to God. Acceptable to Him. I'll give you one more. Christian love is a sacrifice. Love is a sacrifice. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love. Just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma when you love one another. And and I know some of you, you know, you're you're not all as lovable as you might think you are, right? I'm not as lovable as I think I am. Sometimes we get on one another's nerves, don't we? Step on one another's toes. You know, it might be because your feet are too big, you know, step stepping on toes over here. Like like we offend one another. But but what does the Bible call us to do? We're to love one another And that is a sacrifice to God. I don't care how much the person in your row gets on your nerves. You are to love them. And that is a sacrifice to God. That's offering up yourself as an offering and a sacrifice to God. Have you sacrificed yourself, your convenience, to love somebody else? Not just because they're worthy of it, but because God is worthy of it. Have you done that? Are you willing to love one another? That's a spiritual sacrifice that you offer to God. Like I said, often we think about the church in terms of what is the church offering to me. Have you ever come in here and just saying, like, I'm I'm just here to see what I can offer to somebody else? Because that is my sacrifice to God. It's not about me. We offer up these spiritual sacrifices to the one who's worthy of our sacrifices. And that's what we do when we gather together. And that's how we can protect this house. We're not talking about the bricks and the mortar. We're talking about the people. We need to seek to protect one another in this house. And we can't allow anything else to define us other than what the Word says should define us as the people of God. And do you notice how the sacrifices are acceptable? Back in 1 Peter. This real quick. This is This is the last thing I want to point out. How are these sacrifices acceptable? Verse 5. To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through who? Jesus Christ. It's only through Jesus that your sacrifices are acceptable. And if you haven't been prepared for worship by Jesus Christ by coming to him. If you haven't come to him, you can't offer up spiritual sacrifices to him because they're not acceptable. There's a lot of people who think that they're doing a lot for Jesus Christ. But they haven't yet come to him. And you can't serve Jesus Christ unless you've come to Jesus Christ. And your sacrifices are only acceptable if you give those sacrifices through Jesus Christ. There's a lot of people that are offering up prayers and doing good deeds, and you know you think that like, oh, look at all that they're doing for the Lord, but if they have not yet come to Christ, all of it is refused. It's rejected by God. It's just like Uzziah when he's trying to offer up incense before the Lord. It's like, what are you doing in here? I don't accept that from you. It 's like Saul who's trying to offer up his sacrifice instead of waiting for Samuel. What are you doing here? That sacrifice is not acceptable to me We don't offer up our own sacrifices before the Lord like the sons of Korah. Hey, I'm not dissatisfied with my position. I want to offer up sacrifices too. No, you're not allowed to do that. Your sacrifices are no good here. And my fear is that there might be people here who are trying to offer up sacrifices to the Lord who have not yet come to the Lord. And your prayers are going nowhere. Your your your voice in Worship while we're worshiping is not registering in heaven because you haven't yet come to Christ Whatever good works you might be doing, trying to help people out and serving here and serving there, none of it is acceptable before the Lord. The Bible says that the best that we can offer before God apart from him, it's like filthy rags. Filthy rags. Unacceptable. I don't want any of it. And there's so many times in the Old Testament where we read, it's like, just stop it. I don't want your sacrifices anymore. I don't want to hear your singing anymore. It is a burden to me to listen to that. Because the first thing that I want from you is your heart. And you have not yet given your heart to me. So I don't want to hear your prayers. I don't want to hear you singing. All of your giving is useless. You have to come to me. So come to him. Come to him to allow him to make you a living stone that we offer up a spiritual sacrifice that's acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Come to Jesus. Without Jesus Christ, you have no authority to offer a spiritual sacrifice to him, because the first sacrifice that he wants from you is a broken spirit. Psalm 51, verse 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. What are we talking about? I'm talking about falling on Jesus. Fall on him, be broken, recognize your sins for what they are. God, I'm a sinner in need of a savior. God, I've sinned against you. I've rebelled against you. I've wanted nothing to do with you. I've chosen to use my body for just what I want. I've used my body for my own pleasures. I've used my life to serve me. I haven't been thinking about serving you. I've taken this life that you've given me the very breath that gives me life, and I've used that breath to curse you. I've used these members of my body that you've crafted, that you've given to me as one who's made in the image of God. And I've taken that life and I've done what I've wanted with it I 've served myself. I've served my pleasures. I've served my sin. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. I've served all these things all of my life. I haven't yet come to you. And God, I want to acknowledge that and I want to be broken before you. Father, I pray that you would break people in here. Break them free from their sin. Let them fall on Christ. Because unless you fall on him, he will fall on you. And God have mercy if he has to fall on you, because you will not survive. You will not survive. He will crush you to powder if he falls on you. And it's my prayer that you would come to this living stone and become another living stone. That he can just build brick by brick into this spiritual edifice that worships and praises God. Why wouldn't you want to be a part of that? Why wouldn't you want to be a part of what's going to last for eternity instead of being crushed for eternity? Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. Your word is so rich. Your word is true. Father, without this word, we don't have life. Without this word, we don't have hope. Unless we come to Jesus, we will be crushed. And Father, there are some here today who have heard messages like this over and over and over again, and they're headed to damnation. Father, I pray that you would rescue them, that you would be merciful, that you would hear my cry because they're not crying out themselves. God, I pray that you would hear my cry for mercy. Father, that you would have mercy. That they would come to your Son, that they would trust in him, that they would be saved for eternity, and become a part of this spiritual house that offers worship to you, that's acceptable to you, and that only comes through Jesus Christ. Father, may you hear our prayers. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. C Ds and Digital Files