The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well this morning we have the uh the great privilege of welcoming uh to our pulpit uh Dr. Irv uh Buznitz. Uh Irv grew up in central Kansas and after completing Undergraduate studies in Omaha, Nebraska, came to California with his wife, Karen, to attend Talbot Seminary during his residency for his Master of Divinity Studies. He served as a youth pastor and associate pastor in Downey, California. From 1974 to 1986, he was a member of the Bible Extension Exposition Faculty. at Talbot Theological Seminary and from 1977 to 1986 he served as director of their uh Valley Extension campus and uh Dr. Business became a founding member of the Master's Seminary Administration and Faculty in 1986 and I also served as the the Dean of uh uh uh academic uh dean there uh while I was uh there at the the seminary and I got to know Dr. Busnit Dr. Buznitz and his wife uh Karen have been married for almost fifty years. Uh fifty years uh what month? July. July. Fifty months uh uh fifty years in uh in July so uh uh very blessed uh with uh a long uh time to together and uh they have two married sons and uh six uh grandchildren and uh many of us would be familiar with uh one of their sons, Nathan uh Buznitz uh uh from uh uh conferences at the um uh out of grace community church and uh also uh serving now as the academic dean at the uh the seminary uh uh in the place that his uh father served for many years. So I'm just very grateful to have him with us. Dr. Busnitz has also published uh commentaries on Joel and Obadiah. and uh retired from the the seminary last year and has uh additional time to to write. Uh he's working on a book on the minor uh profits and uh uh some other works that he has in mind as well. So uh looking forward to to seeing uh what the Lord will do uh in his retirement years. You know, uh retirement isn't a time just to kinda you know kick your feet up and play golf, you know, uh although he's getting into a little bit more golf I I heard. But uh but it's uh it's a time to to to use uh the the wisdom uh that's been imparted to you to to share with with others. And uh we're very grateful that Dr. Busnitz and his wife Karen uh can be with us. Uh when I graduated from the the Master's uh seminary one of the things that I I mentioned in the um uh in the uh the time of uh uh testimony uh seniors uh give testimonies at the uh the graduation at the before the graduation at the seminary and one of the things that I I mentioned is that as I went through seminary that there was not one professor uh that I could say that I did not want to emulate in some way. Uh that that every professor that I I sat under at the Master Seminary, that there was something that I wanted to to imitate in their life and uh uh Dr. Business is definitely uh one on the the top of the list and uh very thankful for for him and uh for his wife the The time that I got to know them while I was there at the seminary, uh Pastor Matt as well, uh spent some time even working uh with uh Dr. Buznitz in the office at the Master Seminary. And uh we're very uh privileged uh to have you here with us. So can we welcome Dr. Busman to the bullfit? Thank you very much. It's a delight to be with you this morning. We are enjoying the rain that God has sent. We get so little of that in Southern California. And so to have a few days of rain while we are here is just a joy for us to enjoy that. Well, take your Bibles and turn with me if you would, please, to Psalm 139. Psalm 139. Almost 400 years ago, a group of Puritans convened in Scotland Their goal? To hammer out the basics of the Christian faith, to decide on the rudiments of Christianity. To boil down the teachings of Scripture into the keys of Christian living. The idea of convening assembly to do this was not unusual. Over the centuries there have been many convocations of this sort. In the first century there was the Jerusalem Council. Convened to discuss the demands of the old covenant. There was the Council of Nicaea in the fourth century A. D. to discuss the deity of Christ. And along the way, there have been many others In our day, the Chicago Council on Inerrancy in the nineteen eighties. But this Scottish Puritan Council called the Westminster Assembly will be remembered by many because of one key statement. That statement? The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. It boils down the ultimate purpose of our existence as believers. In one succinct statement, it lays down the ultimate goal of every Christian, to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. Why has it stood the test of time? Why has it stood the test for almost 400 years? Because it is biblical. It is what the Bible clearly teaches. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 5 and 6 tell us that he predestined us to be to the praise of his glory. Ephesians 1 verse 12, to the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ would be to the praise of his glory. Ephesians 1 verse 14. The Holy Spirit is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession to the praise of his glory. Why? As believers, he has rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his dear Son. That we would be to the praise of his glory. This is drip dripping with emotional appeal He has snatched you and me from the fires of eternal death. He's transferred us to the kingdom of His Son. His divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. He has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenlies in Christ. Furthermore, it's not just the chief end of man. It goes beyond mankind. It is the chief end of all creation. Animal creation. Isaiah chapter 43, verse 20. Even the beasts of the field will glorify me. The heavens, Psalm 19, verse 1, you know it well. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament shows forth his handiwork. The ultimate reason for everything that exists is the glory of God The physical universe will not fail to do so. The animal world will not fail to do so. The only question that remains. There's a question for you and for me. Do we live to the praise of his glory? Do we incessantly, like creation, declare the glory of God? Quite a few years ago there was a Nissan commercial that went this way. Life is a journey. Enjoy the ride. For the Christian, the spiritual life is a wonderful journey. Romans chapter 8, verse 32, he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How will he not also with him freely give us all things? How can we not enjoy the ride? But the practical question still remains. If I as a Christian am to glorify God and to enjoy him forever , How am I going to achieve that? How can I make that a reality in my life? If that is the main thing of your existence in mine, how am I going to keep it that way? How am I going to keep the main thing the main thing? This morning I would like to suggest that there are four foundation stones on which to build that kind of a life for you and for me For us who are in Christ Jesus. A life that seeks to glorify God and enjoy Him forever without an understanding of these four truths. You will be forced to sputter along in the slow lane of your walk with the Lord. These principles are essential to glorifying God and enjoying Him forever. These four principles are found in Psalm 139. If you've not already opened there, please do so because the Psalm opens up very easily To us. There are four stanzas of six verses each. The first four verses of each stanza are descriptive The last two verses are reflective. The first four focus on God's greatness, his attributes, who he is. The last two verses in each standard focus on worship and how we are to respond. David is enthralled in worship. Worshiping God's greatness. In the last two verses of each stanza, he applies the theology of the first four verses to himself and to life. And thereby he invites us to join with him as well. Before we get into the text, just one more observation. It is a very personal psalm. The first person pronouns, I and me and my are used forty-eight times. In reference to God, he uses you and me, not he and me, but you and me. It's very personal to him. There is a closeness, a nearness, an intimacy. Four foundation stones on which to glorify God and enjoy Him forever Let's look at it together. The first six verses, recognize God's preeminent knowledge about you. Recognize God's preeminent knowledge about you. Verses 1 through 6. We begin with verse 1, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. Think about it for a moment. He knows everything about you. He knows everything about you and me. He has full and complete knowledge. It is like a master detective He is aware of every detail of our existence. You have searched me. The word for search, there's literally to dig. He's gone digging. As for precious metals, a full investigation, no sown left unturned, perfect scrutiny, X-ray vision, no chance of a wrong diagnosis. Hebrews 4, verse 13 reminds us, and there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. What is the object of his searching, of his digging? You are. I am. Notice the next three verses. Verse 2. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. He knows our actions. Begins emphatically here. You, you alone. Rest or motion. Every condition of life he knows. Do you remember every time you stood up or sat down yesterday? God knew it and he saw it. He knows our actions, verse 2. Furthermore, he knows our thoughts. Last part of verse 2, you understand my thought from afar. The searching intensifies here. If walls could talk. God can read my mind. He can read my mind and your mind. He can read our intentions, our motives, and he can do so from afar. It's like a divine Google Earth. He can see your neighborhood. He can see your street. He can see your home and he can see inside your home. Jeremiah chapter 23, verse 24 reads this way, Can a man hide himself in hiding places so that I do not see him, declares the Lord? Do I not fill the heavens and the earth? Job 22, is not God in the height of the heavens? Look also at the distant stars, how high they are, and you say, What does God know? He knows our actions. He knows our thoughts. No wonder the Apostle Paul exhorts us to bring every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. We think actions , and words , but it is the thoughts that require obedience. Why is our thought life so important? A little poem gives us the answer. Your mind is a garden. Your thoughts are seeds. You can grow flowers or you can grow weeds. Thought life. So important. Verse 3 continues the focus. You scrutinize my path and my lying down and are intimately acquainted with all my ways. He knows our pathway. He knows our ways. The marvelous thought here, God scrutinizes our path before we walk it. Motion and rest, as in verse 2, he sifts through the divine sieve as it were to remove any obstacles or pitfalls before we travel along that pathway. It's like the skin cancer cream that I put on my face a number of years ago. Where it seeks out the cancer cells and destroys them. God is like that cancer cream. He seeks out any pitfalls that might trip us up Listen to what other scriptures say about this. Proverbs 69. The mind of man plants his way, but the Lord directs his steps. Psalm 23, he leads me or guides me in paths, tracks, or ruts, literally, of righteousness. First Corinthians 10 13, God will not allow us to be tempted above what we are able. He knows Our pathways. He knows our words. Verse 4. Even before there is a word on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all. Even if you don't know what you're going to say, he does. And we talk an awful lot. The average person spends one fifth of his or her life talking. That's what the scientists tell us. If all our words were put into print, a single day's words would fill a 50-page book. In a year's time, the average person's words would fill 132 books of 200 pages each My thoughts and my words are fully known to him. If the number of words posted on Twitter Each day would fill a 10 million page book. My thoughts and my words are fully known to him. And it's not just past words. Our unformed thoughts and words are like seeds, and their fruit is known in advance to the keeper of our heart. Before there is a word on my tongue, O Lord, you know it all. Omniscient. Omniscient. God is all-knowing. Verse 5 and verse 6. The psalmist begins to reflect on the theology of verses 1 through 4. He says there in verse 5, You've enclosed me behind and before, and laid your hand upon me. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me, it's too high, I cannot attain it. We are continually encircled by God's knowledge. Reflection He has enclosed us, literally besieged us or hemmed us in in the good sense. And we know it's the good sense because of verse 6. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He goes before us. Psalm 23, verse 6. Surely goodness and mercy will follow after me. He leaves, he follows. He's got our backside covered. Then he goes on in verse 6, such knowledge is too wonderful for me, it's too high, I cannot attain it. And he even adds before that, You've laid your hand upon me, or palm. It's a gesture of blessing. When Jacob blessed his two grandsons, it says that he put his palm upon them. God 's blessing is upon us as he orchestrates his plan for his glory and for our good. All of this is too comforting for the psalmist. It is so incomprehensible he can only marvel at it. We cannot fully comprehend it How he knows everything about us, but we know it is true. He is infinite, and we are finite. It is this very thing that causes the Apostle Paul to exclaim O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are your judgments and unfathomable your ways. Life is a journey in which God has outlined your pathways and mine. And He calls us and invites us to embrace His knowledge of you. To embrace the knowledge that He has given to us so that we may enjoy the ride where He is orchestrating all of it. Recognize God's Perfect knowledge about you. Verses 1 through 6. We move on. Verses 7 through 12. Rejoice in his personal presence with you. Rejoice in his personal presence with you with you. One reason that God knows everything about us is because He is always with us. Verse 7. Where can I go from your spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence? God is everywhere. We we pick up a hint of that even in the very first word of verse one. Oh Lord, you will notice it's all capital letters. It is the name Yahweh, and it means always is, always is there. Eternal existence, eternal presence. He is always with us. And then he elaborates here in verse 7, describing where he might be able to go. I don't think David is trying to get away from God's scrutiny. I believe it's a rhetorical question. He expects a negative answer. David is glad there is no place he can go. He's comforted by God's continual presence. Verse 7 is the theme, the question that is answered in verses 8 through 12. David imagines three areas in which escape from God might be possible. Verse 8. If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed and shield, behold, you are there. Up or down. Vertical extremities. It's a hypothetical supposition. I don't believe he's suggesting that he could do as Elijah did and go up into heaven or as Enoch. Talks about ascending to the heavens because God is there. He sits enthroned there, Psalm chapter 2, verse 4, which we read this morning. If I descend into Sheol, the grave. God is there in the sense of judge. Folly to think that people can escape from God's judgment. Amos chapter 9 verse 2 Though they dig into Sheol from there my hand will take them. Though they ascend to heaven from there I will bring them down. Vertical extremities, up or down. East or west, verse 9. If I take the wings of the dawn, and if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. From the horizontal to the vertical, from the vertical to the horizontal, to flash from west to east, from east to west as fast as the dawn's early light God is there. Jonah tried to do it. God was there to lay hold of him. Vertical extremities, no escape. Horizontal extremities, no escape. But he goes on to suggest one more, verse eleven. If I say, Surely the darkness will overwhelm me, and the light around me will be night. Even the darkness is not dark to you, and the night is as bright as the day. Darkness and light are alike to you Surely the darkness will overwhelm me. Maybe you have a marginal note in your Bible. The word there is really bruise. Literally to bruise. Surely the The darkness will bruise me. Something will hit me, and I'll not see it. Even darkness in the presence of earth. Shepherd will not harm me. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, of deep darkness. I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Even darkness cannot hide us from God. Even darkness is light to God. In Daniel chapter two, verse twenty-two It says, it is God who reveals the profound and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells in him. The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. How is that to happen? To recognize his preeminent knowledge about you, to rejoice in his personal presence with you. But then he continues. Verses 13 through 18. Marvel at His powerful creation of you. Marvel at His powerful creation of you. No wonder God knows you. He is always with you. He made you. He created you. Verse 13. For you formed my inward parts. You wove me in my mother's womb. I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in secret and skillfully wrought in the depths of the earth. Man's body. is the most complex and intricately designed system in the universe. Listen to what the scientists tell us. They tell us that we each of us have 200 billion Brain cells. Two hundred billion brain cells. Twenty percent of your calories are burned by your brain. Amazing. Our five senses give us some astonishing capabilities. Our nose can smell fifty thousand different scents. Our taste buds can taste an ounce of salt and a hundred gallons of water. The sense of touch can detect a pressure that depresses the skin one one thousandth of an inch on the face or fingertips. Our ears can tell where a sound is coming from, even when it arrives at one ear, just three one thousandth of a second before it arrives at the other ear. Those are our five senses. Our organs are equally astounding. Our heart beats a hundred thousand times a day. Our heart pumps 48 million gallons of blood in a lifetime. It travels through 60,000 miles of blood vessels. It travels 186 million miles a day. Our lungs bring 23,000 times a day, inhaling over 2,000 gallons of air. every day. Our kidneys process over four hundred gallons of blood every day. Amazing. David is not writing about abortion here, far from his mind, but we cannot help but think of the impact of these verses on that very topic. on that very topic. Each of us has been created uniquely. We are wonderfully made, verse 14. The word wonderfully there is literally differently or uniquely or distinctly. He has created each of us uniquely. The DNA, no two humans are alike. An adult body has approximately 75 trillion cells. Yet it all begins with two microscopic cells coming together. Verse 15, we've been skillfully wrought. Skillfully wrought. The word there is used for embroidery in the Old Testament, weaving tapestry. The pattern of your DNA and mine is an intricate structure to serve as a template for the building of our bodies. The divine weaver, the divine embroiderer, is secretly weaving an intricate, beautiful design in your life and mine. No mere creative power, rather a power that shaped you and shaped me, shaped us uniquely. He didn't just create you. He fashioned you individually. No cookie-cutter here. He made you in the most perfect way so that you could best glorify him and could truly enjoy him. That, of course, leads us to verse 16. Your eyes have seen my unformed substance, and in your book were written The days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them. He knows our thoughts from afar, verse 2. He knows our words before we say them. Verse 4. He knows us before we were born. Before David was born, God had marvelously planned out his life. You're unformed or unformed. Or should I say, not unfolded, still rolled up, probably speaks of life in the womb before we were born. In your book were all written the days that were ordained. Can't add to them? Can't subtract from them. Our days are ordained by God. And furthermore, not only days, not only length, but events of David's life If we read elsewhere, listen to what David says in Psalm 56, verse 8. You have taken account of my wanderings. You've put my tears in a bottle. Are they not in your book? Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. Nothing provides more confidence and encouragement than this, to knowing that He has our days, your days, my days, numbered from eternity past. You and I are not living leaving a day early or a day late. Job chapter 14, verse 5. Man 's days are determined. The number of his months is with you. And his limits you have so set that he cannot pass. God is a God of details. Matthew chapter 10 tells us that he even sees the sparrow fall. He has ordained the good works that you and I should walk in them. in eternity past. And so it is no wonder that the psalmist exclaims in verses seventeen to eighteen How precious are your thoughts to me, O God. How vast is the sum of them. If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. When I awake, I'm still with you. Knowing that God knows all, that He is always present, that He is all powerful, is not a hardship for the psalmist. It is a most valuable asset. It alleviates any kind of worry, any kind of fear. He's made you exactly as he wished. In the best possible way for you, for your good and for his glory. He says there in verse 18, if I should when I awake I am still with you. It's possibly a reference to David's recitation of these thoughts when he awakes in the morning. Or possibly he speaks of awakening in God's presence at death, from birth to death. Awaking in God's presence from the tomb, from the womb to the tomb, nothing will separate him from God, and nothing will separate us from God as well. To glorify God and enjoy Him forever, we must recognize His preeminent knowledge about us. We must rejoice in his personal presence with us. And we must pause and marvel at his powerful creation, unique creation of you and me. But there is more to this incredible journey. It requires a response from you and me. It requires a response. Pursue God's perfect holiness in you. Pursue God's perfect holiness in you. Verse 19 Oh, that you would slay the wicked, O God, depart from me, therefore, men of bloodshed, for they speak against you wickedly. And your enemies take your name in vain. Do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with the utmost hatred. They have become my enemies. To glorify God and enjoy Him forever, we must pursue His holiness. David takes us to a whole new level in this Psalm. God's perfect knowledge and presence and power are complemented by His holiness. He cannot condone sin In our lives. Notice that these men are enemies of God, and thus, because they are enemies of God, they are enemies of David as well. No moral neutrality here. No moral neutrality is permitted. He is so taken with God's holiness that he wants nothing to do with these evil men. Bad company corrupts good morals. He understands that Verse 21, do I not hate those who hate you, O Lord? Do I not loathe those? Loathe means to be sickened by, to be disgusted, to be grieved. Psalm 119, verse 158, the psalmist writes, I behold the treacherous, treacherous, and I loathe them, because they do not keep your word. Psalm 69, verse 9, Zeal for your house has consumed me. The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me, quoted by Christ in his triumphal entry. Verse 22, I hate them with the utmost hatred. Literally perfect hatred, full hatred, complete hatred. But we need to bring this a little closer, a little closer to home. Job chapter 42 When Job saw the Lord, he cried, I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you, therefore I despise myself. And I repent in dust and ashes. When Isaiah saw the Lord in Isaiah chapter 6, he cried, Woe is me, for I am ruined, because I am a man of unclean lips. David's reaction here in Psalm 139 is similar. These verses are David's response to seeing God's holiness, to seeing God's attributes. He hates the evildoers. But as he recounts their evil deeds, he realizes that he is not without sin either. That God will overlook no thought or action. Either of the wicked or of the psalmist himself. After rehearsing the sins of others, he realizes that he too is sinful as well. And thus he cries out in verse 23 and verse 24 Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try or test me and know my anxious thoughts and see if there be any hurtful way in me and lead me in the everlasting way. You ask, didn't God already do this in verse 1? You search me and have known me. Didn't he do that in verse 1 already? Why is the psalmist repeating that here? I believe it is because the psalmist is telling us God You've already searched me. Now show me what you have found. Show me what you see. I want to know what you know. He wants to know his own heart as God knows it. He wants to know what God knows. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me or test me and know my anxious thoughts. Ancient Egyptians taught that gods weighed the heart of the deceased after death, but not so with the true God. The psalmist wants God to do it during his lifetime, and he invites us to do the same. Job 23, but he knows the way that I take, and when he has tested, or tried, the same word, when he has tested me, I shall come forth as gold. And see if there is any hurtful way, anything that might lead to pain or hurt later, either to David or to God. Purge me of anything that might be offensive to God. It is a brave prayer. But one we must pray as well. Because we too are blind. We are spiritually deceptive. To truly know our own heart, we need his input. And thus we need to ask him to reveal to us what he sees. And notice the order here. I believe that is very important. Search me. And know me. Know my heart. Try me. Search me. And then test me. And know my anxious thoughts. After the searching comes the testing. The dross has to be burned off. Those anxious thoughts that make me vulnerable to sin After the testing comes the leading. You see, we plead for God to lead us. We plead for his leading. We don't plead for his searching and testing. But perhaps the order is very important. Leading follows a heart that is open to God, searching and testing. In verses 1 to 22, verses 1 to 22 all too often represent us as believers. We know theology. We know that God is omniscient, sovereign, all-knowing, ever-present, omnipresent, omnipotent, all-powerful. We hate those who hate God. We know it all on paper. We embrace it. But do we welcome his knowledge of us? Do we invite his findings? It is a prayer here in verses 23 to 24 that calls each of us to account this morning. Like David, you and I still need to be searched and tried, scrutinized, examined, tested. We need to see ourselves in the searching headlights of God's omniscience. He knows more about you and me than we will ever know about ourselves. And so the question comes this morning: Are you willing to pray this prayer? Am I willing to pray this prayer? Ultimately, it's not enough. To recognize His preeminent knowledge of us, or to rejoice in His personal presence, or to marvel at the fabulous creation of us. It's not enough. The door to opening, glorifying God and enjoying Him forever, it opens only through this prayer. It may invite some pain. It may invite some surgery. But there's nothing to be afraid of because as his child He loves you and me eternally. He knows what we need, and he wants to help us. One author sums it up well, I believe. He says, I am graven on the palms of his hands. I am never out of his mind. I know him because he first knew me and continues to know me. He knows me as a friend, one who loves me, and there's no moment when his eye is off of me Or his attention distracted from me, and no moment, therefore, when his care falters. This is momentous knowledge. There is unspeakable comfort in knowing that God is constantly taking knowledge of me and love and watching over me for my good. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts, and see if there be any hurtful way in me. And lead me in the everlasting way. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, the Revelation that you have given to us through the words of the psalmist. Awesome reminder of all that you do for us, your presence with us, your power, your scrutinizing our way, the tracks of righteousness that you before ordained for us. May we be faithful to you, not only in knowledge of all you do for us, but also that we would be open to your searching and trying and testing. and seeing if there be any hurtful way, and then cleanse the dross burned off, we can follow your leading Your guiding, your way. That is our prayer this day. In Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.