The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, let's uh open up our Bibles to the Book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew. Again, this uh this morning This Sunday we have the privilege of returning to get another view of the Messiah, the one who came just as the Scriptures prophesied, and the one who will come again just as the Scriptures promise we're in Matthew chapter 9 verses 35 to 38 this morning as we transition into a brand new section of Matthew which will be in uh chapter 10, a brand new uh teaching section of of Matthew in chapter 10. Uh follow with me uh uh as I read Matthew chapter nine verses uh thirty-five to thirty-eight Since Jesus was going through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. Seeing the people, he felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Therefore, beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you once again and we thank you, uh Lord, for your word. We thank you for the truth of it, we thank you for the authority of it. Uh Father, we thank you for the sufficiency of it, and uh Father, we pray that uh you would use it to uh Encourage us in our faith, that you would use it to convict those that don't have faith. Lord, those that might even be here today that don't know your son Jesus Christ, I pray that you'd use these words to bring conviction. And Father, I pray that you use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Long before Any of the modern missions agencies were conceived. There was a man by the name of William Carey in England who was burdened for the unreached peoples of the world. During the eighteenth century there were new lands that were still being discovered and explored, and Carrie would read about these voyages that people had to these distant lands. But for what for many was just excitement and fascination became to carry uh what was a revelation of the sin and sorrow. The immorality, cruelty, and misery of unevelized peoples, a drama of the world's tragic ignorance of Christ and a door opening to hell. That's how he saw it. Is he all these new lands were being discovered? He says this it's just more people who don't know Christ. He's discovering more people who didn't know the Savior. Because those lands were filled with people who were lost. He would collect data about the nations, and every night he would add a new location to a map that he created himself. And uh identified it on a leather globe that he actually stitched with his own hands to pray for the lost. When he tried to convince an association of ministers that they should consider whether the command given to the apostles to to go therefore and to teach all nations If that was not still binding on them, to try to convince a group of ministers that it was still their obligation to go out to the ends of the world, it's reported that an older minister replied to him and said, Young man, sit down. You're an enthusiast or a fanatic. When God pleases to convert the heathen, he'll do it without consulting you or me Kerry was unmoved by the opposition that he received and continued to think, speak, and write about the evangelized evangelization of every habitable shore. Until the First Missionary Society was founded and William Carey became the first missionary to be sent by that society and he left for India. in June of 1793, the first missionary to be sent out by Mission Society. He was short, he was impoverished, he lacked a college education. His hands were seamed and stained with stitching leather in a cobbler shop. He made shoes for a living. But he mastered Greek, Hebrew, and Latin in his spare time. Between shoes, he'd study books on Greek, Hebrew, and Latin. translated the scriptures into 40 different languages and became the father of the modern missionary movement. He said, uh how is it that multitudes sit at ease and give themselves no concern about the far greater part of their fellow sinners who this day are lost in ignorance and idolatry. Carrie couldn't think of people or lands without having a deep interest in the salvation of their souls. And uh J. C. Ryle wrote, there are millions, millions. Millions of deluded Muslims, millions of superstitious Roman Catholics, millions of unconverted Protestants near our own doors. And the man who does not feel for the souls of all the unconverted people surely cannot have the mind of Christ. And what we have in Matthew chapter 9 is really a display of the heart of Jesus Christ. Too often people want to talk about the heart of Christ without acknowledging what the heart of Christ really was. But in this brief passage of Scripture it uh we really get a clearer view of uh the Christ of Scripture in Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 to 38. This is a transitional passage, uh closes out the section of scripture that comes before and prepares us uh for what's about to follow in the scripture that comes after it. If uh you look back to Matthew chapter 4 In verse 23, and look what it says here. It says, Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. And then when you look at verse 35 of Matthew chapter 9, look at what it says here. Jesus was going through all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. And here you have two almost identical statements, Matthew chapter 4, verse 23, Matthew chapter 9, verse 35. basically identical uh and kind of like bookends uh to everything that that comes in between. Matthew uh chapter 423 was a preparation. for the Sermon on the Mount, which was the first major block of of teaching in the book of Matthew. And Matthew chapter 9, verse 35, is the preparation for the second major teaching block of teaching known as uh um the missionary discourse or the calling of the the twelve in chapter ten. Uh there's there's five different uh teaching sections in in Matthew and they all end with the words uh when Jesus had finished these words there's these kind of major teaching blocks. But in between those major teaching portions, uh we have sandwiched in between that, the the the in between the marvelous words of the king, we have these miraculous works. of the king. And really Matthew chapter 9, 35 to 38, is just a summary of the miraculous works of King Jesus. And what this passage provides us with is is much more than just a review of what we've already heard in chapter 4, verse 23. It goes beyond a restatement to actually present us with the motivation and the urgency behind the ministry of the Lord. And I'm praying that this would provide a proper motivation for our ministry. as well because uh real ministry takes real guts. And uh there's three sections of this passage in uh verse 35 we have Jesus taking the initiative and ministering In verse 36, Jesus feels the motivation for ministry. And in verses 37 to 38, Jesus senses the urgency of the ministry. Let's take a look at the first one. Jesus takes the initiative in ministry. Look at verse 35. Jesus was going there throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. And there's really three aspects to this ministry of Christ. Jesus taking the initiative and ministry here that are outlined. There's three uh uh major facets of the ministry, teaching, proclaiming, and healing. Teaching, proclaiming, and healing, all found in verse. 35, but grammatically, every one of those words is connected to the phrase, Jesus was going, or Jesus went. So because Jesus went, Then there was teaching, proclaiming, and healing. And it seems like a simple point, but all of the ministry of Jesus hinged on Jesus taking the initiative to go to them. Not waiting for people to come to him, but him taking the initiative to go to them, to make efforts in his travels, to visit synagogues, to open his mouth, to stretch out his hand to heal. I mean who would even know that Jesus had the ability to heal if he didn't at first stretch out his hands and heal somebody? Jesus actually had to go to somebody to start to make known this ministry that he had among them. Christ initiated it And Christ is the the true seeker in this relationship in Romans chapter three verse eleven. It lets us know that no man seeks after God So here you have Christ coming to men because men aren't coming to him. He goes out to them and starts this process of ministering, and he wearied himself. doing this kind of ministry among Galilee. During the time of Christ, the uh the city of uh actually the area, the region of Palestine, uh existed in four different divisions. There was uh in the south, there was Judea. On the west side of the Jordan there was Samaria. On the east side was Pharea, and in the north was Galilee, where Jesus grew up and where he ministered. Galilee was a district that was approximately 70 by 40 miles wide, densely populated. According to Josephus, who was not only a Jewish historian, but in 66 A. D. he was actually a commanding general in Galilee, so we know a lot about Galilee. He said this, he says, the cities of Galilee lie here very thick and very numerous. Villages are so full of people because of the fertility in the land that the very smallest of them contains fifteen thousand inhabitants. Uh it was estimated that only a few decades after Christ that more than three million people lived in Galilee. Three million people. And uh other facts support that number as well. And we're not sure what the schedule of Jesus looked like, but we know it was pretty tight. It was pretty tight as he's going out to visit all these different villages and and cities. It would have uh if he just visited one city a day, it would have taken him at least half a year to visit all the cities that we we know about. Half a year to uh to go out and visit all the the cities that we we know about. And there was literally somebody tugging at Jesus' garments everywhere that he went. In uh Luke chapter 8 verse 42, it says as he went the crowds were pressing against them, just mobs of people around Jesus Christ. In uh in just the few accounts that we've already read so far, he said interruptions on top of interruptions on top of interruptions. You know, he he's barely healing one person until somebody else is saying, Hey, can you come here? Can you do this? There's just All these kind of pulls and demands on Jesus' time, from Matthew's house to Jairus' house to the woman with the flow of blood, just all all the time, people pulling at him, tugging at him. One commentator writes this that his activity was unceasing. He visited every city and village in that thickly populated district. It was a new thing in the history of the world, a missionary of salvation sent from heaven. Spending his time in ceaseless journeys and constant wearying labor, and that not for gain, but for not for pleasure, but for the sake of love. To win dying souls to God and to heaven. And uh as he went, he concentrated his teaching efforts in the synagogues as well. We find that he was teaching in the in the synagogues. That's the uh the the first kind of uh uh participle that we find here. He was teaching in the synagogues. Uh he was searching for the lost sheep, and uh where better to find lost sheep than to go to church, right? And basically that's what the synagogue was. It was the the place of uh of worship. Uh the temple was where you would go periodically to offer sacrifice. You were only commanded to go to the the temple three times a year. Jewish males were required to go to the uh the temple three times a year. But the the Jewish people would meet multiple times a week in the synagogue. That's where everybody would gather together. It was the center of Jewish community and life. Not only was it the primary place of worship, but it was also the primary place of study. So if Jesus is going to teach people, the place to go is going to be to the synagogue. Philo, an ancient historian or philosopher, calls synagogues the houses of instruction. This is where you go to be taught. And uh who better to explain the Bible than the author and the fulfillment of the Bible himself? As he's opening up the scriptures, uh to the people. And it was uh common uh during this time for visiting rabbis to give uh discourse if they're they're visiting a synagogue. Uh Paul took advantage of that tradition in uh Acts chapter 13. You have an um Uh Paul, he's arriving at a place called Poseidon Antioch, and it says that after the reading of the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent to them saying, Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation, say to the people, say it. You know, they kind of open it up. Like if you have a visiting Teacher here, you know, get up and give us what you have. And uh Paul stood up and motioning with his hand, he says, Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen. And uh gave them the the word of God, gave them the understanding of what the scriptures had to say. And uh according to the Mishnah, there was uh which is an oral tradition of the Jewish people, there was uh an order uh in the the worship, the flow of worship, which is uh Pretty interesting. It might sound familiar. Listen to what they did when they gathered together in the synagogue. There was a recitation of the scripture, the Shema, a common confession of who the true God is. There was prayer. There was the reading of the scriptures, the the old and uh the law and the prophets, the two sections of scripture. Uh there was a prayer for of blessing by the priest. And then what followed that was a translation of the scripture and a sermon, an expository sermon on the passage. And then the service was closed by a final blessing. Sounds a lot like church to me, doesn't it? Sounds a lot like church. And uh Christ was considered the visiting rabbi as he traveled around to these different cities. And he had the opportunity to open his mouth and speak. Why don't you turn over to Luke chapter 4 just to show you an example of where he did this? Luke chapter 4. Now just a small sample of the kind of uh message that Christ would give, a very small sample. Look at uh Luke chapter 4 starting at verse 16 It says, and he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as was his custom, he entered the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read. And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him, and he opened the book and found the place where it is written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, he has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of the sight to the blind, to set free those who are oppressed, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord. And then he closed the book Gave it back to the attendant, sat down, which was the position for teaching, sat down, and all the eyes and the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him, and he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hand. hearing. Incredible. Incredible. If if you're looking for an explanation of this scripture, you're looking for an explanation, here it is. Here it is. Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. Uh but not only did he teach in the in the synagogue, he also went about on the streets, not only to the the people that gathered together for worship, but he went out proclaiming the good news of the the kingdom, uh uh proclamation of the gospel of the kingdom took place everywhere, and what was The gospel of the kingdom. We have part of that news in Matthew chapter 4, 17, where Jesus proclaimed, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. This is the gospel of the kingdom. Matthew chapter 7. He would have shared words like these in Matthew chapter 7, 21 to 23. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. This is the good news of the kingdom. But he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, that we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them I never knew you Depart from me you who practice lawlessness. It'd say things like he said in Matthew chapter eight and verses twenty to twenty two, where he said Jesus said to them, The foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head Another disciples said to him, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father. But Jesus said to him, Follow me and allow the dead to bury their own dead. Jesus called people to commitment to himself. That's what Jesus was out there doing. The gospel of the kingdom was about the ministry of the Messiah, the ministry of the king to come and follow me, to turn away from your sins and come and follow me. That was the the news of the kingdom He's calling people to himself and he has every right to do so because he's the king. And then there was the healing which took place, which we've been covering for the last couple of weeks. But it's interesting that Teaching and preaching are placed first before we get to the healing. And that's not on accident. Sometimes people talk about the ministry of Christ as if the primary goal was just for Christ to come out and improve. the quality of life or like the the kingdom is spread through humanitarian efforts apart from the proclamation of uh uh of the truth. Uh there's that saying, you know, preach the the gospel always and when necessary use words. You ever heard that? And the support for that in the Bible is you're not going to find it, right? In Romans chapter 10, verse 4, it says, how can they here accept there be a what? A preacher. If you're going to preach the gospel, it's necessary to use words. How are they going to hear unless there's a preacher? Somebody has to open up their mouth and talk. I like what uh uh Tony Miano said. He says, Preach the gospel always, and when necessary, use amplification. You you need to get the gospel out, the message needs to be heard, and the miracles that Christ did were just like the amplification for the message. that he gave to call attention to what he had to say. When you think about Moses, Moses performed these signs in in Egypt. Why? So that Israel would listen to him That the Pharaoh would listen to him. Pay attention. It's like the amplification. He's speaking for God, and the miracles are like the amplification. You need to listen up. You need to pay attention to what I'm saying. Prophets like Elijah perform signs. Why? So that Israel would listen up. Let the God who answers by fire, let that God be the true God. Amplification: listen up. God is speaking. And the signs that Jesus performed were like the megaphone saying, listen up. Jesus' priority wasn't just the physical healing ministry to people, but to have a spiritual healing to people, to call people to himself, to call people to salvation. And there's times that he even left people sick in the city because he had a higher priority. In Mark chapter 1, verse 38, you can jot this down. Mark 1, 38, he said to them, Let us go somewhere else. People are still coming to him to be healed. And he says, let's go somewhere else to the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for that is why I have come. I've come to get a message out. I've come to get the message out about who I am. It's not just about the uh uh the healing of people, it's about getting the message of the gospel out. He never lost sight of that goal, never lost sight of it Too many ministries that begin well lose sight of their existence in the first place. Too many ministries. So many ministries do this, do this. You have uh ministries like uh the Goodwill, which started out as the ministry of a church in 1902. Who goes there for spiritual ministry today? You go to the goodwill for spiritual ministry? Salvation Army founded in 1865 to minister to the down and outs and to bring the three S's. You know what the three S's were originally? Soup, soap, and salvation. That was the ministry of the salvation army to bring soup, soap, and salvation. YMCA, founded in 1844, to put Christian principles into practice by developing a healthy body, mind, and spirit. And you'd probably get kicked out if you tried to preach the gospel in one of those organizations today. They'd probably shut you down. You know, we're not about that. We're not about the gospel. Try to go to a Y today and open-air preach or something like that. They'll kick you out for giving the gospel. Can't lose sight of our our goal. As a church, we can't lose sight of what we're here for. And the real ministry takes real guts to do It takes real real guts to do. And uh there's a lot of ministries, like I said, that are falling by the wayside because they get caught up in uh things that are peripheral instead of the things that are central. Jesus, in addition to uh uh Jesus here uh taking the initiative for ministry, going out to the nations, we also find that Jesus feels the motivation for ministry in verse 36 of Matthew chapter 9. So seeing the people, he felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd. And Matthew uses then Interesting words for the motivation that Jesus had for the word compassion, the compassion that Christ had. He used the Greek word splank nidzomi, which literally means the move word, the movement of the inward parts. That's what the word means, the movement of the inward parts. That's the word for compassion. It's a word that was used to refer to the literal moving of the intestines or the bowels, the guts. And we find that the noun form of this word in Acts 1, verse 18, where it speaks about Judas who acquired a field for the price of his wickedness. And falling headlong, he tried to, you know, hang himself and he fell headlong and burst open in the middle, and all of his intestines gushed out. That's the that's the noun form of our word, guts, intestines, you know, the bowels. A graphic word to speak about the inside. And when ancient ancient writers wanted to talk about like deep feeling, deep emotion, deep passion. They spoke about the the physical reaction that the the body would have, the movement of the of the bowels. And uh people today say, oh that's silly to talk about you know compassion with uh terms like that, but then they'll turn turn right around and say, I love you with all of my Heart. We just use different organs, you know. We don't we don't use the stomach, we use the heart. Uh not like any feeling or emotion comes out of the, you know, the the the organ beating in your chest. But uh, you know, we just use organs to to talk about uh feeling and uh and emotion to talk about something that's central to us. Uh but the idea that Jesus is is here is that Jesus was so deeply affected by the pain and suffering that was experienced in the in the crowds that he ministered to that he had this experience of of just like his stomach dropped out You know, just like his stomach was turning around on the inside uh as he looked out on the the pain of of others. And uh some some of the the parents in here they feel the same way. You know, you find your child, you know, in some kind of distress and it's like your stomach just reaches out. It's like if there was anything that I could do to change what's going on, I would. You know, I remember when my uh my kids that had two that were hospitalized with asthma, and it's just like, you know, it's just everything in you is just like, if I could If I could take it for 'em, you know what I mean? Just to see them suffer. You just want to do anything to remove it. You feel the same way, uh pi uh grandparents feel the same way for their grandchildren or you know, some of the distress that they might see there when you see some life-threatening emergency, some devastation, poverty, you know, it's just like your insides just like turn around for that person or you know group of people. And Jesus is here described as is his stomach turning as he sees the people. And the script scriptures often speak about the compassion of Jesus Christ. Those who were physically sick drew out Jesus' compassion. Matthew 14. And 14 it says, when he went ashore, he saw a large crowd, felt compassion for them, and healed their sick. So he felt compassion for those who were sick. Those who were physically hungry drew out the compassion of Christ. In Matthew 15, 32, it says Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I feel compassion for the people. Because they have remained with me now three days and have nothing to eat. I don't want to send them away hungry. They might faint on the way. Just compassion reached out to these people. We know that he felt compassion for those who were grieved. Why don't you turn over to Luke chapter 7 just to show you that Jesus wasn't just concerned about physical ailments, but uh also the emotional distress that people felt as one uh as well in uh Luke chapter seven. Look at verse twelve. It says, verse 12 of Luke 7, it says, Now as he approached the gate of the city, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother. And she was the widow, and a sizable crowd from the city was with her, and when the Lord saw her he felt compassion for her and said to her, Do not weep. And he came up and touched the coffin, and the bearers came to a halt, and he said, Young man, I say to you, arise The dead man sat up, began to speak, and Jesus gave him back to his mother, and fear gripped them all, and they began glorifying God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us. And God has visited his his people. And what you have here is Jesus just feeling compassion for a mom. It wasn't about the dead man at this point. He's not feeling compassion for the son. It's just seeing the tears of the mother that his heart just broke And he went out to to make sure that she was able to gain her son back. And here we have the compassion of Christ put on display again. But it's uh it's important to remember that uh that Jesus is a Savior who is moved when your heart aches. When we're weighed down by distress, by the circumstances of life, Jesus is not indifferent towards you. He's not just sitting here with his hands folded saying, oh, well, that's for you to deal with. Jesus cares. Jesus is moved by the things that move us. So we need to understand that we have a Lord who cares for us. 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 7 says Casting all our anxiety on him because why? Because he cares for you. Jesus cares for you. And it's the the kind of turning in his stomach was uh just a physical sign of the care that Jesus had for for others. It's the And the condition that Jesus was concerned about, if you flip back to Matthew, it wasn't the physical state of the people. It wasn't the emotional state of the people. It was their spiritual condition. Their pitiful spiritual condition. Jesus moved with compassion because of the spiritual destitution of the people. That's why I say real ministry takes real guts. It takes compassion. A real turning of the bowels and compassion for others. If you're going to do real ministry, it takes this kind of motivation to stick in there. Because you're not going to do it just by, you know, I'm going to just kind of pull myself up and do it. It takes real compassion, a real a real desire and uh uh to to see uh others uh uh brought up, lifted up out of despair. There's a number of ways that uh this is described. It says that uh the people were worried and helpless in some versions, harassed and helpless. distressed and dispirited, harassed and rejected. But what's uh clear here in uh Matthew chapter 9 is that uh Jesus is concerned for the spiritual condition Christ is concerned about all suffering, but uh like Matthew Henry said, it was pity for souls that brought Christ from heaven to earth. It was pity for souls and from there to the cross. He had a he had a compassion for the spiritual condition. of our souls. And in Matthew chapter 9, verse uh 36, that word distressed , it's literally a word that means to It's a word that means to literally be skinned is the word for for to be distressed here. To skin or to flay, to pull the skin off of the body. is what the the word literally means. It was uh used metaphorically for uh any kind of serious trouble. You know, sometimes you might say, you know, this person's gonna skin me alive or something like that. if they found out what you know happened or whatever. But this is a literal word to skin, to take the skin, rip the skin off of a body was the word that was used here for uh being distressed. And the second word to be dispirited is uh the Greek word ripto, it means to be thrown off, tossed aside And it was used in the Greek translation of Jeremiah 14, 16 for the judgment that would come upon Jerusalem, when it says the people were would be thrown out into the streets of Jerusalem. Because of the famine and the sword, and there will be no one to bury them, just like discarded, just thrown out into the streets like like trash, refuse. And the picture here is really devastating. The imagery is of sheep. Spiritually, that he's seeing these people as sheep who have been ripped apart, skin ripped off. Starred, discarded, lying helpless, prostrate, unprotected. And the first question that comes to your mind when you visualize a scene like that is where are the shepherds? Where are the shepherds? The sheep are lying around mangled, skins off, broken, busted. Where are the shepherds at? Sheep are known to be defenseless animals. Without a shepherd, they're vulnerable to any attack. Even with without predators, they still need help to find food. The sheep don't do this on their own. It said that no creature is more apt to go astray than a sheep, and when gone astray, more helpless, feeble, exposed, or more unapt to find the way home again. So the question is, where are the shepherds? And what Jesus says is that Israel had none. They didn't have any shepherds. Israel was an abandoned flock They're scattered, harassed, cast down, skinned. No shepherd to lead them to the safety of the fold at night. No shepherd to lead them out into the pastures of true instruction by the day. And this is really a direct attack on the religious leaders of his day. If we look back to Numbers chapter 27, throughout the Old Testament. Throughout the Old Testament, the image of a shepherd was used for the religious and political leaders of Israel. As far back as Numbers 27, you have uh Moses. Who use this image for spiritual leadership in Israel? At this point in Numbers , God's already communicated to Moses that he's done. You know, instead of uh speaking to the rock, he did what? Struck the rock, and he's done. He says, You're not going to lead these people into the promised land because you did not glorify me in their sight. So Moses is going to be put on the shelf. Back in Numbers chapter 20 is where he did that. Disobeyed God. And in verses 12 to 14 of Numbers 27, God lets him know what his last sight is going to be. Look at chapter 27, verse 12. Then the Lord said to Moses, Go up to this mountain to Aberim and see the land which I have given to the sons of Israel. When you have seen it, you too will be gathered to your people. You're going to die. As Aaron your brother was, for in the wilderness of Zinn during the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against my command to treat me as holy before their eyes at the water. These are the waters at Meribah of Kadesh at the wilderness of Zinn. Then look at what Moses says in verse 15. Then Moses spoke to the Lord saying, May the Lord, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation. Who will go out and come in before them? Who will lead them out and bring them in so that the congregation of the Lord will not be like sheep which have no shepherd? Moses understood his role as a shepherd to the people of Israel. In verse 18, so the Lord said to Moses, Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him. And have him stand before Eliezer the priest and before all the congregation and commission him in their sight, you shall put some of your authority on him in order that all the congregation of the sons of Israel may obey him. So here you have Moses who 's leading the people of Israel, the first real shepherd. And here you have uh Joshua who's appointed as the second shepherd to lead, to guide spiritually and politically the people of God. Then you have uh judges over Israel as well, who were considered shepherds. You find that in uh 2 Samuel 7, verse 7, the the different judges even after they got into the land, after Joshua passed on, that these different judges were considered shepherds for Israel. Yeah, kings like David, considered a shepherd for Israel in uh 1 Chronicles 11, verse 2, it says, in times past, even when Saul was a king, These are the people speaking to David. You were the one, even when Saul was king, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. And the Lord your God said to you, You shall shepherd my people, Israel. You shall be prince over my people, Israel. And after that, the religious leaders were also supposed to fill the role of shepherd, in addition to the kings. The religious leaders were supposed to fulfill this role of shepherd. Why don't you flip over to Ezekiel chapter 34? I know I got you flipping around a little bit today. Ezekiel chapter 34, but this is this is an important chapter to mark down. Ezekiel 34, along with Matthew chapter 23, has to be some of the most harsh and critical condemnation. of the religious leaders, the false shepherds of Israel. Look at uh Ezekiel chapter uh thirty-four. And really what it implies here is that the very ones who are given responsibility to guard and protect were the same ones who were the predators themselves. These are the predators. The ones who are supposed to shepherd the people, to comfort the people, to protect and guard the people. These are the predators. So sad. Look at Ezekiel 34. It says, Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, Thus says the Lord God, Woe shepherds of Israel who have been feeding themselves! Should not the shepherds feed the flock? You eat the fat and clothe yourselves with the wool. You slaughter the fat sheep without feeding the flock. Those who are sickly you have not strengthened, the diseased you have not healed, the broken you have not bound up, the scattered you have not brought back. Nor have you sought for the lost, but with force and with severity you have dominated them. They were scattered for lack of a shepherd. They became food for every beast of the field and were scattered. My flock wandered through all the mountains and on every high hill. My flock was scattered over all the surface of the earth, and there was no one to search or seek for them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord, as I live, declares the Lord God. As I live. Surely, because my flock has become a prey, my flock has even become food for all the beasts of the field for lack of a shepherd, and my shepherds did not search for my flock, but rather the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed my flock. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will demand my sheep from them, and make them cease from feeding sheep. So the shepherds will not feed themselves any more, but I will deliver my flack from their mouth, so that they will not be food for them. And look at verse eleven. For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out out. I myself will come and search for my Sikh and sheep and search them out. Who was the one who came to seek for the sheep? Jesus is the shepherd. Jesus came back. He says, I'm going to be the one to seek for the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And this is what Jesus came to do, to seek after the sheep. In the time of Jesus Christ, he did not, there are many people who would would have been considered shepherds. Jesus didn't recognize one of them. Not one of them as a true shepherd. Israel wasn't without synagogues. More than uh anywhere that where there were more than ten Jewish males gathered together, they could establish a synagogue. Jesus visited many synagogues in the cities. They weren't without synagogues. They weren't without scribes and Pharisees and priests. They were crawling all over everywhere trying to check people out to make sure that they're following the rules. They weren't without traditions. Which they held in opposition even to the Word of God. What they lacked was true spiritual leadership. They didn't have any shepherds No spiritual leadership, left ripped apart, thrown down, skinned, discarded. And this is what ripped Jesus' heart to pieces as he looked over the people. His stomach turned within him as he saw shepherdless sheep. And it was a constant motivation in his ministry. That's the heart of the great, good, and chief shepherd. To seek the sheep, to find God's sheep, right? And that should be the heart of those who serve underneath the chief shepherd. And that should motivate us for ministry, right? That should be a motivation for ministry. Because Baltimore is not without churches. Baltimore is not without churches. We're saturated with churches on every corner of Baltimore, aren't we? Baltimore is not without ministers and clergy and men of the cloth, right? But like Calvin said, many under the name of clergy are eating up the flack. And Baltimore is not without its rituals and ordinances and worship services, but there are great masses today who are scattered like sheep without a shepherd. And it's sobering to think about how many shepherds would Christ recognize in this city? How many would Christ say, hey, these are real shepherds? Ministry takes real guts, like I said, real compassion. Real compassion. And Jesus takes the initiative in ministry. Jesus feels the motivation in ministry, and lastly, Jesus senses the urgency of ministry back in Matthew chapter 9, again, verses 37 to 38, back in Matthew chapter 9. It says, then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. And uh now Jesus moves from the picture of the flack to the picture of the field. Uh one commentator said if the shepherdless flack imagery expresses the desperation of the situation, the imagery of the harvest expresses the urgency of it. The the idea is that uh the plentiful harvest is that there was there's grain that will be shed and spoiled and rot on the ground if it's not harvested quickly. You gotta get this grain quickly. The men who are not gathered and saved in time will perish like the wheat that is not reaped. And uh there's three primary harvest seasons in in Israel uh that's kind of associated with three celebrations. There's the barley harvest in April and the Feast of Passover. There's the wheat harvest in June and the Feast of Pentecost, and there's the fruit harvest in October and the Feast of Tabernacles. And uh with each of these uh harvest seasons, they only had a matter of weeks to bring the harvest in. If you're gonna get this this harvest to come in, you've got you've got you've got to do it quick. They had approximately two months for each harvest season, and according to one source, harvesting was a task that occupied all the members of the family and even meant living on the fields until the harvest was over. It's like when when it was when it was ripe, you had to do it quick. And if we're going to stay here all night and get up early in the morning, that's what we're going to do because we don't have a lot of time here. We don't want to waste it. We don't want to lose it. Everybody who heard Jesus speak of these words would have understood that if the field is ripe, the clock is ticking. Everybody would have understood that. It kind of gives us uh maybe an understanding of uh remember in the the book of Ruth, Boaz was laying out in the field. Remember that? Why do you think Boaz was laying out in the field? It was harvest time. The barley harvest was in. He's out there laying in the field because, hey, you gotta get it while it's while it's good. You can't let it let it go to go to waste. I gotta be out here. Stayed out in the field all night. Everybody who heard Jesus speak about the harvest understood that if the field is ripe, the clock is ticking. And I'm the last person that you'd want to get like farming advice from. The name George actually means farmer, for those of you who don't know. Uh but it's a it's a misnomer. I don't know why I got that. Actually I do know my father had it, but he was a gardener, he didn't didn't give that on to me. I hated go into the garden with my dad. It was just like uh it was the worst. But anyway I have a hard time growing grass, all right? And so uh, you know, you've got to have a green thumb. I tell people both of my thumbs are brown, you know, so uh But anyway, I I do have a small tomato plant in the back that doesn't take much work. You know, I planted it and uh don't have to do a lot to it. But I know when the tomatoes start to get ripe, I've got to get them quick. Because the animals will get it, the bugs will get it, you know, it'll fall off and it'll be on the ground somewhere, you know, getting stomped on or whatever else. So you have to take it while it's while it's right because a couple days too late is too late, right? Time is critical and a bountiful harvest would mean that you need to have all hands on deck. Everybody needs to be in on this until the job is complete. We don't want to lose any of the crap. And here's the the bottom line that's uh really shocking and sobering to think about. This harvest will be reaped one way or another. The harvest is going to be reaped. In uh Matthew chapter 3 verse 12, we have a picture of the wheat. That has been harvested, that will be gathered into the Lord's storehouse. Remember that when uh John the Baptist talked about that, that he will gather his wheat into his barn. So that talks about the harvest in a good sense. But when you look at the vast majority of times that the harvest is used in Scripture, the reapers are usually grim reapers. When you look throughout the rest of the scripture at the idea of harvest, it's usually grim reapers. In uh Jeremiah 51 verse 33 it says, For thus does the Lord of hosts The God of Israel, the daughter of Babylon, is like a threshing floor. At the time it is stamped firm, yet in a little while the time of harvest will come for her. It's talking about come for her in judgment. In uh Joel chapter 3, verses 12 and 13. It says, Let the nations be aroused and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come tread for the wine, press is full, the vests overflow, for their wickedness is great. Again, it's a picture of judgment. The harvest is a picture of judgment. One more, flip over to Revelation chapter 14. Because uh here we have the same picture putting in the sickle. The wicked wickedness is is great. And you have the same kind of picture over in The book of Revelation. There's some portions of Revelation that take a little bit of work to try to understand, you know, to interpret. Revelation 14 isn't one of those passages. Look at Revelation 14 starting at verse 14. This is John speaking. He says, Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man, having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand. And another angel came out of the temple crying out with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, Put in your sickle and reap, for the hour to reap has come, because the harvest of the earth is ripe. Then he who sat on the clouds swung a sickle over the earth, and the earth was reaped. And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, and he also had a sharp sickle. Then another angel, the one who has power of fire, came out from the altar, and he called with a loud voice to him who had put the sharp sickle, saying, Put in your sharp sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, because her grapes are ripe. So the angel swung his sickle to the earth and gathered the clusters from the vine of the earth and threw them into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the wine press was trodden outside the city, and blood came out from the winepress up to the horses' bridles for a distance of 200 miles. Not hard to understand that one. There is judgment to come. There is judgment to come. People are going to be reaped one way or the other. They can be reaped in mercy, in salvation, or they can be reaped in judgment and the fury of the wrath of God. And the angels who gather at the end of the reaping season in Matthew chapter 13. It says in verses 41 and 42, the Son of Man will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blocks. Those who commit lawlessness will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. There's a reaping of judgment. And it's been said that there's there's no real way to describe how Nothing on earth can compare with it. No living person has any real idea of it. No madman in the wildest flights of insanity ever beheld its tor terror. No nightmare racing across a fevered mind ever produces a terror to match that of the mildest hell. But we have the glorious privilege of picking men off of the stocks before the time of reaping comes to gather them from the four corners of the street. We have the privilege of seeing people being reaped into salvation and mercy and compassion, rather than just watching men catapult themselves into to hell and the reaping of the fury of the wrath of God. And as Jesus looked out over these multitudes, as he's looking out upon the people, he's saying that the harvest is ripe. Where are the laborers? We need more laborers to bring them in. Notice how Jesus prepares his people for the harvest. Back in Matthew chapter 9, he doesn't say, the harvest is ripe, just go. That's not what he says. He says the the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are fruit, few. Therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. The first thing that he says is not, here's the harvest, now go. He says, here's the harvest, now pray. Do you see the severity of the situation? You need to be praying for the situation. You need to be praying for these people. It's been said that compassion and prayer are the best preparation for going forth. You need to have a compassionate heart that's that's stirred up by prayer. Praying for the lost. Do you pray for the lost? Do you pray for the lost? His disciples were first to prepare their hearts in prayer before stepping afoot on the field. They had to prepare themselves in prayer first, and through prayer he developed this, they developed this compassion. For those that they were to reach out to. The first thing that they need to understand is is that they're not the Lord of the harvest. They're not the Lord of the harvest. They need to pray to the Lord of the harvest. There's another one who's the Lord of the harvest, right? They need to come before him There was a preacher who's who's known as the who's known as America's pastor who said this. Anybody can be one to Christ if you discover the felt needs to his or her heart. That key to each person's heart is unique, so it is sometimes difficult to discover. It may take some time to identify it, but the most likely place to start is with the person's felt needs. You know, if I can find a person's needs, felt needs, I can win anybody to Christ. If I can find their needs. Rick Royne. That's not what Jesus taught. It's not what Jesus thought. That makes you the Lord of the harvest instead of Christ. Acts like you have the power instead of Christ. We haven't been the given the skill to discover the the key to each person's unique felt needs. We don't have that kind of skill. And if we did have the key to somebody's heart, we'd find it with a heart of stone. What are you gonna do getting the key to a heart of stone? What good is that gonna do you? It doesn't do you any good. The heart is stone dead apart from Jesus Christ. Stone dead. We'd be just as skilled as uh raising the dead back to life, right? We can't do that. John 6. 44 it says, No one can come to me unless what? The Father who sent me draws him. You need to be drawn to Christ. We need to be drawn. So we need to come before the Lord of the harvest. Because we know that he has the key to people's heart, not us. We need to be reminded that there is a Lord of the harvest, and we need to beseech him. And secondly, we need to be reminded that we're not lone rangers in the mission field, right? You know, here's here's the the field, go. You know, just kind of on your own and like you don't need any help. Need to remember that the Lord still has seven thousand if not bowed the knee to Baal, right? It's not just you on your own. And we need to beseech the Lord to send out more workers. And that's the means that God uses. J. C. Rowell says money can pay for agents. Universities can give learning. Bishops can ordain. Congregations can elect, but only the Holy Spirit can make ministers of the gospel. You can't do this on your own. You need to come before the Lord and ask God to help. Help. We need help. Beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out more workers. And if we have the the kind of Christ-like compassion and pray for souls to be brought in. It's uh not a surprise that uh the Lord would would tap us to say, I want you to go, right? So along with the uh the prayer to send out workers into the harvest We also need to have the prayer of uh Isaiah chapter 6 that, you know, here I here I am, right? Send me. Here I am, send me. It's been said that the uh the lazy are many, but the laborers are few. The lazy are many, but the laborers are few. Jim Elliott, the missionary and martyr to the Aka Indians of Peru, said, We don't need a call, we need a kick in the pants. Is what we need. Here I am, send me. So what what what holds you back from saying a prayer like this? What is it that holds you back? Do you lack the courage? Afraid to go? Do you lack knowledge? You think you don't know enough to go and be a witness? Do you lack faith? Don't trust in the Lord? Or could it be that you just lack guts? You lack compassion. Lack compassion. Bowels of mercy. For the lost. This is what we need to have, right? This is going to be the motivation to reach the lost for Jesus Christ. William Carey could have listed a number of reasons why he shouldn't have gone to India. Reasons not to make himself available. Like I mentioned earlier, he was short, impoverished, lacked a college education, his hands were stained. But he left in June of 1793 to India. Didn't see an Indian convert for the first six years of ministry. Six years laboring with nothing to show for it. Six years. But God was pleased to use him to lay the foundation for the many converts that would come. He was responsible for the translation of the scriptures into Bengali as well as a number of other Indian languages. Saw missions built. Many numbers come to know the Savior. And he wrote these words, listen to this. He says, What a heaven will it be to see the many myriads of poor heathens of Britons among the rest who by their labors have been brought to the knowledge of God. Surely a crown of rejoicing like this is worth aspiring to. Surely it is worthwhile to lay ourselves out with all our might in promoting the cause and kingdom of Christ. It's worth it, isn't it? Surely it's worth it for the glory of Christ and for uh seeing uh lost come to know Jesus Christ. I pray that today as you've uh considered this passage, that the Lord would give us all the kind of compassion that we need to reach out to the lost because uh the the field is ripe. There's many out there. God knows who are his, right? God knows those who are his. You don't. That's why you need to go, right? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh this opportunity that we have to uh gather together to hear your word. Uh we pray that you'd Use this passage in our lives, Father, that you would convict us by it, that you'd help us to become more and more like your Savior. And Father, we Thank you for giving us all that we need for life and godliness, and for giving us the motivation that we need in the example of our Savior Jesus Christ I pray that we would be like him to seek and search out those that are lost, that we wouldn't just see sheep that are scattered without a shepherd, but that we would uh seek to uh to have them brought in and gathered uh before that great day of reaping time. In Jesus' name you praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.