The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Just by way of introduction, why don't you take your Bibles and open to the book of Hebrews? Hebrews chapter 13. And I'm still recovering from my uh trip to Argentina as well as uh uh trip to California as well, so you have to excuse me this day uh today if uh still sound hoarse, but Yesterday I had the privilege of attending the memorial service for Pastor John MacArthur, and a number of people have asked me about the service How have I been processing everything? What are my thoughts? And I thought it would be an appropriate opportunity today to just share some of those thoughts with you. But before I do that, I want you to know that taking the time to remember a life well lived and calling to mind the lessons that were faithfully taught is an entirely biblical thing to do. And it's actually commanded by Scripture to do. So this is not idolizing anyone. This is actually just being obedient to Scripture. And uh Hebrews chapter 13 In verse 7, we read these words. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we have to look to your word. Father, I pray that uh you would help us to understand the things that we read. I give you all glory and honor. Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. And uh Father, we pray that uh that you Lord would be glorified, Lord, through the uh the word of God and uh continue to be glorified through this church. For your glory we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. In Hebrews chapter 13, we actually read two commands. There's the command to remember Remember those who led you. This is the first command. And the second command is the command to imitate at the end of the verse, imitate their faith. Both of these are imperatives, meaning that it's not only right, but it's expected that believers would remember those who came before them, and also to imitate their faith, and not to do so would be sinful. First of all, the word remember is a common word in Greek. It speaks about recalling, remembering, keeping in mind, speaking of or making mention of. And this word here, remember, also distinguishes the leaders of the past from the leaders of the present. And what do I mean by that? If the author of Hebrews was talking about leaders who were currently with them, he wouldn't just say remember them, but he'd say what? Obey them. And that's what you find a little bit later down in chapter 13 and verse 17 where it says, obey your leaders and submit to them. For they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this would be unprofitable for you. So that was the command regarding their current leaders. But back in verse 7 he's referring to the leaders that they had in the past. And this is reinforced by the past tense of the verbs that are mentioned here. He says, remember those who led you. It's a past tense. Those who spoke to you. And then it says you're to consider the results of their conduct. That word result is a word that means the outcome. It's actually a word that could be translated as the exit. It's a the Greek word ekbosis, and it's the same word that's used in 1 Corinthians chapter ten and verse thirteen where it says God is faithful who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape. He'll provide the exit. So that you will be able to endure. It's the escape. It's the way out. And the author of Hebrews is here referring to leaders who have made their exit. It could literally be translated the exit of their life or the end of their way of life. So what we're talking about is remembering those who have finished well. As one commentator said, the outcome of their life, or more accurately, the outcome of their conduct, is the sum total or achievement of their day-to-day behavior manifested in the whole life This achievement of their daily living included no doubt and was completed by the triumph of faith in the closing scene of death So here again we're talking about those who had a life that was well lived, that came all the way to the closing scene of death, and looking at their life as a whole, considering the conduct of their life, the outcome of their life You know, that were to imitate their faith. And there's three features of a life that's well-lived. And this can be an example for all of us. Three features of a life well-lived. Number one. A leadership that can be followed. A leadership that can be followed. Again, in verse 7 it says, Remember those who led you. That word led is a general word for leadership. It doesn't refer to a specific office in the church like an elder or a deacon. It's just a word for leadership in general. It was used for administrators, high state officials, other leaders in general. So it wasn't a specific word for church leaders. Which is to say that this leadership isn't just restricted to apostles and prophets, you know, those who are recognized as leaders in the church. It was a word that was broad enough to include others who were faithful and godly examples, that you can be an example of someone who lives a life that's worthy for others to follow you. worthy of a life for others to pattern themselves after. You can be a godly example for for others to follow, living a life of integrity. And their lives provided an example to follow. So he says, remember those who who led you. He also, not only is a feature of a life that's well lived, that it's a leadership that can be followed, they also bring a word that can be trusted. A word that can be trusted. Look again at verse 7. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you. So leaders are not just known for speaking their words, they're to be known for speaking the word of God. And this gives us some idea of the kind of people that the author of Hebrews is talking about. These leaders are to be remembered as those who communicated to them the Word of God. In Hebrews chapter 2, if you want to flip back to chapter 2. The people that specifically shared the word with them were those who personally heard the Lord themselves. Hebrews chapter 2. Take a look at verse 3. Actually, I'll start at verse 2. I'll just start at verse 1. For this reason, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard. so that we do not drift away from it. For if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every transgression and disobedience received the just penalty, How will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? So, what's the word about? The word is about salvation. After it was at the first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard. Who heard who? Who heard those who had listened to the Lord. Those who listened to the word of the Lord, and they're now communicating what they heard from the Lord. And God also testifying with them, those who heard the word spoken through the Lord, God was testifying with them. both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. And again, if you pay attention to the context, and this isn't the main point, It's in the footnotes, but uh the point here is uh that the people who were followed by signs and wonders and various miracles and gifts of the Holy Spirit, those were the ones who originally heard the Lord. You know, so for anybody who's walking around today and saying that, you know, I've got all these signs and miracles and gifts following me, uh, they'd all have to say that they were the ones who first heard the Lord. Because that word has to be now confirmed by all these signs so that you know that I'm speaking the truth. But today, if we want to know that anybody's speaking the truth, what do we do? We check them with Scripture. You know, are they saying what Scripture has to say? But anyway, these were the ones who spoke the word of God to them. The word of the Lord is specifically The word of salvation that was spoken through the Lord, confirmed by those who heard with these various signs and miracles, and they were faithful to communicate what they had received. God confirmed their words by the testimony of the various miracles, and that belonged to that first century church. But this is the same word that was spoken to us. In Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 2 it says, In these last days he has spoken to us in his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, for whom also he made the world. And throughout the book of Hebrews, we're reminded of the power of the Word of God. In Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12, it says, For the word of God is act the living and active. and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart So we have this word and we now communicate that word with others. So we have this same word, the same gospel of salvation. We're giving that word, and we're to be faithful. with that word. So we're to give a word that can be trusted. A leadership that can be followed. A word that can be trusted And number three, a faith that can be imitated. A faith that can be imitated. Back again in chapter 13 and verse 7 It says, remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. A faith that can be imitated. As you probably remember, faith is a major theme in the book of Hebrews The primary recipients of the letter were Jewish people who came out of Judaism in order to follow after Christ, but they soon discovered that following Jesus didn't guarantee them their best life now. And over in Hebrews chapter 10, the author reminds them of what they've been through already for the sake of the testimony of Christ. Flip over to chapter 10. Chapter 10, take a look at verse 32. It says, but you remember the former days when after being enlightened you endured a great conflict of sufferings. Partly by being made a spectacle, a public spectacle, through reproaches and tribulations, and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated For you showed sympathy to the prisoners and accepted joyfully the seizure of your property, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one. Therefore do not throw away your confidence which has a great reward For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what was promised. For yet in a very little while he who is coming will come and will not delay, but my righteous one shall live by faith And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. If you have a life that a faith that can be imitated, you have a faith that's an enduring faith. An enduring kind of faith. And here you have these Jewish converts, you know, Jewish people who came out of Judaism to follow after Jesus Christ, and now they're suffering for their faith. Great conflict of suffering, persecution, shame being made a public spectacle. They endured reproaches and tribulations and difficulties, being ridiculed. A number of them even lost their property for the sake of of Christ. And now all of a sudden you have people who say, you know, hey, I'm I want to follow Christ, but but now they're looking down the road and saying, I don't know if I want to keep going down this path Because following after Christ is difficult. Following after Christ sometimes brings persecution. You might not have ever known trouble until you said that you're a Christian. You know, sometimes people say, you know, hey, come to Christ and you know all your problems will go away. That's a lie. That's a lie. Some of you might not have ever known trouble until you said, hey, I want to follow Christ. Now the attack comes. You know, any dead fish can swim downstream, right? It's the attacks are coming against you when you say, hey, I want to follow Christ. I want to be different. Now you're the salt and light of the world, and Satan wants to stamp you out. So those who say that I want to follow Christ, you should expect it. Those who desire to live godly will do what? Suffer persecution. You'll suffer persecution by following after Christ. Now these who have accepted Christ, or you know, at least they profess Christ, they're wondering if Things were better back in Judaism. Kind of like those who were delivered from Egypt and they're on their way to the promised land, but then they start rehearsing the menu items from Egypt. We remember the fish that we used to eat free in Egypt. Yeah, f free with the change, right? We used to eat it free in Egypt. cucumbers and melons and leeks and onions and garlic. But now our appetite is gone. There's nothing at all to look at except this manna. You know, the very things that God is using to to sustain your life, to provide for you, his provision that at one time you ran out and you're so excited about praising God for his provision, and now it's like all I gotta do is look at this man up. Is that how you look at the blessings of God? You know, some of us we come to Christ and it's just like, ah, you know, the drudgery, now I've got to pray and read and go to church. It's like that's how you look at the blessings, the provision of God, what sustains your soul, the milk of the word of God, and now it's like, oh, I guess I gotta read. No, this is what the Lord has given to you. Now these people are tempted to go back. Hebrews 10, verse 38 says, But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. Those that profess Christ and go back into the world and abandon Christ, God says, I have no pleasure in him. My soul has no pleasure in him All throughout the book of Hebrews, there's these stern warnings, you know, not to drift away, go astray, fall through, fall away, shrink back, come short. But rather we're told to hold fast, to enter in, to press on, to draw near, to endure. The true believer can never say, I've fallen and I can't get up. This is a long distance run, this is a marathon, it's not a sprint, and those who are faithful are faithful until the end. And that's the faith that we can imitate. And we're to remember those leaders who persevere until the end Those are the leaders worth to remember. That's the kind of faith that's worth imitating, and these are the kind of leaders that are worthy of imitation. And the second imperative is to imitate them. We do like they did. Imitate their faith. We try to emulate the way that they live their lives because we want to finish well also. Is that what you want to do? I want to come to the end of my life knowing that I've lived my life well, that I've finished well. So what does the Bible instruct me to do? Find leaders that I can say, hey, I can pattern my life after that person. Because he's a faithful example of somebody who's lived well, and I can see the end of his life, the result of the end, as he's exited out of life, and I can say, that's the kind of person I want my life to look like. And just briefly, what I want to do is uh to remember one of my leaders today. I can still remember the first time I heard Grace to You was over thirty years ago, around 1994, not as long as Uncle James, but uh 1994. I was a new believer. I was struggling with whether or not I could lose my salvation and the interpretation of Hebrews chapter 6 Which if you've read Hebrews chapter 6, it can be confusing. It's talked about the you know the falling away and the gifts of the Spirit and all this stuff, and it's like, oh Lord, like You know, can you really lose your salvation? You know, is there a way that you can you can you know taste of the gift of the Spirit and still, in the end, be cast away? And I remember being confused about that passage. There was a group of uh people that were arguing from Hebrews 6 the night before, and the next day I turned on Christian radio for the first time ever. I remember listening to Grace to you. It was John MacArthur, and guess what passage he's speaking on? Hebrews chapter 6. The very same text I was wrestling with the night before. The next day it's like the Lord just providentially allowed me to find grace to you and He's preaching on the same exact passage In God's providence. And uh ever since then the teaching of John MacArthur, Grace to You has been a steady part of my spiritual diet. I would schedule my my lunch breaks or any break that I could around the radio time for Grace to You, and some of you remember Having to do that when we just listen to the radio for you know our teaching and things like that. It was all about the radio. I scheduled everything around. Grace to you. And my other break was around uh uh RC Sproul of Renewing Your Mind. That was my my two breaks during the day. Grace to you and R. C. Sproll. If I had that, I'm I'm good for the day, right? So that was how the Lord used John in my life and just made it a part of my regular diet, the radio broadcast. I first met MacArthur in 1997 when he came to Sandy Cove here in Northeast Maryland for a regional shepherd's conference. I remember being nervous to meet him the first time I met him because I've been listening to him on the radio for a number of years. And it's like, hey, this is this is the guy that that's been feeding me spiritually for years now. And like the closer I'm getting, it's like the more nervous I was getting at a friend. He says, like, I've never been nervous to meet anybody, but I'm I'm pretty nervous to meet John. And he Finally gets up to me and it's like, hey, John, just want to let you know what a blessing you've been and thank you for your ministry. And I was next in line and I came up and I just grabbed him and said, John Couldn't say anything else. Didn't know what to say. But before I left the conference, I wrote him a letter expressing my gratitude and also let him know that I wanted to be discipled. and asked him if he could recommend anybody in the area. He took my letter, he says, I'll do my best to answer your letter. And a few weeks later, I received a phone call from the Master's Seminary, who invited me to come to the Master's Seminary, if I wanted to be discipled by men who are trained out there in California I wasn't ready for seminary at the time, but he gave me the number of a recent graduate from the master seminary whose name was Thomas Leake. And that was my connection to my former pastor. And for those of you who know my story, uh Tom Leek became my pastor and mentor in 1999. He personally discipled me until I was ready for seminary back in 2006. When I knew I wanted to go to seminary, there was only one seminary that I applied to. I wanted to be trained to handle God's word expositionally and faithfully teach it, and I saw in John MacArthur and the men who were trained under his leadership, uh including Pastor Tom Leek and Pastor Clay Miller, I saw a model for the kind of ministry that I myself aspired to have. And uh John was a leader who I saw that I could follow. He was a leader who could be followed. In 2006, our family traveled across the country to the land of uh flakes, nuts, and fruits, as they like to say, and I ended up on the left coast in California. In addition to attending the seminary, I became a member of Grace Church, enjoyed the privilege of having the teacher of Grace to You become my pastor And my time at Master Seminary and Grace Community Church was filled with many unexpected blessings, but one of the greatest blessings was the opportunity to personally interact with Pastor John. On our first day at church, he invited our family to his office to meet him. He gave my kids some candy so that they would be still so we could take a picture. And he made himself available after service to answer all kinds of questions. And I had a lot of questions. Questions about scripture, about theology, about ministry. And it was in my first or second year at seminary that some friends of ours paid for a Grace to You cruise to Alaska. And the way that that happened, I mean, you ever heard that you might entertain an angel unawares? So I'm going to pick up my kids from a Sunday school class. I see this guy walking down the the stairs and he's just like got his head in the clouds like you know looking at the buildings and I'm like okay this guy's new so I said hey you know is it your first time here he's like oh yeah I said where are you coming from? I said coming from Canada So Canada, wow, that's a long way away. What brings you here? So I've been listening to Grace to you for 17 years, and this is like a birthday gift for me to come here. So I was like, hey, that's great. I said, uh you got plans for lunch? He said, no. I said, why why don't you come over to our house? Uh so I'd meet me down at the fountain, you know, I'll tell my wife and you know we'll we'll connect. So I'd go tell my wife, you know, hey, I invited somebody over for lunch. It was something that we all often did. And then he came with his wife, his seven kids, his wife's sister, and her son. So now I've got eleven people coming to my house for lunch. I told Jennifer, I had no idea. I thought it was him and his wife. She said it was okay Went out to Costco, grabbed a couple rotisserie chickens, bags of salad, brought it back, made rice, and like we had a great time. And then we get a call from them like two months later. They said, hey, have you ever been on that Grace to U cruise? I was like, no. You know, if you need more information, call Grace to You. They said, well, we don't need information. We're paying for you to go on it. Like what? I said it was just lunch, you know. I said, no, we we we're paying for you to go, you know, don't you can't say no, you can't refuse, we're paying for both you and your wife, all expenses paid. The only thing you have to do is get a plane ticket out to Vancouver, British Columbia. That's where the cruise ship is going out of. But you know, wait around and, you know, because we kind of watched the prices for when they dropped for the plane ticket. Then they called us two weeks later and said we got your plane ticket too. fully expense paid to go to Alaska, Grace View cruise. So I'm on this this cruise, it's like I have no business being here. You know, seminary student just trying to you know, afford, you know, dinner. And uh so I went on the screws and John MacArthur saw me, invited me to to dinner with him, you know, sat down, had a time with his family, and that's where I Got to know him a little bit more personally. You know, different excursions, we'd kind of connect and walk along together and we'd talk some more, but uh that's how the Lord, you know, kind of brought us together even in a more personal way. One of my favorite memories with uh memories with Pastor John was when I joined him for a ministry trip to the Louisiana State Penitentiary. I was invited to join Lance Quinn for a three-day trip to jail. I said, I'll go to jail just as long as I can come out. Three-day trip to the Louisiana State Penitentiary, which was also known as Angola, and also known as one of the most dangerous prisons in America. And we went there for for three days, and most of the inmates who are there are there for life, twenty-five to life. There's a ministry that was started there by New Orleans. Baptist Seminary, and Pastor John was invited there for three days to do some preaching, and they also donated a library, all kinds of resources to the prison inmates. uh so that those who came to know the Lord and wanted to study could actually use these resources to uh to use for you know uh preparing sermons and different things. So we spent three days in a in a little cabin, you know, me, John MacArthur and Lance Quinn in this little little cabin. And uh I was able to see Pastor John in all sorts of different circumstances. I saw him over dinner, graciously confronting somebody who was confused about what was known as the emergent church movement and uh a teacher named Rob Bell, uh who's you know since abandoned the faith. Uh but we're s here eating eating dinner and uh one guy says, Hey John, what do you think about Rob Bell? And while he's eating, it like in between bites, He says, Rob Bell, he's a heretic. And he goes back to eating eating again. I'm like, wow, this guy's like, you know, we're all here at the table. It's like, this is kind of uncomfortable here, you know? He's a heretic. He's like, John, why would you say that? He says, let me show you. Where's your phone? He pulls up a phone and he starts looking up some articles and says, yeah, read this, read this. You know, so just seeing like his His ability to graciously confront somebody, but like without with without like missing a beat. You know, it's like no, it's it's just the truth. Like it's it's I'm not trying to be mean. I'm not trying to be ingracious. I'm just trying to tell you the the truth I saw him directly answer questions about the false teaching of Islam with Muslim inmates. So here he is doing the Q<unk>A. There's Muslim inmates right in front of him, and he's sharing how the teachings of Islam are anti-Christ, that the things that they believe believe in, and even like the future you know, in eschatology in Islam, like who they're looking for as their Messiah is actually the Antichrist. And uh so he's going over all this in front of the Muslims who are sitting right in front of him. And again, it's because he's committed to the truth. I saw him preach in a chapel. There's about a hundred inmates in a chapel who are all unshackled. Nobody's in there in chains. We're all just sitting in benches in rows. A hundred inmates who are all, you know, like the the warden is telling us, most of these guys have killed multiple people. And while John MacArthur is preaching, the lights go out. And I'm just looking around, it's like, okay, this This I wasn't expecting this one, you know. Lights went out, there's a major storm, lights go out, and uh John looks around a little bit. One of the guards gets up with the lights a candle, puts it on the podium, and John just continues to preach in the dark. Psalm 19, basically from memory. you know, preaching Psalm 19 in front of a hundred inmates uh who anybody could have slipped away at any moment. But uh and it's almost like and the and my friend Lance said this, he said it's almost like God wanted the only light in that chapel to be the light that was coming from the Word of God in that moment, you know, for these inmates. Also Psalm humbly remain anonymous. We went shopping together. And uh, you know, so we're in this you know little store and he was wearing a shirt that said the Masters University, and uh the cashier said, Hey, what's the Masters University? He says, though it's a a small Christian school in uh Southern California. And I'm expecting him to say, and by the way, I'm the president, you know. He never says it. I felt like I had to say it for him, but you know. I'm willing to be anonymous. Nobody has to know who I am. It's like, dost thou not know who thou speakest with? He didn't care. Unknown, humble, even to the point where he entertained my foolish questions. He was an example of humility. Uh he's told the story about how he uh was, you know, while he's contemplating whether or not to get into a football career or go into the ministry. Uh during this time he was riding with some friends and was thrown out of the vehicle and slid down I don't know how many yards on his back. He tells a story. It's like God was getting his attention. He says, Hey Lord, if you if you want me, I'm here, you know um on my literally on my back here. And he told the story about, you know, the scar that he had on his back and, you know, how he had to pull gravel out of his back for for months. and had to lay on his stomach, you know, while they did these surgeries, reconstructive surgeries. He says, you know, and sometimes I still feel the scar, you know, back there as a reminder that my life belongs to the Lord. I said, hey, hey John, you know, I'm trying to think of, you know, really Really, you know, deep question, you know, to ask him. I said, hey John, I know you've told the story about the scar on your back. Can I see the scar? He turns to me and says, what do I have over here? Downton Thomas? You know? So he says, come over here. Come over here. He lifts up his shirt, you know, so I can see the scar. And Lance, who was with me and had served with him for years, he says, Hey John, I've never seen it either. Can I look at it too? So we're both out here checking his scar on his back and But he was just a humble, humble leader, guy I could follow. He also spoke the word of God to us, right? He was a leader who could be followed. He was one who spoke the word that can be trusted. Listen to this. This is from the Memorial Service program. Beginning in February of 1969 and continuing for more than 56 years, John served as the pastor-teacher of Grace Community Church in Sun Valley, California. The emphasis of his pulpit ministry was the careful study and verse-by-verse exposition of Scripture. John's faithfulness in the pulpit also resulted in a prolific writing ministry. Books like The Gospel According to Jesus, Our Sufficiency in Christ, Ashamed of the Gospel, Slaves, Twelve Ordinary Men, The Jesus You Can't Ignore, The Truth War, The Vanishing Conscience, Strange Fire, The War on Children, and many more were the products of John's expository Bible teaching. 2015, John completed the MacArthur New Testament Commentary series, 34 volumes, covering every verse of the New Testament. Without a doubt, the cornerstone resource of John's ministry is the MacArthur Study Bible which provides nearly 25,000 study notes to help readers better understand what scripture says and means. First published in 1997, it is now available in several English translations as well as Spanish, Russian, German, French, Portuguese, Italian, Arabic, and Chinese. From John's earliest days of Grace Church, his sermons were recorded for the sake of homebound church members. Eventually those recordings made it onto Christian radio, and the media of Grace to You was born, guess where? Right here in Baltimore, Maryland, Grace to You was born right here in Baltimore, Maryland. Today the sun never sets on John MacArthur's preaching as the Grace to U Radio and Television Broadcast air around the globe in multiple languages. His full sermon library is available for free download, and Pastor John's unwavering commitment to the truth of Scripture has been demonstrated not only by proclaiming what the text means but also by what it does not mean. And I love that about about John. Many teachers are willing to say things that are true. A lot of teachers aren't willing to say, and if that's true, that means that this is false. And that's being discerning. It's being able to point out the truth by the clarity of saying, hey, this is true, that means this is false. And a lot of teachers aren't willing to say that. And when you add up the hundreds of missionaries sent out from Grace Church, thousands of graduates from the university and seminary, dozens of training centers around the world, the impact is incalculable. And he also has a faith that can be imitated. Faith that can be imitated. I thank God for the example that Pastor John has been for me and for the many lessons I've learned from him, both in person and from a distance. Uh Pastor John has been a spiritual father figure to me, and it would be no exaggeration to say that every week that I study, preach, counsel, and model the Christian life, I'm in some way indebted to God for giving me a faithful pattern to follow. And even through his sufferings, he was consistently thinking about others. Back in December 31st, 2022. The night before he had an aphib attack in the pulpit, and he preached one sermon, couldn't preach the next one, because he had an aphib attack on his heart. The night before that attack, he was on the phone with me and Chuck Brooks for about 20 minutes to encourage Brother Chuck and his wife Debbie after their daughter was violently attacked. Pastor John was on the phone ministering and praying with us. Just a true, true shepherd, even through his suffering. He was a true shepherd. And he fought right up until the end, wanting to come back and preach for another time, until it was clear that the Lord was going to take him home. And on his deathbed, he said these words, O death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? And he says, I feel no sting And his last words to his family were, be faithful. Faithful until the end. He was a leader who could be followed. He gave a word that could be trusted. And he had a faith that could be imitated. And we need those examples if we're to stand firm. You're not going to get away without another passage. So flip over to Philippians chapter 4. If we're to stand firm, we need these kinds of examples. And if others are to stand firm, they also need you to be these kinds of examples In Philippians chapter 4 and verse 1, we find the main command that verses 1 through 9 hinge on, the main command. In verse 1, it says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, whom I long to see, my joy and crown, in this way stand firm in the Lord, my beloved. The main command is: stand firm in the Lord. But he tells us how. In this way. Thus. This is the way that you're to stand firm. So here we have this command to stand firm, but then he's going to tell us how that is to be done. The first thing that we see in verses 2 to 3 is that if we're to stand firm, we're to stand firm in unity. We have uh Yodi and Sintiki, who is urging to live in harmony in the Lord. True companion, I ask you also to help these women who've shared my struggle in the case of the gospel together with Clement and also in the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. So the first thing that he says is, you know, dwell together in harmony. Live in harmony. If you're to stand firm in the Lord, this is the way that you're to do it. You're to live together in harmony. What's the next thing that he talks about? Talks about the attitude that we're to have in verses 4 down to verse 7. What kind of attitude should we maintain if we're to stand firm? Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say rejoice. Let your gentle spirit be known to all men. The Lord is near. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known. to God and the peace of God which surpasses all comprehension will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. This is the way we're to stand firm. Stand firm in your attitude. Stand firm in your joy. Stand firm in your gentleness. Stand firm in not becoming anxious, but giving everything to the Lord in prayer. That's how you're to stand firm. How else are you to stand firm? Verse 8, finally. Finally, brethren. Whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is of good repute. If there's any excellence and if there's anything worthy of praise, dwell on these things. How are we to stand firm? He says, finally, through your thoughts. Thinking on the things that are true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, good repute. Excellence, praiseworthy, dwell on these things. And then he wraps it up in verse 9. The things you've learned and received and heard and seen in me Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. So, how are we to stand firm? We're to stand firm in our harmony with one another. We're to stand firm in our attitude. The attitude of uh of joy and gentleness and of freedom from anxiety, that kind of attitude. We're to stand firm in our thoughts, thinking on the things that are true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, all the other lists. That you find right there, the things that we're to think about. And then we're also to stand firm in our practice, and that's what we find in verse 9. The things you've learned and received and heard and seen in me. Practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. We're to stand firm in our practice. And really, you could say we're to stand firm in our imitation. Stand firm in your imitation. Because he's saying the things that you've learned and received and heard and seen in me You're to imitate these things. Practice these things. And the God of peace will be with you. Basically what Paul is saying is follow my example. Follow my example. And many people understand the power of example, right? We understand the power of example. Parents understand it That's why they guard their kids and want to know who their kids are friends with, because we don't want bad examples to corrupt our children, right? Companies understand the power of example. You know, military understands the power of example. You know, they they don't want somebody who's going to bring down the morale of the company or of the unit. Advertisers understand the power of example. That's why they pay millions for somebody to drink a sprite and say, obey your thirst. Why? Because hey, that example is going to translate to millions of dollars for us. And God understands the power of example. God Himself is an example. For to do all things without grumbling or disputing in Philippians. Why? So that we can be children of our Father. Be like your father in heaven. Love your enemies. Why? Because God is the one who loves his enemies, over in Matthew chapter 5. Christ is an example. He's an example in the way that he served, in the way that he suffered He's an example in the way that he lived, an example in his humility. Jesus is an example. But we're also to find living examples among us as well. And it's much more than a suggestion. If you desire to stand firm in the Lord, to live a life of spiritual stability, to have some spiritual backbone, you're to find godly examples that you can follow. And that's what he's saying here. The things that you've seen in me Practice these things. Much more than a suggestion. This is a command. And this is not the first time that Paul has mentioned this, that he's an example to follow. Look back at chapter 3 of Philippians, chapter 3 and verse 17. He says, Brethren, join in following my example, and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. So don't just follow me. Also look for others who walk according to this pattern and follow them. We're to be an example for you. And follow those who follow this kind of pattern. And throughout Scripture, Paul is often pointing to himself as an example, both in what he taught and how he lived. 1 Corinthians 4. 16. Therefore I exhort you, be imitators of me. 1 Corinthians 11 verse 1. Be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. 1 Thessalonians 1. 6, you also became imitators of us and the Lord. 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 7, for you yourselves know how you ought to follow our example. So Paul understood the power of a godly example, and he strived to live in such a way that others could follow after his life. He understood that just like in other areas of life, we learn best by imitation. We need models and patterns to follow after. If we're going to learn how to stand firm, this is important for us. And there's uh really two broad categories that he was an example in. And uh we'll take a look at two of these categories. Uh the first is the things that Have been learned and received. And I call this do as I say. Look at chapter 4 and verse 9 again. It says, the things you have learned and received. Learned and received. These are two terms that really refer to the same thing. The words learn and receive both refer to the formal instruction that Paul gave, what he taught them by his words. The term learn, it's uh the Greek word monthano, it means to receive instruction, to be educated, to understand. Used throughout the New Testament, there's a related word that means disciple. So the Philippians were in a real way discipled by Paul, by what he taught them. They learned from him, his instruction to them. The next term, received, learned and received, received speaks about the same kind of thing as receiving teaching, but it takes it a step further Now, if you're here on uh to hear about um uh a number of years ago, Lance Quinn came to speak about this Greek term, but it's the Greek term paralumbano, and it speaks of that which is passed down. It's a technical term for that which is passed down to another. And one way that this could be translated is by the word tradition. That which you've received from another. It's been passed down and it's received by another. And some traditions are inconsequential. There's not Not much that you'll lose if you don't do the tradition, right? You know, like who cuts the turkey on Thanksgiving? You know, like if somebody else cuts the turkey, it's okay. You know, if you don't get a Birthday cake on your birthday, it's like, you know, you're still another year older. It's you know, it's a tradition, but it's okay if you don't get that right. Even though I remember when I went to college and the first time I didn't have the birthday cake, I I was pretty upset about that I called my mom and said, hey, something's just not right here, you know, nobody singing happy birthday to me. I have no balloons. It's like, something's not right. So some things we can miss out on, and it's it's okay if you don't have a tradition. But when we're talking about scriptural tradition, that which has been passed down by the word of God, that's a whole different kind of tradition. It's like the the surgeon telling somebody, hey, we cut here and not there. That's life or death, right? Or or somebody on a bomb squad saying, hey, we cut the red wire and not the blue one. That's life or death And for the scriptures, it's like, no, this is we we believe in this gospel and not that gospel. Like that's the kind of tradition that we're we're talking about. The tradition that comes from Christ, the tradition that comes through the scriptures. In 1 Corinthians 11 and verse 2, it says, I praise you because you remember me and everything and hold firmly to the traditions, just as I delivered them to you. So it's receiving the word of God. 2 Thessalonians 2. 15. So then, brethren, stand firm and hold to the traditions which you were taught, whether by word or of mouth or by letter from us. The traditions are talking about the Word of God and the things connected to the Word of God, the gospel, who Christ is What how we're to live? I mean these are the traditions that have been passed down. So when we're talking about these traditions, we're not talking about extra-biblical traditions. We're talking about the tradition of the Word of God, the things that have been taught passed down through Scripture. And Paul says, I haven't held back anything that would be profitable to you. I've taught you the whole counsel of God. And that's the tradition that was passed down. And Paul's life was oriented around the truth. And he says, the things that you've learned and received, these are the things that you're to practice. And the emphasis here is on practice You're to practice these things. It's not just things that you keep in your head. It's things that you live out with your life. But you're committed to these things. So what I've taught you, commit yourself to these things. Practice these things. Live these things out. These things are to take an effect in your life. The gospel message, the gospel story, the gospel living, all to be passed down, and we're to pass that down to others as well. We take that which we've received, and then we turn around and now we deliver that Faithfully to the next generation, deliver the word of God. And those who tampered with the message are the deceivers, evil You know, men, dogs, evil workers, false circumcision, it says in chapter 3 and verse 2. He says, Beware of them. Beware of the dogs. Beware of the evil workers. Beware of the false circumcision. Beware of those who give you a different tradition Beware of those who add to this. We don't add to the word of God. We don't add to the to the truth and tamper with the truth. We pass down what we've received just as we've received it. And Paul says, you've learned that from me And if you're going to stand firm, you need to know what the faithful message is. You need to know the word of God. And just because the church Says that they're a church and has church on the outside of their building doesn't mean that they're a real church, right? You need to be a Berean You know, to examine, are the things that I'm being taught, are they actually true? Do they actually come from Scripture? Or is this just the word of men? Examine all that ye received by the Scriptures themselves. Do they speak on justification by faith alone? Do they preach on repentance from sin? Do they speak on more than just the love of God, but also the justice of God, the holiness of God? Do they proclaim the Lordship of Jesus Christ? They need to get it right. We need to get it right. We need to be committed to the scriptures, and that's what we pass down. But not only were they to be committed with what they learned and received, they were also to be committed as well to the things that they heard and saw. And this is, I call the first one, do as I say. I call this one do as I do. The things that you've you've heard and seen in me So now he calls them to his example. Now there's things that you've been taught, the things that you've learned, the things that you've received, but I'm talking about the things that you've seen in me. You've heard these things from me. You've seen these things in me. I'm talking about my lifestyle. So I'm asking you to do as I do The Philippians had a faithful example to follow. And these are the things that are caught, not just the things that are taught And this may shack you. I know that when I first started thinking about this, it's kind of surprising, but Paul did not just consider his teaching authoritative. He considered his life authoritative. That you're to do what you see in me. And think about this. This is given under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. For him to tell a church, do what you see me do, it's the Holy Spirit who's communicating, do what you see Paul do. It was his life was that authentic that he could point to himself and say, do what I do. Do what you see me do. Do what you you hear in me. And we've already seen this, but I mean this is many times throughout Scripture. I exhort you, be imitators of me. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 1, be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. 1 Thessalonians 1. 6, you also became imitators of us and the Lord. How can you put both of those in the same sentence? You became imitators of us and the Lord. How can you do both? It's because I'm living according to what the Lord has told me. You yourselves know. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 verse 7. He says, you know. You yourselves know how you ought to follow our example. You ought to follow my example. And again, this is the Holy Spirit who's inspired this. So Paul is not saying it's not just my teaching that's authoritative, it's also my life. Could you turn around to anybody and just say, hey, follow me? You should be able to. You should be able to turn to somebody and say, hey, I want you to follow me. But because your life has been circumspect and you're living it according to the word of God, that you can turn to somebody else and say, hey, I want you to do it like I'm doing it. The only way that we can say that is if we're following Scripture, right? If we're following after the Lord. We can say, do do what I do, that my life can be instructive. And it's fascinating to read through Paul's letters and see how much of his life just bleeds through the pages. Flip over to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, look at verse 3. Listen to what Paul says. He says, for our exhortation does not come from error or impurity or by way of deceit. But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not as pleasing men, but God who examines our hearts. For we never came with flattering speech, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed, God is witness, nor did we seek glory from men, either from you or from others, even as apostles of Christ, we might have asserted our authority But we proved to be gentle among you, as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Having so fond an affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives Because you had become very dear to us. For you recall, brethren, our labor and hardship, our working night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you We proclaim to you the gospel of God, you are witnesses, and so is God, how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave towards ye believers, just as you know We were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children, so that you would walk in a manner worthy of the God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. How many times less how many times is he saying, You know? Verse 1, you yourselves know. Verse 2, as you know, verse 5, as you know, verse 9, for you recall, verse 10, you are witnesses, verse 11, just as you know What do you live your life in such a way that you can point to the people around you and say, No, I'm not going to tell you. You tell me. You know , you've seen me, you've watched my life. Is your life lived in a way that others would have to bear testimony to the way that you live? It's not just what you say about yourself that others around you would say, no, I I know. That's not who he is. So now when anybody accuses you of anything, you can say, I like what Jesus said. It's like, hey, I was in the temple with you, I was in public. Like You know me. I'm not I'm I haven't done anything in hiding. You know, you can bear witness. That's the way that we should be able to live our our lives. That we live it with such integrity that those around us would be able to look at us and say, No, I I I know him. I know that's not his character. I know that he lives a life that's consistent. Do you live a life that others would be able to say that, no, I can imitate him? I can imitate him. And this is where true leadership is. So many people think about leadership as what you do when you're on a on a stage in a spotlight, you know, the performance. Real leadership is put to the test in your life. The book on leadership by MacArthur. He says to put it simply, leadership is influence The ideal leader is someone whose life and character motivate people to follow. The best kind of leadership derives its authority first from the force of a righteous example, and not merely by the power of prestige, personality, or position. By contrast, much of the world's leadership is nothing but manipulation of people by threats and rewards. That is not true leadership, it's exploitation. Real leadership seeks to motivate people from the inside by an appeal to the heart, not by external pressure and coercion. True leadership is about character Does your character speak for you? You know what character is? Character is the sermon that you don't know is being recorded. That's true character. When you think nobody's watching, that's who you really are. I love what John Owen says. He says, who a man is alone on his knees before God is all that he is, and nothing more. You're not who you are when you're in front of people. You're who you are when you don't think anybody's watching. That's who you really are. Who are you really? Who are you when nobody's watching? That's your character. That's your character. And Paul was a real leader. He says, what you've seen, what you've heard, what you've observed in my life, it's not just when I'm teaching, I'm in a position of authority and I'm giving instruction and discipleship. It's just when you watch me. You know, when I'm going to the store, when I'm disciplining my children, when I'm talking to my wife, you know, when you catch me out somewhere and you know, oh, I I didn't know that I didn't know that you were behind me. Like what are you like then? We're to live a life that's consistent. So Paul says, do as I do. Things that you've heard, you know, the things that you've heard about from me. You know, heard it from others maybe about me. You know, hey, I saw so-and-so here. They should be able to give a consistent testimony when people see you Refers to the things that they knew firsthand. I saw his faithful proclamation. I saw his trust in the Lord. And Philippi , you know, Paul was actually taken into custody, remember that? Paul suffered in Philippi. When he came back to the church, they would have been able to see the stripes on his back. No, I know Paul. He's willing to suffer for the truth. I know who he is. And instead of leaving Philippi when he had the opportunity, what did he do? He came back to the same congregation to continue to minister to him. To build them up in the word of God, to encourage them before he left. No, it's like I I know who Paul is. I know who he is. You know, he's the guy who sings in the prisons. That's that's who Paul is. It's would somebody be able to take a look at your life and say, no, I I know who they are. What kind of example are you being It's a sermon that you don't know is being recorded. And if you're willing to live that kind of life, what does Paul say? But back to Philippians chapter 4. It says the things that you've learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. The God of peace. Favorite title for God by the Apostle Paul. Peace in the Jewish context characterizes God as the source and the giver of all true blessings. This is the second time that peace is mentioned in this context earlier on in chapter in verse 7. It says the peace of God which surpasses all comprehension will guard your hearts. That's the peace of God, and now he says the God of peace. The God of peace will be with you. He promises to be personally present with you. And in one sense, God is personally present everywhere, isn't he? But there's a special comforting presence of God that is promised to those who make it their goal to practice these habits. To those who say, no, I want a faithful life to imitate that the presence of God in a special way is with them. The God of peace will be with you They're to comfort you, there to bless you, there to cause you to stand, and that's back to verse one. In this way, stand firm in the Lord. You want to stand firm? Live this kind of life. And who's going to cause you to stand firm? God. The God of peace, He will be with you. He will support you and help you and cause you to stand. If you're looking for these faithful examples, like Lord, I want my wife to be faithful. I want to live a life that 's well lived. I don't want to be flopping around back and forth and living a life that 's not worthy of you. Lord, I want to come to the end of my life knowing that I've done what I could to please and honor my Savior. I don't want my life not to count. Because I haven't been circumspect and I haven't really been trying to serve and follow you. We can live a life that's that's well lived. Just closing out with a just a short quote from this book that MacArthur wrote on Finishing Well, he says, every one of us could have a great biography. Your story can be a glorious record of enduring faithfulness, but you need to be anchored to these same certainties. You need to be anchored to Scripture You can live a life that's that's well lived and you can fill it finish well. I love what MacArthur would often say. He says, guys, we don't have to crash and burn. And after, you know, one of the uh famous pastor who you would all know, because he shares my last name, after he fell. And uh people would ask him, it's like, hey, if if he falls, like, what hope do I have? What hope do I have if a guy like that can fall? You know, he's a great preacher and exposites the word and he's known all over the world. Like what hope do I have if a guy like that can fall? What hope do I have? And he says, what are you talking about? What hope do you have? You don't have to crash and burn What hope do you have? You have this. You have the word of God. You don't have to crash and burn because you can be anchored to the word of God. And it's not just about what's on the outside. It's about what's on the inside. Is this word in you? Does it make a difference in your life? Because it's not just about what people can see. And me when I'm in a position of authority or teaching or whatever, no, it's just how I live my life. I'm just I'm the same person in the pulpit and out the pulpit. You need to live a consistent life. And you can find faithful examples who've lived that kind of life. And we can praise God that we've had such a faithful example. Amen. Let's go to the word. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had. Father, I pray that you, Lord, would be honored and glorified. Lord, even as we look for faithful examples, Lord, and they're an encouragement to us. Even in Hebrews chapter 11, we have that hall of faith. Those that Escape the sword, those who died by the sword, those who lived and died by faith. And Father, these are given to us as faithful examples that we can look to. To say, Lord, I can be a person like that. You've given us these examples that we can imitate because you're showing us and encouraging us, Lord, that we can too stand But we can only stand if we stand according to your word. So, Father, I pray that we would hold on to every promise of your word, and that you, Lord, would be glorified in our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.