The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew chapter 11 this morning, and it's uh been a joy uh to be back home in Matthew again And I'm looking forward to all that the Lord has in store for us in this particular section because uh this section is packed. Uh you might just kind of read over and it's like, oh, it's only like five, six verses, you know, what's the big deal? There is so much in Matthew chapter 11, verses 25 to 30 for us to sink our teeth into. And looking forward to what the Lord has for us in today's lesson as well. There's a hymn that starts off with the words, There is a name I love to hear. I love to sing its worth. It sounds like music in mine ear, the sweetest name on earth, and all Christians would recognize that name is the name of what? Jesus. Jesus is the sweetest name that we know. It's music to our ears, and we love to sing of the the worth of Jesus Christ. And the chorus uh adds these lines, oh how I love Jesus. Oh how I love Jesus. Oh how I love Jesus. Because he first loved me. And that's the mark of true belief that as believers we love Jesus Christ. That's who we are. That's what we do. We love Jesus Christ. We're lovers of Jesus Christ. In 1 Peter 1 verse 8, it says, And though you have not seen him, you love him. And though you do not see him now, but believe in him, you rejoice greatly with joy. Inexpressible and full of glory. As believers, we don't see Christ, but we love Christ. That is the description of a believer. There's no name more precious to us than the name of Jesus Christ. But we also know that not everyone would agree with our assessment of who Jesus Christ is. And there's many who reject the message of Jesus' love, his kingdom, his salvation. And the question that we have to answer is what are we supposed to do with that? How are we supposed to respond when the most precious and worthy name of Jesus is blasphemed, rejected, ignored, as if he doesn't even exist? What are we supposed to do when patient and careful instruction regarding God's word in the person of Jesus Christ is refused and the call to repentance is denied? Do we have any examples from Scripture to help us respond to rejection in a way that would bring honor and glory to God? And the answer to that question is, of course, yes. And not only do we have an example, we have the perfect example in Jesus Christ Himself. Our Master walked the same path that we walk today. And in fact he walked this path perfectly all the way to his ultimate rejection, which was on a cross, where he suffered crucifixion And there's so much that we have to learn from Christ in the passage before us. So let's take a look at it, Matthew chapter 11, and we'll start at verse 20, just to set the context before us again. Matthew chapter 11, starting at verse 20. So then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done, because they did not repent. Would you, Corazon? Woe to you, Boseidah For if the miracles had occurred in Tyre and Sidon which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. Nevertheless I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You will descend to Hades, for if the miracles had occurred in Sodom which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day. Nevertheless I say to you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you. At that time Jesus said, I praise you, Father Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and any one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Bow with me in the word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh being able to return to this passage once again. And uh Father, we uh come as we do every uh Sunday morning, Lord, dependent on you. Father, dependent on you to hear a word from you, dependent on you to open our eyes. That we may behold wonderful things in your law, in your scriptures. And Father, I pray that you'd use me. As a weak instrument, Lord, to be a blessing to your people this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This is Jesus' response to the cities that did not repent. And uh Verse 20, chapter 11, verse 20 says he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done, and uh goes on to talk about the other ways that he responded. He responded in prayer as we also uh saw last week and there's really four responses. We only covered uh two last time we were together. There's four primary responses to the rejection that we find in this passage And uh last week, like I said, we uh uh talked about the uh uh the response to his rejection that was found in the rebuke to the stubborn in verses twenty to twenty-four. Uh rebuke to the stubborn, like I mentioned last week, it's It's wise to note that rebuke wasn't the first ministry that Jesus had in Galilee. He spent much of his time preaching and teaching and healing and calling people to repentance. calling the nation uh to turn to him, but there came a time when the appropriate response after patient pleading with the nation was rebuke. There came a time when the appropriate response was rebuke, and that's part of our responsibility toward the unbeliever. If the the bridge is out up ahead Somebody needs to sound the alarm, right? If the bridge is out. And a rebuke is that alarm to the unbeliever. In Proverbs chapter 17 and verse 10, it says a rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool. If the unbeliever is given an ear to hear, the word of rebuke can strike deep and penetrate the heart. And I pray that our words have that effect on unbelievers. But the verse also goes on to say that those who persist in their foolishness will eventually pay the price, and that even a hundred blows won't be enough. for some to to get the message. But we can't shy away from the direct and sober warning of the consequences to come for people who reject and are stubborn in their rejection. And that's the the first response that Jesus gives towards unbelief. A second response that Jesus had towards persistent and stubborn unbelief was prayer. But it's not the prayer of discouragement, the prayer of despair. Surprisingly, what we find is that it was a praise and thanksgiving that was offered to God. Jesus praised the Father for hiding the truth from the wise and intelligent and revealing it to spiritual infants. He praise God for the revelation that was given to the babes in verses 25 to 26. The revelation that was given to the babes, it says at this time he said, I praise you, Father. Lord of heaven and earth that you've hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants. Because uh all of the people uh that you have here uh heard the same message uh from the same messengers and saw the same signs, what we understand is that there was something else going on. You know, you had the same messengers giving the same message, producing the same miracles, but there are some who believed and some who rejected. And just because, like I said, everybody was sharing the same words. uh doesn't mean that they were receiving the same message from those words. Uh like I said, we can be looking at the same picture but not be seeing the same image. And uh there was a uh definitely a spiritual component to whether or not this message was received or rejected. And Jesus recognized that it's the Father who hides the message from the wise and intelligent and who reveals it to the infants. And far from Jesus being embarrassed by this, he openly praises God for it. Praises God for hiding truth and for revealing truth. He starts out by reminding us that even in the midst of rejection, God is still worthy of being praised. He openly praises God, acknowledges God for who he is and what he does. He reminds us that even in the midst of rejection, Jesus is that the God is still Lord. Jesus reminds us the God is still Lord, the Lord of heaven and earth, and really a statement of his universal sovereignty. Uh Jesus also reminds us that even in the midst of rejection that God is still the source of all revelation, even though he hides that revelation from some some, that God is still uh the source of all revelation. And then he wraps it all up by recognizing that this is consistent. With the will of God in verse 26, yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. This is God's good and gracious will to hide from some and to reveal to others. And uh isn't that what first Corinthians chapter one talks about? If you want to flip over there real quick, first 1 Corinthians chapter 1, just to point this out to you. And uh 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verses uh 26 Paul makes a similar statement, really a parallel thought here. He says, For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong. And the base things of the world and the despised God has chosen, the things that are not, so that he may nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that, just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. If you think about it, as you uh think through through these words, it's it's God is choosing those who are despised and forsaken and uh the the weak and the insignificant of this world to prove that your wisdom has nothing to do with the grace of God. I'm not I'm not choosing people based on their intelligence and their accomplishments, their achievements. He he chooses the week just to make a point that your wisdom means nothing to me. That that that your achievements mean nothing uh to me. It's not it's not about your achievements that that make me give you my my grace. It's not like you've earned some kind of favor from from God. And when you think about it, God doesn't have to share his truth with any of us, right? It's it's gracious for God to even share his truth with us with us in the first place. And and like I said, God here, he makes a statement by choosing the weak and the foolish and the spies uh to let people know that you can't boast in what you've achieved. You can't boast in your position and your status. And it's not by our doing that we're in Christ Jesus, but it's by his doing that we're in Christ Jesus. And that's made even more clear in the following response that we find to his disciples back over in uh Matthew chapter 11 in verse 27. And throughout this section, it's really clear that Jesus is addressing different groups in verses 20 to 24. He's talking to the cities that did not repent, so he's talking to the stubborn. In verses twenty-five to twenty-six, now he's turning to the Father in prayer. And in verse twenty-seven, now he's turning his attention to the disciples And if if you remember last week, uh we looked at the context of of these words in Luke chapter ten uh where we learn that the disciples had just returned uh with joy and excitement because they realized that the demons were subject to them. Remember that You know, they come back just rejoicing because, you know, the the demons are even subject to us. Uh but Jesus reminds them that the greater joy uh should be about their salvation, not the miraculous signs. That's not the main point. The truth was that many of these cities that they performed these miraculous signs in rejected the Savior. And the disciples probably wrestled with some of the same questions that we do, that when the gospel is rejected, why? Why is the gospel rejected? Why do some believe and others reject? And uh I know I've wrestled with that sometimes. You know, why why do some believe and others reject reject. I know sometimes I've even been tempted to blame myself, like, you know, maybe I've my my my witness isn't powerful enough. You know, maybe if I had a a more exciting testimony, if I had the the right scriptures or you know, the right arguments to to give that that maybe maybe that would, you know, allow people to to come to faith in Christ. You know, al almost putting the the blame on, you know, myself and like kind of like the method. Uh but what we find, and this is what Jesus takes the time to explain Uh uh really a truth that's difficult for many of us to swallow at first, but it's just taught in too many places in the Bible to be ignored. And it's the truth that unless God opens our eyes. Unless God opens our eyes, we would all, every one of us, would reject the message of truth. If it wasn't for God opening our eyes, and that's just the truth. If you s if you have eyes to see the gospel, it's a supernatural work of God. Supernatural work of God. And you've been picked out and chosen to have a relationship with Him. And that's what verse 27 teaches us, that a relationship is for those who have been chosen by God. Look at verse 27. It says, all things have been handed over to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father. Nor does anyone know the Father except the Son And listen to this. And anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal him, it's up to God whether or not your eyes are opened It's God's work. So the relationship with God is really with those who've been chosen by God. And you have to think about what Jesus is saying here. First of all, Jesus says that he's been handed exclusive authority by the Father. Exclusive authority. All things have been handed over to me. All things have been handed over to me. What Jesus is saying is I have exclusive authority. I have exclusive rights. And this is really an astounding claim when you think about it. And I'm not really sure if we we appreciate this, but uh let's just say I'm the CEO of a multi-billion dollar company. I'm the CEO of a multimillion but I I know it's really hard to imagine, but just just you know just go with me, alright? I'm the CEO of a multi-billion dollar company and I say I'm handing over everything to a certain individual. Handing over everything. What am I saying about that person? What I'd be saying is that they are as equally capable as I am of running this company I'm handing over everything to this person. When Jesus says that everything has been handed over to me By the Father, what he's claiming is that the Father understands that the Son is equally capable of running things as the Father is It's really a statement of Jesus' deity. This is really just another way to say that Jesus is God. Because if Jesus can handle all things that the Father possesses, then he must be equal with the Father. And this is much more about Jesus than what we think on the surface. And what's included in all things. And the context here it would be all things related to salvation, all things related to the kingdom, all things related to eternal life. And the Father, the knowledge of the Father Himself, all of that has been handed over to the Son. And Jesus is equally capable of handling everything that the Father is. That's what it's saying here. Jesus Christ is being equated with the Father. He's equal to God. Jesus Christ is God. And we know from later on in Matthew chapter 28, Jesus will claim to have all authority in heaven and on earth. But here in chapter 11, Jesus claims to have all things related to knowledge of the Father, his kingdom, salvation, eternal life, all of that has been handed over to Jesus Christ. Really an amazing claim and more than that, it's an exclusive claim. Because if all things have been handed over to Jesus, there's nothing to hand over to anybody else, right? So Jesus has total claim, exclusive claim, total claim, total rights over all that he possesses. But not only that Jesus not only has exclusive authority from the Father, he also has exclusive knowledge of the Father. Exclusive knowledge of the Father. Look again at uh chapter 11. In verse 27, it says, All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son. This right here claims that Jesus claims to have exclusive knowledge of the Father. Later on, Jesus also will add that the Holy Spirit uh is part of that list as well that uh that the the spirit is hidden you know from the world in John chapter 14 verse 16 it says when he the spirit of truth whom the world cannot receive because it does not see him or know him So it talks about the Father is not known by anybody, the Son is not known by anybody, and the Spirit is not known by anybody. You know, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Every person of the Trinity is said to be unknown by the world. There's a knowledge of the Trinity that they have about themselves that can't be accessed by human exploration and meditation. There's a knowledge that the Trinity has of itself that can't be accessed by human exploration and meditation. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Again, First Corinthians really just has a lot to say about uh wisdom and uh people search for uh for knowledge and uh wisdom uh really apart from God. But what we find in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 2 It's just an important statement that Paul makes that really supports this claim that Jesus makes over here. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, look at verse 7. So he speaks about the wisdom. I'll start at verse 6. Yet we do speak wisdom among those who are mature. A wisdom, however, not of this age, nor of the rulers of this age who are passing away, but we speak God's wisdom. In a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God predestined before the ages to our glory. The wisdom which none of the rulers of this age hath understood, for if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But just as it is written, things which eye has not seen, and ear has not heard, and which have not entered the heart of man, all that God has prepared for those who love them. For to us God revealed them through the Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God. For who among men knows the thoughts of a man except the Spirit of Man which is in him? Even so the thoughts of God no one knows except the Spirit of God And what this passage teaches us is that the knowledge of God cannot be accessed by our natural senses. The natural eyes can't see it. The natural ears can't hear it. We're unable to access a relationship with God based on our senses. And that's what it says. Things which eye has not seen and ear has not heard. You know, we can't access this just through our natural senses. You know, we can't uh gain a relationship with God just based on what we see and what we can hear. But also, not only is human exploration not sufficient, it's also uh uh uh human meditation is also insufficient That that we can't just kind of sit down, you know, like they have these uh you know guys sit up on a on a hill, crossing their legs, you know, closing their eyes, you know, kind of humming to themselves and and expecting like some kind of you know, word is going to come like just by meditating and and searching within myself that I'm going to arrive at truth. You can spend all day sitting in silence and chanting your mantras. You're not going to reach the revelation of God that way. That's not how God has designed for us to come in contact with the truth. The wisdom of God will not enter your heart in that means. It says Which have not entered into the heart of man. All that God has prepared for those who love him. You're not going to get the revelation of God by empiricism. You're not going to get it by meditation. Christianity is a revealed faith. It has to be shown to us. It's different from what people would call a natural theology, which is uh just says that we can arrive at truth apart from the revelation of God. you know, uh just by our reason and seeing the things around us that somehow we can arrive at the truth apart from God completely. That's not what the scripture says. Uh Christianity teaches that Christianity, the revelation of God, is something that has to be given to us. We can't arrive on it on our own. In uh chapter uh two and verses uh twelve to fourteen in uh first Corinthians. Listen to what Paul says again. He says, now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, so that we may know the things fully given to us by God. Which things we also speak not in words taught by human wisdom, but in those taught by the Spirit, combining spiritual thoughts with spiritual words. But listen to this. But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them, because they are spiritually appraised. So when when Jesus says that no one knows the Father, Nobody knows the Son. Over in John chapter 14, nobody knows the Spirit. What he's talking about is the natural man. The natural man, apart from revelation of God, has no access to God. You have no access to God apart from the revelation of God. One illustration that I've heard before, it's like God is broadcasting an FM And all we have is a an AM radio. It's like we we can't hear it. And one one preacher took the illustration a step further. He says, it's it's it's worse than that. He says, just to make the point more clear, it's like God is broadcasting an FM You only have an AM radio with no batteries, no antenna, no speakers, and it's impossible for you to get the message of divine intervention. It's impossible. You can't get it. He actually put it a step further. He says, And your radio is on the moon. Like there is no way it is impossible for you to receive the revelation of God apart from God bringing it to you. Jesus uh lets us know that that the knowledge of God and really when he talks about knowing knowing God he's talking about personal and relational knowledge That's how the word Noah was used back in uh Matthew chapter 7 verse 23, you know, when uh uh Jesus says, I never knew you. Remember that? You know, that's the same kind of knowledge. He's not saying I I don't know your name. I don't know who you are. Where did you come from? I don't remember creating you. That's not what he's saying. He's saying we have no relationship with one another. And what what Jesus talks about in Matthew chapter 11 is that apart from God revealing himself to us, we have no relationship with God. We can't enter into a relationship with God apart from God making himself known to us. And it's only through the revelation of God Himself that we can enter into a relationship with God. Flip over to John chapter 17. John chapter 17. We understand that the uh the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit uh exist in perfect fellowship and unity with one another. And it pleased the triune God, and this is just spectacular when you think about it, that it pleased the triune God to invite us into that perfect fellowship with Him. This is something amazing. This is absolutely amazing to think about. Obviously, it's not saying that we're going to become God. That's a blasphemous idea. But he's invited us into fellowship with him. We're invited into fellowship with the Trinity. Look at uh John chapter 17, look at verse eleven. Jesus says, I am no longer in the world, and yet they themselves are in the world, and I come to you, Holy Father, keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, that they may be. one even as we are. Look at verse 22. The glory which you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one just as we are one. I and them and you and me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me and I love them, even as you have loved me This is much more than a prayer, like a lot of people point to this uh passage. They say, oh, this is just a prayer that all churches would get along, you know, kind of like the Rodney King theology. Can't we all just get along? You know, just like break down the denominations and the barriers, and let's just all be one happy family and you know kind of sway back and forth around the campfire, you know, kumbaya, my lord, kumbaya. That is that is not what Jesus is praying for here. I mean we we should get along with one another. You know, it's not not against that. But what Jesus is praying for here is a prayer that was answered. He's talking about a unity that presently exists. between him and the Father. It's a dynamic, kind of integrated, like they share one life, right? What he's praying for for believers is that they would be invited into this unity that we have. That they would be united. They would become one with us. So Jesus Christ, as we become believers, we're made one with Jesus Christ. We're united to Jesus Christ. It's not talking about, hey, I just kind of get along with Jesus Christ. No, I now share the life of Jesus Christ. That Christ has given me his life, like Paul says in Galatians, that it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives. In me. I'm united to Jesus Christ. I am united to Jesus Christ as a believer. And this prayer was answered. We're united to Jesus Christ. We become one with Jesus Christ. And 1 John chapter 5, verse 20. It lets us know this, that we know the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. We are in Jesus Christ. We are united to Jesus Christ. And Jesus has Not only exclusive authority from the Father, exclusive knowledge of the Father that he invites us into, this relationship that he has within the Trinity, but he also grants us exclusive access to the Father. Back in uh Matthew uh chapter 11, we're granted exclusive access. uh to the father. Look at verse twenty-seven again. All things have been handed over to me by my father. No one knows the son except the father, nor does anyone know the father except the Son, and any one to whom the Son wills to reveal him. We do not enter into relationship with the Father apart from Jesus Christ. There's no circumventing Jesus Christ to get to God. There's no bypass to get around Jesus Christ. And I'm just going to relate directly to God. If you don't relate to Jesus Christ, you don't relate to God. You you have you have no knowledge of God, you have no access to God , you haven't been granted authority to come before God Apart from Jesus Christ, if we're going to enter into relationship with God, it's because the Son chooses to reveal the Father to us. He is the bridge. He is the mediator, the one that we have to go through in order to get to God. So if we're going to gain access to the Father, you only have one choice. You only have one choice if you're going to gain access to the Father. And now John chapter 14 and verse 6, Jesus answered Thomas and he says I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. I am the only means to get to the Father. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. I'm the way. That means you won't get lost I'm the truth, that means you won't be deceived. I'm the life, meaning you won't die. I'm the way, the truth, and the life. And Jesus is the one who provides access to the Father. In John chapter 10, verse 9 he says, I'm the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. In Ephesians chapter two verse eighteen it says, For through him, talking about Jesus Christ, we both have our access in one spirit to the Father In the first Timothy chapter two verse five, there is one God, one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. There's only one way There's there's only one access. It's the exclusive privilege of the Son of God to give us access to the Father. Like I said, you can't get around the Son. There's not many paths up the mountain. You know, actually I heard that there was uh you know those uh uh you know uh billboards or whatever that churches put outside of their you know their doors, you know, uh usually it's like uh you know uh ch Who's missing you are you know stuff like that that's you know out on the on the front door But uh there's there's one that I heard that said uh there's uh many paths up the mountain. You know, what what in the world are you doing as a church talking about many paths to the mountain? Many paths up the mountain. I I remember uh reading this in the the Baltimore Sun a while ago. There was a a scheduled c clergymen uh who couldn't uh make it to the to the Senate. You know, they open up in in prayer and there was a clergy uh man who couldn't make it So the duty fell to Baltimore County Senator Thomas Romwell, who gave what was probably the shortest and most inclusive prayer. Listen to what he said. This is how he prayed. Let us pray Lord, God, Yahweh, whatever your name is, whatever color you are, whatever gender you are, you know these people, you know that they're good. Pray for them. Thank you. Like what what kind of nonsense is that You have no access to God unless you go through Jesus Christ. You know, whoever you are, whatever color you are, whatever gender. What in the world are you talking about? People just think there's like, well we can just kind of by many ways, we can just you can go your way, I'll go my way. Let's just, you know, everybody make your own way, make your own path to God. Like, you know, kind of you know, make your own, you know, kind of uh uh you know we're we're we're we're these uh um the trailblazers. They're just gonna blaze our own trail to God. Just gonna bushwhart our way to you don't have access to God. You don't have any any uh uh you know machete to kind of bushwhack your way up to God. You have no access. No access There's only one way. But there's something else that Jesus points out in this passage that that really raises all kinds of questions and objections because not only does Jesus indicate that he's the only way to the Father. He also says that he's the one who chooses who to reveal the Father to. He says, that's that's my choice. I I choose who I reveal the Father to and who I don't. So in the same passage we have the Father choosing who to reveal the Son to in verse twenty-five, says, Lord, you've you've he praises the Father, Lord, you've hidden these things from the wise and intelligent. So so the Father chooses. And then within the same breath, Jesus turns around and says, and I choose. I choose who I reveal the prophecy. Whose choice is it? It's God's choice. Whether or not God is revealed to us is God's choice, which lets me know this, that if I have a relationship with God, it is because God chose me to have a relationship with Him. God chose me to have a relationship with him. In John chapter 15, verse 16, Jesus says, you did not choose me, but I chose you. He acknowledges in Matthew chapter 22, verse 14, Many are called, but few are chosen. And all throughout the scriptures it's clear that the first mover and initiator in our salvation is God Himself. God Himself. And there there's so many questions and I I won't have the time to uh to cover uh many of these this week, so I'll just apologize up front And encourage you to come back next week so we can uh deal with this a little bit more. But I at least want to give you something that some things to think about between now and and then because this concept might be new for some of you. But when we think about our salvation. From our perspective, sometimes we can assume that we made the choice just like we make any other choice. You know, I made the choice for Christ just like I made any other choice. Like I made the choice of where I go to school. I chose who I was going to marry. I chose what kind of job I was going to take, and I chose that I was going to follow Christ. And just kind of put it in a list of other choices that you make. Like they're they're kind of like equally you know, uh uh uh choices that you're able to to make. Like I can just as easily choose who to marry, where to go to school, where am I gonna get a job and I'm gonna serve Christ. Like they're all kind of like equal choices. And I have the equal ability to make all of these choices. And we could have a discussion over how God is sovereign, even over where you go to school and who you marry and all that. We're not going to get into that today. But I want to let you know that one of these things is not like the other. You know, like who we where we go to school, who we marry, what kind of job we take, and following Christ, all those things and that l there's one of those things on that list that's not like the other. There's one of those things on that list that we don't have the ability to do in the natural state. In the natural state. Going to school, getting married, finding a job are all things that you can do with a natural mind. You don't have to be transformed in order to go to school, marry, and take a job. You don't have to have like a supernatural work of God in order to do that. But when it comes to following Jesus Christ, the Bible lets us know in 1 Corinthians 2, verse 14, and we read it earlier. The natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. Doesn't do it. They are foolishness to him. And listen to this. He cannot understand them. It does not say that he will not, but that he does not. It's just a statement of fact. The natural man does not. It's just a statement of fact. He doesn't do it. And then it goes on to not just talk about a statement of fact, but then it speaks about the ability. He cannot. He does not, and he cannot. He doesn't have the ability to do it. And it does not say that like I said that again it puts this this category of following Christ in a totally different realm. We can't place the the decision to follow Christ in the list of other decisions that we make. The decision that the natural man is unable to make is not to be a natural man. You understand that? The natural man can't do that He can't think outside of himself, like make decisions apart from who he is. He's just who he is. And I know it sounds un-American, but this is what the Bible teaches us that there's some things that you can't do. You know, uh uh uh in America it's like, oh, you can do anything. You know, you can be anybody you want to be. The Bible says no, you can't. There's certain things that you can't do. Jeremiah chapter 13, verse 23. Can the Ethiopian change his skin? Or the leopard of spots , then you also can do good who are accustomed to doing evil. You can't change your nature. You can't be other than who you are. You can't change who you are. In addition to that, what Matthew 11 teaches us is that as a natural man, there are things that we cannot see and we cannot know. In order for us to see the light of the kingdom, the Father has to reveal it to us. In order for the for us to know the Son and the Father, they have to reveal themselves to us. We can't make a decision that I'm going to have access to God. You you can't have it. God decides who has access to him. God decides who's chosen. We don't know. We can't see. We don't understand. So if God is going to show the light to a blind man, he first has to open his eyes. If God is going to reveal his life to a dead man, he first has to bring him to life. And that happens apart from any choice of the individual. Like I said, we have an AM radio. No antenna, no batteries, no speakers, and it's on the moon. We're not having access to the revelation of God, apart from God making himself known to us. And then we look throughout a scripture, and there's so much more that we could say and so much doctrine that connects to this. But just listen to some of the descriptions that the Bible gives of the unbeliever. The unbeliever is dead. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. That means you're not responding. I've been to a lot of funerals. I haven't yet heard the coffin respond to me. The dead person does not respond. The unbeliever is spiritually dead. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. Romans chapter 5, verse 6. It says we were helpless. We're dead. We're helpless. Romans chapter 8, verse 8. We cannot please God. Psalm 115, verse 5. We cannot see. Psalm 115, verse 6. We cannot hear Jeremiah 13, 23. We cannot change. Something has to happen outside of us if we're going to be given spiritual life. We're dead, helpless, can't please, can't see, can't hear, can't change. No access to God, and God is the one who says, I'm going to give access to you I'm going to reveal myself to you because of his grace, because of his mercy, and because it was well pleasing to him to save some, to choose some. And when we look throughout scripture, like I said, on top of all this, the choice that God makes You know, beyond us being dead and helpless and can't please and can't see and can't hear, the Bible lets us know that this decision was made before you even existed. Look at Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1 real quick Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, it's just a beautiful place to go for uh uh talking about the sovereignty of God and and election. Well listen to what uh Ephesians chapter chapter 1 says I'll start at verse 3. And this, again, it's a reason to bless and praise God, just as Jesus Christ says, you know, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth. It's the same kind of response that we have in Ephesians chapter 1. Listen to what Paul says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as he chose us in him. When? before the foundation of the world that we would be holy and blameless before him in love. What what what choice did you have before the foundation of the world? Anybody? None? Before the foundation of the world, God made his decision, determination to set his love and affection upon you. You had nothing to do with it. You weren't even around. You did not exist. And God said, I chose beforehand to set my love and affection on you. Second Thessalonians chapter two verse thirteen gives a similar statement. I'll go ahead and read it for you. Second Thessalonians chapter two. In verse 13. Listen what Paul says, says here. He says, but we should always give thanks to God for ye, brethren. Beloved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith and the truth. The beginning, that that that's that's before you existed. Before you existed, before the foundation of the world, God chose to set his love and affection on you. And we'll try to answer some of the questions that you have. I know you might be slowing around with some questions right now, but I just want to let you know that sometimes we we sing better theology than we know. Remember that song I quoted in the beginning? There is a name I love to hear. I love to hear its worth. It sounds like music in mine air. The sweetest name on earth. Oh how I love Jesus. Oh how I love Jesus. Oh how I love Jesus. Because he first loved me. Jesus first loved you. The only reason that you belong to Christ today is because he first loved you. you. He set his affection upon you. Apart from you, no contribution of your own. He set his love on you. He set his affection on you. He chose you to belong to him. We need to praise God for that. It's something that we can praise God for. Let's worship our Lord together. Close your eyes with me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we just thank you, God, so much for What you've revealed to us in your word, and uh Father, we pray that you would uh continue to uh show yourself to us through your scriptures. Uh Father, we thank you for the love and affection that you've set upon us, Lord, before we before we even existed Before we knew you, before we could respond to you, Lord, when we were deaf and dumb and blind, no access to you, not a heart to please you, in a natural state where we did not come to you, where we don't seek for God. And Father, you still chose to set your love and affection upon us. And Father, the only thing that we can say is that you're gracious, that you're a loving God, that you're a compassionate God. And Father, forever will sing of your grace. Father, the angels don't know about the grace that we enjoy. The angels sinned once and they were banished from the kingdom forever. Banished from heaven. And in 1 Peter chapter 1 it says that the angels now stoop down to look into the grace that we have, because it's something that they have not received themselves. And over and over and over again, Father, we stray from you. We turn away, we sin. Even as believers, Lord, we continue to fall and trip and to rebel. But Father, we're still destined for heaven because Jesus chose to set his affection upon us, because the Father predestined us before the foundation of the world that we would belong to him. Father, we thank you so much for your grace. And Father, I pray that you would uh uh grow us in our uh appreciation uh for the God that you are and that we would just ask in the grace that you've given to us because it's not to us, not to us, O Lord. But to your name belongs the glory. In Jesus' name, you praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.