The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you turn in your copy of God's word to the book of Romans? Romans chapter 3. We're back in the book of Romans this week. The last time that we were here in this passage together, Romans chapter 3, verses 21 to 26. I mentioned to you that many consider this passage to be the heart of Paul's message to the Romans. And there's a good reason for drawing that conclusion because everything up to this point in Paul's letter has been like Turning on your local television network. Nothing but bad news. In chapter one, the Gentile nations are guilty and without excuse. Chapter 2, the Jewish nation is guilty and without excuse. And then in the middle of chapter 3, the entire world stands silent before the bar of God's justice. That every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God. And just when you expect to hear The divine judge slam the gavel and declare the eternal sentence of condemnation for breaking his law, we hear these words. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. There's a way out where there seemed to be no way out. And this passage provides the solution to the dilemma presented in the first three chapters. This is, that's why this passage has been understood as the heart of Paul's message. And another reason why this passage is understood to be the heart of Paul's message is not only because it gives us the solution to the dilemma that he's been talking about, but also because the central theme of the book is explained in this passage. I've mentioned it before, but the righteousness of God is the central theme of the book of Romans. The phrase the righteousness of God shows up multiple times. Also, uh, God's righteousness, his righteousness is multiple times throughout the book. It's the predominant theme throughout the book of Romans. And this passage is the first explanation of that righteousness of God. The question is, how can God be deemed righteous? When he declares guilty men to be innocent. How does God let the guilty go free? I mean, that's the kind of uh you know thing we hear that starts riots when guilty people go free I remember watching this uh one video of a of a uh of a judge who uh uh instead of uh giving a person a sentence of condemnation and giving them jail time, he says that, well, he just needs therapy But he had killed a man's son. And this father was so irate that he jumped over the bench to get to the murderer Because it's a miscarriage of justice. How do you let a guilty person go free? You know, you said he's crazy. I'll show you crazy, is what the father was saying. Jumped over the bench to get to this this young person because he says, how can you let a guilty person go free? And here we have God letting guilty people go free. Guilty people treating them as if they're innocent, and how is that not a miscarriage of justice We have this God given internal sense of justice, and when God calls guilty people innocent, the question is, how can he do that? How doesn't that do violence to the character of God? Proverbs 17, 15 says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. But then we have God declaring The guilty innocent. Ungodly people considered just. So the question is, how can we consider God righteous if he calls guilty people innocent? But this passage explains how the righteousness of God is manifested in the gospel. So that would be another way that this passage is really the central passage in the in the text of Romans. Consider the heart of Paul's message that the God would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. He is both just and he can justify. And lastly, this passage is considered to be the heart of Paul's message because this is also the message that he was eager to preach. In chapter 1 and verse 15, Paul says that he was eager to preach the gospel. In chapter 1 and verse 16, we learn that this gospel is the power of God. He's not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. But this is the place where he actually declares what that gospel is. Now he's going to get into the details of that gospel. So again, this is why we would consider this to be the heart of Paul's message, where he really gets to the meat of his message. And so many of these phrases, words that we find connected to the gospel of Jesus Christ, faith and grace, redemption, propitiation, all mentioned here in this context and again for this reason people would consider this to be the the the the center of Paul's message to the to the Romans. And as we take a look at these Rich themes is just like spinning the diamond to see the new facets of its beauty, the gospel beauty. So let's jump back into our text and we'll start reading it in Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 21. But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Being justified as a gift by his grace, through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood, through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness Because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed, for the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and uh Father, we are so grateful for your word My Father, we're grateful for the power of your word. And Father, as we behold these truths, Lord, I pray that you would transform us, Lord, those of us who do not know your Son Jesus Christ. That we would come to know him, Lord, that we would bow the the knees of our hearts, Lord, if not even physically to bow before your majesty Father, that we would recognize you for who you are, who you've declared yourself to be, and the only way uh that our relationship to you can be repaired Father, I pray for those of us who know your son that today, Lord, that we would be encouraged by the gospel yet again as we hear the truth that saved our souls, God, that we would be encouraged by this truth. And Father, that we would be motivated, Lord, to speak this truth, Lord, to be eager, as Paul was eager, to spread the message of your truth. And Father, I pray that we would also see within this that you are being exalted as the righteous one. The one who is just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ. So Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument in God today to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In July of 1505, a young man joined the monastery in Erfurt, Germany, in an effort to cleanse his own soul. According to popular Roman Catholic belief, joining a monastery was like a second baptism, restoring the sinner to the state of innocence which he enjoyed when he first was baptized And this young man not only joined the monastery, but he joined the strictest sect of the order of the Augustinians, which was the strictest order of the monastery. And whatever good works a man might do to save himself, these he was resolved to perform. He fasted sometimes three days on end without a crumb The seasons of fasting to him were more consoling than those of feasting. Lent was more comforting than Easter. He laid on himself vigils and prayers in excess of those stipulated by the rules of his order He cast off blankets when it was cold, permitting himself to almost freeze to death because he thought that somehow he could draw closer to God through this way. He said, I was a good monk, and I kept the rule of my order so strictly that I may say that if ever a monk got to heaven by his monkery, it was I All my brothers in the monastery who knew me will bear me out. If I had kept any longer, I should have killed myself with vigils, prayers, readings, and other works. At times he was proud of his holiness, and he would say, I've done nothing wrong today. But then doubts would arise in his mind. Have you fasted enough? Are you poor enough? Have you confessed enough? And the trouble was that he could not satisfy God seemingly at any point. And as he examined the scriptures, he exclaimed, This word is too high and too hard that anyone should fulfill it. He confessed frequently, often daily, for as long as six hours on a single occasion, just confessing every sin that could come to his mind. Every sin in order to be absolved according to this belief had to be confessed. If you're going to be forgiven of a sin, you have to confess that sin. So therefore, the soul has to search and the memory has to be ransacked for every possible sin so that you could bring it to this confession. He would repeat the confession and to be sure include everything that he could think of, review his entire life until the confessor grew weary. But the dilemma of the Roman Catholic system is that for sins to be forgiven, they had to be confessed, and in order to be confessed, they had to be remembered. So he has to think of every possible scenario. He commented later, if one were to confess his sins in a timely manner, he would have to carry around a confessor in his pocket. Erwin Lutzer observed that during these struggles, Martin Luther became aware that his problem was even more serious than he thought. He says it's not just that a man commits sins, but he himself inwardly is defiled. To use a modern illustration of Luther's dilemma, he says confession is like trying to mop up the floor with the water running. So much. I can't get to the root of it. And everything that I do is just sweeping the surface. There's not so much as a moment's assurance that he was fully right with God. Luther said that nothing is easier than sinning. He says, human nature is like a drunk peasant. Lift him up onto one side of the saddle and he falls off on the other side. And what was it that caused Martin Luther such angst? It was because he grappled seriously with what many of us today only give a passing glance to and minimal attention. It's the truth that God is utterly righteous. He understood that God is righteous and that I am not. And that God demands righteousness. And how am I going to present before perfect righteousness anything that he could be satisfied with? God is righteous. He demands righteousness from me, and it's also a requirement to enter into heaven. It's the same question that Job asked in Job 9 and verse 2. He says, how can a man be right before God? How can a man be right before God? The greatest problem that you have this morning is, or this afternoon, as I was reminded earlier today, and we're still trying to get that together, this afternoon. The greatest problem that you have this afternoon is not your the status of your employment. It's not how much money can you make. Your greatest problem today is not your health. The greatest problem that you face is not the state of the nation. Foreign affairs, that's not your greatest problem today. Your greatest problem today is that you're a sinner in the sight of a holy God. That's your greatest problem. Greatest human dilemma is that the wages of sin is death, and that by the works of the law no flesh can be justified. That's your greatest problem. Martin Luther heard the sermon series from Romans 3, 9 to 20, and he understood it. There's none righteous, not one. And he was included in that group. And it caused him to be so disturbed to the point where he reacted with bitterness and even anger toward God. Once he said, I do not love, yes, I hated the righteousness of God, because it's God who punishes the sinner. And secretly I was angry with God. God, there's nothing I can do to please you. God demands perfect righteousness, and I can't give it to Him. God, why have you put this impossible task in front of me? But what does our passage teach? Romans chapter 3, verse 21. It says, but now, apart from the law. The righteousness of God has been manifested. That's the good news. It's apart from my doing. It's apart from my working. There's something that God has done to manifest his righteousness to me. What does it mean that the righteousness of God has been manifested? First of all, the righteousness of God refers to his ethical and moral holiness. He is a God who is not only separate from sin, but this is a God who abhors sin. Habakkuk chapter 1 and verse 13 says, Your eyes are too pure to approve of evil. You cannot look on wickedness with favor. You know, sometimes we'll look at wickedness and we'll chuckle a little bit, you know, give a little smirk. God says, I cannot even look at wickedness with favor. There is nothing in me that 's at peace with wickedness. I hate wickedness. I loathe wickedness. Psalm 5, verses 4 to 5, it says, For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. No evil dwells with you. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes. You hate all who do iniquity. Strong language. Do you know that God does not send sin to hell? He sends sinners to hell. Those that do iniquity, I am against them. They're my enemies. I loathe sin. God does not just disapprove of wickedness. He loathes it. It's an offense to him. He's infuriated by it. And God's righteousness is immutable. Do you know what that means? He's never going to change his disposition towards sin God is never going to be friendly towards sin. He's never going to chuckle at sin. He maintains a perfect and an absolute justice. Not only toward himself and a prevention of any violation of his justice, but also towards the sin that he sees in the world. And we see the truth of this defended in verses like 1 John 1 and verse 5. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. No sin in God. Job 34, verse 10. Therefore hear me, you men of understanding. Far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should do wrong. God cannot lie, He cannot change, He cannot deny Himself. And you would expect that if God's righteousness is being manifested, that it would grind us to powder. God says, I'm manifesting my righteousness. Why doesn't that split us into subatomic particles that God manifests his righteousness? My righteousness is showing up. Why doesn't that destroy us? It's because of how God's righteousness is being revealed here. God's righteousness in this instance does not come to judge, but to deliver. Not to condemn, but to save, not to pour out his wrath, but to dispense his grace. And that's all in the phrase, but now. We looked at that last time. There's a contrast between what came before which is that the whole world is accountable to God, and then there's this button out. But in contrast to that, now God is manifesting his righteousness. It's a justifying grace. We're not justified in his sight without this but now. And there's a manifestation of his righteousness. The word for manifest is the Greek word phanarao. It means to reveal, to make clear, to make known. It's something that was previously concealed or not understood, but now it has been made clear. There's something that's been made clear in this text. And what is being made clear, it's that God's righteousness is being manifested. And this is the second aspect of the righteousness of God that's so important for us to understand. What we mean by the righteousness of God is that this is the same righteousness that belongs to God. It's his righteousness that's being manifested. It belongs to God. It characterizes God. It's a righteousness that describes God Himself. And that is the same righteousness that's being manifested in the gospel. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying by that. But this is powerful. Listen to this. This righteousness comes from him. It's the righteousness of God. It's his righteousness that's manifested to us. It's not our righteousness that's manifested to him. Do you see which direction it's coming from? Righteousness has to come from heaven to earth, from him to us. It's not our righteousness which we're offering up to God. So that now he can be pleased with us, satisfied with us. No, God says that's not the way it's going to work. My righteousness has to come to you. My righteousness has to be manifested to you. Such an important point to make. And what does that mean? It means that you cannot produce the kind of righteousness that God would be pleased with. God has to bring this righteousness to us. So the righteousness that we're talking about is a righteousness that's apart from any human effort. It's apart from the works of the law. And this is what the text says, but now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, saying it's not going to be you that offers this righteousness. It's going to be God that offers this righteousness to you. It's apart from the works of the law. And that's the first point that we touched on last time. The justification is not through the law. In verses. 19 and 20. It lets us know this, that we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed, all the world may become accountable to God. Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. It's through the law that I know that I'm such a sinner. So it's not going to come through the law because the law is what exposes me before the holiness of God. So righteousness has to come outside of my working. Outside of my efforts. It's apart from the law. Literally, without the law, this righteousness has come. And what this means is that this righteousness, again, it comes from God Himself. And this is why it's important to understand where we've already been. Back in verse 19, Paul says that whatever the law says, it speaks to those under the law, speaking about the Jewish people. And you might read that as a Gentile and say, well, hey, that's not applicable to me, but the rest of the verse says that God does this so that every mouth may be closed, every person may be accountable before him. So the Jewish people only served as an example or proof that nobody gets away? That if if God would judge his chosen people, that he's going to judge everybody? So nobody's going to get away. Nobody has fulfilled the law, not even the Jewish people who received the law. So we're all falling beneath the standard of righteousness. Whether it's The righteousness that God displays to us through creation in the conscience are what he gives through the law of Moses. And it's nothing defective in the law that he gave Well, the law's not the problem. It's the people who are trying to obey it. That's the problem, right? Romans 7 verse 12 says, the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. There's nothing wrong with the law. The law comes from God, just as righteousness comes from God. The problem is the people. The people Romans 7 verse 14 it says, For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am a flesh sold into bondage to sin. I can't keep it. And that's what Luther understood. So the question is, is where am I going to get my righteousness from? Because it's not coming from me. It's not going to come through the law. And this is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures. And we looked at this last time, but just to To develop this point a little bit further, this is point number two, the justification is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures. Consistent with the Old Testament scriptures. Verse 21. It says, but now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. That word, that phrase law and the prophets refers to the Old Testament scriptures. So you have this the Old Testament that bears witness that righteousness does not come through the law First of all, we know that righteousness does not come through the law because there were portions of the Old Testament that described a period of time before the law was even given, right? The Mosaic Law did not exist until 1446 B. C. when the Exodus happened. If it took the law of God for mankind to have a right relationship to God , Then everybody before Moses would have been lost if it took the law for us to have a right relationship to him. What happens to the people before the law came? What happens to Adam and Eve? Well, they're lost. What happens to Abel and Seth? Well, no, he's lost. What happens to Noah? Well, he's lost. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, all lost. If you believe that righteousness comes through the law, everybody who existed before the law is lost. That's the first point to keep in mind. Even Job, we think about Job. You know, Job comes right before Psalms, but Job actually belongs to the period of the patriarchs. During the same time period of, you know. the the the the fathers, you know, Abraham and Isaac and all those people, it's like before that time is when Job was was written. Actually there's a connection between uh the book of Job and Genesis, even in the introduction in the land of us. But also we know that Job came before the Mosaic Law because what is Job doing? He's offering up his own sacrifices Was that something that was allowed under the Mosaic Law? No, you had to go to the priest to offer up a sacrifice. What is Job doing offering his own sacrifices for his personal family? You don't do that in Israel. Job comes before that period of time. We're talking about before the law came. that Job is is living and offering up sacrifices, recognizing that I've I've sinned against God. My children have sinned against God. I'll I'll bring these sacrifices before the Lord, recognizing my sin and my the sins of my family against him. Job is before the law. Are we saying that the Job is lost? The law never saved anybody And even if you read the law and understand just the flow of biblical history, you would come to that conclusion. The law was added after these people. The law never saved anybody. And that's what Galatians chapter 4 speaks about. It speaks about the inheritance in Galatians chapter 3 actually. It sucks about when uh God made a promise to Abraham that he made it 430 years before the law. And then in Galatians chapter 4 and verse 18, it says, if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on a promise. But God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise. It's not through the keeping of the law, but it was through the giving of a promise So you have Abraham, again, an ungodly, idol-worshiping gentile, before he was called to follow the Lord. You know, how about that for the father of your nation, right? He was uh he was an idol worshiping gentile. But that's the father of the nation. How was he declared innocent in the sight of the Lord? He believed God, and God credited to him as righteousness. They believed in the promises of God by faith. Did they understand that righteousness had to come from the Lord? Not necessarily, because that's what is being made manifest in the New Testament under Christ. So now people are understanding that that's where my righteousness is coming from. It's coming from God through the person of Jesus Christ. So so that might have been held off until a future generation to understand that, but they did know it's not coming from me. They knew that much. And what they did understand is that I have to trust in somebody that the Lord is going to bring. They understood that much. They understood that It's not based on this keeping of the law. And again, because the law was given even after these people existed. Also, according to the Old Testament, we understand that everybody is a transgressor. And that's the point of all these verses that Paul is quoting earlier. None righteous, no not one. Nobody understands. Nobody seeks for God. Everybody is turned aside. Together they've become useless. Where is he getting that from? From the Old Testament. He's going from the Old Testament to say that nobody can be declared innocent based on law-keeping. That's what the scriptures say. So do you think David was trusting in his obedience to present himself before the Lord? Absolutely not. That's why in Romans chapter 4 it's quoting from Psalm 32 where he says, Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven, whose sins have been covered, blessed is the man whose sin the Lord doesn't take into account God, the only way that I'm going to be accepted by you is that you don't count up all my sins against me. That is the only way. It's a fool's errand to try to obey the law in order to be received by the Lord. It was always by grace, it was always through faith, and ultimately it was always because of Christ. Always because Look at verse 22. Justification is through faith in Christ. That's the third point we take a look at. Verse 22. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Where are we getting this righteousness of God from? It's through faith in Christ. Righteousness from God comes to us, and it comes through faith in Jesus Christ. I love to say that not every passage in the Old Testament speaks about Christ, but you can get to Christ from every passage in the Old Testament. Because it's all pointing to him. And the law of Moses and all the Old Testament prophets were eventually pointing to Jesus Christ. In John chapter 5 and verse 39, Jesus speaks to the religious leaders and he says, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me. It's about me. And you're unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. Everything was pointing to me. It's testifying about me. Luke chapter 24, verse 25. And he said to them, and this is the the disciples on the road to Emmaus as you know they're downcast because You know, they they they thought that you know this one was going to be the Messiah. This we thought that this was the one who the prophets uh you know told us about. And he says to them, Oh foolish men and slow of heart to believe. And all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? Then beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. The greatest revelation of God is Jesus Christ, and the center of the revelation of God is Jesus Christ. And here's where the hope has always been. It has always been about Jesus. From Old Testament straight through until today, it's always been about Jesus. How's that? Put back to Genesis chapter 3 real quick Not that you haven't heard this before, but just to remind you, Genesis chapter 3. This is after the fall of man. And God speaks to the serpent. Verse 14, and the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. What what is the Lord speaking about here? This this enmity between her seed and the seed of this serpent. What he's talking about is the the enmity between the people of faith. And the children of Satan. Because we understand that Satan is behind this serpent that brought man and woman into this turmoil that we find ourselves in. It was him who brought this temptation to mankind in the first place. And it was the children of Satan that would be attacking those children of faith. But then he says this, that there's coming. A seed. And he, singular, the singular seed, shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. There's coming A seed, a son, who is going to crush you. From the very beginning, Adam and Eve are given this promise that there's somebody who's coming We don't know who it is, but somebody's coming to undo what we've just put ourselves into. Somebody's coming to reverse the curse. Here's the promise. Someday somebody's coming. And this promise is carried through the rest of the Old Testament. Genesis chapter 12. Abraham is told that he was going to be made a great nation. And all families of the earth would be blessed through him. There's coming somebody who's going to bless all the families of the earth. Genesis 22, verse 18. In your seed Again, this seed, we're following the seed, in your seed, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. There's a connection between the seed that's coming from Abraham and the seed that was spoken about back in Genesis chapter 3. Later on in Genesis 49, we're told that the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler staff from between his feet until Shallow comes, and to him a singular There's one who's coming. To him shall be the obedience of all peoples over all the earth. He's going to rule over all the earth. There's coming somebody who's going to bless the entire earth. David has given a promise. I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever There's the seed that's that they're looking forward to, somebody to come. Isaiah chapter 9 verse 6. For a child will be born to us. A son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. This seed has been promised from Genesis chapter 3. And then over time it's just more and more information is given about this seed who is to come. And everybody from Genesis 3 onward was to have Faith in that one who was to come. Everybody is supposed to believe the revelation that God had given them. That hey, there's somebody who's coming. There's somebody who's coming. It was always faith, and who was that one who was to come? It was Jesus Christ. Even though they didn't know his name, who they were placing faith in was Jesus That's why Jesus says, you search the scriptures because in them you think you have eternal life. These are the things that speak about me. It's always been about me. It's always been about having faith in me. So how are the Old Testament saints saved? Was it ever by law? Absolutely not. There's this false idea that kind of floats around Christianity from time to time. It was actually an old view that I was taught when I was younger that, you know, the Old Testament saints were saved by law, and the New Testament saints were saved by grace. They had one way of salvation, and today we have another way of salvation. That is heretical. To believe that you can be saved by law That there's something that you can do to be obedient enough, to be righteous enough, that God would say, hey, I can't help but let you into heaven. Look at what you've done Like if Abraham got into heaven based on keeping the law, he has something to boast of, right? Hey Lord, I I did everything. Hey, come on in, Abraham. Look at look at what you've done. Pat on the back. You get a sticker, you know But none of us are saved by the law. We've never been saved by the law. It's heretical to think that I can do enough to be saved because of my obedience. It's always been about Christ from the Old Testament looking forward and from our perspective looking back. It's always been about Him. Salvation is through faith in Jesus Christ. And this was what brought Martin Luther and countless others to understand that this righteousness is what comes from him. It comes from God through the person of Jesus Christ. So why do we so ardently defend this doctrine that we call sola fide? That it's faith alone. It's only by faith. It's nothing else. You can't add any works to faith in order to be saved. Why do we defend that so ardently? It's because we believe that salvation comes through Jesus Christ alone. That Jesus' righteousness is the only righteousness that God accepts. It's not about you. It's not about what you can offer. It's not about what you can do. There's nothing that you can offer to the Lord that would allow or cause him to say that I've just got to break open the gates of heaven to let you in. I had no idea that there was one down there. There's no chance. Why do we defend faith alone? Because it's by Christ alone. Real quick, flip over to the book of Galatians. Galatians chapter 5. When you understand what the what the scriptures are are doing here, and it's just so consistent. It's so consistent. There is nothing that you can add, however minor you might think it is. To add to the work of Jesus. There's nothing, absolutely nothing. Look at Galatians chapter 5 What we have here is in verse 1, and just to kind of give you a little bit of background for the book of Galatians, in Galatians, the book of Galatians, Paul is dealing with a very serious heresy. Very serious error that comes against the gospel of Jesus Christ. What's the error? This is not a heresy about the deity of Jesus Christ. This is not an error about the sinlessness of Jesus. It's not about the virgin birth of Jesus. It's not about the miraculous power or resurrection of Jesus. This is about whether or not circumcision is required for salvation. Like that's what you know Paul is getting all bothered about. You want to add this minor surgery to salvation. And he writes an entire book. basically to to defend the truth of the gospel against this this the satanic error that's crept into the church. Like really Paul? Aren't aren't you going like a little overboard here? I mean like like like really? Is this that dangerous? Keep in mind, Paul was circumcised. So Paul isn't saying that circumcision keeps you out of heaven. Paul actually had Timothy circumcised, if you remember. In uh Acts chapter 16, uh Paul came to Derby and to Lystra, and a disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer. But his father was a Greek, and he was well spoken of by the brethren who were in Lystra and Iconium. Paul wanted this man to go with them, and he took him and circumcised him. That's what Paul did to Timothy. Had him circumcised because of the Jews who were in those parts, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. Basically what Paul says to Timothy is like, you know, Timothy People know that you're you have Jewish heritage from your mother, but they know your father's a Gentile. And there's going to be just a lot of questions among the Jewish people as we go to them. So let's let's just take care of the surgery so they don't You know, circumcision doesn't come in between them hearing the message of the truth of the gospel. So he has Timothy circumcised. So Paul's not saying that circumcision alone is going to keep you out of heaven, but look what he says in Galatians chapter 5. Look at verse 2. He says, Behold I, Paul, say to you, that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. Listen to what he says in verse 4. You can't get stronger than this. You have been severed from Christ. You who are seeking to be justified by law, you have fallen from grace. Christ is of no benefit to you. If you receive circumcision. What is he saying? Circumcision for what? Circumcision in an effort to be justified by the law. If I'm circumcised in an effort to present myself wholly before the Lord, I have cut myself off from Christ. I have severed myself. from the Lord. I have fallen from grace. Jesus is of no benefit to me anymore if I'm adding something to this work of salvation. It's that serious. That serious. The language is going to be more severe. Down to verse 12. Look what he says. I wish those I wish that those who are troubling you would even mutilate themselves. Just to give you an idea, to circumcise, it's a Greek word that means to cut around. To mutilate is a word that means to cut off. I'll let you fill in the details. You can't get stronger than that. He's saying that I wish that those who trouble you that they would be cut off, mutilated. Why is Paul so bothered about this? It's because eternal souls are at stake. You're disturbing the gospel of Jesus Christ. You're adding to the gospel. And a gospel that is added to is no longer a gospel. It's no longer the gospel. You add to the gospel, you're no longer preaching the gospel. It's no longer confidence in Christ. It's confidence in Christ plus. That math doesn't work in Christianity, okay? It's not Christ plus anything. And the same goes for any religious act. It's not Christ plus my baptism It's not Christ plus my circumcision. It's not Christ plus my good works. It's not Christ plus my communion. What we're going to do today is not going to bring you to heaven. You understand that? We're remembering what brings us to heaven. We're remembering Jesus. It's a it's a memorial. We're remembering, we're reflecting on what brings us to heaven. But if you think that picking up a wafer And a and a little cup of juice, fruit of the vine, is gonna bring you to heaven? It's like, let's turn over these tables if that's what it's gonna Bring you back to your sanity. This this does not save anybody. This is not adding some kind of grace to your life that eventually, you know, if I do it enough, I'll finally fill up the You know, the measure of grace so that God can accept me. This is not going to save anybody. Your church attendance does not save you. Your church membership does not save you. Your kosher diet will not save you. Galatians chapter 2. Flip back to chapter 2. Just for those of you who thought that Peter was the first pope, let's take a look at chapter 2, verse 11. But when Cephas, that's another name for Peter, came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face. Because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. You know, so much for papal infallibility. Here he gets confronted to his face. Verse 13: the rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you being a Jew live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compelled the Gentiles to live like Jews? Peter, before these Jewish people came down from Jerusalem, you know, you were eating the BLTs. You know, you had the ham hocks. Come on, brother. You know how we get down? You you had the pork and beans, Peter? Said pass me another slab of bacon Well put that on my my my double cheeseburger, right? Now before the Jewish people came down, you were fellowshipping with us, you were eating with us, you were at the barbecue, Peter But now all of a sudden the juice come down and it's like, well I can't I can't can't partake of that. And then you start kind of easing yourself, you know, a little bit closer to the kosher line in the grocery store. You know, this is where I do my shopping now. I go to the Dunkin' Donuts in Pikesville. When you order a a a a bacon, an egg, you know, McMuffin or whatever they have there and the the the the Dunkin' Donuts, you know, sausage, a sandwich, it is not sausage. And it's not bacon. I I had bacon, it's like the colors were running on the bacon. I'm like, what is this? Somebody gotta warn me about that Kosher bacon sandwich, come on. Says before before the Jewish people came from Jerusalem, Peter, you were you were fellowshipping with us, you were eating with us. And now all of a sudden you want to act like your kosher? Changing your diet is deadly if you think changing your diet is going to get you to heaven. Deadly. He says, you're not being straightforward about the gospel, Peter. And it's not that Peter was denying the gospel. Like Peter, you're just giving the impression. Just to give the impression that this is the path to salvation. Like that's enough for me to confront you to your face Why? Because it's a departure from the gospel of Jesus Christ. Chapter 2, verse 16 Actually, I'll start at verse 15. He says, We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus. So that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. Peter, we're Jewish, and not even we are trusting in the law. We're trusting in Christ by faith and faith alone. Peter, how can you do this? Why would you give these people the impression that your diet has anything to do with your salvation? To be justified by faith is to be justified by Christ. And that's exactly what he says down in verse 17. But if while seeking to be justified in Christ. We ourselves have also been found sinners. Is Christ then a minister of sin? To be justified by faith is to be justified by Christ. That I'm made righteous in Christ. I'm declared innocent because of my relationship in Christ. And everywhere that you see justification mentioned in the scriptures, it's always tied to faith. By faith. Even the righteousness of God through faith, Romans 3. 22. We maintain that a man is justified by faith, Romans 3. 28 But to the one who does not work, but believes in him, who justifies the ungodly. His faith is credited as righteousness. Romans 4 5. Therefore the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by what? By faith. Philippians chapter 3. Flip over to Philippians chapter 3. Verse 7, I'll start at verse 7. Philippians 3, verse 7. Paul says, but whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as lost for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss in the view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. I gain Christ how? It's through faith. It may be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness which comes from God. Again, where does righteousness come from? It comes from God. How do we receive that righteousness? On the basis of faith. You can't get any more clear than that. Righteousness comes from God on the basis of faith. We grab hold of the righteousness of Jesus Christ through the empty hand of faith. That's how we grab hold of Jesus Christ. And Jesus is all the world to us, isn't he? My life, my joy, my all. He is my strength from day to day. Without him, I would fall. We need Jesus. And it's always been about Jesus. And any gospel that does not trust fully and completely in Jesus Christ is a false gospel. It's a damning gospel, which is not a gospel at all. I've actually been reading this book recently. It's a book that rejects penal substitutionary atonement Every aspect of that. And we'll talk more about that later. But listen to what this book says. I'm not going to tell you the book because I don't want you to read it. But listen to this statement. Listen to what he says. While Jesus died for us. This does not mean that Jesus died instead of us. It means that he died ahead of us and with us. Let's try to unpack that statement for you. In other words, Jesus doesn't pay at all. He didn't die for you, in the sense that he died instead of you as your substitute. That's the substitutionary part of the atonement. He didn't die instead of you. He died ahead of you to be your example. And he'll show the way ahead of you. He died ahead of you. And and he'll be an assistant to walk alongside of you. He died ahead of you, and he dies with you. He'll come alongside of you to coach you along the way, but he doesn't do it for you. That's a damning lie That's a damning gospel. There is no salvation in that. To say that, oh, Jesus just dies uh uh ahead of us No, Jesus has to die for me. In my place, condemned he stood, right? In my place. In their view, faith in Jesus is not all you need for salvation. You know, he he he takes care of the down payment, but you know, you've got to you've got to be put on the payment plan. You know, he'll he'll take care of he'll contribute, but you know, you've got to work for this. It's unbiblical. And real quick, because some of you might already be thinking about this, but what about James? What about James? It's like the hall pass in high school. You know, I got the book of James. You can't send me to detention. I got James. Let's flip over to James. See what James has to say. James chapter 2. I've got James in my defense. Look at what James says. James chapter 2, look at verse 20. But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son on the altar? You see that faith was working with his works. And as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. There it is. There it is. You didn't see that one coming, did you? In the same way was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. And there are people who try to position James against Paul, or even Paul against Jesus, as if there's a different message. But is James contradicting Paul? If you don't pay attention to the details, it can look like it. Because he's talking about being justified by he uses the language of justification He's saying we're justified by works. And faith alone is useless. I mean, faith alone, you guys talk about this sola fide, faith alone all the time. He says right here that faith alone is useless. And it's dead being by itself. And he even uses the same illustration about Abraham. You used Abraham early in the sermon. I heard you, but I've got Abraham here in my corner as well. He uses Abraham as an example. Wasn't Abraham justified by his works? Is he correcting Paul? Not at all. He's complimenting Paul. Paul is talking about how we're justified in the sight of God, and that's always by faith and by faith alone. What James is talking about is how can you justify your claim to have faith? We're talking about two separate questions, okay? How do I justify my claim to have faith? And if you look at the context, it's the difference between saying and seeing. Look at chapter 2, verse 14. It says, what use is it, my brethren, if someone says he has faith, but has no works, can that faith save him? Look down at verse 18. But someone may well say, You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works In other words, how do I justify my claim to have faith? How do I declare myself innocent? I'm telling everybody I'm a believer. I have faith. I trust in Jesus Christ. But then no works follow that. So how am I now going to justify my claim that I have faith? I'm saying I have faith, but I have nothing to show for it. This is not about how I come to Christ. Do you understand that? The person here is already claiming that I've come to Christ. So this is not about my entrance into salvation. This is a person who's saying, I'm already saved. I'm already saved. And now James says, justify that. Show me that. You say that you have faith, but you don't have any evidence, any works to back it up This is not about a person who's entering into faith. This is about a person who says that I'm already there. And now I'm having to prove that I truly have faith. That's the question that James is dealing with. Talking about something completely different. Because we're never anywhere said to be saved by obedience to the law. That's not how we enter into this relationship with God. It's not through obedience. Romans 2. 13 says, it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. And the problem is that nobody can do the law. Which is exactly the next point that Paul gets to, and we'll have to save the rest of this for next time. But that's why where he gets to his next point, which is chapter 3 in verse 23, why is salvation only for those who believe? Because verse 23 says, for all have sinned. And all fall short of the glory of God. And I really think that this is what lies at the core of so much of the confusion between biblical Christianity and every other religion. Is that people don't understand how lost they really are. If if you really understood just how lost you were You would never imagine that there's anything that you could offer to God that would be satisfactory for your entrance into heaven. If you really understood how lost you really were. Do you understand how lost you are? Do you understand that your thinking is depraved? That your desires are corrupt? That your direction is deviant, that your works are useless That your words are deadly, that your actions are destructive, that your heart is hardened. Do you understand just how far from God you've fallen? If you really understood just how far you fallen, which is exactly what Paul has been doing in the verses prior to this, is trying to show us like, hey, like take a look at the evidence. Take a look in the mirror sometime. Do you understand just how sick you are? Just how lost you are in your sins? And now do you think that you can do anything? That you can present yourself before God? There's nothing. People don't understand how lost they really are. And I'll just end with this. Flip over to Luke chapter 18. We'll come back to this next time, but Luke chapter 18, just as an illustration to close. These are the people that don't know how lost they are, the people who think they can get to heaven based on their works They're the people who have no idea what's in the mirror. Luke chapter 18, look at verse 9. And he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself: God, I thank you that I am not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven. But was beating his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. Is that the position that you find yourself in today? If you're here today and you have not trusted in Jesus Christ, or if you're looking at your life and you don't see the evidence, That you've truly trusted in Jesus Christ. You cannot defend your claim to have faith. Do you realize that this is the position that you should be in? Like Lord, I can't even pick up my head right now. And just beating on your own chest, Lord, be merciful to me. Just have mercy, God. Have mercy to me the sinner. I'm not worried about anybody else right now. It's not be merciful to us the sinners. It's be merciful to me Like we used to sing, it's me, it's me, it's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. Not my mother, not my father, but it's me, O Lord. Standing in the need of prayer. God, I need you. It's me. Be merciful to me, the sinner. Have you ever understood just you and you alone before the holiness of God that it's me, God? I'm the sinner. I don't deserve to be in your presence. I can't even pick my head up right now. I'm so disgusted with myself. Lord, would you just have mercy on my soul? Be merciful to me, the sinner. What was verse 14 saying? I tell you, this man went to his house what? Justified. Declared innocent. Rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. How are you going to be declared innocent in the sight of God? It's by recognizing, first of all, that you are a sinner. It's not just like, hey, like, you know, we're all sinners. Everybody's a sinner. Hey, we all make mistakes. No, no, forget everybody else. It's just you and God. When you look at your relationship between you and the holy righteous one who you will one day stand before, how do you see yourself? Do you say, God, I'm a sinner. I have no way that I could ever present myself before you other than your mercy. God, will you have mercy on me? And it's that person who recognizes his desperate need for mercy and looking for a righteousness that's outside of himself and ultimately looking to Jesus Christ himself. It's that person who walks away justified, declared innocent in the sight of God. Come, ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. Come you weary, heavy laden, lost and ruined by the fall. If you tarry until you're better, you will never come at all. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had in your word. Father, I pray that you'd help us to understand justification and all that it means. My Father, this most important doctrine in the Christian faith. My Father, I pray that we wouldn't be confused about what the gospel is. My Father, that we wouldn't uh uh just play soft With uh those doctrines, Lord, that are uh contrary to Christ and add works on top of faith and trust in Christ alone My Father, I pray that we would see every other gospel as a damning gospel, Lord. It's no gospel at all. My Father, that there's only one way to be saved, and that's through faith in Jesus Christ and through Him alone. Father, recognizing ourselves as sinners, that it's me, I'm the sinner, that I don't deserve to come into your presence. And that it's only because of what Christ has done for me on my behalf, it's the righteousness that comes from God, is what I need on the basis of faith and of faith alone. Father, I pray that we would understand these things and that you would grow us in our confidence. And Father, that we would proclaim this message from the rooftops. That Jesus saves to the utmost. Jesus saves. He'll pick you up and turn you around. To the utmost, to the utmost, Jesus saves. Father, I pray that we would trust in him and in him alone. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and digital files