The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, today we have a blessing that's been extended from our conference uh yesterday. Uh Harry Walls, uh Pastor Harry Walls uh is here uh with us who was also uh here for our conference and uh what a wonderful time that was and uh many of You uh uh maybe enjoyed the session uh that he had on uh how we wait and uh waiting for the the Lord's return and how we live while we wait for the Lord's return. Pastor Harry Walls is the president of the Masters Fellowship, and he's also served as the senior pastor of Shades Mountain Independent Church in Birmingham. Alabama, and uh before uh becoming the uh and he did that before becoming the campus pastor at the Masters University. Uh Harry has also been honored with a Doctorate of Divinity degree from the Masters Seminary in 2021 And he currently serves as the executive pastor at Stonebridge Church, uh Stone Bridge Bible Church in Brentwood, Tennessee And also now serves on the board of the Masters University and Seminary. And I shared with some of you that he used to be on the opposite side of the table, and now he sits on the same side with me. Harry and his wife, Karen, have two children, and uh one of the things that I can say about Harry just in uh my personal interaction is that he's a pastor's pastor. He shepherds my own soul, the times that I'm with him. Just the interaction that I've had with him has just been so enriching and encouraging. And we're just privileged to have him here with us today to share the word of God. So come on up Harry and bless us with the word. Thank you, George. Well, good afternoon, Baltimore Bible Church. I was so nervous I was gonna say good morning. I uh I like the afternoon though. You get to sleep in on Sunday or you get to spend extra time Well, greetings from the Stonebridge Bible Church in uh Tennessee, where I now serve, and uh greetings from the university and seminary. where I get to continue to serve. Just recently left there in July and love serving with students and uh the uh missional mentality and purpose for which we exist to really educate and equip young men and women in the truth that informs everything. Because an education is more than a degree that gets you a job. True education is truth-based education. You really don't have an education unless it's based in truth. And so the privilege I have had is being in a uh culture, college, university context that is governed by the truth. And uh I am just such such a pleasure and privilege to continue to be a part of it. And George and Harry have been friends for a while, and we do love the things that God calls us to, not the least of which is investing in his people. So take your Bible with me and join me in Matthew's Gospel, chapter 5. Matthew, chapter 5. Now this morning is the product of lots of conversations and really observations In my role as the president of the Master's Fellowship, I get to travel, and typically monthly, I'm somewhere not in my church. talking to God's people and engaging them and those who lead them in an effort to serve them. And one of the growing observations, consistent observations through those conversations is the recognition that There's a measure of concern or discouragement related to the crumbling of our culture, the rapid decline and the growing corruption united with the rapidness of that corruption. It's one thing to see a culture go down, it's another thing to see it rapidly go down. And one of the observations attached to that, and I don't think I need to make the case for the culture. I think you'll recognize that things are changing and they're not changing for good and we obviously just had an election and our thoughts and hearts were towards the future of our country and the culture that we're going to raise our children in. do our work in ministry in. But one of the other observations is churches tend to s feel like they're withdrawing. That they're bunkering. Yes, I'll vote. Yes, I'll do my part. But I'm choosing to be with God's people because the world in which I'm living is not only unattractive, it's unproductive for me to engage in. It's safer to be with those who share my convictions and enjoy the songs I enjoy and the conversations that I enjoy having. The culture is destructive and rapidly declining, and in my view, the church is discouraged and seemingly withdrawing So my goal and desire today as a brother in Christ is to encourage you to not withdraw, but to engage. To encourage you to not be discouraged, but encouraged. Because what Jesus says in the passage we're going to look at, we're going to look at one verse and then we're going to unpack it in terms of its implications. uh throughout a variety of passages in the New Testament. But based on the declaration of Jesus Christ I'm here to inform you of what he would say to you in part, and that is, you are something, and therefore your life can mean something if you live out who you are. I want to encourage you and I want to challenge you in a culture that is declining and rapidly declining. I was reading recently a sociologist talked about the criteria for a healthy culture. In other words, if a culture is healthy, these are the characteristics of a healthy culture. Number one, honesty. Healthy cultures tell the truth. How are we doing? Number two, healthy cultures manifest and model integrity. That is what they say they are in public, they really are. In other words, what they put out on Instagram represents reality How we do it. Number three, morality. Healthy cultures acknowledge moral standards and they adhere to them. Security, number four, healthy cultures Are the kind of cultures where it's safe to walk down the street at night? How's your neighborhood? Look, I like Tennessee. It's better than Los Angeles, but I'm not walking down the street anywhere at night unless it's in my neighborhood with bright lights. Number five, unity. Healthy cultures are committed to harmony and shared values and priorities. How are we doing with that one? Community. We are connected to productive and relational community. We know each other. We're engaged with each other. We don't just live next door, we know our neighbors. Number seven, final metric is stability. That is, healthy cultures have a sense of calm and anticipation, a kind of cultural predictability. versus never-ending waves of future uncertainty. Listen, you know this. By these metrics, we would all have to agree we're not living in a healthy culture. And in response to the question, what we do now as a Christian community, Jesus has an answer to that question. And I'm hopeful to give a description to what he meant by his answer to that question. Lewis Dupree, he's a Yale professor, sociologist. Wrote an article that was entitled Good by Christianity. He said as it relates to Christianity, the West Talking about America, appears to have said its definitive farewell to a Christian culture. Christianity, he says, has become a historical factor. In other words, it's a past tense. influencer, subservient to secular culture. Rather than functioning as the creative power it once was. Now listen to this. Christianity. has been absorbed and dominated. End quote. Louis Dupree, Yale professor, said that 24 years ago And I don't think it's any less true today. So read with me a declaration of reality, which is what the Bible is. This is the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that has ever lived. This is the constitution of the kingdom. This is Matthew 5, 6, and 7, called the Sermon on the Mount. It's really a royal reflection on reality as it relates to the king of kings and the kingdom that he governs and rules over. It begins with a recognition of how to be blessed in the kingdom of God. Matter of fact, verse 1 says Jesus saw the multitudes, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, and don't miss that, that's a a symbol to say he's about to speak with authority. And yes, he was considered a rabbi and a teacher, and when they would sit, it was in recognition that he's about to teach. But This is more like a king sitting on a mountain throne of his authority saying, Let me tell you how it really is in my kingdom, which is why famously the second Moses will say, you have heard it said. But I say unto you. In other words, no matter what you've heard, this is the way that it is. And when he sits down, he's saying, This is my kingdom. And this is how it is in my kingdom. These are the realities. And I want you to see something else noted in verse 2. And opening his mouth he began to teach them, saying, Now listen, obviously if you're going to teach, your mouth has to be open, right? But this Hebrew phrase or this Hebrew thought reflects more than my mouth is moving. But my heart is being poured out. He opened his mouth to pour out his heart Because what he's explaining is essential critical reality that is meant to calibrate what the kingdom of heaven consists of, what God blesses, and how you can be a blessing. That's how it starts, the Beatitudes. Nine times. Blessed are, blessed are. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those who mourn. And he rehearses nine times. These are the things that attract the blessing of God. These are the virtues. That bring you the kind of happiness and joy and satisfaction that God grants to those in his kingdom Not what you think would attract it, but what God says does attract it. But my thoughts today are not how to be blessed. Because he turns a corner in verse 13. And that corner is how to be a blessing. He's going to use two figures of speech. And with those two figures, I'm going to argue, probably familiar to you, he is going to tell us as kingdom citizens how to be a blessing in the world in which we live. The world is broken and the world is hurting. The world needs benefiting and the world needs helping. And Jesus is making a declaration that tells us how to be a blessing. And he's going to tell us who we are. And he's going to tell us that if we are who we are, then we will have impact and influence. Notice what he says in verse 13. You are. Present active indicative. This is a declaration. You are. The salt of the earth. Notice the definite article. The salt. There isn't any other salt. You are the salt. Present active every day, everywhere, because he goes on to say, you are the salt of the earth. There isn't any other salt. You're the salt. You're the everyday, everywhere salt of the entire earth. You benefit everyone everywhere as salt, unless, notice what he says, but if the salt has become tasteless, that is it's lost its saltiness, the properties of salt, It's good for how well first of all he says how will it be made salty again? In other words, if you lose the potency, it's hard to recover the potency. And then he goes on to say, and tasteless salt, which is hard to be made salty again, it is good for nothing anymore. Do you see that? Good for nothing, for good, not good for blessing, not good for benefiting, not good for helping. Except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men, which is to say, culturally, not just you have no value You're held with contempt and disrespect. And I'm going to argue the reason you're held with contempt, disrespect, and treated as if you have no value is not because you're a Christian. And not because you're a kingdom citizen, but because you don't act like a Christian or a kingdom citizen. You're not potent, you're tasteless, not tasty. The other figure he uses as light, verse 14, you're the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden Nor do men light a lamp and put it under a peck measure, but on the lampstand it gives light to all who are in the house. In other words, you put it in a prominent place, you don't withdraw, you elevate. Verse 16 The call of Jesus to his kingdom citizens, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Declarative statements, you are salt and you are light. Today we're going to talk about salt. I want you to understand the qualities and the characteristics. that ought to be displayed in your life so that your life can be a blessing in a world that is crumbling. If I'm going to summarize my preaching proposition today, it's going to sound like this. Baltimore Bible Church, because the world is broken, and because humanity is hurting, Every kingdom citizen, every Christian should have a compelling conviction. You know what a compelling conviction is? I don't just believe it, it motivates me to live it. Every kingdom citizen should have a compelling conviction that they are something, along with the determined intention to be that something. You are salt. The determined conviction is to be salty, with the confident expectation that your life will impactfully mean something. Influencing, impacting, blessing. With this figure of salt, Jesus calls his citizens to be four things for impactful influence. You are the salt of the earth, and if you're salty, you're these four things. I'm going to offer you the four things. I'm going to give them to you and then I want to show them to you. I'm going to give you the four right now. Number one, as the salt of the earth, you're meant to be a picture of purity. Number two, you're to be a powerful preservative. Number three, you're to be a provider of pleasure. Number four, you're to be a prompter of thirst. You are these things. You need to be these things. And as a result, your life will be highly valuable. It'll bring blessing and benefit to everyone in your world. Let me give you a bit of background. In the context of the culture in which Jesus said these words, salt was highly valued in the ancient world. The Greeks called salt divine from the gods. The Romans had a kind of jingle in Latin that said, there is nothing more useful than the sun and salt. Salt was called white gold. It was considered rare. Taxes and wages were often paid in salt, often Roman soldiers. were paid in sold, and thus came the concept not worth his salt. That is, he wasn't soldiering in a way that was honorable, it wasn't valuable, he was useless, not useful. He wasn't fighting in a worthy way. One of the greatest compliments at that time that you could give anyone was to call them the salt of the earth. Because it meant that you were living a worthwhile and meaningful life. You were valuable. You were useful. You were a solid citizen. You were rare and you were worth a lot. Number one, quality I'm going to give you four qualities of salt, four properties of salt, and therefore four priorities for you as a kingdom citizen. Remember, this is who you are. This is what you are, unless you're not. Number one quality. The first quality of salt has to do with purity. Salt was overtly connected to purity in that culture. If refined, it was brilliant white. It glistened in the sun. The Romans said salt was the purest of all things because it came from the purest of all things, the sun and the Pythagoras said in 500 B. C. salt is good. It 's born of the purest of parents, the sun and the sea. Salt was used as a primitive offering to the gods. Even pagan religions use salt as a symbol of purity. Leviticus chapter 2 verse 13 Moses said, every oblation, every sacrifice of your meat offering you shall season with salt. Listen to 2 Kings 2, 19 through 22, where the prophet Elisha uses salt as an ingredient and as a symbol of purifying power. Then the men of the city, that's Jericho, said to Elisha, Behold now the situation of this city is pleasant Jericho was called the city of palms. It was an oasis in the desert. The situation, the layout was desirable, it was pleasant. So the men of the Sede said to Elisha, you can see that the situation in the city is pleasant. But the water is bad. It's impure. And the land is unfruitful because the water is impure. The land is barren. And Elisha said, Bring me a new jar and put salt in it. So they brought it to him, and he went out to the spring of water, and he threw salt in it and said, Thus says the Lord, I have purified these waters. There shall not be from there death or unfruitfulness any longer. So the waters have been purified. to this day. 2 Kings 2, 19 through 22 connects the symbolic reality that salt was a symbol of purity. And I'd like to suggest, at least in a similar way, the Christian is a new creation vessel with purifying salt to be dispensed in a barren and unfruitful culture that has a purifying effect. And it's qu this quality of salt in mind as a symbol and an ingredient for purity, which leads me to principle number one. And that is, as the salt of the earth, you, kingdom citizen, Christian Baltimore Bible Church in a culture that desperately needs this, a picture of purity. You're a picture of purity. First thing you must do to have an impactful and eternal influence is to calibrate the culture by giving them an inspiring picture of what purity really looks like. As a Christian and kingdom citizen, you're to be a purifying ingredient and influence in the culture because you help the culture see what purity looks like when it talks and it walks. You're to be a standard by which the world measures right and wrong William Barclay writes, the Christian must be a person who holds aloft the standard of moral purity in speech and in conduct. He writes the Christianist to make the best seem credible, doable, livable John 17 says the Christian is to be in the world, but not of the world. James 1, verse 27 says the Christian is to keep himself unfair. Spotted by the world, but they are to provide a living picture and standard for the world Listen to Titus 2. 7, Paul to Christians, even the young on the Isle of Crete, in all things to the young men. Show yourself to be an example of good deeds. With purity in doctrine, that's the truth, dignified, noble, sound in speech, which is above reproach, so that the opponent will be put to shame because they have nothing bad to say about us. Pure living, pure talking , pure motives. Turn with me over to Colossians chapter 4 And I want to highlight because I want to press in. I want to drill a little deeper. I don't want to just call you to purity because that's what this involves, but also to give you categories of required biblical purity. As a picture of purity, you need to be pure in certain categories biblically. And the first category of biblical purity that were to be a picture of morality and integrity is with our mouth. Our speech. You'll know this first, but look at it again this morning. Colossians chapter 4, verse 6. Let your speech, Paul writes, always be with grace. seasoned as it were with salt, so that you may know how you should respond to each person. Gracious speech is salty speech, not sailor speech. Look at verse five, the preceding verse Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunity, and you make the most of the opportunity toward outsiders by your speech, which is gracious and salty. Turn over with me to Ephesians chapter 4, parallel letter. Commentators would say the ink was still wet on Colossians or Ephesians when the other letter was written. Paul's under house arrest in Rome, and he writes these letters. They're similar themes. They are different in terms of their emphasis, but they Speak of issues that are very similar when it comes to application, and this is Paul's statement to the church at Ephesus as it relates to speech, salty speech. The context of Ephesians 4 is this is what a Christian lives like, talks like, and acts like if they walk in a way worthy of all the bombastic blessings of God given to them by his grace. Chosen before the foundation of the world, redeemed by the miraculous sacrificial work of Jesus Christ, ransomed from death, sealed by the Holy Spirit. Dead in my trespasses, made alive by the mercy and grace of God, not through works of righteousness which I have done, but by his grace, through faith, he saved me. He's reconciled me to God. He's reconciled me to others He 's made me a temple of the Holy Spirit. I'm a part of the Father's family. I can experience the love of God. I can experience the incomprehensible. The one that is able to do exceeding abundantly above anything I could ask or think, I'm in relationship with him. This is how you live in a worthy way, if that's your reality, that's the context. And that that those bombastic blessings affect your mouth. Notice what it says in verse 29, Ephesians 4. Let no unwholesome word, unwholesome is rotten, spoiled, it was used to food, impure. Let no unwholesome word, you see no? Proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good. Do you see the word only? The word good is positive good, practical good, helpful good, but only such a word as is good for edification, building up. Uplifting words. I like to use the word soul-strengthening. Not soul-damaging words, only words that strengthen the soul. Those are the wholesome words. According to the need of the moment, timely words, that it may give grace to those who hear. The word grace in this context is delight, benefit, blessing. When you use salty words, wholesome words, pure words, gracious words, those words are the only words and the only kind of words. That elevate, encourage, bring blessing and delight. Only those words. Building up words. Look at verse 4 of chapter 5. As Paul talks to the kingdom citizens who enjoy such abundant blessing, he says, walk worthy, there must be Verse 4, chapter 5, no filthiness. You know what filthiness is? Cussing. It's a word for general obscenity. You know what's a contradiction? A Christian who cusses. There are pastors who cuss. There are Christians who cuss. My Bible says, if I'm reading it correctly, there must be no cussing. And silly talk, moro logia. Logia is the word for word, moron, you get moronic from it. The silly words of a moron. You know what that is? Social media talk. Tabloid talk. You're checking out at the food store. Whatever that is right there, those Those magazines or those papers, it's shallow. Notice what it says in verse 12 of chapter 5. It is disgraceful even to speak. of the things which are done by them in secret. The social media world is full of things that ought not ever be spoken about. I don't care what the celebrity's doing or not doing What Christians do is they speak pure speech, not filthy cussing speech, and not moronic, silly, shallow speech. Ignoble speech. Oh, and he adds one more word in verse 4, and no coarse jesting. Coarse jesting is a word for sexual innuendo, words with double meaning. That is I say something to be funny that has a carnal import. Don't do that Because as a Christian, one of the ways I model salt Christian living is I talk nobly. I edify with my speech. I elevate with my speech. I honor God as a kingdom citizen with my speech. Because it says there must be no filthiness, silly talk, or coarse jesting, which are not fitting. Which is to say, not for a kingdom, Christian. Not for a blessed like that, Christian, that's a contradiction Purity of speech, let me add another, purity of conduct, that's another category, moral conduct and life conduct. Let me argue from verses one and 2 and 3, that it's sacrificial, it's honorable, noble, and moral. Therefore, chapter 5, verse 1, be imitators of God as beloved children. Look like God because you're in the family of God. Look like a citizen in the kingdom of God. And how do you do that? Verse 2. By walking in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and sacrifice to God as a fragrant aroma. What he just said is the way he sacrificially loved is the way we ought to sacrificially love. The conduct of a Christian, the purest kind of living, is not self-interest living, but other centric living. even to the point of expense and sacrifice. Just like he's done that for you, we ought to be doing that for others. And when we're doing that, we're expressing a worthy walk and a kingdom citizen lifestyle that mirrors the king and the one who is the king of the kingdom Notice how he goes on to say, verse 3, but do not let immorality or any impurity or greed even be named among you. Why? as is proper among saints. Saints are kingdom citizens, set apart by God for God as an expression of the kingdom of God, the church of God. This is the Baltimore Bible Church. As the Baltimore Bible Church, we represent not just the Bible and not just the church, but Christians to the world that is engaged with this church. And as such, we're not only to be sacrificial lovers, we're to be moral livers. The word for immorality is the word pornea. You know that word. It's the word from which we get pornography. Pornography is the graphic expression of pornea, immorality. Immorality is intimacy or sexual conduct outside of marriage, before marriage, or I made promises in marriage, and now I'm violating those promises. I'm looking at things that reflect immorality. None of that in the house of God is not fitting. It's not appropriate. It's not not the way it ought. It's not proper. I don't look at it, and I certainly don't do it. Notice what it says in verse. Three, it goes on to say any impurity. The word impurity, I think, is the heart of this. Sensuality has to do with the idea, this carnal passion that says I'm a taker and I want. And I'm willing to take what I want outside the boundaries of God morally, and I'm willing to take what I want materially. I want to take what you have, which leads us to the third term in verse three, greed. Because greed is driven by a passion to satisfy yourself, and morality is driven by a passion to satisfy yourself. I'm going to argue the root, the fountainhead, that that offers and produces immorality or greed and material uh inappro inappropriateness, impropriety is driven by a desire, the sensuality to say, I'm going to satisfy myself I'm going to take it. I want it. I have to have it. And I don't care what the boundaries are. I'm going to break them. Now listen. We're the salt of the earth unless we're not. And if we're impure in our speech and we're impure in our moral integrity We're not. We've lost our saltiness. And how good are we? We're good for nothing Except to be tossed out, to be trampled underfoot, because we've lost what we are, and the world to be blessed needs what we are. Let me say one third thing out of this passage that I don't want to overlook. And it's tucked in here at the end of verse 4. After it says, don't talk with filthiness, silly talk, or coarse jesting, which are not fitting, do you see the adversative conjunction, like on the other hand? I don't want you to talk like that. I want you to give thanks. Isn't that interesting? Like the antidote, antithesis opposite of chasing self-satisfaction and talking with an impurity of life and heart is you have a pure heart of gratitude. Thankfulness is a positive attitude. Thankfulness is, man, I'm glad I have what I have instead of grappling for what I don't have. Turn over with me to Philippians chapter 2, and I want to show you a parallel passage that touches on this business of positive and peaceful. Because your attitude, I used to tell my children, attitude is everything. And you don't show a good attitude until you're in a bad attitude situation. And we're living in a world that is full of bad attitude situations, but what a Christian is and does as a picture of purity is to demonstrate positivity. peacefulness in the face of different listen abusive culture, it's an angry culture, it's a bullying culture It's a rude culture. But a Christian is to be a positive, peacemaking person with their words. That's what's fitting. Notice Philippians chapter two, verse fourteen. Do all things Can you see the word all? Do all things without grumbling. You know what that word means? Complaining. Or disputing, you know what that word means? Verbal contention, arguing. Do all things without complaining or arguing, that is, you're positive and you're peaceful. That you may prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent. You know what that is? Pure. Children of God, above reproach, in the midst of a crooked, that's a impure and perverse generation among whom you appear as lights in the world. Now the the figure is different, it's lights, but it's the same idea. You're distinctively different in your way you display attitudes. You're positive in your attitude. You're grateful in your attitude. You're a peacemaker with your attitude. Because purity of attitude is a reflection of the kingdom of God and the people of God, and it's a calibrator for a world that knows nothing about peace or a good attitude. Listen to Mark chapter 9, verse 50, Jesus talking, salt is good. But if the salt becomes unsalty, with what will you make it salty again? You've heard that before, but listen to the way he concludes, verse 50 of Mark 9. Have salt in yourselves. And therefore be at peace with one another. You know what salty Christians are? Grateful, peaceful Christians. You know what our world needs? A dose of that. They need a picture of that. They need inspiration for that. They need an example of that. Pure speech, pure conduct, pure attitudes, grateful attitudes, because Christianity is an expression of Jesus Christ, the King of Kings. Someone has said discipleship is the process of becoming who Jesus would be if he were you. Discipleship is the process of becoming who Jesus would be if he were you. Who would Jesus be? Listen to Hebrews chapter 7, verse 26, where the writer of Hebrews defines qualities of Jesus Christ. Of him, the writer of Hebrews says, Hebrews 7. 26, he was holy. He was innocent. He was undefiled. He was separated from sinners. You know what that equals? Pure. When you become like Jesus, by definition, you're holy and pure. Because kingdom citizens are meant and should reflect their king. 1 John 3. 3. Everyone who fixed their hope on Jesus purifies himself just as he is pure. Quality number one, you're a picture of purity. The way you walk, the way you talk, the attitudes you display, honorable before God as a citizen in the kingdom of God. Quality number two. As the salt of the earth. You are, you saw me look at my watch. You're nervous, aren't you? It's okay. I'm not coming back, so I'm gonna get it all good. George has to live with Harry. That's the way this goes Quality number two has to do with preservation. As the salt of the earth, you're to be a powerful preservative, sodium chloride. Turn with me to Luke chapter 14, verses 34 and 35. Luke chapter 14. The second quality of salt had to do with preservation. Before refrigeration, that is when Jesus was talking. Before refrigeration, salt was commonly used to keep things from going bad. Its value was because it preserved things, valuable things. Salt kept meat from rotting, decaying. Without it, good and valuable things were rapidly corrupted. Salt was valuable because it slowed that corruption. It slowed spoilage. Without it, good and valuable things were corrupted. Listen, bottom line, salt, what made it valuable in part? It's not just the picture that it portrayed, but it's the function that it served in a culture that was declining. In a similar way, Christians, by their presence, are to prevent, curb, and inhibit society's corruption and evil's rotting influence. Someone has said this, all it takes for evil to prevail and prosper is for good men to do nothing. This is about salty Christians doing something. Listen, we all know certain people in whose company it is easy to be good. You're with them, it's easy to talk right, walk right, think right, and act right. And then there are other people who you'll use those certain words and tell those certain stories because you're not uncomfortable using those words in their presence. A Christian is to be an inhibitor of bad behavior, bad language. Christians are to be those who it's easier to be good with and harder to be bad with. One commentator says the Christian must be a cleansing antiseptic in any society in which he happens to be. He must be a person who by his presence defeats corruption and makes it easier for others to be good. Harder to cuss. Harder to cheat. Harder to lie. Harder to hurt with words. Harder. Because you're present. Luke chapter 14 introduces us to a reality about salt, if it's going to be impactful. And there are two key words here, potent. and present. Potent and present. Verse thirty-four, Luke fourteen Jesus talking, and he says, therefore, salt is good, but if even salt is become tasteless, with what will it be seasoned? Again, once you lose it, it's hard to recover it. Not impossible, just hard. Verse 35, it is useless because of its loss of potency, either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown out, no value. He who has ears to hear, let him hear, which is a way of Jesus saying, listen, if you're going to listen to any of this, better listen to this. Ears open, head up. If you've got ears, listen to this. I'm telling you salt is good unless it's not good. I want you to notice the first word in verse 34. My Bible says, therefore. Therefore connects to the previous context. Good salt has to do with what he's just said. And the previous context in this paragraph has to do with Christ's first discipleship Contextually salt that is good has to do with Jesus first discipleship, Christ over all things discipleship, Christ over everything, Christ over you. Christ over your stuff, Christ over everybody in your life. Watch the words, verse 26. Jesus says, previous paragraph, he's talking to the multitudes, and he turns and says to them, verse 26, if anyone comes to me, And does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters. Yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Now don't misunderstand. He's not saying you should hate your wife or your children. Matter of fact, Paul says in Ephesians, husbands love your wife. Love her as you love yourself. He's not arguing for self-hate, hating your wife or hating your kids or your mom and dad. He's drawing a comparison that's so dramatic It's unmissable, it's unmistakable, it's undeniable. Whatever your affection for him is, it's as if you hated them. It's such a priority. It's me over everybody, including you. I love my wife. I love my two children. But when you compare whatever that is to what this is, it's a big distance. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple And then he says, hey, this is costly. You need to think about it. Just like you would think about building a tower, you need to consider the cost of following me, because this is the standard. And then he goes on to say, and by the way, you need to consider the consequences if you don't, because he says, hey, you know this. It he says in in verse 31, or what king when he sets out to meet another king in battle will not first sit down and take counsel, whether he's strong enough with ten thousand men to encounter the one coming against him with twenty thousand In other words, if he's got 10 and that guy's got 20, I'm going to make a deal. men. Because if we go toe-to-toe, I'm his adversary, I'm going to lose. So I'm going to deal with that difficulty. Look at verse 32, or else while the other is still far away, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. You know what he's saying? Discipleship means Christ over everything. Your own life, your own passions. your own people. He's going to say in verse 33, therefore no one of you can be my disciples and not give up all of his own possessions. So all my stuff, all my relations, subordinated to Christ, and that's costly. But to refuse that as a disciple is consequential catastrophically Because as an anti -disciple, I'm not doing that. I'm against a king that's more mighty than I am. So it's not like a neutral thing. I'll do that when I want to. No, it's a consequential thing. It's costly, and it's consequential not to do that. Now look at verse 34. Therefore salt is good. Do you see it? Salty Christianity is potent Christianity because it's Jesus' first Christianity. It's not lukewarm Christianity, it's potent. And if it's potent like that, uh, you know, we used to have those little armbands and those little t-shirts maybe that said, you know, Jesus first. I used to have a lapel pen that said Jesus first. We need to bring that back. Because there is no potent Christianity, salty Christianity that isn't Jesus over everything Christianity. That's good salt. That has to do with potency. Remember the other word? Present, proximity. Look at the end of verse 35. If it's not potent, It's useless. It's useless either for the soil or for the manure pile. Why did he say that? Because salt properly dosed was a fertilizer. You put it in the soil to cause the good to grow. And salt was used as an inhibitor of corruption for the manure. We know what manure does. It creates germs and disease. And so what they would do is they would put much salt if there was much manure. The more corrupt, the more potential disease. You poured a lot of salt on it. Because salt inhibits corruption and it promotes growth. But it doesn't do either unless it's in it. the soil, or on it the manure pile. If it's in the salt shaker, it affects nothing. Somebody's written a book to the church Get out of the salt shaker and get into the world. Because salt in the shaker, bubbled and bunkered, look, it's wonderful you're at church at What time is it? 3 o'clock? You want me to check, so I'll get done. Soon. 3. 45. Listen, it's great that you're here because God's people need to gather, but the purpose of the gathering is so you can be an influence after the gathering. And in order, in order to be an influence after the gathering, you've got to be engaged. You can't be withdrawn. I was in Anchorage, Alaska, two years ago now, doing a conference for men and The host church housed me at a hotel on Tudor Avenue in Anchorage. And what was cool about that hotel was not how log -like, country, mountainous that looked log -like. You know what I mean. Timber and stone. It was cool. But was really neat was there was a Starbucks right at the end of the parking lot. So I thought, man, how convenient is that? Because I drink Starbucks coffee. I know some of you are too snobbish to do that, but I drink Starbucks coffee. And uh I got up in the morning and I went over to the Starbucks at the edge of the parking lot, and it was unlike any Starbucks I'd ever seen. And I've been to a few. It was adorned in rainbows. The pillars out front were wrapped in rainbow colors. The drive-thru, I'm not kidding, was draped in a rainbow Canopy. I went inside and it was like we were having a rainbow party. Streamers and and and banners and and every barista but one had a rainbow mask And I went up and I ordered my and you know Starbucks. Starbucks is supposed to communicate. We're neighbors and friends, right? So you go up and they say, Hi, I'm Joan. What's your name? Hi, I'm Harry. Harry, what we can we get you today? That's how it feels. This was what do you want? I've said I'd like a venti pike with some cream and sweetener. Go stand by the wall. You know what that isn't? That isn't neighborly. So I go stand by the wall. They didn't know my name, so they couldn't say, Harry, your coffee's ready It's Fenty Pike with cream and sweetener. So I go get my coffee and I'm heading out of the Starbucks, very conveniently located near my hotel, and I started to Google Christian coffee shops near me. I didn't like the sounds. I didn't like the atmosphere. I didn't belong there until this convicting thought went through my mind. Harry, this place needs what you are. Because all of these banners, this does not celebrate the protection from a flood A promise of God. This is the promotion of the flood of dysfunction and perversion. So I sat down. And I said, you know what? For the next five days, while I'm in Anchorage, I'm a psalter. I'm going to pray. I'm going to read my Bible, which I would normally do. I took clandestine pictures of every barista so I could learn their name. I'm not a stalker. And I determined to smile. I determined to bring whatever a Christian brings into that community that was a neon light that said perverse, corrupt Preserve now. And then when I preached on Sunday at the Anchorage Grace Bible Church, I said, I need your help. I don't care where you buy your coffee for the next month. I want you to buy it on Tudor Avenue at the Starbucks. Because a grain of salt is not enough. You know the saying? Not worth a grain of salt. I need lots of grains because this is a place undeniably corrupt. Now listen, I felt what you feel. I felt what we feel. This is not me. I know it's not you. But I'll tell you what they need, you. And if you're not in it and on it, you don't affect it. You put salt in anything, you affect it. Right, in case you're nervous, let's hurry. Third quality of salt. In other words, engage, get involved, be potent, engage, connect on purpose, get in that club, go to that place. Make a difference. Number three, salt involves pleasure. Pleasure. It's a pleasing seasoning. As the salt of the earth, your provider of pleasure is a pleasing seasoning, because that's what salt is. It promotes flavor. The third quality of salt involves pleasure. Here's a verse you probably don't know. This is Job. Chapter 6, verse 6. Job asked, is tasteless food eaten without salt? Or is there flavor or taste in the white of an egg? Answer, no. It's tasteless. And you don't eat tasteless food without salt. And he was using this tasteless theme as a reference to his tasteless life. He goes on to say, no matter how good it is, he said, my soul refuses because white of an egg is supposed to be good for you. But no matter how good it is, my soul refuses to touch them. They are like loathsome food to me That is to say, if the food is tasteless, I don't want it. If my life is tasteless, I don't want to live it. What you have in our culture is a culture who's trying to suck life out of life but they don't have life. More people are committing suicide today than than especially young people. You know why? Life's not worth living. You know how to show them it ought to be worth living? Christians ought to show them it's worth living. We ought to be the people that say we're in addition to life. We make life better. We show you that life is worth living. A Christian's life is to bring hope to a depressed world, comfort to a hurting world, peace. to a worried and angry world, real joy to a vain, shallow, frustrated and addicted world, clarity and sense to a confused, chaotic and seemingly meaningless world, and life to a dying world. A Christian, if you're in the neighborhood, it ought to be a better neighborhood. If you're on the team, it ought to be a better team. If you're at on the job, you it ought to be a better place to work. Christians are like high concentrate seasoning. They should make everything they touch better. Because we have the life of God in us. We have hope. We have joy, we have peace, and we ought to make somebody, here's the fourth point, thirsty. Because salty makes you thirsty. And my tradition at my church was I'd preach Sunday morning and we'd do takeout at the little Chinese place up the street. My children, two of them, and my wife, we'd meet in my office. We'd share Chinese right after church, and then I'd study for the evening service and drink about a dozen cups of water. I don't know what it is in it, but it made me thirsty. Baltimore Bible Church. You gotta make people thirsty. You gotta make them want the water of life, not H2O. Because of the potency of your life. Because of the joy of your life. Do you know the emperor that, you know, Constantine in 300 something A. D. What time what year was that, George? Constantine. Made Christianity the religion of the world. Anybody know? It's a test. Somewhere around then, whatever he said. The first Roman emperor, Constantine of that century, made Christianity the religion of the world. The emperor that followed him, his name was Julian. Julian wanted to reject Christianity. He wanted to bring back the old gods. Do you want to know why? He says, have you ever looked at these Christians closely? Hollow-eyed, pale-cheeked, flat -breasted all of them. Listen to this. They brewed their lives away. The sun shines for them, they don't see it. The earth offers them its fullness, they don't desire it. All they desire is to renounce, to suffer, and to die. You know what he said I want the old gods because that God sucks the life out of life. And what a Christian should do is bring life to life. You know what you are? The salt of the earth. If you're potent and you're present. You have influence and impact. And the world, Baltimore, this city you live in, this state you live in, needs you. So engage it, show them the way, and give them a heavy dose of a life worth living. Can you say amen to that? Father, you're the greatest and the best. It's my prayer that this church would be a church with its people that purifies places. preserves the culture, promotes the good, inhibits the darkness and the evil, promotes the pleasure that brings life to life and prompts people to go, I want whatever it is they have. Lord, make this church a passion for God church. Get them out of the salt shaker, get them into the world so that they can have the intentional influence that brings blessing and benefit to a world that desperates. And Lord, without you, we can't do that. So we ask for your help. Thank you for Jesus Christ. who took our pain, endured our justice, so that we can have a life that satisfies He said, out of us will flow rivers of living water. That's my prayer. And I ask it in Jesus' name. And all God's people said Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.