The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you turn in your Bibles to the book of Isaiah? We're in Isaiah chapter 48. Actually, we'll start in Isaiah 48. We'll be in Isaiah 40, but uh just to start us off, we'll uh start in Isaiah 48. It's a good place to start as we think about the glory of God. And uh and that's what we'll be talking about today is the glory of God. When we began our church uh about ten years ago now, uh we started with a series of of messages. Just to identify what are the markers of a faithful church? What are the markers, the identifiers of a faithful church? Because as we began ministering, we wanted to make sure that we understood who we are and why we are. Uh we wanted to know what our priorities were as a church and uh what we need to hold on to uh to make sure that we remain a church And it grieves me to see churches that uh lose their way, lose their purpose. Uh I remember early on uh when we We're first starting a Baltimore Bible Church that uh there was a church then in the area that closed down and uh uh they actually uh uh allowed a lot of their belongings to be uh kind of uh donated to other churches and uh walked through the uh the church and found out later that uh the the minister who was uh uh over that that ministry uh became unfaithful to the word of of God, uh disqualified himself uh from ministering. And uh as I was going through this church and uh just kind of picking up some things that we might be able to use for our ministry, it really felt like I was going through the house of a dead man. You know, almost like you you're just walking through the the house of somebody who's no longer living. and picking up kind of what's remaining uh behind and uh to know that uh the church had been unfaithful and uh because of uh an unfaithful pastor in the pulpit uh that the church closed down was uh just really grievous to me Uh what 's even more grieving to me is when churches remain open with unfaithful pastors. When you have uh churches that kind of put on the the the show as if you know everything's fine and well uh when you know that the heart is gone. uh when the faithfulness to God is absent from that ministry. Uh but early on we wanted to make sure that we understood, you know, who who are we, why are we here? Uh what should we be focused on as a church? And uh there are actually uh twelve different signs that uh we walk through in that early stage of our church. I'll just go ahead and read them for you. Markers of the faithful church, the sufficiency of scripture, the authority of scripture. The glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men, a qualified leadership, a sound theology, a holiness of life A love for the saints, a heart for evangelism, a commitment to discipleship, and a faithful practice, which includes things like the Lord's Supper, baptism, fellowship, and prayer And uh if you're part of a church and those are not front and center, it doesn't matter if they actually make those signs explicit, you know, if they're they have it listed out as twelve marks of a faithful church, that's not really what's important. What's important is can you find these marks within your church? As you examine your church, do you see a church that's committed to the sufficiency of Scripture? That we believe that all that we need is found in the Word of God, that God's Word is sufficient for life and for godliness. Do they Hold to the authority of Scriptures, Scripture above what we think, what we say, what others might say, is that the Word of God that we look to is our authority within the church. Did they focus themselves on the glory of God? It's not about the glory of men. You know, not to us, not to us, O Lord, but to your name be the glory Is it about the glory of God? Do they focus on the Lordship of Christ? We went through a series just recently on the Lordship of Christ to focus on the Son of God as the one who is the head of the church. We're not the head of the church. There's no man here who's the head of the church. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. Do they focus on the conversion of men, not just uh piling people in, you know, uh moving them through, you know, for the sake of numbers, but really focused on are people being converted? Are their lives being changed, transformed by the Word of God? And So on you could go. You know, qualified leadership or the men who are leading that church actually qualified biblically. And and there's there's these signs that we need to look for uh within a church. Just because you have a gathering of people On a Sunday morning does not mean that you have a church. You may have a group, you may have a concert But it doesn't mean that you have a church. There are certain requirements, purposes, functions that a biblical church is supposed to fulfill. Jesus said in Matthew 16 and verse 18, I will build my church. My church, the word church just means congregation. But Jesus has his congregation. There's many congregations that might gather together, but is it the Lord's congregation? Is it his church? That's what he builds, and he builds that by his word, and we're purchased by his blood. So as we look at the church and we think about what the church is to be, whether it's the church to focus on, one of the things that should be primary within any church is that we're focused on the glory of God And uh when you think about the glory of God, I mean, you know that you're only going to scratch the surface when you start to think about the glory of God because this is inexhaustible. Inexhaustible when you think about the glory of who God is. But we're just going to take a crack at it today, starting with Isaiah chapter 48. We'll look at a number of passages. Like I said, we'll we'll land in Isaiah 40. But just starting out with Isaiah 48, look at verse 11. Listen to the word of God. It says, for my own sake, for my own sake I will act, for how can my name be profaned, and my glory I will not give to another? Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, as we uh come before your word today, Father, we just pray that you would help us to understand what we find here. Now, Father, that you would allow our hearts to be lifted up in praise and adoration to our great God, that we would exalt you. And Father, I pray that you'd help our church to always be focused on the things that matter. To be focused on the priorities of a healthy biblical church that's faithful to you, faithful to your word. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you're looking for a reason why God does what he does, you can find it right there in Isaiah chapter 48 and verse 11. Why do you do what you do, Lord, for my own sake? For my own sake I will act, and my glory I will not give to another. The Westminster Shorter Catechism asks this question: what is the chief end of man? What is your highest goal, the highest purpose in your life? And the answer is determined from Scripture to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. And if you were to ask God the same question, what is His chief goal? What is his highest goal, his highest purpose? You read it right there, for my own name. It's for my glory that I add. In Isaiah 48, it speaks of Israel's deliverance from their future Babylonian captivity. And in this chapter, God lets them know that when you are delivered, I will deliver you, but when you are delivered, don't you dare give the credit to yourself. It's not about your righteousness. It's not about these idols that you've fallen into the trap of worshiping. It's not about your knowledge. It's not for your name. It is for my name that I act. It's for my glory. So here's the question: if God acts for his own glory, what are we doing trying to act for our own? Trying to puff ourselves up, elevate ourselves. Do you realize that you are not here for you? Everything exists for the glory of God. You've been created for the glory of God. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 15, actually 16 puts it this way. All things have been created by him and for him. You've been created for God. Absolutely nothing exists that does not exist for the glory of God. Revelation 4, verse 11. Worthy art thou, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou didst create all things, and because of your will they existed and were created. Everything that's created, everything that 's in creation, has been created for the glory of God And we see this all throughout Scripture. The heavens exist for the glory of God. Psalm 19 verse 1. The heavens are telling of what? The glory of God. You look outside into the sky. What is the sky declaring to you? God is glorious. Glorify your creator. The earth exists for the glory of God. Isaiah 6, verse 3. One angel calls out to another saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. The angels who called out this phrase exist for the glory of God. In Colossians 1 again in verse 16, all things were created Both in the heavens and on earth, visible, invisible, thrones, dominions, rulers, authorities, all things have been created by him and for him. The angelic hosts are created for the Lord. Those who are redeemed out of Israel. Exists for the glory of God, Isaiah 43 and verse 1. But now, thus says the Lord your creator, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel, do not fear, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine Now, Isaiah 43 in verse 7, everyone who is called by my name, whom I have created for my glory, you've been created for the glory of God. Even unbelievers, as we saw back in Philippians 2, will one day be forced to confess the glory of God, right? Philippians 2. 11, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to what? To the glory of God the Father. They will glorify God. So when we come to the church, there's nothing that's more critical to understand than that we exist for the glory of God. And if the glory of God does not drive the church, the church has lost the purpose for its existence. If we're not centered on the glory of God, shut us down. Shut the church down if we're not focused on the glory of God. The church has lost the purpose for why it exists. The church exists for the glory of God. Ephesians 1, verse 5. He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself. According to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. So when we're looking for an answer to that question, why why are we here? Why do we exist? What am I here for? What am I supposed to be doing? The answer is simple. You are here for the glory of God. 1 Corinthians 10 31, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do. If you had breakfast this morning, that is for the glory of God. If you have lunch after you leave here, that is for the glory of God. Everything that you do, it's for his glory. But to some people that that sounds like nails on a chalkboard when you start talking about, you know, everything that you do is for somebody else, it's not for you You you don't exist for you. Try you know using that as an advertisement today to sell anything. You know, you're not here for you. It's not about you. You know, everything is like your way right away, it's all centered on you. But God says it's not about you. It's not about your way. You know, our Western culture focuses on personal freedoms. And personal rights and personal expressions and personal choices. You know, I I do what feels good for me. I've got to kind of, you know, I've got to be me. You know, just do you. You know, live your best life. What if your best life isn't God's best life for you, right? Just trying to live my life Everybody wants their personal freedom. It's like it's kind of untouchable in our society. Don't touch my personal freedoms, my rights , my body. My choice, right? Don't don't touch my rights. I do what I want to do. You know, as long as you don't prevent me from my personal freedoms, personal rights, my expression, my choices, you know, we're okay. You know, live and let live, right? To live for yourself is just accepted. Not only accepted, it's expected that why you do what you do is for you, right? That's expected. That's how people live. What I do is for me. And the question nobody seems to be asking is: Is that what God wants for me? My Creator? Because if we are creatures, which we are, doesn't the Creator have some say in what your life is all about? Doesn't the manufacturer have anything to say about what he's manufactured? Well all of a sudden it's like we we we think that we have the right to you know declare for ourselves what we will be and what we won't be. We we naturally hate anybody telling us what to do. I mean you all feel that, don't you? You know, anybody tells you what to do, it's like, you know, you know, you can't go through this door, you've got to go through that door. It's like something inside just like I'm going through that door anyway I don't care what they say. Who are they to tell me what door I need to go through? It's like everybody. It's like, you know, the speed limit. Fifty miles an hour. Who are you to tell me I can drive safely at ninety? Nobody tells me what to do. Why should I have to live for anybody else? I remember witnessing to this one gentleman uh one time and uh you know he admitted that there's a God and you know All of that. I was kind of walking through the gospel with him. But he said, and I at the end of the conversation, I said, Well, what's what's preventing you from becoming a Christian? And he he was very honest in his response. He says, I I can't become a Christian because I'm not going to worship anybody. That's what he told me. He said, I'll thank God, but I'm not going to worship anybody. You know, because like like that kind of strips me of my self-worth. You know, why should I have to worship anybody? I don't really care if he made me. Why should I have to worship him? Oh, thank him, but I'm not going to worship him. And this is what he said. I'll never forget it. He says, actually, for me to worship somebody else, that would be hell for me. And you know what? Unless he repents, it will be hell for him, right? It will be hell. We have been designed to worship him. You are a worshiper. That's what you've been created to be. You are a worshiper. And either you will worship your Creator or you'll go to some rock in the ground or something else to worship. You're going to worship somebody. Even if it's yourself, you know, thinking that you need to be the one who's elevated above all. You're going to worship somewhere. Why not worship at the right throne, right? God is the one who deserves to be worshipped. For the creature, not to give glory to the creator is treason C. S. Lewis said it like this. He said, God is not like some vain, insecure woman who demands compliments, you know, always fishing for compliments. What do you think about my hair today? God's not vain. He's not just searching for compliments, you know, like he needs some somebody just to make him feel better about himself. It's our glory to glorify him. It's our duty to glorify him. God demands glory because he deserves glory. He's worthy of it. He's just asking for what's his. That's all he's asking for. You know, he made you. He created you. He's just asking you to function in the way that you were designed to function. We should glorify him. Again, listen to what Lewis again says. He says, we are meant to enjoy worship. So it is not vain for God to the man we worship him. People praise things all the time. Not because they have to, but because they like to Praise, when freely given, is always an action of enjoyment. For God to demand our praise is for Him to demand that we be happy and enjoy ourselves in Him. We are commanded to do what all people do. when they seek the full circle, completion of their pleasures, to speak and enjoy praise of that which is praiseworthy. I'm not sure if you really understand what he's saying there. But uh let me see if I can illustrate it. If somebody's at the fifty yard line, you know, second or third row in, at their favorite team's, you know, game. Nobody has to tell them, hey, you should cheer for your team. No, nobody has to do that. Why? Because it just comes out of you. Like you're jumping out of your seat. It's like, you know, touchdown. Yeah. Right Why? Because it brings you joy to root for your team. To praise your team. To look at guys do what you haven't been able to do in years. That gives you enjoyment to do that. It excites you to do that. How much more glorious is God than your favorite athlete? How much more glorious is God than your favorite musician? How much more glorious is God than anything? I mean, God is the one who created these men. Why wouldn't we give God glory? It actually brings us the greatest joy, the most inexpressible joy to praise what is truly praiseworthy. And the greatest request that Moses could even dare to ask is what we find in Exodus 33 and 18. Moses said, I pray thee, show me, show me your glory. That's the greatest thing that he could ask for. Out of all the things that I could ask God for, if I had like a blank check in front of me in front of me, God, what would I ask for? God, can you show me yourself Because that's where I find my greatest fulfillment is in you. Can you show me your glory? He just wanted to catch a small glimpse of the glory of God. Can I can I just taste what it will be like to behold you for all of eternity? That is the greatest joy of the creature. Would it be possible just to see a bit of your glory? Simple definition of the glory of God is it's God on display. That's the glory of God. God on display. Primary word used in the Old Testament for the word glory is the word kabod. Kabod. It's a word that literally means to be heavy, to be weighty, like of substance, right? That's who God is. You know, sometimes we uh Use that that word in our vernacular. Sometimes you say somebody's thrown their weight around. What do you mean by that? Like they're showing off their authority, their power, their strength, they're showing off. No, the glory of God is God showing himself off. I'm putting myself on display. That's the glory of God. She used in the New Testament, a word that's used in the New Testament is doxa, where we get our English doxology from. You know, again, it's God showing himself off. It's a word that speaks of brightness, radiance, brilliance, splendor, magnificence. It's God being who He is. It was a word that was used for the brightness of light, the beauty of flowers, the strength of young men, the beauty of women, the wisdom of old men, the riches of the king When you wanted to show somebody the best that you had, that was their glory. The best that you had was your glory. You're showing yourself off And God puts his majesty on display for us to see. Why don't you flip over to Isaiah chapter 40? Isaiah 40. And this is where we'll spend the rest of our time is in Isaiah 40. Just to fill in some of the background here, Isaiah ministered to Judah, which was the southern kingdom of Israel. During a time when the nation of Israel was divided. He ministered from about 739 to 680 BC during the reigns of King Zeh, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah. The first half of Isaiah's book from chapter 1 to chapter 39 speaks about the judgment, uh pronouncement of judgment on the nations and even on Israel. The nations surrounding Israel would experience the judgment of God. He prophesied that powerful nations like Assyria, Egypt, Babylon would eventually fall, and describes with accuracy exactly how that would take place. Israel, Judah's neighbor to the north, fell in 722 BC to Assyria. And Isaiah's message for Judah is, guess what? You're next. You're next. You know, all these other nations are falling around you, and you're next in line. You're next in line. So it's a pronouncement of judgment. Actually, if you flip back to Isaiah 39, Isaiah 39, if you look at verse 5 there. Says then said Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the Lord of hosts, behold the days are coming when all that is in your house and all that your fathers have laid up in store to this day will be carried to Babylon. And we'll get to that next week. Daniel. Nothing will be left, says the Lord. And some of your sons who will issue from you, whom you will beget, will be taken away. And they will become officials in the palace of the king of Babylon. That's what's to come. There's going to be judgment. Judgment's coming, Hezekiah, but Isaiah doesn't end his book on the sour notes of judgment. The second half of Isaiah in chapters 40 to 66. God proclaims his redemption. There's going to be hope. There's comfort coming. Look over at chapter 40. Verse 1. Comfort, O comfort, my people, says your God. There's comfort that is to come. There would be deliverance. There would be a physical deliverance. And Isaiah goes on to speak about the spiritual deliverance that would come through Jesus Christ, the servant of the Lord, in Isaiah 53. But for anybody that would doubt that God could accomplish this kind of deliverance, God says, let me go ahead and put myself on display. Let me show you what kind of God is making these promises to you. And in chapter 40, verses 1 through 11, God lets Israel know that I'm willing to accomplish this deliverance. In 12 through 26. He says, uh let me let me tell you why I can give this kind of promise because nobody can stop me. I'm a God who is majestic, who is glorious. Nobody's going to stop what I. What I determine. God is the God who works wonders, isn't he? In 27 to 31, he lets Israel know that he will preserve and strengthen them and speaks of his faithfulness. to his promises. We're only going to focus on uh verses uh actually 12 through 26 But um there's so much that's contained here, but let's go ahead and start at verse 12. What kind of God is the the God who makes these promises? He promises comfort. Look at verse 12. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? And marked off the heavens by the span, and calculated the dust of the earth by the measure, and weighed the mountains in a balance, and the hills in a pair of scales Here we have this picture of infinity. There is no one who is as immense as your God. When we speak of God, we're talking about somebody who has no limits. As soon as we try to define how big God is, we're already going down the wrong path. That's the wrong way to speak about it. I mean, how big is infinity? Because that would be to put boundaries on God. There are no boundaries on God. There's nowhere that you could fit God into when Solomon began to Plan the construction for a temple. He says this over in 2 Chronicles 2 and verse 6. He says, but who is able to build a house for him? For the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain him. So who am I that I would build a house for him? There's no place that you can construct that's big enough for God. God is infinite. He understood that he was beyond any spatial limitation. He's boundless. He's limitless. There's no thinking outside of God. There's nothing beyond God. That's why the psalmist says in Psalm 139 and verse 7, where can I go from your spirit? Where can I go? Everywhere is here to God. Everywhere. Where can I flee from your presence? There's nowhere that you can go that God is not. But here is God and He just gives us just let me give you a little taste of what this means, just by comparison, okay And every term that he uses here for measurement is small measurement. You know, you know, kind of intricate work to paint this picture in our our mind of how vast our God is. How vast is our God? He says he has measured the hollow, the waters in the hollow of his hand. You know, imagine the The vast expanse of the oceans. If you've ever been to Ocean City or you know on the Pacific, you just look out, it's just as far as you can see. Just water, water everywhere. Especially if you've ever been on a cruise, it's like you can do a 360 and see nothing but water. Nothing but water. And God says imagine what you can't even see to the end of. And I can just, you know, just put it a little hollow of my hand. Just cut my hand and I can fit all the water of the earth right here. Just imagine how great your God is. Imagine gazing up into the endless skies, the multiple solar systems, galaxies, and being able to spread out your hand and say, yep, that does it right there. I can measure the entire universe just by spreading out from the tip of my pinky to the tip of my thumb. That's the span of a man's hand. I can just put it out like that and that that covers everything. He says that's that's the kind of God that you're dealing with. Imagine being able to carry all the dust of the earth in a measuring cup, all the dirt of the earth, you know, just take around a little measuring cup. I can fit it all in there Or placing the mountains on a kitchen scale, small kitchen scale. You know, this is let me weigh out, you know, what's what's bigger, Everest or this other the Himalayas? You know, let me just let me just see. Put it on the table here Placing the hills in tea dishes about the size of a cracker. This is the kind of God you serve. There is nobody like him. So when he makes promises, you can believe that he will fulfill his promises. I can find comfort in a God like that. There's nobody as immense as your God. Number two, there's nobody as omniscient as your God. Nobody's omniscient like your God. Look at verse 13. Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord as his counselor has informed him? With whom did he consult and who gave him understanding? And who taught him in the path of justice and taught him knowledge and informed him of the way of understanding? Nobody teaches God. God 's never learned anything a day in his life. He's never learned anything You know, can you imagine if your your kids come home from school, like after a year, you know, our daughter just came back from first year in college, it's like, hey Carl, what did you learn? You know, you've been there for a year, nothing. They didn't have anything to teach me that I didn't already know. When we think about God, he's never learned anything. Nobody's taught God. He's never had to search for information. He doesn't have to do a Google search and try to locate something. All knowledge is immediately in front of him. He possesses all wisdom. He never took a class. He doesn't need a tutor. He hasn't learned anything, he doesn't need a counselor, he possesses full and perfect knowledge immediately. Like I said, he doesn't have to search for. You know, sometimes you know people ask you for information, it's like, you know, what's that number? Yeah, I used to remember all kinds of numbers. Now you have these cell phones, you can't remember anything. It's like, you know, somebody asks you for a number and it's like, oh, I I I know it. It's like you have to take a little while to go back into files, you know You know, figure it out. God doesn't have to search for anything. All knowledge immediately. He knows it. Psalm 147, verse 5. Great is our Lord, abundant in strength. His understanding is infinite. Psalm 33, verse 14, From his dwelling place he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth, he who fashions the hearts of them all, he who understands all their works. That's something that can bring you comfort or terrify you to know that God knows everything about you, right? He understands your thoughts from afar. Before there's a word on your tongue, behold the Lord, you know it all. That can be encouraging if you know you're coming to him in prayer. It's like, oh, even before I prayed that, Lord, you already knew what I was coming to you for. And it could be uh terrifying when you know that the Lord follows you when you're stuck in traffic. It's like, before there's a word on my tongue, Lord. Even before there's a word on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all. It was common for kings to have counselors, but God says, I'm a king and I don't need one. I don't need a counselor. So then the question comes up: well, then why does God ask questions? You know, if God knows everything, even the future is fixed before God. God even knows what would have happened if things were different. I I love when uh uh Jesus says, you know, if if these miracles had been done in such and such a city, if they had been done in Ty or Sidon, they would have repented. I know what would have happened if things were different. I know all actualities and all possibilities. There's nothing that's secret to me. I know everything. So when God asks a question, it's not for his benefit, it's for ours. When God says, Adam, where are you? Did he lose Adam? It's like, Adam, what what happened? Where'd you go? He's not asking for his benefit. He knows where Adam is. I'm asking for your benefit. Come and show yourself. That's what he's saying. He's not asking because he's lost them, you know, couldn't keep track. There's only one guy down there, seriously, right? When God says, What have you done? He's not wondering. Like, hey Adam, yesterday you didn't have these fig leaves on. What's what's the fig leaves for? Can you tell me? Can you explain this? No, he's asking for his benefit Adam, you need to fess up. Why don't you tell me what you've done? Because I already know. I already know God doesn't have to wonder. That's why it's so silly when we try to hide our sins from him, isn't it? God already knows what you've done. Just bring it before him. Confess your sins. Forsake your sins that he might have mercy on you. You don't have to hide yourself from God. He already sees you. It's nothing to hide. God actually stakes his claim to be God on his ability to predict the future. Why don't you flip over to Isaiah 41 since we're already in Isaiah? Isaiah 41, take a look at uh verse 22. Actually I'll start at verse 21. You know I had to do that at least one time during this message, right? Just go back another verse. 21. Present your case, the Lord says. Bring forward your strong arguments, the king of Jacob says. He 's basically saying, you know, uh, you know, all your idols that you're praying to, let them come and bring their evidence. Come on, state your case. Bring forward your strong arguments. Let them bring forth and declare to us what is going to take place. As for the former events, declare what they were, that we may consider them and know their outcome, or announce to us what is coming. Declare the things that are going to come afterwards that we may know that you are gods, indeed do good or evil, that we may anxiously look about us and fear together. I mean, God is just laying it on thick. And this this this is just sarcasm at its finest. Come on out. Bring out the arguments. Tell us about tomorrow. Tell us about it. Come on, tell tell me about tomorrow. You know it, right? Actually, let's let's go back in the past. Do you remember everything that's ever happened? Let's go back in the past and check your knowledge so that we can all just bask around and say how wonderful you are. Oh, what isn't it so good that we ran across you today, that we could ask you these questions. God is saying this is ridiculous. I can declare the future. Why? Because I'm God. And nobody else has the opportunity, the ability to do that. Nobody else. I am God and God alone. Apart from me, there is no God. When people attempt to make God more loving by saying things like, you know, God is just as surprised as you are. You ever hear anybody say that? It's like you know when some tragedy strikes. You know, God is just as surprised as I mean God is up there trying to figure this out with you. He's entering into this with you, entering into this confusion It's like, come on, I've got enough confusion on my own. Why do I need God's confusion? Right? Why would that make me like more comforted to know that God is confused about this? Somebody needs to know what's going on. They actually make God into no God at all. If God does not know what's going to happen before it happens, he's not God. He says, this this is this is his case, his evidence for being God. I know the future. That's his case for being God. Number three, there's nobody as worthy as your God. Look back at chapter 40, verse 15 He says, Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are regarded as a speck of dust on the scales. Behold, he lifts up the islands like fine dust. Even Lebanon is not enough to burn, nor its beast enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are regarded by him as less than nothing and meaningless. And here God compares his worth to what you could give him. What do you think that you could give God that would be worthy of him? How about all the nations? Let's give the nations to God. God says that's like a drop in the bucket. I wouldn't even be able to tell if it was missing or not You know, you you you know take a you know fill up a bucket to go wash your car or something like that. You know, you go outside and you know a little bit spills out. You don't go back to the tap, oh let me make sure I replace that. No, you're not gonna miss it. I'm not gonna miss the drop Let the drop go. God says that's what the nations are like. It's like a drop in a bucket. If you think that the nations are enough You know, for a for the kind of person that I am that's worthy of me? You have no idea who I really am. He says the nations are like the dust on the scales. You know, it doesn't even register. You know, when you go to check out your fruits and vegetables and you put it on a little scale there, you don't say, hold on, you know, break out the clorax and wipe it down. I'm not paying for this dust on here It's like that's not even gonna register. It's like the dust is free. Don't worry about it. The dust is free. It doesn't register. God says that's like the nations to me. It's like a speck of dust on the scales. It it doesn't tilt it one way or the other. Even Lebanon is not enough to burn. When he thinks about Lebanon, Lebanon was a forested mountain range. North of Israel, range was about a hundred miles long. Cedar trees that grew in the mountains were legendary There were the most massive trees known to the Israelites at that time. They often reached heights of taller than a hundred and twenty feet And only a few of these remain today, but during this time they would have been plentiful. And the animals around this range would have been plentiful as well because it was well watered. And basically, he imagines, you know, what if what if we were to bulldoze the entire forest of Lebanon? You know, we'll pile it all up into this Big heap for a sacrifice, an offering. Every tree of the forest will chop it down, put it all in a pile, take every animal that we can find, throw every animal on top of the sacrifice. Finally, we've got a sacrifice that's worthy of our God. And God says, nope. Nope. Do you think that would be enough for me? I'm more worthy than that. I am more worthy than that. You can't come up with a sacrifice that's worthy enough for this great God. Micah understood this over in Micah chapter 6. You can uh flip there or just listen. But in uh Micah chapter 6, starting at verse 6, he speaks about What would be worthy of this great God? Listen to what he says. Micah chapter 6, starting at verse 6. He says, with what shall I come to the Lord and bow myself before the God on high? Shall I come to him with burnt offerings? With yearling calves? Does the Lord take delight in thousands of rams and ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I present my firstborn son, my firstborn for my rebellious acts, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He has told you, oh man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you? But to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God. Basically saying that there is no there is no sacrifice that's worthy enough of me. You can't bring God enough. That's why when God wanted a sacrifice that was enough, guess what he sent? His own son, Jesus Christ. You can't give a sacrifice that's worthy enough of me. I will come myself. God has to come himself to offer a sacrifice that's worthy enough for him. Number four, there's no God like your God. Down in verse 18 back in uh Isaiah 40 again. What does he say here about Him in comparison to the idols of men. Look at chapter 40 starting at verse 18. He says, To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare with him? As for the idol, a craftsman cast it, a goldsmith plates it with gold, and a silversmith fashions chains of silver. He who is too impoverished for such an offering selects a tree that does not rot. He seeks out for himself a skilled craftsman to prepare an idol that will not totter. The idolatry of the nations surrounding Israel was pervasive. Each nation had a collection of their own deities Assyria, who was the major world power during this time, had a a god that was the god of the storm, a god of the moon, god of the sun, a god of the stars. And each of these gods were believed to embody these little idols. They crafted these little idols to represent these deities. And basically God looks at these idols and says, how pathetic. How pathetic. Is that is that really what you're going to compare me with? You know, the first idol he pictures here is uh some statue made out of of metal. You know, this is the the deluxe model idol, you know, the best that money could buy. You know, you get uh get some molten metal, iron or something, you know, that's that's hard and you know, you put craft it into you know whatever shape of your God, you know, maybe he's a bull or he's a fish or you know, whatever you think is great. And then you you you you melt some gold and you kind of pour that over top of the idol that you fixed and now it glistens. You know, now it looks like it's solid gold, even though it's really not. Cover that iron statue with a layer of gold to give it this kind of bright, shining appearance. And then finally to put the finish in touch, he'd put a chain on its neck. Give him a little bling, you know, put a put a chain around the idol's neck. Probably so the worshipper could hang the idol up, you know, decorate his house. Look at my idol. This cost me a lot of money. This is the deluxe model. Everybody can't afford one of these, you know. Hang them up. If you don't have that kind of money, you know, you go for the economy. Economy version. Let me find a good piece of wood. You know, I can't afford the gold. I'll find me a good piece of wood that the termites haven't gotten to yet. Get something that won't totter, something I can give to a craftsman, and he can bash my God out of that. And God says, really , is this what you want to substitute for me? Look at uh chapter 44 of Isaiah. Isaiah 44, look at verse 16 All right, I'm gonna do it again. Start at verse 12. The man shapes iron into a cutting tool and does his work over the coals. Fashioning it with hammers and working it with his strong arm, he also gets hungry, and his strength fails. He drinks no water and becomes weary. Another shapes wood, he extends a measuring line. He outlines it with red chalk. He works it with planes and outlines it with the compass and makes it like the form of a man, like the beauty of a man, so that it may sit in a house. Surely he cuts cedars for himself and takes the cypress or an oak, raises it for himself among the trees of the forest. He plants a fir in the rain, makes it grow. Then it becomes something for a man to burn, so he takes one of them and warms himself. You know, he's getting cold. So he makes a fire to bake bread. He also makes a God and worships it. He makes it a graven image and falls down before it And then he points out the irony in all this. Half of it he burns in the fire. Over this half he eats meat. And he roasts to roast and is satisfied. He also warms himself and says, Aha, I am warm. I've seen the fire. But the rest of it, he makes into a god. His graven image, he falls down before it and worships. He also prays to it and says, deliver me, for you are my God. The God can even deliver himself from the fire. And now are you going to pray to him? You know, you just kind of cut them up and threw them into the fire, but now you want to say, deliver me, oh God. Are you kidding me? But you know, it's it's it's no different than the idols we make for ourselves, right? You know, we cut down a tree and we make a house with it. And we say, Oh house, you know, you're going to deliver me when the economy crashes, because I've got my house over here. You know, you put your uh put your uh uh your hope in your bank account. Look at all these numbers that I've stored away. You know, this paper is gonna save me when the day comes, right? You know, I've got this job, but I've got really good insurance. When my day comes, if I get sick, I know what I. . I've got blue cross. You know, it's like instead of looking to the cross, you're looking to the blue cross. So I got something that's gonna save me when the day comes. The gods of men's imaginations are pathetic. And all the false gods of the false religions, Allah, Brahma, whatever you want to call them. False views of the true God, poor pathetic substitutes. There's only one name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved. Right? It's the name of Jesus Christ. There's no God like your God. Number five, there's no people like your God. Verse 21 and 22. Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been declared to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. Who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in? There's no people, no nation like your God. No the surrounding nations seem so powerful. Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, you know, little Israel sandwiched in between these powerful nations, kind of yanked back and forth like a like a toy, you know, on the playground. Spies go out to search out the land of Palestine and they come back and Caleb says, hey, let's go take that land. But what do the other spies say? We're like grasshoppers. We can't compete with these guys. We're like grasshoppers to them over in Numbers chapter 13. They say we're not able to take them. We saw them. They're like Nuffling. They're like the giants in the land. God says, if you want to know the truth of what I think about the nations, they're like grasshoppers to me. They're insects. I don't care how big these nations are compared to you. I sit above them all. He says he sits above the circle of the earth. Actually, that's a word for the horizon. You know, thousands of years before the great explorers knew that the earth was round, God already said it right here, the circle of the earth. He pictures the skies as a tent, a canopy that he spreads over the earth. And I allow you to dwell in it. I'll let you dwell in my tent. But just remember it's my turn. And I can flick you out if I want to. Flick out the grasshoppers if I want to. Nobody can compete with me. There's nobody as immense as your God, nobody is omniscient, nobody is worthy, there's no God like your God, there's no nation like your God. I don't care what Russia is doing, there is no nation like your God. And there's no ruler like your God. Look at verse 23. He it is who reduces rulers to nothing, who makes the judges of the earth meaningless. Scarcely have they been planted, scarcely have they been sown, scarcely has their stock taken root in the earth, but he merely blows on them and they wither. And the storm carries them away like stubble. There's no ruler like your God. You know, the ruler seems so intimidating. You know, we learned earlier in the book of Isaiah that there was a. A king by the name of Sennacherib. Actually I'll I'll have you flip back there real quick. Flip back to uh Isaiah chapter thirty-seven. Isaiah chapter Thirty All right, I'm gonna go back. Thirty-six. I'm gonna I'll read fast. We have uh this this king by the name of Sennacherib, and he sends uh he sends a an announcement. To Judah by a guy named Rabshekah. Listen to what it says. I'll start at verse 1. Now in the 14th year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and seized them. The king of Assyria sent Rabshekah from Lakish to Jerusalem to King Hezekiah with a large army, and he stood by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway of the Fuller's Field. Then Lykim, the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, came out. Then the Rab Shekha said to them, Say now to Hezekiah, thus says the great king, King of Assyria, what is this confidence that you have? I say your counsel and strength for the war are only empty words. Now on whom do you rely that you have rebelled against me? Behold, you rely on the staff of this crushed reed, even on Egypt, on which if a man leans it will go into his hand and pierce it So is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, to all who rely on him. But if you say to me, listen what it says, if you say to me, we trust in the Lord our God Is not he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away and has set to Judah into Jerusalem you shall worship before this altar Now therefore come make a bargain with my master, the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses if you're able to, on your part, to set riders on them. Basically saying you don't even have two thousand people that can ride a horse. How are you going to defeat the might of Assyria? Verse 9, how then can you repulse one official of the least of my master's servants and rely on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? How do I now come up without the Lord's approval, basically saying, you know, you trust in your God? Your God's the one who sent me. He's basically He's ridiculing the God of Israel. That's it's the Lord that sent me here. The Lord said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it. Then Eli came and Shebna and Joah said to Rabshekah, Speak now to your servants in Aramaic. For we understand it and do not speak with us in the Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall. Basically he's saying, don't let the rest of the people hear what you're saying. You know, just speak to us in the language that that that's common to us, you know, the uh the the language of the uh Aramaic. Let's speak in Aramaic. Don't speak to us in in the Judean language, because the rest of the people here Verse 12, but Rabshekh said, Has my master sent me only to your master and to speak these words and not to the men who sit on the wall, doomed to eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you? And Rab Shekha Siddin cried out with a loud voice in Judean and said, Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. Thus says the king, do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you. Nor let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord Saying the Lord will surely deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria, make your peace with me, come out to me, and eat each of his vine and each of his fig tree, and drink Each of his of the waters of his own cistern. Basically saying, Don't listen to Hezekiah. He can't save you, and neither can your God. Your God cannot save you. God heard everything that uh Rab Shekha said, by the way. Uh look down at uh chapter 37, verse 33. Therefore, thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he will not come to this city, or shoot an arrow there. And he will not come before it with a shield or throw up a siege ramp against it. By the way that he came, by the same he will return, and he will not come to the city, declares the Lord. For I will defend this city to save it for my own sake and for my servant David's sake Then the angel of the Lord went out and struck, listen to that, a hundred and eighty-five thousand in the camp of the Assyrians, and when men arose early in the morning, behold, all of these were dead. God says, you think you're gonna make a fool out of me? You think I'm not gonna come and defend my people? You think you're gonna mock my name? You think the might of your king is a match for me? God destroyed 185,000 in one night without anybody lifting up a sword, shooting an arrow. God destroyed them all. Why? Because there's no ruler like your God. There's no ruler like your God. God is not a God to be trifled with. And finally , Number seven, there is no creator and sustainer like your God back in Isaiah 40. Look at verse 25. Says, to whom then will you liken me? That I would be his equal, says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who has created these stars. The one who leads forth their hosts by number, he calls them all by name. Because of the greatness of his might and the strength of his power, not one of them is missing. If Israel ever was tempted to doubt the power of God, all they needed to do was to tilt their heads back and look up. Look at the stars. God points to the stars as evidence that He'll care for us. Basically He says if you can keep track of the stars If I can keep track of the stars, because you can't, let's put it that that way. If I can keep track of the stars, don't you think I can keep track of you If if if I can point out all the stars and tell you what their names are, don't you think that I know what your name is? That I can care for you? Psalm 147 in verse 2 it says the Lord builds up Jerusalem, He gathers the outcast of Israel, He heals the brokenhearted, He binds up their wounds, He counts the number of the stars, He gives names to all of them. I 'm a God who knows every star by name. I've created these stars. I lead forth their host by number. When I call them to attendance, they all say here, present, accounted for. I keep track of it all. According to one report by CNN, there are over 70,000 million, million, million known stars. That's a seven with twenty-two zeros after it. Seventy thousand million million million and that was only an estimate by a strip of the sky Listen to this. Speaking at the General Assembly of the International Astronomical Union meeting in Sydney, Dr. Simon Driver said the number was drawn up based on a survey of one strip of sky. rather than trying to count every individual star. Obvious because it can't, right? Within the strip of sky, some ten thousand galaxies were pinpointed and detailed measurements of their brightness taken to calculate how many stars they contain. In other words, what they did is they took a strip of the sky and they determined how bright is that strip of the sky. And then they try to estimate how many stars are behind that strip of sky. Because they can't count it. They're giving you a guesstimate. They're just estimating at best as we can tell, there has to be at least this many stars to give off this much light. That's all they're doing. And then the same professor was asked if he believed the huge scale of the universe meant there was intelligent life out there somewhere. He told the paper 70,000 million, million, million is a big number. It's inevitable that there is life somewhere. And he's right. There's a God who's out there, right? We're not looking for some green men to come to our planet and say, hey, I'm intelligent. There's a God who 's given us his word, who's declared himself, who's made himself known. It's like we've got all these gadgets you know pointing out to the skies to see if we can pick up a radio signal or you know see a planet that has an ecosystem or whatever else and God has declared himself, made himself known to us, and we ignore that Is there intelligent life out there? Yeah, look at this! Of course there is. There's our God Our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. Whatever he pleases. He knows each individual star by name. He's the one who created them all. Not one of them is missing that he looks for. This God is worthy of glory, isn't he? There's no one as immense as your God. No one omniscient like your God No one is worthy as your God. There's no God like your God. No nation like your God. No ruler like your God. No creator and sustainer like your God. So when we think about what a church is to be , And we don't include the glory of God, we're not a church. You're not a church if you don't focus on the glory of God. And also I want to point out to you what the context of this is because at the beginning of Isaiah Verse 1 of chapter 40 says, Comfort, O comfort, my people, says your God. Then down in verse 9, listen to what he says here. Get yourself up on a high mountain. O Zion, bearer of good news, lift up your voice mightily, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news. Lift it up, do not fear. Why don't I have to fear Why don't I have to fear lifting up my voice and saying, This is what God's going to bring? He's going to deliver us. He's going to bring us comfort. Why don't I have to fear that? Lift up, do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, here is your God. This is your God, the one who promises comfort, the one who promises deliverance. This is the kind of God that He is. Behold, the majesty of this God. Behold, verse 10: Behold, the Lord will come with might. With his arm ruling for him, behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. Like a shepherd he will tend his flack. In his arm he will gather the lambs and carry them in his bosom, and he will gently lead the nursing ewes. Can you can you trust in a God like this? This this should bring you comfort. When I'm discouraged. . When I'm wondering, like Lord, how is this all gonna work out? Lord, I'm I'm fearful right now. My heart is anxious I feel overwhelmed. Lord, I've been coming to you with this prayer. I just don't know. Like, when is this prayer going to be answered? Lord, Lord, I'm just coming apart. Lord, can you really hold me up? Can you just remind yourself of who your God is? When you come before a God like this, this is the God that I come before. This is the God that I can trust in. My God is immense, omniscient, worthy. He is God. There's no people like him, no ruler like him, no creator and sustainer like him. And I can trust him. Amen? Amen. You can trust your God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for who you've declared yourself to be. Father, we are overwhelmed. As we behold our God, Father, I pray that you'd help us to look to you, that we would trust in you, that we would look to no other Savior, that we would rest in no other relief. Father, that we would compare nobody to you. There is nobody to compare you with. And when we are overwhelmed, Father, I pray that we would lift our eyes up. And that we would look to who our God is. Behold, our Lord comes with might. Father, we can trust in you. And we worship you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.