The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open your Bibles with me to James chapter 2? James chapter 2 this morning as we turn our attention to the Word of God and thanks again. musicians and singers, just for reminding us of of who our great God is. James chapter 2 The book of James has been called the wisdom literature of the New Testament because James Much like the book of Proverbs, is concerned primarily with the practical aspects of the faith James talks about where the rubber meets the road. He doesn't speak much about the grand themes of faith and redemption and election and substitutionary atonement because His emphasis is really with how does faith work itself out in practical, everyday ways in your life. Assuming all of that is true, All that we know about our theology, now how does that work its way out in your life? James is much like John the Baptist. Who shouts out, bring forth fruits that are meat for repentance? What are the fruits that are appropriate for a changed life? Or like Paul in Acts chapter 26 and 20, who spoke about his own ministry. And he said that he kept declaring both to those at Damascus first. And also to those at Jerusalem, and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent, turn to God, and then listen to this, performing deeds appropriate to repentance. If you've truly turned around, there should be deeds that are appropriate to that kind of life. So James understands that faith in Christ is not something that we kind of keep it at arm's length. But something that's practical, that's lived out in our daily lives, and it can't be separated from our daily experience. So he demands to see the proof of our faith in our actions. In James 1 and 22, he says, Prove yourselves doers of the word and not merely hearers who delude themselves. We can hear a lot, we can listen to a lot, but if we're not practicing a lot, we're not really putting our faith into practice in our our lives. We're not really doing the word. We're hearing the word. We're not doing the word. And for this reason I like to call James a book with bite. or scripture that stings, because James is not content to leave the principles of scripture at a distance, but he's kind of like the, you know, when you go to the physician's office and You know, you might come to him for you know certain kind of injury and then he starts kind of pressing around. He asks that question that you hate to hear, does that hurt? Does that hurt? And you know what he's looking for? He's looking for where it hurts, so he can, you know, try to find a problem and kind of press down on that. And uh, you know, it's uncomfortable, but it's actually helpful. Or like myself, I haven't been to the dentist in a while. And he pulls out the metal hook and he starts kind of poking around until he finds the sensitive spot and it's like, okay, you found it. That's it. You know, uh let's let's move on, okay? You know, you don't have to keep poking around in there. It's like, you know, just keep digging. What are you digging for? You know it hurts. And this is what scripture is like. It finds the places that hurt to address it. It finds it in order to fix it. And the purpose is to identify where the problems are so that we can be making those things right. So consider this your spiritual checkup, all right? This is an examination. And my question for all of us is what difference does it make that you believe, what noticeable changes have taken place in your life because you've trusted in Jesus Christ? Or do you believe That God the Father can deliver you from the domain of darkness and transfer you into the kingdom of the Son, that you can be united with the Lord Jesus Christ in his death, burial, and resurrection. That the Spirit of God can indwell you, making you a temple of the living God without leaving a shred of evidence that God has been there at all. And may these truths be brought close to our hearts and convict us of our inconsistencies. But before we jump into our passage, it's James chapter 2, before we jump into the text. Let me just give you a little bit of background for the book of James. This book is titled after its author, James, but it's not the James that we might normally think of. James, the brother of John one of the inner three of the circle of disciples. This is James, the half-brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. Early on in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 12, we find that James, the Lord's disciple, was beheaded by King Herod, but we find another James that rises to a place of prominence within the Jerusalem church And he simply goes by the name James. And apparently he was so well known that he didn't need anything else to identify him. He was just James, and you know what James I'm talking about. This was the James, the brother of our Lord. Paul identifies him in Galatians as the brother of the Lord Jesus, and he refers to him as a pillar of the church And even after many of the Christians left Jerusalem because of the intense persecution there early on in Acts, we find James faithfully serving the church in Jerusalem in Acts twenty-one. And he would travel back and forth From Jerusalem and to other places, and he would hear about these scattered Christians as Christians would come back and in his pastoral concern for them. He writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit this letter. And he's learned that they were able to escape the persecution, but they're not escaping trouble. You know, trouble finds the Christians. And he's also learned that the the lives of the scattered group of believers Sometimes it doesn't match their profession. So he has to address it. And there are some things that they need to know that just don't mix with faith First of all, if you look at uh chapter 1 and verse 26, he says that true faith does not mix with an unbridled tongue. Chapter 1 and verse 26. 26 he says, if anyone thinks himself to be religious, and yet does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this man's religion is worthless. You know, so if you say that you've been transformed by Jesus Christ and you can't get a hold on your tongue, something's wrong. Why do I have this unbridled tongue that just says whatever comes to my mind? I need to be able to put some kind of bridle on my tongue so that I can control it. Later on in chapter 3, verse 10, speaking about the same issue, he says, from the same mouth come both blessings and cursings. My brethren, these things ought not to be this way. How can out of the same mouth come blessing and cursing? It should not be this way, but often it is He also goes on to say that true faith does not mix with the life without works. Over in chapter 2 and verse 14, it's a passage that we often Quote, what use is it, my brethren, if someone says he has faith, but has no works? Can that faith save him? What what kind of faith is is that that has no evidence to to back it up in the the life of the believer? Later on in chapter three and verse thirteen, he says that true faith does not mix with the life without good behavior and gentleness, that believers should be gentle. He says, who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good behavior his deeds and gentleness of wisdom. He also lets us know that true faith doesn't mix with worldliness, that we shouldn't just look like those that are around us. Chapter 4 and verse 4. He says, you adulteresses. James doesn't uh pull punches here. You adulteresses! Do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. And then back in chapter 2, and this is where we'll land for the day, James lets us know that true faith does not mix with a spirit of partiality. Spirit of partiality. And we're going to talk about the ugly sin of partiality. In chapter 2 and verse 1, he says, My brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ. with an attitude of personal favoritism. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and Father, we are so grateful for this opportunity to gather together with your people. Father, it's a privilege every time we get together as uh as the people of God uh to assemble together this local assembly congregation. Now, Father, we're so grateful for the work. uh that you're you're doing here at Baltimore Bible Church. And uh we pray that uh we would excel still more. Uh Father, we have uh ways to grow and uh Father we thank you for the testimony we heard uh even earlier just about the the outpouring of of love for one of our brothers and and father we pray that we would excel still more. Father we pray that we would uh reflect the the kind of love of Jesus Christ, the love that he loved us with. Father, that we would share that same love with one another. Father, that you would be glorified and honored, Lord, even as we come before your word today. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. The text before us speaks about the ugly sin of partiality, and that's the focus of these 13 verses in chapter 2. And verse 1 begins with that command, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. Then verse 4, he says, this, have you not made distinctions among yourselves? Then in verse 9, down in verse 9, he says, but if you show partiality, you are committing sin. And are convicted by the law as transgressors. The word that's used for partiality or personal favoritism is uh the word in verse one that uh word personal favoritism It's from the Greek word pro prasolumpse, and it literally means to receive the face. To receive the face And it speaks about a judgment that's based solely on external factors. You know, just what I can see, what I can observe. I've already made my determination about who you are. No test of the character, no examination of the life You know, I I've just already sized you up by how you look. And this is what God warned the judges of Israel against repeatedly. He says in Deuteronomy 16, 19 and 20, ye shall not distort justice You shall not be partial. You shall not take a bribe. For a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and perverts the words of justice, of righteousness. Justice and only justice you shall pursue. Don't don't don't judge things just based on external appearances. And why is that? Because that's not how God judges, right? Deuteronomy 10. 17, the Lord your God is the God of gods, the Lord of lords, the great, the mighty, the awesome God, who does not show partiality 2 Chronicles 19:7. Now let the fear of the Lord be upon you. Be very careful what you do, for the Lord our God will have no part in unrighteousness or partiality. Acts chapter 10 verse 34. Opening his mouth, Peter said, I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality. And then in Romans chapter 2, verse 11, it says, There is no partiality with God, and we'll get to that next time we're in Romans, okay? That's where we're going. But anyone who claims to hold faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ in one hand while holding partiality in the other hand betrays a double-mindedness and an inconsistency. And this is the problem that James addresses and it was a major concern for him. And the amount of space that he gives to it in this letter, I mean 13 verses just on this topic alone, should be enough to let us know that the Holy Spirit considered it important enough to deal with. But the people that received this letter didn't know that they had a problem. And how do I know that? How do I know that that that these people didn't know they had a problem. It's because James uses the first four verses to convince them that they had it He has to convince them that there's a problem. Look at the verse 4. He says, have you not made distinctions? It's like, don't you see it? Isn't this what it is? Haven't you made distinctions? Haven't you shown partiality? It's like Nathan the Prophet has to point the finger and say, you're the man. I'm talking about you. Again, we're quick to judge in others what we affectionately guard and protect in ourselves. And this here is the sin of partiality And it's uh something that we all need to give attention to, so don't tune out. Uh this is this is for every one of us. Uh, and we're going to look at five symptoms of the sin of partiality. Five symptoms of the sin of of partiality, and I'll just give them to you as we work through the passage. Number one, do you discriminate among yourselves? Do you discriminate among yourselves? Look at verse 1. My brethren, do not hold your faith in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. For if a man comes into your assembly with the gold ring, dressed in fine clothes, and there comes in a poor man in dirty clothes, and you pay special attention to the one who's wearing the fine clothes, and you say, sit here in a good place. And you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down by my footstool, have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil motives? The word for that begins verse 2, for if a man comes into your assembly, it's uh used to introduce the reason for a charge that's brought up in verse 1, this attitude of personal favoritism and he does it by way of illustration. And the illustration isn't necessarily something that that actually happened, but it's close enough to what was happening to make the point clearer. And he pictures a day that the assembly is gathered together. The assembly is uh the meeting, the it's actually the word from synagogue that may indicate that believers actually were meeting in synagogues at this point. And on this particular day they received these two visitors. And the first to appear, or at least the first to be recognized, is Mr. Goldfinger Verse 2, for if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring, literally it's gold-fingered man, that's what it literally says in the Greek, the gold-fingered man comes in. Dressed in fine clothes, and there also comes in a poor man in dirty clothes. The first one to be recognized is the man with the gold rings And the rings had to be of considerable size because they're noticed immediately, immediately as this guy shows up, they're seeing the rings. I mean, if you want to talk about bling, it's all there, right? And if you couldn't tell that he was important by looking at the gold, you could definitely tell by the kinds of clothes that he wore. I mean this is a bad outfit here He's dressed in fine clothes. The word for fine clothes, it's the Greek word lampros. You might might hear the word lamp in that word. And that's what it's talking about. It's brilliant. It's dazzling. He comes in shining. His clothes are shining. His fingers are shining. And immediately you say, hey, this aren't we so blessed to have you here today. We're just so grateful. We're so grateful. No mistake, this is a person of rank. Some have even speculated that James had in mind a member of what was known as the elite equestrian class. This is the class right beneath the ruling class. There were three different classes and um uh that Romans divided people into and uh there was this equestrian class that came right beneath the the ruling emperors and senators But he's not the only visitor that day. There was another gentleman who happened to come by with our distinguished guest, and some people might wonder who invited him Here comes another man, a poor man in dirty clothes. And you'll get to him right after you take care of Mr. Goldfingers But he's here, he's not looking for a handout, he's just looking to join the service. And before we get to the reaction of the congregation to these visitors, my question for you is what would be your reaction if it was you? As you have two people coming in and one is dressed in fine apparel and uh the other one looks like he's still trying to figure out where he is, who who are you talking to? Who are you greeting today? Here you have this person who comes in It says, uh, you sit here in a good place. And you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down by my footstool. Stand over there or sit by my footstool. It doesn't even come across the mind of this congregation member to give up the footstool for him to sit on. You can sit by my footstool. While I prop my feet up, you can sit next to it. And I'm sure this could be rationalized. I mean, after all, you know, isn't the poor man used to sitting on the ground? Listen to James in verse 4, he says, have you not made distinctions among yourselves? What are you doing? You've become judges with evil motives. Now you've made yourself the the one who 's judging the people who come in. As if you really know them And actions display the true motives of the heart, and the desire here is not just simply to welcome and to serve, but it's to impress a certain kind of person. And James says, you're like judges who've already made a verdict without hearing the evidence. And it's not just bad manners. He says, this is just outright wickedness. This is evil. And before you read this passage and you say, hey, we've still got seats left in in the church, you know, I haven't made anybody sit by my footstool. Glad that's not me. You know, we we've pulled out enough chairs for uh you know guests just in case more people come. There's actually chairs right here in the front. You know, there's room in the front pew. You know, if you want to sit down, there's there's space to sit. But before you get away from this text too quickly, there's more ways than we discriminate than we'd like to admit Would you be more or less likely to speak to someone based on their level of education? based on their physical appearance, based on their national origin, their nation of origin, based on a certain kind of hairstyle or clothing. based on their physical abilities, based on their age, based on their natural and apparent talents. Based on their skin color? Based on their ability to communicate in the English language? Do you greet people without reservation or have you already determined who you want to get to know better and who you don't? Do you pass by people in order to greet people that you feel are more in line with who you want to speak with? Those that you share more in common with, those that you're already acquainted with? Do you use a person's differences to make determinations about them? And I'll I'll do something I've I've I probably haven't done before, probably won't do again, but just just just for a show of hands, how many people have ever felt walking into a place that you just were invisible, like nobody even recognized you? Anybody ever felt like that? All right, everybody, look around. Look around. Keep your hands up. Alright. How many of you have ever felt like that in here? We've got a number of people that have their hands up. You need to look around. You need to look around. These are your brothers and sisters in Christ, right? Your brothers and sisters in Christ. And we don't need to just make decisions about who we're going to talk to, who we're not going to talk to. And I'm not saying that everybody has to talk to everybody every Sunday, all right? Because I'm not doing that and I can't do that, all right? But we shouldn't have people that come in here week in, week out, and aren't greeted by anybody. And we also need to make sure that Even if we're the ones that are feeling like that, that we're doing some of the hard work of saying like I'm gonna reach out too. I I remember a number of years ago I first went to Grace Community Church. And it's like, you know, hey, you know, it's just, you know, one step beyond heaven, you know, going to Grace Community Church. Went to Grace Community Church and I was there for maybe like three weeks and you know Jennifer and I are walking in and it's a huge auditorium And uh it's like, man, it's been three weeks and nobody's even said hi to me yet, you know? I'm new here and I haven't been greeted. I was like, you know what? I'm just going to start greeting people myself. You know, so I turned to the guy next to me and say, hey, how you doing? My name's George. How long have you been here? He says, this is my first day. It's like so here I am. I'm I'm the veteran, you know. I I need to be the one that's greeting you, and you know, forget about you greeting me But we need to make sure that we're doing that kind of work when we're in here. I mean, one of the simple commands, it's a biblical command, greet one another. We need to make sure that we're doing that within our congregation. We need to make sure that we're not making judgments about people and who we're going to pass by because, you know, I'm not sure if I'm going to really have a good conversation with them or not. That's not how we need to make our decisions. And until you've spent time with the person, you don't know what they're like, right? Do you discriminate among yourselves? Number two, do you dishonor those whom God has chosen? Look at verse 5. Listen, my beloved brethren. Did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he promised to those who love him? And then beginning in verse 6, he says, But you have dishonored the poor man. And again, this question doesn't really anticipate an argument. James is basing his argument on what these believers already know to be true. They saw the power of God at work. And the poor all around them. They knew that God chose the poor. If he didn't, what were they doing in the church themselves? Because many of them were among the poor. And now they have the nerve to turn around and discriminate against somebody who might have less than they do. And it's just hypocrisy. They knew full well that God did not choose people based on their financial status As one commentator says, bring your false estimates into the light of the gospel. If anything, the poor are easier to reach with the gospel because they don't have to give up trust in their possessions. A lot of times they're easier to reach because they're already in a state of dependence. Matthew chapter 19 and verse 23, Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven. Why is it hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven? It's not because the requirements are different from for the poor and the rich to get into heaven. It's just harder for the rich man to admit that he's bankrupt, that I need help. They believe their riches will somehow save them. And they have a harder time surrendering all to Jesus Christ. I don't want to give this up. I mean, what would God might do ask me to do something I don't want with my money It's harder for the rich sometimes to come to Christ. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, if you want to just flip back there real quick, 1 Corinthians chapter 1. You find Paul speaking about how we were were called. First Corinthians chapter one Take a look at verse 26. Wish we had time to go through the whole chapter here, so just read through it. This is your homework. Read through this when you get home. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, starting at verse 26. For consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wives according to the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong. And the base things of the world and the despised God has chosen, the things that are not, the nothings, so that he may nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. The rich, the noble, the wise, the mighty are often too proud to beg, too proud to become beggars before a holy God, to recognize that their sins have bankrupted them. And Paul says, There's not many. It's not that there's not any, but it's not many. And if we look at the poor through the lenses of the world, we could consider them to be pitied. But if you look back in James chapter 2, what does he say? James chapter 2, look at verse 5. He says, listen, my beloved brethren, did not God choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? Rich in faith. If we look at them through the lenses of the world, they're the poor and they're the pitied. But we look at them through the lenses of Scripture, they're the rich, they're the heirs And rich in faith has been understood in multiple ways. One way is that the poor have been given a greater measure of faith, that they're rich in faith And it can be argued that the poor are often forced to depend on God when the the rich trust in their riches. But most likely what he means here is that it's because of the faith that they are rich, that they've been made rich because of faith. Which they placed in Jesus Christ. And the poor are abounding in riches, which the Lord gives to all who call upon him. They've been given every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. They've been predestined. They've been redeemed. They've been forgiven. They know the mystery of God's will. They've been sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, and the list goes on. And not only have the poor been made rich, but they've also been made heirs of the kingdom to come. And while nothing may be left for them in this life, they've been made heirs of the kingdom that can never be taken away. I mean, forget about gold fingers. We're going to walk on gold streets. You know, what is that? And I love what 1 Peter 1 and verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable, undefiled, will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you. There's an inheritance that will not perish and cannot be defiled. And these believers who are overlooking their brothers aren't connecting the dots. These are believers who are rich in faith, they're heirs of the kingdom. And don't miss what he says at the end of verse 5. Rich in faith, heirs of the kingdom, which he promised to those who love him. They love God. Do you walk by those who love God? Those who are lovers of God? Do you dishonor those who love your Savior? Verse 6, but you've dishonored the poor man. They love God, but you have a hard time loving them. They've been chosen by God, but then you have a hard time accepting them, choosing them. It's serious. And the word here for dishonor is a word that means to be treated with disrespect, to insult, to treat shamefully. And the backdrop is the illustration that was just given with this guy who comes in, the poor man, and totally overlooked, disrespected, sit on the floor. But my question is, what do we communicate to people when we overlook them? When we favor someone that's you know shares more of our traits that we find more admirable? What does it communicate to them about what you believe about the faith? And we may have to deal with, you know, uh this kind of discrimination out in the world, but, you know, Lord help us if we have to deal with it within the church, right? And that that's where I get, you know, upset about things. It's like, I expect the world to be the world. The world's gonna be the world, right? You know, what what we want to see is like the the church is not matching the world. The church is different from the world. And might get personal here, but The question I would ask is have you ever said anything about someone, particular group of people that you would have them that you would be embarrassed to get back to them This call may be monitored for quality assurance. What if your conversations were recorded? And and I'm not just talking about, you know, people say, oh, the majority culture says this. It's the minority culture that says a lot too. Would you be embarrassed for anybody to hear what you said about somebody else within the church? That's that's a it's a it's an honest question, right? You know, a lot of times people you know speak about you know just the uh the the poor in in this case, but uh even uh uh poor people can be covetous too. It's not just a sin with the with the uh the the rich, you know, or sins with you know majority cultures, it's sins of minority cultures too. We can all be sinning in these ways. We can all be discriminating in these ways You know, we shouldn't separate our ourselves from one another within the church. And again, I thank God so much for the unity and the love that God has given us. You know, I don't want you to hear me saying anything different than that, but the Lord has provided an incredible amount of unity right here within this church. But if it went beyond that to you know kind of deeper relationships, you know, where where do we find those? Would you squirm if uh you know your daughter was interested in somebody from another culture to get married to? Are the differences you know too great to bear at that point? Do you dishonor those whom God has chosen? Number three, do you direct attention to those who disgrace you and dishonor God? Look at verses six and seven. Says, is it not the rich who oppress you and personally drag you into court? Do they not blaspheme the fair name by which you've been called? You know, if you ever thought all sarcasm was wrong, you might not want to read James because it's dripping with sarcasm. It's like, oh, you know that group that you think so highly of? Isn't that the same group that dragged you off the court and suited the pants off you last week? You know, but now you're so worried about making sure that you're you know currying favor with them You know, is isn't that the the group that's oppressing you? And he's here arguing at their their own level. If we're to judge people by the group they belong to, isn't it the rich that are known for the for most of the atrocities The rich were known for the exploitation of the poor. And I find it interesting that the word for oppress that's used here, is it not the rich who oppress you? The word for oppress is the same word that's used in Acts chapter ten and verse thirty eight, for the devil himself. That he is the oppressor. You flip over to chapter 5, James chapter 5, James speaks about the uh the rich who are categorized by certain kinds of sins. Look at verse 1. He says, Come now, you rich, weep and howl for your miseries which are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments have become moth-eaten. Your gold and your silver have rusted, and their rust will be a witness against you, and will consume your flesh like fire. It is in the last days that you've stored up your treasure. Behold, the pay of the laborers who mowed your fields and which has been withheld by you cries out against you. The outcry of those who did the harvesting has reached the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. What was going on here? Uh the the rich promised to pay their workers for you know the the week's work, but the end of the week came and they didn't pay. The rich are holding on to the pay that was belonging to the poor and that's the way that they oppress them And it says that these riches, you know, these fields here, you moat the fields which have been withheld by you, and it's crying out against you. The pay of the laborers is screaming out like why am I still in your pocket? And this the Old Testament is filled with warnings like this These charges that were even brought against the poor so that they could withhold their their money and even judges that uh could be bribed off by the the the rich to take advantage of of others. Back in James chapter 2, he says they they oppress you, they they drag you into court, and again it was to take advantage of them because they could bribe off a judge. Then in verse 7, and this is one that's hard to get over, it says, Do they not blaspheme the fair name by which you've been called? The fair name, it's uh the Greek word kalos, it means beautiful, excellent, precious, translated as the noble name, the worthy name. It's the name of Jesus Christ. To blaspheme the name of God wouldn't have been tolerated, but many people blaspheme the name of Jesus. It was by the name of Jesus that Christians were called. To be called by a name was a Hebrew way of saying that you belong to a person if you're called by their name. Actually, it was frequently used in the Old Testament for being called by the name of God, by the name of the Lord. In Deuteronomy 28, verses 9 and 10, it says, The Lord will establish you as his holy people. to himself, as he swore to you, if you will keep the commandments of the Lord your God, walk in his ways, so all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the Lord. You're you're called by me. That means you belong to me Jeremiah 14, 9, O Lord, we are called by your name. Do not forsake us. And then one we're probably all familiar with in 2 Chronicles 7, 14. If my people who are called by my name To be called by the name of God meant that you were owned by God. And here we actually have a, you know, just a Yeah, really brief, but uh another example of uh Jesus himself being God, that we're called by his name. Just like the children of the Old Testament were called by the name of the Lord, we're called by the name of Christ. We're called by his name. And then that's the name that they're blaspheming, the fair name by which we've been called. To call the name of Christ something that's accursed. And James says, are your heroes in the world people who blaspheme the name of God? And brothers and sisters, we need to pay close attention to this because it's like, who are we looking up to? Who do we honor? Do we honor people that dishonor our God? And sometimes people can admire athletes, singers, actors, people of influence. Who dishonor our Lord, who blaspheme the name of our Lord, and set them up as you know people to follow because they have money and influence. as if that's what's important. You know, I'd rather honor a street sweeper that's singing the praises of God than somebody who's in a high position who blasphemes the name of my God. But people say, well, he's rich, he's successful, he's made it in this life. Well, what does that profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his soul, right? And I'm not saying that we don't recognize people as you know being gifted or talented, but we need to make sure that we draw the line sharply between those that honor God and those that don't. And those that honor the Lord are the ones that I want to honor. So, do you discriminate? Do you dishonor those that God has chosen? Do you direct attention to those who dishonor God Number four, do you disobey the royal law? Do you disobey the royal law? Look at verse 8. Says, if however you are fulfilling the royal law, according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law's transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not commit murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but do commit murder, you've become a transgressor of the law And right here, James is leaving no stone unturned. This is just a penetrating investigation of our hearts. He's relentless. And here he deals with those of us who'd like to view this command as something further down the scale of importance, like, yeah, I may not greet people and you know I may not love them as I love myself, but look at all the other stuff that I'm doing. I mean, is it really that bad And his goal here is to charge the readers with nothing less than lawbreaking. You're breaking the law. You're convicted by the law. You've become a transgressor of the law. And he wants to make sure we understand that showing partiality is not a trivial matter, but it's an offense against God. And the law that he calls there is the royal law. Or the perfect law, the law of liberty it's called in chapter 2 and verse 12. And the royal law is the law of the king. It's the law of the Lord Jesus Christ. And what is his law? It's the law of love. It's the law of love. It's a repetition of what we find in Leviticus 1918 as well as in 1934. The Lord used it on Three different occasions, Matthew 19, Matthew, Luke chapter 10, and Mark chapter 12, speaking about the greatest law, the greatest command to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And then the second is like unto it to love your neighbor as yourself. No other commandments greater than those two. And as Paul summarizes the the law. He also summarizes it by the law of love. Romans 13, Galatians chapter 5. And James says that if you're obeying this law You can be sure that you're not violating anything else. If you love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. Because it's a summary of all the other laws related to our our neighbor. If we truly love we won't lie. If we truly love we won't steal. If we truly love we won't covet. If we tr Because all these other laws related to your neighbor are summarized under here. But then he he gets down into talking about how people, you know, they they kind of pit one against the other. Verse eleven, for he who said do not commit adultery also said do not commit murder. Now if you do not commit adultery but you commit murder, you've become a transgressor. It's like what sense does it make to say, I'm faithful to my wife? But yeah, I killed that guy last week. You know, like you're still a lawbreaker. You want to call yourself innocent? You know, uh but I'm faithful though. You've we've not just stepped over the line, we've become transgressors. It's heavy. And it's noted that there's very difference between the morality of the law and the gospel, although there's difference in the application. This is what the the gospel teaches us to do. It teaches us to love. It's not just in the law that we're taught to love. It's in the gospel that we're taught to love. And like I said, he goes into these these these you know different you know types of of laws that people break and they want to call themselves innocent So the question is, is are we breaking the law of God, the law of love, the royal law, the law that's been given by our Savior? And the way that we treat one another. Are we truly loving one another as we'd like to be loved ourselves? You know, do you like to be ignored? There's this short poem that says, To dwell above with the saints in love, oh that will be glory. To dwell above with the saints in love, oh that will be glory. But to dwell below with the saints I know, now that's another story. But the only saints we know are the saints that are below, right? We've got to deal with one another in here, right? We've got to love one another, and we can't blame it on how we're raised or our past. We need to make sure that we're we're showing love with one another. And number five, this is the last one. Do you deny mercy to others and expect to receive mercy yourself? Do you deny mercy to others and expect to receive mercy yourself? Verses 12 and 13. It says, so speak and so act as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty. For judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment And it's important to note here that there's a switch that's made between the second person in verse 12 and the third person in verse 13. James is no longer speaking to you. You will be judged by the law. But now he speaks about somebody else. For judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no mercy. So he speaks about it in the third person. And basically what he's saying is that I'm trusting that you're not part of that group. I'm trusting you're not part of that group that's merciless, because judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no mercy. It says that judgment will be merciless. In Titus chapter 3 and verse 5, it lets us know that we're saved by the mercy of God. He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we've done in righteousness, but according to his mercy. In Romans chapter 9 and verse 23, it lets us know that we're vessels of mercy. In Matthew chapter 5, it speaks about a blessing on those who are merciful. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. So we as believers, we're those that receive the mercy of God. And he's saying, I'm praying that those who I'm talking to are truly believers. Because if you're one who's showing no mercy, you will receive no mercy. So being merciful is a characteristic of being a believer. And those who show no mercy receive no mercy. And the the force that he's putting on this is that there's there's judgment that's coming for those who have no mercy on others. And that we're in terrible danger, that you're you'd be in terrible danger. If you're not a person who's characterized as being merciful, it's not something that you just kind of put off and you know, I don't see that characteristic in my life, but it's not a really big deal. So speak and so act as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty. We 're to speak and act as those who will one day Stand before the Lord and be judged by the law of liberty, the law of love, the royal law. And that's how we're to treat one another, with love, with mercy, with kindness, with compassion. And for those of us who've received God's mercy, what's the result of our examination today as we've looked at these five symptoms of a partial spirit, partiality? Do we make distinctions among ourselves? Are we discriminating among ourselves? Have we all understood that we enter the same way that we come in bankrupt, empty of Any merit before the Lord? Do we treat people with honor because they honor the name of the glorious Lord Jesus Christ? Do you understand that we've all been made in the image of God? Do we know that dishonoring those whom God has chosen is uh really to uh misunderstand salvation itself? That we would honor and love and deal with compassion with those who are connected to us as the body of Christ. And this message isn't for everyone else. This message isn't, you know, I wish so-and-so was here to hear this one. This message is for you. Do we not do this? Have we ever done this? Have we treated those around us with the same in the same way that we desire to be treated ourselves? We're we're a brotherhood. We're the family of God, aren't we? And finally, we should live in the judgment to come. We need to be people of mercy. People of mercy. And that's who we are, Amen. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this time that we've uh spent together Father, we pray that uh you would help us as uh the family of God, Lord, that uh we would reach out to one another in love, that uh those that come in among us, Lord, want it uh feel overlooked for any reason and um father that we would all see that this is uh uh part of our responsibility as we gather together as your people. Uh father that we would be a a one-man welcoming committee Uh that we'd see it as a one-man job. This is my job to make sure that I'm greeting people. Uh even as we learn in the book of Hebrews that uh as we gather together, it's not just not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. But it's to encourage one another. And all the more as we see the day drawing near, that we would see it as our responsibility to provoke one another to love and to good deeds. And that we'd also receive that ministry from one another, that this is what we as a people of God are called to do, to encourage one another Father, we receive uh so much uh distance from the world around us already. Father, I pray that we wouldn't receive that from the uh the church that we gather with as well. And Father, I do thank you that we've seen so much love, such an outpouring of love. For so many of our members here, Lord, we're just so grateful for the work that you've already done and I've heard the testimony from uh so many, uh Lord, of the uh the welcome that they've received and the love that they've received from this church. But Father, I pray that uh where we're deficient, that you would uh help us to excel still more. Uh Father, that we would uh seek to honor you our and uh that seek to honor uh Jesus Christ, the one who's saved us, the one by whose fair name we've been called. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.