The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you uh open your Bibles with me to the book of Matthew or in Matthew chapter 12? Very thankful to be back in Matthew this morning. It's a it's a real sanctifying thing to be submerged into a text for uh for a week, and I really pray that I'll be a faithful guide. uh to you as we uh work through the the book of of Matthew and get reintroduced uh to this uh wonderful uh gospel that uh really talks about the uh uh the authority as we just sang about the authority of uh Jesus Christ our King Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 12 this morning. Matthew chapter 12, starting at verse 38. Matthew chapter 12, starting at verse 38 It says then some of the scribes and Pharisees said to him, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation craves for a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. For just as Jonah was there, was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth The men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it. Because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. The Queen of the South will rise up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. Now when the unclean spirit goes out of a man it passes through waterless places seeking rest and does not find it. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came, and when it comes it finds it uh unoccupied, swept and put in order. Then it goes and takes along with it seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and they go in and live there, and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first. That is the way it will also be with this evil generation. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the truthfulness of it. We thank you for the authority of Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you for his confrontation of sin and Father for His invitation to Himself. Father, he was a Savior and is a Savior, O Lord, who is like none other. My Father, it's only in Him that we can find our rest, only in Him that we can find peace and joy, only in Him that we can find everlasting life. And our Father, I pray that as we behold His words, uh Father, this morning, Lord, that uh we would we would take heed uh to what we hear and Father that we would uh grow in our affection and love and admiration for Jesus Christ. And uh Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument, Lord, to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. There's a word that shows up at least four times in the passage that we're considering today. Which lets us know that this whole passage belongs together. It all fits together. It's bound together. And it's the word generation, the Greek word genea. It's found in verse 39. in verse 41, in verse 42, and also in verse uh 45. It's uh it's a word that's often used in scripture to speak of all of the people who are living at a certain period of time or at a certain point in time. For example, if you flip back to the book of Numbers, in the book of Numbers in verse chapter 32, the children of Israel refused to believe God. And uh they refused to enter into the promised land. And in Numbers chapter 32, in uh verse 13, listen to what What the book of uh of Numbers says here, it says, So the Lord's anger burned against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years until the entire generation of those who had done evil in the sight of the Lord was destroyed. The entire nation that was alive at that time, the entire nation that was alive, the entire generation that was alive at that time, as they were about to enter into the promised land, that entire generation was wiped out. Because they were all characterized by unbelief. Why don't you flip back to Numbers chapter 14? Numbers chapter 14. If you remember the story, the children of Israel sent twelve spies. For 40 days to look over the promised land, 12 spies, and 10 of them came back with an evil report about the land that they had had just seen. They said, yes, the land is filled with milk and honey, but there's also what? There's also giants in the land. And we appear to these giants as just mere grasshoppers. We're nothing but grasshoppers in their sight. Look at Numbers chapter 14, starting at verse 1. Says then all the congregation, after they hear this report from the ten spies, says all the congregation lifted up their voices and cried, and the people wept that night All the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron, and the whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in the land of Egypt, or would that we had died in this wilderness? Why is the Lord bringing us into this land to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become plunder. Would it not be better for us to return to Egypt? So they said to one another, Let us appoint a leader and return to Egypt So Moses and Aaron fell on their faces in the presence of all the assembly of the congregation of the sons of Israel, Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephune. Of those who had spied out the land tore their clothes, and they spoke to the congregation of the sons of Israel, crying, The land which we passed through to spy out is an exceedingly good land. If the Lord is pleased with us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which flows with milk and honey. Only do not rebel against the Lord, do not fear the people of the land. For they will be our prey, their protection has been removed from them, and the Lord is with us. Do not fear them. But all the congregation said, to stone them with stones. Then the glory of the Lord appeared in the tent of meaning to all the sons of Israel. The Lord said to Moses, How long? Will this people spurn me? And how long will they not believe in me, despite all the signs which I have performed in their midst? How long is this people going to spurn me? How long is this people going to continue not to believe in me, despite all the signs that I've done in their midst? The miracles that these people had seen were too numerous to count, the ten plagues in Egypt, the splitting of the Red Sea, the bread that fell from heaven, the water out of the rock, all of that, and after all of that They still refuse to believe in the Lord. Still refuse to believe in God. How long is this people going to spurn me? The report of the tense fires was enough to turn the entire nation against Moses, against Aaron, against Joshua, against Caleb, and it took an entire forty years for this generation to be wiped out, the unbelieving people to be wiped out. Before they could be replaced and had a new people that would be prepared to enter into the promised land. God swore in Deuteronomy chapter 1 and verse 35, not one, not one of these evil men Of this generation shall see the good land which I swore to give to your fathers. I want you to keep that in mind because as we flip over back to Matthew chapter 12, I think that it provides us with a helpful framework to understand what's really going on in Matthew chapter 12. Because in Matthew chapter 12, Israel is in a similar situation. At the hands of Jesus Christ, they had witnessed countless numbers of miracles. Miracle after miracle after miracle, too many to count. Powerful, verifiable, unexplainable miracles. And after all of this irrefutable evidence The scribes and the Pharisees had the nerve to stand up and say to Jesus, teacher, we want to see a sign from you. After all that Jesus had just done, after all the miracles that Jesus had performed, they had the nerve to stand up and say, Teacher, we want to see a sign from you. And you're like, what? I mean, surely you can't be serious. You can't be serious. You could have inserted Numbers chapter 14, verse 11, right into this text. How long will this people spurn me? How long will they not believe me, despite all of the signs which I performed in their midst? And after all that Jesus had done, these men. Who would have been regarded as the spiritual leaders are publicly questioning Jesus' ability to lead them into the promised land of God's kingdom. And that's what Jesus came to offer, right? I came to offer the kingdom. And now they're publicly questioning Jesus' ability to do that after all that Jesus had done. And because of the way these men poisoned the minds of the people, an entire generation was turned against their own Messiah. Just like in the wilderness, an entire generation was turned against Moses and Aaron and Joshua and Caleb, an entire nation, because of the evil report of a handful of men. And that's what's at stake in this text. The scribes and the Pharisees were like the ten spies who turned the people away from the promised land. They influenced the whole nation, the whole nation followed after them, and that's why in in verse 38, it doesn't just say uh that Jesus uh spoke about some of the the scribes and the Pharisees and in verse 38 of uh chapter twelve it says uh uh It says that, teacher, we want to see a sign from you. And then in verse 39, Jesus says, he answered and said to them, an evil and adulterous generation. He doesn't say an evil and adulterous scribe and Pharisee seeks a sign. He says an evil and adulterous generation because the scribes had now poisoned the whole people. The entire generation was turning against Christ. He knew that their words had an influence with the people. And in this text we find four traits of an evil and an adulterous generation. And this is something that we need to guard ourselves against. And uh we need to make sure that we guard others against as well. We need to guard ourselves against these kinds of traits, and we need to guard others against these kinds of traits as well. An evil and adulterous generation is insincere. An evil and adulterous generation is unsatisfied. An evil and adulterous generation is unimpressed. And an evil and adulterous generation is undefended. Let's take a look at the first one. An evil and adulterous generation is insincere. Verse 38 again. And I I really look at this and wonder, could they have asked that with a straight face? You know, after all the signs that Jesus performed at them, or did they kind of like look at each other and kind of look at the ground? Hey, we want to see a sign from you. Because they they know that they're being insincere when they're asking that question. They're not being genuine. First of all, they call him teacher. They didn't believe that for a minute. Calling him teacher. Why are you calling him teacher for? They just said that he was in cahoots with the devil in verse 24. They said that he was doing miracles by the by the by Beelzebub, the prince or the lord of the demons, and now they're calling him a teacher? Oh teacher, we we wish to see a sign from you. Over in Matthew chapter 22 and verse 16, uh it talks about the Pharisees. They sent some of their disciples. along to Jesus and they and this is what the the the disciples said this is what the the Pharisees prepared him to say teacher we know that you are truthful and that you teach the way of God in truth and that you defer to no one and you're not partial to anybody. You know, so here they come with all these flattering words for Jesus Christ, but they didn't believe a word of it. Didn't believe a word of it. It was all for show. The Pharisees knew that the people respected Jesus as a teacher, so they wanted to go along for the ride. Wanted to kind of show themselves as being respectful as well so that they could be seen well in the eyes of the of the people, they would have gladly put Christ to death if they had the chance. But now all of a sudden they want to call him teacher. They want to show him some type of respect in front of the crowd. Second thing they ask for that's insincere is they ask for a sign. Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you. And again, why ask for a sign if you've already made your mind up about who Jesus is? They they weren't looking for a sign in order that they could you know somehow come up with a solution for like what do we really think about this Jesus? They already concluded what they thought about Jesus. We want him dead. But now they come to Jesus, oh we really want to see a see a sign from you, as if they hadn't already determined what they thought. And as if they hadn't seen numerous signs already. I mean what more did Jesus need to do to prove to these people his identity? But here they come asking for a sign as if what he did before wasn't good enough. You know, you have to do something extra. And third, they said that they wanted to see the sign They didn't want to see the sign. What they wanted to see was they wanted to see Jesus fail. Flip over to Matthew chapter 16. Just to see what they were really after. Flip over to Matthew chapter 16. Because here we have a parallel account asking the same question, and it gives it a little bit more information to let us know exactly what kind of sign these uh Pharisees were looking for. Matthew chapter 16. Look at verse 1. It says the Pharisees and Sadducees came up and testing Jesus, they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. Teacher, can you show us a sign from heaven? Verse 2, but he replied to them, When it is evening you say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red, and in the morning there will be a storm today, for the sky is red and threatening. Do you know how to discern the appearance of the sky but not cannot discern the signs of the times? An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign. Same answer. And here it lets us know that as they were coming to Jesus, they weren't really asking for uh information. They were coming in order to test him. They're trying to test them, put them to the test. And they they want to see, you know, can you can you do some kind of sign from heaven? You know, some kind of heavenly display is what they're they're really asking for. And maybe they asked them to do that because they they thought he couldn't do it And maybe if they they could ask him to do something that he couldn't do and now prove that he's not who he says he is, maybe that's the reason that they uh they did that. But um Jesus answers the question in Matthew chapter 16, and he says, if you're bright enough to figure out what the weather's going to look like tomorrow, you're bright enough to figure out what kind of time it is right now. You're bright enough to figure out who I really am. I don't have to do any kind of signs in the sky for you to figure this out. You've seen enough for you to make a conclusion. You've seen enough. Signs in the sky are unnecessary And maybe you look at uh at this situation and you wonder, well, you know, why couldn't Jesus just done it? You know, maybe maybe he could have settled a lot of of questions right here. You know, they asked for a sign, why not just why not just show them a sign? Because we know that Jesus had control over everything in creation, right? Jesus is the Lord of creation. We know that Jesus controlled the winds and the waves with just a word. We know that uh in Joel chapter uh two and verse thirty-one it says that the the sun will be darkened, the sun will be uh turn into darkness, the moon will turn into blood before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. Jesus Christ could have done that right then. Let's just turn the lights out. Turn the sun out. You know, let's just do that and see if that satisfies you. Jesus could have done it. Why not just black the sun out and stick it in their face, you know? Jesus could have done it at any time. And uh maybe you you sometimes might even think about this question, you know, maybe you have a friend that you're witnessing to. And uh maybe they say, you know, well, I've never seen a miracle before. I've never seen I've never seen any workings of God. I don't see God. I don't see any workings of God. You know, if if I see it I'll believe it. You ever have anybody that you talk to that says that? If if I see it, I'll believe it. I'll believe it if I see it. And you just wish that you could go to like a hospital or something and raise some some sick people or dead people and say, see, look at that You know, there you go. Now believe. You know, you kind of wish that God gave you the power to do that. You we read about stories like uh Gideon, you know, he was testing the Lord to say, you know, hey Lord, is that really you? And he puts out the fleece. It's like Why doesn't God still do things like that? Why doesn't He just give us like these miraculous powers so that we can show our friends, you know, the Bible is true, Jesus is really the Son of God. Why doesn't God do things like that? A couple things to keep in mind. One thing to keep in mind is that Gideon, we kind of point to Gideon as the example, Gideon was a man of faith seeking affirmation. He wasn't a person of doubt looking for an excuse. And that's what the Pharisees were. They weren't people of faith looking to just be affirmed in their faith. They were doubters. They didn't believe in Jesus Christ. They wanted nothing to do with Jesus Christ. Why would God stoop to do a sign for them? Stoop to do a sign for these unbelieving and rebellious people? It also assumes that what people have is not enough. That if if I was able to give them more, then they'd believe. As if the scriptures aren't enough to bring people to salvation. When the Bible says that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by what? By the word of God. The word of God is sufficient. We don't need to do all kinds of signs in the heavens in order to prove to people what Jesus said is right. It also places them in charge instead of God. Like they're the ones who can make the demands on God. They can tell God what I'd like to do, when I'd like you to do it, you know, and like they're in charge instead of God, like God is going to bow to their wishes Also, it assumes that one sign will be enough. And we find right here with Jesus that the signs that he produced weren't enough for these people. They wanted more. They wanted more. They wanted more. Who's to say that the next sign that you give, oh, there's not another sign to follow, that they want to get more proof. We want more proof than to be more convinced. And also places Jesus on the bench as if he's the one who has to give an answer to somebody. God is not the one on the on the bench, you know, being accused and like I I've got to defend myself. You're the one on the bench. You're the one that has to give an answer. It's not God that has to give an answer to you. You are the one that has to give an answer to God. ignores their uh their real problem isn't that they need more information. They need a transformation, right? And we could just go on and on. And uh and really what would make this different than the the temptation of Satan? Remember when uh Satan in Matthew chapter 4 tried to tempt Jesus, you know, hey, if you come up to the to the top of this temple in the pinnacle and jump off, and the angels kind of bear you up, and you know, that'll really be convincing. Why don't you do that and really prove that you're the Son of God? But Jesus didn't have to stoop to any of this. Jesus trusted in the Father, in His plan, in His will, and we need to be content with the same thing. But there's something else that I want to point out to you. Something that's that's even more obvious that's in the text itself. They were asking for a sign, but the greatest sign was standing right in front of their face. The greatest sign was Jesus Christ himself. The greatest sign is Christ. In John chapter 3 and verse 31, it says, he who comes from above is above all. And he who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. But he who comes from heaven is above all. You want a sign from heaven? Here I am. You want something from heaven? I've I've come down. I'm from above. They couldn't they had no natural explanation for Jesus Christ And here he is standing right in front of them. The greatest sign that they could ever ask for was right in their face. We don't need signs in the sky when we have Jesus Christ. And I love what the commentator uh John Brodus said about this. He says, wherever the gospel is really preached, the same thing holds true because we preach Christ. We have Christ. That's what we offer people. That is the greatest sign. And the question is, hasn't Christ done enough to secure our faith? Hasn't Christ done enough? An evil and adulterous generation Seeks for a sign, wants more than what Christ has already provided. Number two, an evil and adulterous generation is unsatisfied. Look at uh verses 39 to 40 back in Matthew chapter 12. It says, But he answered and said to them, An evil and adulterous generation craves for a sign, and yet no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth The kind of sign that the Pharisees asked for was denied. But Jesus revealed that a greater sign than the heavens was on the way. And for the first time in Matthew, Jesus speaks of his own resurrection. Speaks of his own resurrection, that that three days and three nights the Son of Man will rise from the heart of the earth For the first time he speaks about this, which is really confirmation that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the greatest sign that the Jewish people would have to deal with. The resurrection of Jesus Christ. If Jesus went to the cross, just think about this. If Jesus went to the cross, it would have been assumed that he was what? Innocent or guilty? It would have been assumed that he's guilty. If this prophet, this great prophet, is actually hanging on a tree. Like that, that's the assumption is that he's guilty. He's guilty. Being sent to the cross meant that you committed a crime worthy of death, and also in the Old Testament scriptures in uh Deuteronomy chapter 21. In verse 23, it says, uh the person who is hanged is the cursed of God. You know, hanging on the tree was a sign of being cursed by God. So they would have assumed that Jesus was cursed by God. And if Jesus stayed in the grave, all the miracles that he performed, all the words that he spoke, would have just died with him. That would have just been another myth of history. But that's not how the story ended, right? The story of Jesus is alive because Jesus is alive. That's why the story of Jesus is alive. And that's the very message that couldn't be contained. In three days he rose up. In Acts 2 and verse 24, it says, But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power. In Acts chapter three and verse fifteen it speaks about the the Jewish nation who put to death the Prince of Life, the one whom God raised from the dead. A fact to which we are all witnesses. And in Romans chapter 1 and verse 4, it says, Jesus was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead, according to the Spirit of Holiness, Jesus Christ our Lord. And what we find out is that the story of Jonah served as a perfect illustration of the kind of miracle that was absolutely impossible to ignore. When uh when Jonah was was tossed overboard, remember that? And he uses Jonah as a as the the the sign, you know, the the sign of Jonah is the same sign of the Son of Man. And the story of Jonah Which serves as this illustration, when Jonah was tossed overboard, nobody expected him to survive, right? The men called on the Lord in Jonah chapter 1 and verse 14, you know, forgive us. You know, don't let this innocent blood be on us. You know, if he perishes, oh Lord, you've done as you please. They expected him to die. They didn't expect him to make it. But when he was spit up on the shore and finally reached Nineveh, it would have been hard to ignore a man who looked and smelled like death That's what what what what Jonah would have looked like, what he would have smelt like, you know, just bleached white because he's inside the this fish for all this time, three days, and he just kind of spit up on the shore. It would have been hard to ignore a man who looked like death. Who smelled like death. It's even harder to ignore Jesus Christ, who not only looked like death and smelled like death, he was dead. Jesus Christ was dead. Everybody knew that he died. The miracle of Jesus Christ is greater than the miracle of Jonah. But for an evil and adulterous generation, even that's not enough. They aren't satisfied with anything that Jesus can offer. And the reason why, I think it's found right here again in the text, that they're an adulterous generation Adulterous generation. What's the purpose for that description? Why call them an adulterous generation? Flip back to Exodus chapter 34. Because if we uh if we trace that language of adultery back into the Old Testament. We discover that it's not only used for the physical act of unfaithfulness to a spouse, but was also used for the spiritual act of unfaithfulness to God Himself. Look back at Exodus chapter 34. Look at verse 12. Listen what the Lord says. He says, Watch yourself that you make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land into which you are going, or it will become a snare in your midst. But rather you are to tear down their altars and smash their sacred pillars and cut down their ashereim, you know, these false idols. For you shall not worship any other God, for the Lord whose name is jealous is a jealous God. Otherwise, you might make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they will would play the harlot with their gods and sacrifice to their gods, and someone might invite you to eat of a sacrifice. And you might take some of its daughters for your sons, and his daughters might play the harlot with their gods, and cause your sons also to play the harlot with their gods. You shall make for yourself no molten gods. And what we find out right here is that when God spoke about this language of adultery or harlotry, what he was also talking about was unfaithfulness to himself. That you're not being faithful to me. In Jeremiah chapter 3 and verse 2 it says, Lift up your eyes to the bare heights and see where have you not been violated? By the roads you sat for them like an Arab in the desert, you've polluted a land with your harlotry and with your wickedness. It says talks about the same thing in Ezekiel, Ezekiel chapter 16, 15. But you trusted in your beauty, played the harlot because of your fame, you poured out your harlotries, and on every passer by who might be willing. And the Bible just goes on and on to talk about this. This unfaithfulness to their God. No commitment to their God. They're willing to go for anybody and everyone. And God is pictured as the loving husband who constantly comes back to Israel and says, Come back. What are you doing? Come back to me. Why are you going out with other lovers? I'm the one who's your husband. You're the one who's been betrothed to me. God constantly goes to Israel, and we find the in the book of Hosea, just the whole book of Hosea speaks about the same thing. God's pictured as this loving husband. He's the one who seeks her out, seeks out Israel, brings her home, but she continues to return to her lovers. And in the same way, we can really look at the incarnation of Jesus Christ. It was like God coming down to go and rescue his bride. So here you have here you have Jesus Christ as the bridegroom. And that's what he calls himself. In uh Matthew chapter 9, Jesus said to them, The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? Jesus speaks about himself as the bridegroom. I'm the groom. Israel was supposed to be the bride that was prepared for the groom. Isn't that what John the Baptist recognized? John the Baptist was that his ministry was to prepare Israel to meet Her groom? John chapter 3 and verse 29 it says, He who has the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom who stands and hears him rejoices greatly. because of the bridegroom's voice. So this joy of mine has been made full. John the Baptist says, I have no greater joy than to than to see the groom come in and take his bride. Like that is my greatest joy, just to announce the groom and step out of the way. That's my job. That's what how he saw himself. John the Baptist, the disciples, they saw themselves as friends of the bridegroom. Who were to prepare the bride to meet her husband and get out the way. That's how they saw themselves. It would have been absolutely unthinkable. I mean, just think about a wedding. Absolutely unthinkable for the best man at a wedding to try to take the bride for himself. Can you imagine that? The best man at a wedding saying, I'll take the bride for myself. And ask the groom if he can step out of the way. And it should have been unthinkable to the Pharisees to try to hold the people back from Christ. And that's exactly what they were doing. Here they are, the Pharisees, getting in the way between the people and Christ. Christ has come as the groom to receive his bride, and here the Pharisees are getting in the middle between the bride and Christ. So here you have the scribes and Pharisees trying to convince the bride, trying to convince Israel, that that's not really your husband. I don't think that he's done enough to prove that he's really your husband. You know, maybe if he can you know do a sign from the skies, maybe then he'll prove that he's really your husband. But until he does that, why don't you just come over here and and I'll keep you safe And that's exactly what the Pharisees are doing. They're trying to push Jesus out of the way and stand in the place of the groom. They're an evil and adulterous generation. That's what they are. And just like the Pharisees were pictured as the vine growers in Matthew chapter 21, who when the the the owner of the vineyard came, they received the produce, the sun came, instead of just giving it over to the sun, what did they do? They killed the sons so that they could do what? Take the vineyard for ourselves. We'll keep the vineyard for ourselves. And what did they do when Christ came along as the groom? Instead of getting out the way and just showing you the bride, let's get rid of the groom and I'll take the bride for myself. That's what the Pharisees were doing, trying to convince the bride that that's not really your husband. And here they're pictured as friends who tried to take the bride away. We don't have uh any record of Israel at this time being engaged in widespread idolatry, like in the Old Testament where they went after these false gods Uh the Jewish people had never really been idolatrous since Babylon, but but here they're heavily involved in legalistic Judaism. Involved in Judaism, the legalistic Judaism, man-made traditions replaced the obedience of the law of God for the law of the Pharisees Jesus said they invalidated the word of God for the sake of their traditions. Empty rituals. Empty rituals, Jesus said. The people honor me with their lips in Matthew chapter 15, but their heart is far away from me. You're not really devoted to me. You're not committed to me. And the Pharisees were more interested in dedicating the people to themselves than dedicating the people to Christ. In Matthew chapter 23, listen what Jesus says. He says, Therefore, behold, I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, persecute from city to city, so that upon you may fall all the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zachariah, the son of Barekiah whom you murdered between the temple and the altar, truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Why was he so hard with this generation? Because this was the generation that received Christ And this was the generation that was trying to take the bride away from Christ. So he says, all of the judgment is going to fall on you. All of the judgment from all time, from Abel to the end of the Old Testament, it's all going to fall on you. Followers of Jesus Christ, on the other hand, are satisfied with Jesus Christ. We're not looking for anybody else, right? We're committed to the Savior. He's everything, and we're completely satisfied in Him. There's a difference between us and the adulterous generation, but we need to make sure that we're checking our hearts To ask ourselves those questions. Am I truly satisfied in Christ? Are there any areas of my life where I'm not fully satisfied completely in him? This generation wasn't satisfied with Christ. They wanted something extra. They wanted something else. They wanted something different. Are we satisfied with Jesus Christ? And the third one, and this is all we have time for today, is that an evil and adulterous generation is unimpressed. Look back to Matthew chapter 12 again. Matthew chapter 12, look at uh verse 41. Listen what it says. It says the men of Nineveh will stand up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here. The Queen of the South will rise up with this generation at the judgment and will condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. And then this next section, what Matthew does is he returns to a familiar method of bringing conviction to Israel. And the way that he brought conviction to Israel was to show them that the Gentiles are much closer than you are. You know, the Gentiles are supposed to be the people they don't have the law, they don't have the prophets, they didn't have the promises, but yet they respond quicker to the Lord than you do And all throughout Matthew, it's the Gentiles who make the greatest responses of faith with the smallest bits of information. If you remember back in Matthew chapter 8, you have the Gentile centurion. He trusts in Jesus to heal his servant just with the word. You don't even have to show up at my house. You don't even have to touch him. Just just speak the word. I know your authority is sufficient to heal my servant. Just speak the word. Matthew chapter 8, it says that when Jesus heard this, he says, Truly I say to you, I've not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. He here commends his faith over in Matthew chapter 18 again. You have a Gentile woman who trusts in Jesus to heal her daughter, even though Jesus tells her that I'm only sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But she persists in coming to Christ because she has a trust in him, pursues him because of her faith in him. And again, Jesus says in Matthew chapter 15, O woman, your faith is great. This gentile Syrophoenician woman has the great faith that Israel doesn't have. And in the same way, Matthew now highlights two examples of Gentiles who believed and are placed in a position even to condemn the nation of Israel. Look back at uh Matthew chapter 12 again. He first starts out with the men of Nineveh. The men of Nineveh. And uh just a couple weeks ago during our uh our missions uh Sunday we we covered the the book of Jonah. Our uh our guest speaker, uh Brett Laird, covered the book of Jonah with us, so I'm not gonna try to review all of that for us today, but But just remember that the city of Nineveh was the capital of a Gentile nation that was an enemy of Israel. Enemy of Israel. This is a nation that beheaded their victims and piled their heads up in a big pile so that they could scare other nations off. Look at what I've done to your nation. you know, beheaded you and they'll piled all your heads up in a in a pile. They're ruthless. They hate and they were hated, hated people. So Jonah going to to Nineveh was like a U. S. missionary going to Al Qaeda like the day after 9-11. You know, when everybody's like crying for their blood, you know, we're going to war, but somebody says, hey, I'm going to go and see if I can save some of the people. Like, you know, are you crazy? And this is what Jonah is called to do. The Ninevites had a variety of gods that they already served. Gods of the heavens, gods of the earth, the water, the winds. They had all kinds of gods. The God of Israel didn't fit into their scheme. When they get this prophet who's who's all washed up, literally, the uh Jonah here, he's all washed up on the shore, reluctant to be obedient. Looking forward to their destruction, without any recorded miracles, preaching a message of judgment. That's what Jonah did. And if you didn't know how the story ended, I mean what would you expect from preaching like that? I don't want to be here. I really don't like you guys. I hope you get judged. I'm just here to tell you that it's about to happen in 40 days. You know, so uh I mean that's it. You know, goodbye folks, you know, that's all folks. You know, that that was Jonah's message. But here we have this reluctant prophet With a very limited message to a foreign people, and the whole nation, the entire nation repents at the preaching of Jonah. What excuse did Israel have? If the whole nation repented at this reluctant prophet, what excuse did Israel have not repenting when Jesus spoke to them? Here Jesus he speaks. Jesus is more than a prophet. Jesus is himself the fulfillment of prophecy. He doesn't have a limited message to give. Jesus Himself is the very Word of God incarnate. His life dripped with the miraculous. Jonah didn't do one miracle. And here he comes not as a foreigner, he came as an Israelite to his own. Something greater than Jonah is here. Wouldn't you agree with that? Something greater than Jonah is here. And you would expect there to be this overwhelming response and reception of Jesus Christ. But what do we find? He came to his own, and to those who were his own did not receive him. Totally unimpressed. Totally unimpressed. Unbelieving, and it's inexcusable. If the Ninevehites Would repent at the preaching of Jonah. What excuse does Israel have not to repent at the preaching of Christ? What excuse? They had no excuse. And the Nineveh will rise on the final day to condemn this generation that rejected Jesus Christ. Second example is the Queen of Sheba. If you want to flip over to 1 Kings chapter 10. In 1 Kings 10, we have the account of the Queen of Sheba Sheba was a land to the south of Jerusalem in southern Arabia. In uh Joel chapter 3 and verse 8, it said that they uh uh they're referred to as a distant nation in Jeremiah 6. 20. They're called a distant land because the Sabaeans, which is where the people of Sheba were called Sabaeans, they lived 1200 miles away from Israel. Twelve hundred miles away. It was considered the ends of the earth. That's where they were considered. Twelve hundred miles away. This queen of Sheba would have had to travel if she traveled by dog uh camel, which she she had a a caravan of camels Traveled by a camel, if the camels went 18 to 25 miles a day, which is, you know, I kind of looked it up, what's that kind of like the average of a day travel on camel? 18 to 25 miles a day. It would have taken the Queen of Sheba forty-eight to sixty-seven days. To make a trip one way. Matt and I took a trip to Florida. It was 22 hours. Right here. 48 to 67 days for one way trip for the Queen of Sheba to get from where she was to get to Solomon. We're not talking about a weekend getaway. She she would have had to been gone if you factor in going there, staying there for a while, coming back, she would have had to have gone for four to six months to make this trip. Imagine taking four to six months off of work. Because you need to make a trip to see, is everything that I'm hearing about this guy, Solomon, really true? So you take half a year off. So you can go and investigate it for yourself. That's the kind of sacrifice that she made to go and visit Solomon, if not more. Look at 1 Kings chapter 10, starting at verse 1. Just now when the Queen of Sheba heard about the fame of Solomon, concerning the name of the Lord, she came to test him with difficult questions, so she came to Jerusalem with a very large retinue, with camels, carrying spices, very much gold and precious stones. When she came to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was on her heart. Solomon answered all the questions, nothing was hidden from the king which he did not explain to her. When the Queen of Sheba perceived all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built, the food is of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendants of his waiters and their attire, his cupbearers and a stairway by which he went up to the house of the Lord, there was no more spirit in her Then she said to the king, It was a true report which I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom. Nevertheless I did not believe the report until I came, and my eyes had seen it, and behold, the half was not told me You exceed in wisdom and prosperity the report which I heard. How blessed are your men, how blessed are these your servants who stand before you continually and hear your wisdom. Blessed be the Lord your God who delighted in you to set you on the throne of Israel, because the Lord loved Israel forever. Therefore he made you king to do justice in you. righteousness and it goes on to talk about the things that she gave to Solomon. This is the way the queen of Sheba responded to a report Of the fame of Solomon. She just heard about what it might have been like in Israel. And she takes a half a year off, just so she can go and investigate it for herself. Takes half a year off to do that, twelve hundred miles away. Israel didn't have to travel one day to see the miracle that was in front of them of Jesus Christ. Didn't have to travel one day to hear his wisdom. Jesus actually traveled to them So that he could preach to them. Actually travel to them. They didn't have to hear about what Jesus did. They actually witnessed what Jesus did in front of their own eyes. And after all the miracles that Jesus did, the best that they can come up with is I need to see another one. How about another one? How about in the skies, Jesus? Can you make something come in the sky too? And the best they can come up with an explanation for his power is, I think he's just doing it by the power of the demons. That's the best you can do When you have the Queen of Sheba who's willing to travel 1200 miles one way just because she heard a report of something in Israel? And here you have the workings right in front of your face And the best you can come up with is, hey, can you show me another can you show me another sign? Something better than Solomon is here. Something better than Solomon is here. Jesus is the king who offers forgiveness of sins. The kingdom of heaven. He offers eternal life. His servants are the angels. He rules over the entire created universe. Something greater than Solomon is here. Greater than Solomon, greater than the Pharisees. And here they are unimpressed. And they want another sign. Are you kidding me? This Gentile queen of Sheba will rise and condemn this generation for their unbelief. But before we rise up in our condemnation, I have a question for all of us. Have we lost the sense of wonder over who Jesus is? Have you lost the sense of wonder over Jesus Christ? His power, his majesty. We can condemn the scribes and Pharisees because they refuse to repent. But are we quick to repent at the words of Christ? When you hear the words of Christ. The words of the King of all creation, the Majesty, when you hear the words of Christ, are you quick to repent and saying, Lord, you're in charge? I I I want to hear your word. Are we as quick to repent as the Ninevites were to repent at the preaching of Jonah? I mean we can we can criticize the scribes and Pharisees, but we hear the words of Christ, don't we? Are we repenting? Are we turning away from our sin? We can condemn the scribes and Pharisees for failing to come to the to enjoy and appreciate the wisdom of Jesus Christ. He had a far greater wisdom than Solomon. But how about you? Are you seeking the wisdom of Christ? Do you appreciate the wisdom of Christ in his word? Do you seek for the wisdom of Christ with the same intensity that the Queen of Sheba sought for the wisdom of Solomon? Or do you let your Bible stay like two feet away from you, like unopened? She traveled 1200 miles to see the wisdom of Solomon. Can we travel two feet to see the wisdom of Christ? We have Bibles on our phones. You know, if you walk with a smartphone, it's in your pocket. This is the wisdom of Christ right there. Do we appreciate the wisdom of Christ? But here you have the Queen of Sheba, like I said, she's willing to travel for Solomon's wisdom, and in Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. All of it. We may not be involved in idolatrous worship of false gods or the bankrupt religion of the scribes and the Pharisees, but The question I have for us is, do we have anything in our lives that competes with the joy of following Christ? Anything that competes with that? Is there a sinful pleasure that you secretly enjoy? Do you long for approval by men? Is that what you're looking after? Do you covet things that don't belong to you? Are you bored with Christ and enticed by other things? We need to realize that something greater than whatever you're looking for is here. Something greater is here. If you have Christ, you have something greater. You don't never need to tire of the things of God. And Jesus is greater than the prophet Jonah. Greater than the prophet Jonah, right? Who is responsible for the greatest Old Testament revival, maybe in the history of the world, but Jesus is greater. Jesus is greater than King Solomon, the wealthiest and the wisest of all kings in the history of Israel, but Jesus is greater than that. Jesus was greater than the temple in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 6 it says the greater than the temple is here. He's greater than any prophet, greater than any priest, greater than any king, any wise man, any sacrifice. And he offers himself to all who would repent and believe in him. All who would turn to me. And his greatest sign, which is his resurrection, is your only hope of salvation. And he hung there on the cross as a sign for you. He hung there. And you know something else? What happened when he hung on the cross? The Bible actually says that the heavens went black. There was a sign in the sky. And it was at the time that Jesus Christ died, during the time of his crucifixion, to show that this is the one, this is the one who's being sacrificed. For your sakes. This is the one who the wrath of the Father was being poured out on him at that time for your sakes, for all who would believe and trust in him. Jesus Christ, the one who lived a perfect life, never sinned, never disobeyed the Father, never had a foul thought, always glorified God. But for those hours that he hung on the cross, the skies went dark. As the Father turned away from his own son to offer him up as a sacrifice for us all. And the skies went black. There was a sign in the heavens to demonstrate that Jesus Christ was exactly who he said he was. And because of his sacrifice, Jesus commands that now that repentance and forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning with Jerusalem. The same same nation that turned away from him. The same nation was the nation that he said, continue to go after him. Continue to go after him. I love what uh if you guys are familiar with the uh uh the Puritan uh Thomas Watson, uh Thomas Watson, he uh he was a preacher, a faithful preacher, and uh uh wrote a number of very helpful books, but There were a number of faithful preachers who followed after him, and uh one of these preachers was uh by the name of Dr. Benjamin Grosvenor. Uh just listen to him expound these words of of Christ as he talks about going after the the nation of Israel and really after all people But listen what he says here. I love these words. He says, Go into all the nations and offer the salvation as ye go, but lest the poor house of Israel should think themselves abandoned to despair, the seed of Abraham, my ancient friend, as cruel and as unkind as they have been, go make them the first offer of grace. Let them that struck the rock be the first to drink from its refreshing streams And they that drew my blood be welcome to its healing virtue. Tell them that as I was sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, so if they will be gathered, I will be their shepherd still. Though they despise my tears which I shed over them, and despise my blood, tell them that it was for their sakes that I shed both. Every wound that they have given me speaks on their behalf, pleads with the Father for the remission of their sins, and enables me to bestow it. If you meet the poor wretch that thrust the spear into my side, Tell him that there is another way, a better way, of coming at my heart. If he will repent and look upon him whom he has pierced and will mourn, I will cherish him in that very bosom that he has wounded. He shall find the blood that he shed an ample atonement for the sin of shedding it. Do you understand the mercy of Christ? Do you have any idea of the mercy of Christ? Any idea? That this same nation that despised him, that turned away from him, that he would still extend grace to that same nation? That this Christ would hang on the cross and say, Father, do what? Forgive them. Because they don't know what they do. Christ still had mercy that he reached out to Israel with, and Christ still has mercy for those of us today who will turn to him in repentance and faith. Why wouldn't you come to a Savior like this? A greater than Jonah is here. A greater than Solomon is here. And you're not going to find one greater than this. You are not going to find a savior greater than this one. This is our our Savior. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God. We thank you, Lord, for your word. And Father, we pray that your word would penetrate us. My Father, that your word would sink deep into our hearts, and uh, my Father, that we would be more and more like you, Lord. Uh Father, that we would look to Jesus Christ, my father, that we would find in him mercy And peace and reconciliation, my Father, that we would find in him the greatest of all treasures, my Father, that in him are hidden all the riches of wisdom. The storehouse of wisdom is found in him. My Father, he's greater than Solomon in all of his glory, and he's a greater king and greater prophet than any prophet that's ever existed. Father, we thank you for our Savior Jesus Christ. And uh Father, we pray for those even today who turn away from him, who uh think that they need more, uh, think that they need something different. My Father, I pray that that we would point them to Christ and let them know that there's nothing greater that they can expect than what Christ has already given to them. My Father, we pray that you'd help us as those who believe in your Son to be satisfied with your Son. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.