The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well uh thank you all for coming out tonight. We're very excited to uh to have uh Williel and uh Nicole Dustin here uh with us. We spent some time uh with them at our place for uh a little bit of uh dinner and fellowship and hearing some stories. and uh looking forward to hearing what he has to share with us uh tonight. Um we were just talking on the way over here that uh William and Nicole were our first missionaries uh as a church. So uh we've been supporting them uh in missions for just about as long as we've been a church and uh so we kind of our our ministries kind of coincide you know it's kind of starting around the same time. So uh Just very thankful for uh the Lord blessing us with the opportunity to be able to serve them and uh to have uh an opportunity to reach out to uh uh across the lands, literally, you know, across the across at least at least a little bit of piece of the uh uh the Atlantic uh that we can uh uh reach out. uh to to Haiti and uh have a part of uh of the ministry that uh the Lord's doing there. So uh very thankful for uh Willio being with us. I'll go ahead and open us up with a word of prayer and then I'll have Willio come up and uh and share with us. Heavenly Father, we're grateful, God, for uh this night that you've given us together. Father, we uh thank you that uh your gospel will be spread. Father, that uh there's not going to be one seat in heaven that's unoccupied, uh, that uh everyone that uh you've called to yourself, everyone that you're drawing uh to yourself will be there. But you've given us the great privilege of being a part of your work here in this world. Father, it's out of obedience, it's out of love for you, it's out of love for others that we share the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's what we've been left here for, and we pray that you would help us to obey and fulfill your commission for us to make disciples of all the nations. Father, we're grateful that Willio is a part of that and that we have a hand in that and his wife and uh and children as well and uh the work that they're doing there. uh to equip pastors uh for the uh work of the the ministry that uh they may equip their churches and um uh just be better servants of god Father, I pray that you'd raise up many more men, faithful men, men who will fill their pulpits and proclaim loudly and boldly and accurately your word. Father, there's uh uh definitely a famine of uh of uh sound teaching, Lord, in our our world. And uh Father, we uh uh pray that you would help us as uh those who have been called. uh by you, uh Lord, to uh uh to help uh more men, uh Lord, be equipped for the work of service so that many more churches may be uh built up and encouraged and uh really attain the the fullness of uh uh the uh the um uh the stature which belongs to Christ. Father, we pray that that would be uh uh true for uh for Haiti. Uh we pray that that would be true here in in Baltimore and uh uh wherever else that uh you would have us. uh to be able to uh to serve and to minister to. So uh Father, I pray that you'd uh bless William now. I know that it's been a uh a long uh uh trip for him and a long day. Uh I just pray that you'd grant him his strength and uh that you Lord would be glorified and honored in all things. Jesus name, praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, good evening. Good evening. May the grace and peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. That's the formal Christian pastor way to do it, right? Um this is a great joy. And I'm not just saying this. This is a tr this is a great joy. Just as Pastor George Lawson stated , you guys have been with us from the very beginning. Uh we've never seen you face to face, uh, but you've been with us from the very beginning, uh praying and supporting. So it is a great joy to know Baltimore Bible Church and to see you all face to face. face. I'm very uh happy uh to be here and thank you uh for your prayers and support. Before we um Share about our ministry and a little bit about our um personal testimonies a little bit. Uh I'm going to meditate uh from this text Acts chapter 23 verse 11. I'm going to try to be very brief. I preached that text for about 40 minutes this morning Um but I will be brief this evening, uh simply wanting to give you encouragement for your year uh for the start of a new week And encouragement for the year of twenty nineteen. I I I get to be your first evening speaker on Sunday twenty nineteen. So it's a it's a tremendous uh privilege. Uh thank you uh for that, Pastor George. Uh Acts chapter 23, verse 11. This is God's word, and it reads as follows. But on the night immediately following The Lord stood at his side and said, Take courage, for as you have solemnly witnessed to my cause at Jerusalem. So you must witness at Rome also God's word for the people of God So a little bit out of context here. I'm not sure if we have any uh scholars in the book of Acts. If you know the book of Acts in and out, raise your hands So I will try to set the context a little bit. Um Paul has made his way back to Jerusalem. And uh he is defending his case. Uh he was charged uh for seeking to bring Gentiles into the temple Um and he is presenting his defense um before the council and it was a rough night And Paul was clearly discouraged. And the reason we know that Paul was discouraged because the Lord stood at his side and stated what? He told them to take courage. So Paul needed courage because he lacked courage. And I will try to Give reasons for why Paul was discouraged. And if we start with Paul's salvation testimony in Acts chapter 9. We know that God used Ananias, and he told Ananias this. In Acts 9, chapter chapter 9, verse 15, but the Lord said to him, that he's the Lord is speaking to Ananias now concerning Paul Go for he is a chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles. and kings and sons of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake So this was clearly Paul's mission. God chose him so that he would go and bear his name before Gentiles, kings, and sons of Israel. And if you know Paul's journey, just as it is stated in the text that God will show him how much he must suffer. uh for the sake of Jesus Christ. Paul embraced this purpose and Paul gets to work right away And experienced much success with suffering. But Paul's success, if this uh if this week you get a chance to read the book of Acts, I hope you'll be able to Identify that when Paul goes to Damascus, we read that he leaves Damascus after being persecuted, but his brethren, his disciples, put him in a basket, right? and uh executed his escape out of Damascus. Now, since the text tells us that Paul had disciples We can infer in order for Paul to have disciples, he had to do what? Preach the gospel And people had to believe. So in Damascus, Paul had success. He fulfilled his purpose. He was God 's chosen instrument, and he bore the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and people believed. In the same passage , We read that when Paul comes to Jerusalem, when he was trying to associate with the disciples, they didn't want to have much to do with Paul because he was not too long ago persecuting. that is those those disciples. And we know that Barnabas steps in and gives a good word for Paul. But The Jews, and verse 29 , still chapter 9, and he was talking and arguing with the Hellenistic Jews, but they were attempting to put him to death. So in Jerusalem, Paul does not appear to have much success. Luke does not tell us a whole lot more about Paul until we get to Acts chapter 13. And in Acts chapter 13, the Christian movement makes its way to Antioch. And a church is planted there, and the elders uh from the church of Jerusalem, they send uh Barnabas. uh to go and to serve that church and Barnabas goes and he brings Paul along. And together they serve that church and then the Holy Spirit called Paul and Barnabas to go and proclaim the gospel uh to uh the nations. And in chapter thirteen and fourteen, Paul embarks in his first Missionary journey. He goes to the area of southern Galatia. And when you read the account, you will see that Paul suffered. for Christ's name's sake, but Paul proclaimed the gospel and people believed, and churches were planted. uh throughout southern Galatia. And we read as Paul leaves Southern Galatia and Acts chapter 14, verses 22, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith. And saying, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. When they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commanded them to the Lord in whom they had belief. So Paul planted many churches in the region of southern Galatia, and many people believed. So once again, Damascus, success, Jerusalem, he got rent out, and he goes to southern Galatia in his first missionary journey. The gospel is proclaimed, people believe, and Paul plants churches. Acts chapter 15, that's the Jerusalem Council, and the gospel is settled there as there is confusion concerning Do you need to be baptized? Do you need to be circumcised in order to be saved? So the apostles, they they set everything straight, and then Paul had a fallout with Barnabas. That happens And embarks on his second missionary journey with Silas. And in Paul's second missionary journey, when he goes to Macedonia, Philippi , Specifically, Paul experiences success. Success in what ways? Paul had much suffering, but he preached the gospel and people believed. and came to the Lord, and Paul planted a church in Philippi. So from Philippi, Paul goes to Thessalonica. And Luke is very brief. And telling us what happened in Thessalonica. But Paul experienced much suffering, but he preached the gospel, people believed, and a church was planted in Thessalonica. From Thessalonica, Paul goes to Berea, and then Luke informs us that informs us that the Berean, they even embrace the word of God more than uh the people in Thessalonica did, for they listened carefully and after Paul had left they checked with the scriptures. So Paul experienced success in Berea, wouldn't you say? Would you agree? From Berea he goes to Athens, and there in Athens, Paul, uh Luke informs us once again. And uh and specifically in uh verses thirty-three, so Paul went out of their midst, but some men joined him and believed. So in Athens, Paul proclaimed the gospel, and people believed. From Athens, Paul goes to Corinth. And in Corinth, we see the same thing. He proclaims the gospel. There's tribulations. There's suffering, but people believe and Paul plants a church. When Paul goes to Ephesus for uh uh for his first day, he goes to the synagogue. When he gets to the synagogue, he preaches, and then the Jews ask him to stay. Now that's that's success. The reason that is great success is because And all of the other towns that Paul went to, the Jews typically ran him out. But when he got to Ephesus, And went to the synagogue, they asked him to stay longer. And Paul opted not to do that and shared with them that if it is the Lord's will that he would return. And in his third missionary journey, Paul returned to Ephesus and ended up spending at least three years there, and even opened up a school. And Luke tells us that the Jews and Greeks and people from all over the town heard the gospel. So up until this point, from his first missionary journey to his second missionary journey, to his third missionary journey, Paul experiences tribulations, suffering. But he preaches the gospel, people believe, and he plants churches. From Ephesus, Paul decides to go back to Jerusalem. What happened in Jerusalem after he left Damascus and went to Jerusalem? What did the Jews do? They wanted to kill him and they ran him out. And Paul now decides to go back to Jerusalem. And we can understand why when we read Romans 9, Paul loves his brethren, right? He loves his people. Just like I love my people too. I love my Haitian peeps. It's one of the main reasons why I'm back in Haiti because I want the local church to have pastors like George Lawson. That will preach the gospel faithfully, that will lead their families faithfully, that will love and shepherd the flock of God. And that's the work we're seeking to do because I want to serve the Lord, but also because I have love for my brethren. I love my people. And Paul, he loved the Jews. Romans 9, Paul says if if if he could forsake his salvation. So that the his brethren could be saved and embrace the gospel that he would do it. So, no doubt, that's the reason Paul wants to go to Jerusalem. He wants to have one more shot At proclaiming the gospel to his brethren. Now, Luke really wants us to understand That Paul's disciples did not want him to go to Jerusalem Luke inspired by God's word inspired by the Holy Spirit he writes in twenty one chapter twenty one verse four After looking up the disciples, we stayed there seven days, and they kept telling Paul through the Spirit not to set foot in Jerusalem. And Luke, he emphasized that they kept telling Paul through the Spirit, don't go to Jerusalem, Paul. And then Luke wants to make it even clearer. When a prophet comes, Agabus, and takes Paul's belt and says, the owner of this belt, when he gets to Jerusalem, he will be taken and handed over to the Gentiles. And there, Paul's disciples, there, they're begging him, don't go to Jerusalem. But Paul is not worried about the suffering. Paul has already suffered much, right? But Paul, in his experiences in Galac uh Southern Galatia, he suffered, people believe Philippi suffered, people believe. Um Corinth suffered, people believe. Ephesus, same thing, people believe. And Paul is thinking like After having so many years of proclaiming the gospel to the Gentiles, and they have believed, perhaps now if I return back to Jerusalem, my people they would have heard of how God had been has been faithfully using me that they would actually take heed and listen to the gospel message So I think that's one of the main reasons that Paul was motivated to go back to Jerusalem, even though he was warned that upon arrival he would receive much suffering and that he would get arrested. Paul arrives in Jerusalem. He meets with James. And James, the pastor, the lead pastor, we can say that. He meets with Paul and the elders, they come and they tell Paul, listen. Some of our brethren, the Jews, they're they're somewhat open to hearing the gospel, but but Paul, there's a little problem with you News has made it clear that you have issues with the law of Moses, and you have issues with our traditions. So here's how we're gonna fix this to ensure that there's no issues, that there's no problem and there's no scandal. Uh we have some brethren here that are getting ready to uh they made a vow unto God and and they're getting ready to uh purify themselves so that they can uh serve the Lord and they will have to go into the temple and make a a sacrifice on the seventh day. So Paul, we want you to take care of everything. And once the Jews, once they observe that you are engaging in the process of purification, and then once you engage in making this sacrifice, then they will know that you have no issues. with the laws of Moses and with the practice of the Jews. And we read that in uh Corinthians that that Paul says to the Jew, he serves them so that he can win them over, right? So perhaps, you know, Paul is saying, you know, we've already, and and and and Luke is clear to let us know that James Makes it clear, Paul. Remember, we already settled that issue through the Jerusalem Council. You know, the Gentiles are clear on the gospel. So the motivation was just, let's just make sure that there's no scandal. Let's just make sure that the Jews stay calm and you will have an opportunity to proclaim the gospel to them. But what happened? On the seventh day, when they're getting ready to make the sacrifice, Paul has a brethren with him from Ephesus, who's not a Jew, he's a Gentile. And then the Jews, like, wait a minute. There is that Paul again. He got Gentiles with him. And he's about to bring them into the temple. A gentile can't go into the temple. And Luke tells us that Paul was arrested, and there was total confusion in all of Jerusalem. So you picture this Paul had made arrangements to ensure that everything would go smooth. And on the seventh day, everything that Paul had Prepared to ensure that all would go well, God allowed a scandal to break out. Paul gets arrested. And in Acts chapter 22, Paul gives his salvation testimony once more. I've always stated that there's nothing s special about my salvation testimony. Um we know that, you know, when God saves, it's a miracle, right? When God Opens our eyes for us to understand the gospel and and to see the depths of our sins and to see Jesus uh as the only uh solution, as the only way uh for us to be reconciled with God, that's a miracle, right? But some of us have more interesting testimonies than others You know, if you have a testimony service and someone is begins to share their testimony and and sharing their trials and tribulations and and how they the type of persons that they were before Christ stepped in. Um they can really grab our attention. Whereas my testimony is, I was born in a Christian family. And during a Sunday school lesson, the Sunday school teacher shared the gospel. I was age 11. I prayed for repentance of my sins and placed my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then I the the teacher, uh Sunday school teacher gave me a Bible and gave me uh Billy Graham 's uh little book, uh, you know, Starting New Life I went home, read it, and started reading my Bible and going to church, going to Bible study, and just continued to walk with the Lord. See you you guys are listening and just like, okay, uh, that's nice and cute. But Paul's testimony, there's there's it's just not nice and cute, right? Paul's saying, listen, I I was trying to hunt these people down These people were trying to tell the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. I was trying to hunt them down and throw them in prison And then on the road, like this Jesus that you all heard about, he appeared to me. He appeared to me. And then told me that he had chosen me for a clear purpose to represent him. And his brethren, as they're listening to his testimony, should should think like, oh yeah, we we remember how Paul was a Pharisee and how he loved the law and And Paul's a smart man. He's very rational in his thinking. So if if Paul had this experience, like, this must be real. So we should consider this Jesus person. Perhaps he did indeed resurrect. Because if Paul as a rational Thinking, practicing Pharisee who loves the book of the law, if he can be convinced of that truth, we ought to consider it But in Acts chapter 22, verse 22, what was their response? Away with such a fellow from the earth. For he should need he should not be allowed to live. So upon hearing Paul's testimony, they wanted to kill him. So now, when you get to chapter 23, when Paul stands before the council , And when he utter when he utters these words and says, Brethren, I have lived my life with with a perfectly good conscience before God up to this day. The high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike him on the mouth. Paul got slapped Verse 3, then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewashed wall. Paul is accusing them of being hypocrites. And the following verse says that, do you sit to try me according to the law? And in violation of the law and and in violation of the law order me to be struck. So to be slapped, I mean it's a major embarrassment, right? And not only to be slapped, you weren't slapped privately, you were slapped publicly. And an order was given For someone to slap him. But the bystanders said, Do you revile God's high priest? And Paul said, I was not aware, brethren that he was a high priest. For it is written, you shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. So Luke includes this I think to show us that here Paul is not looking like Jesus, is he? He's not looking like Jesus. Jesus was slapped and spat upon, but he never said a word Here, Paul is frustrated. I think the text shows us that. He kind of lost his cool a little bit. That's why he apologized. And Paul has reasons. I was told not to come to Jerusalem. I came because I loved you all. And I wanted you all to hear the truth. And upon hearing the truth, I get arrested. And I get arrested for no good reason because you assumed that I was bringing a gentile into The temple. But the brother was just standing outside. He was he was not gonna go enter the temple. You arrest me, I proclaim the truth of the gospel to you. You slap me And Paul he knows that there are some Sadducees and Pharisees there. He states his case in a way to cause a division. And when we get to verse 11, it is clear that Paul is discouraged. And I want to say Identify with Paul on this avenue. I think Paul is discouraged because when he goes to southern Galatia, people believed. When he goes to Philippi, people believed. When he goes to Thessalonica, people believed. When he goes to Berea, people believed. When he goes to Athens, people believed. When he goes to Ephesus, People believe, even though he suffered. And now he comes back to his people. And in his purpose, just remember, Acts chapter 9. If you go back there, Acts chapter 9, verse 15, it says, Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles. Gentiles, he bore the name of Christ before the Gentiles, and they believed. And kings, and the sons of Israel. He goes and he bears the name of Christ before the sons of Israel, and the sons of Israel have not believed. So Paul is discouraged. So identify with Paul in this way. When love for your family Cause you to be discouraged and cause you to have moments during your quiet times and your faithfully praying and And asking God to intervene and asking God to cause them to believe and tears are running down your your face and and you just feel overwhelming and saying, Lord, why won't you save her? Why won't you save him? That's my son. That's my wife. That's my daughter. That's my cousin. That's and that's my best friend. That's my wonderful co-worker. And I know that she she is so nice and has such a wonderful heart, Lord. And I've been sharing the gospel with him or her. for two or three years. When are you going to save? And you're feeling discouraged. It's not all that it's not all that bad. The reason you're discouraged because you believe the gospel. And you so much want them to believe. So Paul's discouragement here, I think there's a good part to it Where Paul loves his brethren so much. He believes the truth. He knows the truth. And he wants them to embrace the truth. But Jesus comes down. The Lord. The Lord that he met on the road of Damascus That Lord, the risen Jesus Christ, he comes down to encourage Paul. And when he tells Paul, take courage He basically wants to make Paul know his purpose again. He says, For as you have solemnly witnessed to my cause, Paul. You solemnly witnessed for my cause. So Jerusalem was not a failure. You came to Jerusalem in the midst of much trial and tribulation. Paul, you stood firm. You solemnly witnessed to my cause, Paul. You stood firm. Your trip in Jerusalem was not a failure, even though the Jews did not believe. Because I call you to proclaim. The saving part is my job. So as long as you're standing firm for my cause, Paul, you on the right track. Be encouraged. And God Jesus continues, so you must witness at Rome also. So Paul, you're gonna get an opportunity again to stand for me, to solemnly stand for my cause. In Rome, just as you did in Jerusalem. And Paul's journey does not end here in chapter 23. Jesus truly encourages Paul, continues to encourage him, to show him that he will be faithful and he will be sovereign over his life. There's a conspiracy for Paul for for the Jews to kill Paul. Paul's nephew gets news of it, and he tells the authorities. And the authorities they sent chariots and horses to escort Paul out of Jerusalem. And Paul leaves Jerusalem as a king because he is representing the king. And when Paul gets to Caesarea, he spends two years in prison waiting for his case to be heard because Paul has to represent Jesus before kings, and he will represent Christ. before kings. So once again, Luke wants us to know Paul's a good man, but it ain't about Paul. And it's about Jesus Christ. and his message of salvation. So in 2019, as you stand firm for Christ , Don't get discouraged even though when you're tempted to get discouraged when you don't see the fruit of your labor. Just know that your job, your purpose is to stand firm for the cause of Jesus Christ. And if you're doing that, be encouraged. Amen? Amen. Let's bow. Father, we are so grateful to you for your word and pray that the words that we have shared that we have shared through the Bible That everything, Lord, that I've stated which was in line with your word, that you would use it to encourage and strengthen your people. And that in 2019, you would help us to stand firm and to know that our calling is not to save anyone But our calling is to fervently and faithfully proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. May we find our purpose and encouragement in the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. And the people of God said. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.