The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. This morning, I'm gonna try to keep it short. I I said I was gonna give myself half an hour, but uh we'll see if uh if that works out. Uh but uh today is July 7th July 7th, 2019, and it was July 7th, 2013, when we met for the very first time as uh as a church, as Baltimore uh Bible Church. And uh it was a time that was filled with a lot of excitement and uh a small amount of fear. Uh maybe it was more than a small amount of fear, uh, because we had no idea what was ahead of us as a church And uh I can still remember some of the questions that uh people had when we uh began as a church. Uh number one uh question, uh will the church always be this small? I remember uh Uh some people ask me that question, you know, do you think the church will always be this small? And I can't remember how many people were there on the the first day. Greer, you were there. I remember that. I don't know, maybe 30 to 40, you know, maybe a little bit more than that, but uh we had a great time. We had a basement uh that we uh were able to do a fellowship. in after church and we did that every week, you know, at the beginning of the church. So it was just a wonderful time of uh fellowship with one another. And um so the one of the questions that I remember people asking was uh you know is the church always going to be you know, this small. Uh some people might have asked because they wanted it to stay small, you know, like the intimate setting. Uh but other people had the questions like, you know, are we always going to just have like this small amount of people And uh we started a Bible study with only 15 members, uh 15 adult members. It was myself and Jennifer, Larry and Crystal, Danny and Annette, Miles and Cheryl, Janine Hutchinson, who is now Janine joins uh Brenda Briscoe and uh also we had uh a couple others that joined us, Isaac and Deanna uh from Hope Bible Church, David and Marlia, who are also at Hope. and uh Michelle Wright, uh who is now Michelle Breckelbaum, uh another one of those people that Texas stole away from us. Uh but the Lord answered that question, you know, are we always going to be the small? And the answer was no You know, the Lord has added to our numbers over the years. You know, like I said, we've lost some members to Texas, uh, but Texas owes us, so hopefully some members will be coming back. you know, from Texas and uh joining the church again. It's it's time for Texas to to pay their share, right? You know, and give back. But anyway, uh that's that's one of the questions that people had. Is the church always going to be the size? Another question people had is is the church always going to be a black church. Actually when we started the church, um the those kind of members that we started with, the majority of them were all black. And uh I remember one member who's actually walking in right now asked the question, is this going to be a black church? And uh I remember answering the question and saying that, you know, this church is going to be whatever God wants it to be. You know, uh my goal is just to be faithful, you know, to the Lord and whoever the Lord brings is is who I'll I'll preach to. But God in his providence has allowed our church in a lot of ways to look like the nations. You know, the Lord has brought uh many different cultures and ethnicities to the church. And I love showing people uh uh a picture of our congregation and uh asking, you know, what kind of church do you think this is? And it's just like, you can't say it's a black church, it's a white church, it's just It's just the church. You know what I mean? And and that's the way uh that that it really should be. And uh I I love that love it that it's like that. Another question that was asked was uh Will there be any families with children? Any other families with children in the church? When we started, we only had a couple members that had uh had children And all you have to do today is walk through the children's ministry to get an answer to that question or just watch the kids as they're being dismissed, you know, halfway through the service to participate. in their classes or uh look up on the stage when we have one of those uh Christmas plays and uh the kids are kind of like arguing back and forth and uh providing ministry along with entertainment for uh for the church Uh but our quiver as a church is uh pretty full and uh the Lord keeps putting more arrows into that bag uh for the church, and uh uh we're about to be doubled uh probably by our children. We're over gonna be overtaken by the children pretty soon. But uh I don't think anybody's asking that question anymore. Will there be any other children here at BBC? Another question that I was asked is uh Where will the church be located? You know, where's the church going to be located when uh uh when you guys are finally established? And I wish I knew the answer to that question. We're still asking That same question today, you know, where's where's the church going to be? We met at uh New Southwest Baptist in uh southern, you know, uh Baltimore. We met at Roosevelt Recreation Center in Hamden. We met at the chapel at Arlington Baptist. We met at Edmonton Heights Elementary School. We met in a movie theater in Pikesville, a Spanish-speaking Seventh-day Adventist Church. Uh we met at uh Faith Theological Seminary where we are today and I'm probably missing a couple in between. But the only time that we've met at a park is when we've chosen to meet at a park. We've never been without a place to worship on the Lord's Day and we can praise God for his faithfulness in that. Another question that I've uh I've I've been asked is uh will this church last Is the church going to last? And the bad news is that some estimates say that four out of five churches will fail within the first five years. The good news is we're in year six with no plans to to go anywhere, right? Uh somebody got nervous when they heard uh heard that my mom's church was looking for a pastor back in Albany, New York But the church never even asked if I would be looking to to fill that position because they knew that I was committed to Baltimore. And uh I'm not planning on going anywhere. There's a lot of people here who I know aren't planning on going anywhere, at least as uh what they've uh uh communicated to me. And uh when God does decide to take me home, uh my hope and prayer is that there's going to be a faithful church uh that we can pass along to the next uh generation for many years to come. So uh that's my prayer and uh hopefully it's your prayer as well But there's another question that we haven't answered yet, and uh it's the question of how will this church end? How will this church end? What would Christ have to say about our church if we Look into the future, 20, 30, 40, 50 years from now, what will Christ have to say about our church if he doesn't come or call us home? Will the Lord be able to say that this church was faithful? You know, that's that's the question. Uh by the time the Apostle John wrote the book of Revelation uh to the seven churches of Asia Minor, uh one of the churches abandoned its first love Two churches tolerated false teaching. One church was considered dead. One was nauseating. The Lord said that he would spit this church out of his mouth. And that was only 60 years into church history, with some of those people who would have been eyewitnesses to the Lord, you know, actually seeing Christ. You know, people who were served and ministered to by the apostles. And sixty years into church history, there's those that abandoned the Lord, those that tolerated false teaching, those that were considered dead, and those that the Lord had to spew out of his mouth. And the question is, is where are we going to be and what will Christ have to say about us if we're to last the next forty, fifty, sixty years? And our goal is not to just be faithful for the first five. You know, and by God's grace, He's allowed us to be that, but for the next how many every years the Lord gives us, right? And we don't know how long uh that'll be. Uh and to pass on, like I said, a healthy church to the next generation, not a perfect church because there are no perfect churches, but to pass along a healthy church to the next generation. And the first series of messages uh that I taught when our church began before we started the the book of Matthew uh was I did a small series in the book of uh Philippians and uh the first message that I taught when we met for that very first uh Sunday, uh July seventh, twenty thirteen, is the same message that I'm going to take a look at today. Uh Philippians chapter one, uh verses uh twenty-seven to thirty. So if you can open up your Bibles and we'll uh Take a look at that together. Philippians chapter 1. Start at verse 27. Listen to the word of the Lord. It says, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. In no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from God. For to you it has been granted, for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake Experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me and now here to be in me. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer Hemory Father, we just come before you uh this morning, and Father, we're grateful for uh your word. Father, we pray that uh you would use it to uh build us up, my father, to help us to stand firm uh to encourage us to to bring us comfort and uh father we're grateful that uh we can look to you uh as our guide as the the one that we follow and uh uh we're grateful that uh jesus christ is the head of of every faithful church And we thank you that he's the head of this church as well. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. The Philippian church at the time that the Apostle Paul wrote this was uh probably only between uh 10 to 12 years old uh when uh the apostle paul wrote, uh not even into its teenage years as a as a church Paul was the one who witnessed the first convert in Philippi around 50 A. D. That was Lydia in Acts chapter 16. And he writes this letter to this young church somewhere between 59 and 62 A. D. And uh overall, this church is a church that's that's doing well. Uh the Philippian church was a solid church. Uh Paul could say in uh Philippians chapter 1, verse 6 that I'm confident that of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Jesus Christ. You know, so Paul had a confidence that uh this church was doing well and and would do well Uh they didn't give uh Paul a lot of reason for worry. They weren't uh steeped in immorality like the uh Corinthian church was, they uh weren't kind of tossed back and forth with uh doctrinal uh controversy like the Church of Colasse. They didn't uh struggle with the gospel like the the Church of Galatia. Uh they weren't confused about their uh theology like Cecil and Ika was, but uh overall this church was was doing well, they're on the right track And Paul has a lot of joy over this church. And actually, the book of Philippians has been called the book of joy because Paul uses some form of that word. 16 times in the book of Philippians, only four chapters and sixteen times he uses some form of the word for joy. He speaks fondly of this church Uh he speaks about this church as a church that he he he longs to be with. In uh chapter four, verse one he says, My beloved brethren, whom I long to see, my joy and my crown. You know, he considers this church His joy, it was a delight for Paul to minister to this church. And I can say the same thing about Baltimore Bible Church for me. It's a church that Every time I I think about the church, every time I pray for the church, it's a it's it's a prayer that I can offer before the Lord with with joy and thanksgiving. You know, just thankful to God for what he's done in the church. And in uh Chapter 1 and verse 27, and this is really where he gets to the to the first commands of the of the book of Philippians. In chapter one in verse uh uh twenty-seven he says, you know, whether I come and see you or remain absent I want to hear that you're standing firm. He says, only conduct yourselves, chapter twenty verse twenty-seven, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. He says, you know, whether I'm with you or absent, like I want to hear certain things about the church. You know, so he's been away from the church for some time, and um like the report that he wants to hear back from the church is like, is the church doing well? Is the church behaving itself? Is it conducting itself in a way that would bring honor to the gospel of Jesus Christ? And some of you parents kind of know what that's like. Or you put them in the, you know, uh in childcare at the church, and uh one of the first questions that you often ask is like, how how did they behave? Right? You know, how how do they do? Like while we were away, like what what did they do Uh did they you know break everything apart? You know, did they rebel? Did they set anything on fire? Like how did they how did they do while it was gone? And Paul has the same kind of heart. Like this is the church that he saw born, raised, and he's away, and he's saying How are you doing? How how's the church behaving? How is the church conducting itself? Is it conducting itself in a way that would bring honor to the Lord, in a way that would bring honor to the gospel, showing the worth of the gospel of Jesus Christ? And the The main kind of command here, conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he goes on to talk about standing firm, which modifies what it means to conduct yourself in a manner worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That that kind of uh command to conduct yourself or to uh uh to stand firm is found all throughout Scripture. You know, we're called to stand firm. uh for the the truth, uh stand firm in what we believe in, uh, to be consistent uh with the gospel, to live lives consistent with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh uh Corinthians, first Corinthians 16, you know, be on the alert, stand firm in the faith. Uh Galatians chapter 5, verse 1. Uh therefore keep standing firm, do not be subject again to the yoke of slavery Uh 2 Thessalonians 2. 15, brethren stand firm. Uh Ephesians 6. And uh three times in Ephesians 6 he commands uh the church there to to stand firm in the Lord. So this is this is uh a main concern of the apostle Paul and of uh uh the the scriptures in in general and in your spiritual walk you need to have a stability right uh you need to be able to to stand firm and the question is how are we to do this And um even before we get there, uh Paul kind of like loads this up with just like like these words of of motivation that shows how important uh this command is. Uh just uh to point out a couple of these things, uh where he says, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy. That word for conduct yourselves, it's a it's a rare word. In in the Greek, it's uh the the word uh palate you amai. Uh it's actually where we get our word uh uh you know palate you can maybe hear the word uh where we get politics from, you know, out of that word. It's a word that speaks about uh a a city, you know, uh about uh um uh uh being like conducting yourself as a as a citizen of a city of a great city And uh the Philippians were actually considered uh citizens of Rome, you know, the great city of Rome that really ruled, you know, the world, the ancient world at that time. So to be considered a citizen, to conduct yourself as a citizen of Rome is to say, like, hey, I'm connected to this great city that's that's ruling, that's in power. You know, I want to I wanna w like live in a manner that's worthy of the city that I'm connected to And here Paul uses that same word that they would have used to be connected to Rome to say that you are connected to a greater city, that our citizenship is where? It's in heaven. Are you conducting yourself today as a citizen of heaven? Like do you realize where you come from Do you realize what city you're connected to? Do you realize kind of like where you punch your card, like where you've received your papers from? Like we are citizens today of heaven. And the question is, is are we conducting ourselves in a manner that would be worthy of that city that we really bear the name of. Another word that he uses to show just the importance of this command is that word worthy. Only conduct yourselves in a manner that's worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That word worthy, it's another word that actually means to bring into balance. You know, uh in ancient times the way that they would uh determine the value of different materials is by its weight. You know what I mean? Like, you know, you hear that statement, you know, uh you're worth your weight in gold. You know what I mean? So like the the way that they would determine uh the value of something was by like how much does does this weigh? He's saying that that we're to conduct ourselves in a manner that like balances out What's on the other side of the scale, and what's on the other side of the scale is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you walk in a manner that's worthy of the gospel that you proclaim? The gospel that you've been saved by, you know, to walk in a manner that's that's that's that kind of you know uh pushes down the scale on the other side. And There's no idea here that we're worthy of the gospel, right? You know, that's not the idea that's uh that's uh being spoken of here, but it's that we're to walk in a manner that's worthy of what we've been saved by Walk in a manner that's worthy of that gospel. Like understand what you've been saved by and walk in a manner that that gives value to that, that shows the the worth of that. Do you walk in a manner that shows the worth of the gospel of Jesus Christ? And uh so these are just some of the ways that that Paul kind of heightens you know the uh the the the motivation uh for what we're to to do just by the the language. uh that he uses. Uh so Paul's not suggesting again that we can live in a way that would match the val uh the value of the gospel, uh but he's saying if you grasp the staggering weight of uh of that message, what kind of life should that cause you to live. And there's two ways that Paul instructs us to stand firm. So when we get into the actual walk, like what is he talking about? The first way that we're to walk in verse 27 is we're to preserve the unity of the church. So he uh says here, so that you will uh whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind. striving together for the faith of the gospel. You know, one spirit, one mind together. You know, so there's the a unity uh of the gospel that the church is supposed to walk in And we're also to persevere against opposition outside of the church. Look at verse twenty eight. In no way alarmed by your opponents Which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from God. Verse 29, it says that uh we don't only uh God has granted to us not only to believe, but also to suffer. for Christ's sake. And then verse 30, experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me. So here you have those those words. We have opposition, we suffer, and we experience conflict. You know, so this is talking about the persecution that we receive from outside of the church, right? So when we're walking worthy of the gospel of Jesus Christ, having a conduct that's worthy, what does that look like? It looks like preserving the unity on the inside of the church, right, that we're walking together, one mind, one spirit together. And it also looks like persevering against the opposition that comes from outside of the church. You know, those that oppose us, those that would cause us to suffer, those that would bring conflict into the church. So a worthy walk looks like unity within the church and it looks like persevering against the opposition outside of the church. And those are the two fronts that the church is constantly waging war on and that we have to be strong to fight against. uh preserving the the unity of the church. When we speak about our union with Christ, the unity that we have in Jesus Christ is a far greater degree of unity than we have with anything else. far greater degree of unity that we have with uh the citizens of the country, you know, the friends that you might have, even family. You know, there's a unity that we have because of the gospel that drives us together that we're now family for eternity. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 2 real quick just to show you this. Ephesians chapter 2 Look at look at verse verse eleven. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11. He says, Therefore, remember that formerly ye the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by the so-called circum circumcision Which is performed in the flesh by human hands. Remember that you were at that time separate from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. who made both groups, speaking about the Jews and the Gentiles, into one, and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall by abolishing in his flesh the enmity, which is the law of commandments contained in ordinances. so that in himself he might make the two, again talking about Jew and Gentile, into one new man, thus establishing peace. Verse 16, and might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross by it having put to death the enmity Question, can you get any closer than being part of the same body? You can't get any closer than that. We are members of the same body. You cannot get any closer than being one member with yourself, right? You know, I'm a member of the body. You know, I can't get any closer to being with the body than being attached to the body, being a part of the body, united to the body. That's what we are as believers. We are attached We are connected to, we are united with the body of Jesus Christ. There is no closer unity that we can experience than that kind of unity. Christians are unified at the deepest level. And that's why it frustrates me sometimes when uh I hear people talking about how to address racism or economic disparity or whatever else, and they try to use all the world's methods Like why would you speak to the church and have the church take on Saul's armor? Right? We have different weapons, we have different means, we have different solutions than the world does. As a body in Jesus Christ, what unites us together? Jesus Christ, the gospel, we're all part of the same body? Like why would we think that the way to be unified is somehow to take on the world's methods of being unified? Well, if we can just sit down and Have a conversation, things will straighten up. Or if we could if you could only understand what I've been through, then things will straighten up. Or if if you could you know apologize for what your ancestors did to my ancestors, then this will straighten up. That is not the path to unity The path to unity within the church, within the church, is understanding what we've been saved by. We've been saved by the gospel. We're united in one body in Jesus Christ. We can't get any closer than being part of the same body So when the Jews and the Gentiles, who are at completely different at different uh uh uh uh points in the spectrum, yeah, different places in the spectrum, how are these two groups going to get together and be one It's there because they're united in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has broken out broken down the dividing wall, the barrier that separated them and united them into one body. The more that we focus on what unites us as a church will be the more that we will not experience the vision that the world does. So so again, like the Bible gives us the answer to all these things. So we're to preserve this unity that we have in uh in Jesus Christ. We'll back over to Philippians chapter 1. Paul just kind of uh uh outlines this for us a little bit. Talks about uh standing firm in one spirit, uh one spirit Uh some people uh look at that and say, oh I think maybe that's talking about the Holy Spirit, but uh if you connect that to to what follows it, you know, with one spirit, with one mind striving together. The one spirit and one mind are really used as interchangeable words. It's just a different way to emphasize the kind of deep unity that we have with one another. Uh actually if you look in scripture the the word for uh uh spirit um uh pneuma and the word for uh for for um uh mind uh that's used here um uh it's it's actually talking about um These two words are actually used interchangeably to speak about the internal part of who we are. So one spirit and one mind is uh is actually uh the the word uh mind here is the the word suke It's where we get our English word psyche. It's the word for soul. You actually have places where those two words are used interchangeably where in for example in John 12, 27, Jesus says, My soul has become troubled And then turns around in chapter 13 and says that he was troubled in spirit, so spirit and soul used interchangeably. Also you have uh Mary in Luke chapter 1. Uh she says, My soul exalts the Lord, Suke, and my spirit, Numa. uh has rejoiced in God my savior. So it's talking about like the internal part of who we are, the immaterial part of who we are. And it's saying here that we are to be of one mind and one spirit. We're to think the same were to have like the same kind of uh attitude, uh this kind of parallelism shows that we're we're to be of of one soul uh with uh one another uh here within the the body of Jesus Christ that uh that we should think that the same things, uh to have the same uh kind of uh uh direction uh within our our lives uh and this is the kind of unity that we should have as as believers in in Jesus Christ And the question that I have for you is that how you think about one another here within the body of BBC? Do you think of one another as like, you know, that we're of the same spirit? We're of the same mind, you know, that we share the same soul. Like we have the same passions, the same longings, same desires. Like is that how you think about your brothers and sisters here within the the the body of Christ? That I'm one with them that I'm part of the same body with them. You know, is that how you think about one another within the uh the body of Jesus Christ? Or Do you overlook members of the body of Christ? You know, the the members that you you say that you're connected with. You know, the one that you're part of the same body with. You know, do you do you ignore people? Do you do you walk past people and not greet them because like I'm really looking forward to talking to somebody else and not you? You know, uh uh if a member is is is hurting, you know, within the church, do you you know not think about you know what they're going through because like, hey, well it doesn't affect me and and my small group that I'm connected with? Or do you have like a common concern for everybody? I'm pretty sure that whether I, you know, hit your finger with the hammer or hit your toe with the hammer, that the reaction is pretty much going to be the same, right? Like you hit me, right? What are you hitting me for? Oh, it's like, well, it's just your finger, it wasn't your toe. You know, it's just your toe, it wasn't your your your fingers. Like, no, like like this is me. All of it is me It should be the same way here within the body of Jesus Christ, right? Like any member who's affected. That affects all of us. You know, and that's uh I read uh uh uh Romans chapter twelve You know, a little bit earlier that we should weep with those who weep, rejoice with those who rejoice. Like we have a common concern for everybody within the body of Christ because we're united. together. Also it talks about this unity that we have in striving together for the faith of the of the gospel. Striving together uses the Greek word soon athleto. uh comes from a uh athleta uh comes from a word that means to compete or to engage, uh engaging in a competition. But the competition that we have is not against one another It's against the common enemy, right? The enemy of our souls, and it's not people. You know, uh the Bible says that uh the weapons of our warfare aren't carnal, you know, that we have a spiritual battle that we're fighting, Ephesians chapter 6 you know speaks about that. So we have a common enemy in those that in uh in the the in in fighting against error, fighting against immorality, you know, fighting against uh those things that would oppose uh the gospel of Jesus Christ and together we're engaged in that kind of battle you know for for the truth you know for for righteousness you know we're engaged together in that kind of battle and it's it's amazing uh that there's a a unity uh that we experience when we serve together, right? You know, like when you go out to share the gospel with somebody or like, you know, maybe you're in a conversation and you call somebody, hey, can you come over and help me out? I'm trying to Explain something to somebody. That like when you enter into that, that there's like a unity that you experience because of your common striving together. You know, maybe you're trying to counsel somebody. Maybe there's a brother or sister who's you know, uh intending to walk away from the Lord and you together come and strive together because you want to win that person back. There's a unity that develops out of that, right? So when we think about this unity that we're to have in Jesus Christ, it's not just, you know, hey, we kind of think along the same lines, we have the same thoughts. But it's also that we're we're engaged in the same battle, we're engaged in the same struggle with one another, that we want to see people one to the Lord, that we want to see people walking in holiness and in the truth We want to see the church growing and and uh uh and serving together, serving one another. So so these are some of the ways that Paul talks about this unity uh that we have uh with one another. So that's one of the ways that we can conduct ourselves in a manner that's worthy of the gospel. That when people look at the church, all right, you know, so when we're talking about, you know, walking in a manner that's that's worthy, that shows the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ, when people look at the church, did they say see a church that's really committed to one another? Because if they if they if they don't, what that shows is well the gospel must not be that important. Because if it was, they would get along a lot better than they do, because the gospel should be what kind of binds everybody together But it's like if the church sees the world, if the world sees the church, and we're all like in here bickering and fighting and arguing, it's like, well, whatever they have that's uniting them must not be that strong, must not be that permanent. If they if the the church looks at the world and it's like they can't even serve together. You know, it's like you know like uh you know here here they are trying to come and witness to me, but here they are busy bickering with one another You know, they can't get along with one another, but yet they want me to join them? Like what does that look like? You know, why would I want to join them? You know, they can't even work together. They can't even work with one another. Like that doesn't show the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You guys get that It doesn't show the value of the the the kingdom that we belong to, that we're citizens of the kingdom of heaven. I belong to a different city. You know, we're fighting about things down here and what color is the wall and everything else. It's like My head my home is in the kingdom, right? I'm looking I'm I'm a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. What am I busy fighting and arguing about the stuff down here for You know, like like Paul Paul would say, it's like, why not rather just be wronged? You know what I mean? You know, you don't get into an argument about, you know, property rights with another believer. It's like and go to court, you know, to try to take this believer to court for whatever. It's like, just be wronged. Just allow them to wrong you if that's the case, to show the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That what I believe about the gospel means more than what I believe about, you know, whatever this offense is against me. The gospel of Jesus Christ is more important than that. The kingdom of heaven is more important than that. Does that make sense? All right, so the uh the second thing, not only do we preserve the unity within the church, uh, but we're also striving together and persevering against opposition outside of the church. And verses 28 to 30 speaks about this. He says, in no way alarmed by your opponents. The church the church has opponents, right? Church has uh as those that uh that uh would oppose the message of Christianity. And that was from the very beginning. The the word uh uh alarm It actually is a a word that uh that's used for uh for animals that are scared off, like a horse that hears a loud noise and starts to gallop. You know, even if the the noise wasn't gonna hurt him, you know, it's just like, yeah, I'm out of here, right? You know, just running away He says, don't be alarmed like that. You know, when when when opposition comes, don't just like immediately try to take off. I'm out of here. You know, nobody's going to get me It's like you know that we stand firm against opposition when when people come and oppose the gospel of Jesus Christ, that we stand our ground That's what the church is supposed to do, to stand our ground. Even that that word stand firm was used in the military context. To stand your ground, soldier You know, like you don't you don't abandon the gospel because persecution comes. You know, people oppose it. It's like people are going to oppose it You know, that from the very beginning, uh, and even the Lord spoke about that. You know, there's different portions of the of the gospels where he warns his disciples that you're going to suffer persecution If you're going to follow after me, you're going to suffer. You know, don't think that uh that the master, you know, your Lord and Master is going to be crucified and taken off, but like you won't receive any persecution. If you're following me, you're going to pick up your cross Right? And follow me. Like it's it's the way of death. So so Christians from the very beginning, they suffered persecution from Opponents in the in uh in Philippi. Um Paul's riding to Philippi when Paul was actually in Philippi. If you remember, uh uh Paul was taken to prison and beaten For the sake of the gospel. When Paul returned from the prison in Philippi, the Philippian church would have seen a back that was torn to pieces by a beating. The bruises, the wounds that he suffered at the hands of the Roman soldiers. Because in Philippi, again, you know, being this city of Rome, they weren't interested in a religion that would condemn their practices and beliefs. So here you have Paul coming back and saying, you need to Not be alarmed by your opponents. And who's the example of that? He is. Don't don't be alarmed by your opponents. It's a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from from God. He says that uh when we stand unmoved by persecution that it's a sign of something. It points to something. You know, so that when we when we receive attacks because of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that it actually points to what our hope is It points to something. It points, number one, it points out that those who oppose us are actually heading for destruction. I actually have a similar kind of idea mentioned in the in the book of 1 Peter, where you have uh similar context of suffering And uh in 1 Peter 3, verses 14 and 15, it says, even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed. And do not fear their intimidation, do not be troubled, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence. So what he's saying. is if you suffer persecution at the hands of unbelievers and you're not fearing their intimidation, you're not troubled by it. But you're sanctifying Christ as Lord in your hearts, that you're so committed to Christ that you're willing to endure whatever persecution might come. He says that then you should be ready because some questions are going to start to pop up He says, but you should be ready to give a defense for your faith to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you. Like, why aren't you buckling under this persecution? You know, men men have given up much more for much less. You know, why aren't you caving into the pressure that's surrounding you? You know, people telling you to give up your Christianity, like all the beatings will stop if you give up Christ Right? We'll let you go if you give up your Christianity, if you give up your faith. But if you stand firm for your faith, some questions are going to start to arise. Like what is the reason for the hope that you have? What it proves to them when when you are willing to stand under persecution is that you have a hope that I don't have. I'm heading for destruction and you're heading for something else. You're heading for glory If I'm willing to stand under persecution. And what I found so fascinating about 1 Peter is not that he says believers were giving a defense for the hope, but that unbelievers were asking for it Give a defense for the hope. Like the unbelievers recognized that there was something that the believers had that they didn't have. It was apparent to them that there was something different about the believers. So we're to stand Not alarmed by the opposition that we face. It's a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. That see from God. For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. The Bible lets us know that suffering is a gift for believers. It's a gift. Uses the Greek word charizomides, granted to you. But it's that that kind of gift that we uh that we hope we don't have to open up, right? You know, like like can we just keep that one under the tree? You know, uh can we keep that one still wrapped up with the bow on it, like you know, put some extra chains around it, you know. It's like we don't want to open up that gift of suffering. But the Bible says that suffering is a gift for a believer. For a believer. And it said lets us know here that uh it's been granted to you not only to s uh believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. And uh just as a kind of a side comment, Paul says that uh it's also a gift to believe. You know, uh uh uh some people uh think about uh faith as something that just kind of arises out of their own hearts, but the Bible lets us know that even the faith that we have is a gift from God. You know, so the faith that we have to believe is a gift from God. But it goes on to say that suffering is also a gift. How is how is suffering how is suffering a gift? How is suffering a gift? Points you a a couple couple uh examples over in uh Acts chapter 5 uh and I strongly encourage you to to read through uh the book of Acts as um As you think about standing for the for the faith, if you're uh if you find yourself tempted to cave in under pressure, Acts would be a wonderful book for you to pick up and read. But in Acts chapter 5, uh look at verse Look at verse uh 41. And this follows after uh a Gameliel's council. Uh you know, you have uh Peter and John, the apostles, that are proclaiming uh Jesus Christ And uh uh they're they were going to to try to put them to to death, but they received some counsel uh not to uh to trouble these men. But what they did do Is they they flogged them. Look at verse 40. They took his advice after they after calling the apostles in. They flogged them, ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and then released them. So they went on their way from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. The apostles actually considered their suffering as a gift that I was considered worthy to suffer for the name of Jesus Christ. That Christ considered me faithful enough to stand even in the midst of persecution, that Christ would consider me worthy to suffer shame, to proclaim the name of Jesus Christ. That is a gift. It's a gift. You look at the person like Job and all that he suffered through his life, different kinds of context, but you look at Job and all that he suffered in his life That was actually considered like a gift to Job. Like Job was considered so faithful to God that God knew that Job would not crack under the pressure. So all the suffering that he endured only proved his faithfulness to God. It was actually a way that something that elevated Job that showed how how faithful he was because he was unwilling to cave in to the pressure. If we suffer Persecution, opposition for the name of Christ, what is Christ saying about us? That the the that the the faith that you have is is willing is able to stand even in the midst of of persecution. But I'm actually saying that that you're strong enough to handle what I'm giving to you, right? You know, First Corinthians talks about how uh Um, you know, we don't uh endure more than we're able to to bear, right? Christ doesn't give us more than we're able to to endure. Uh what it's actually saying about us is that you're not actually able to endure this. If I give you this kind of persecution, I give you this kind of trial that I'm actually giving you the strength and considering you worthy to suffer through this trial and to still hold on to my name, that even in affliction, that you won't turn around and curse me. You know, so that that's the kind of that's the kind of um uh gift that it is. It's also a gift because uh first Peter chapter four verse thirteen says to the degree that you share the suffering of Christ Keep on rejoicing so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. So it's saying to the same degree that you suffer for Christ is to the same degree that you can rejoice because you're going to receive glory at the day of your exaltation. There's coming a day when we'll stand before the Lord and be rewarded for what? For our suffering, even for the suffering that we've endured for the sake of Christ, that it that it uh it it it it kind of pours more into the the the glory and the joy that we'll receive when we stand before Him at His exaltation, right? So when I stand before Christ on that final day, whenever that day is, and and I bear like the the the wounds and the stripes, you know, the the the times that people attack me because of my faith, because I stood up for my faith What do you think is going to happen on that day? Christ rewards those who are faithful to him, right? So there's there's a joy that we should also have to the same degree that we suffer, it's to the same degree that we can rejoice Because at the revelation of his glory we may be able to rejoice with exaltation. So our sufferings for Christ gives us another reason to rejoice. So we can appreciate the gifts that the Lord gives us, even in suffering. And over in Philippians chapter one again, just to wrap this up, he says that you're experiencing the same conflict which you saw in me and now here to be in me. So Paul, what he does is he reminds them that uh they don't struggle alone. He's not encouraging them to do anything that he hasn't done himself. Uh Paul wasn't like a sideline, you know, Christian you know, just kind of like, you know, waving the flag and the bullhorn, go, go, team, go, while he's, you know, sipping his coke and got his feet feet up on the chair in front of him. Like Paul saying, like, I'm I'm encouraging you while I'm on the field with you You know, I'm going ahead of you. Like I'm I'm receiving the hits, you know, and I'm telling you to come on with me. Receive, you know, join in the persecution with me You know, join me in in suffering. Uh that's what he uh told uh uh Timothy and uh uh to to join me in in suffering. So he knew what it was like to experience the conflict That word for conflict, it's uh where we get our English word agony from. It was an is is agonizing, it was a struggle, it was a fight. It was a battle, but this is a battle that uh that we can endure uh because uh of the the strength that the Lord gives, and we have the example of others who have uh gone before us. And as a church, I'm grateful for uh faithful ministers, you know, who have gone before me, uh, that have shown me the path of faithfulness, that you can come to the end of fifty plus years, you know, John MacArthur in ministry and still be fighting the same fight, you know, still be uh preaching the same thing that you started preaching, you know, in year one, you can be preaching the same thing at year fifty you know, have uh uh faithful churches like Hope Bible Church, you know, right here in this uh this area. We have a faithful church for twenty plus years that's been doing the same thing from day one and I was there, I think it was the Second year in, you know, they started in 1997. I was there from ninety-nine. And here we are today in 2019. And they're doing the same thing that they were doing in year one. And uh by God's grace I'm looking for for this church to have that same kind of example and be a similar kind of model to other churches. This like, you know, hey, you remember that church, Baltimore Bible Church? you know, twenty, thirty, forty years down the line, they're doing the same thing today that they were doing like 30, 40 years ago. And Paul is that kind of example that's like, you know, hey, like, you can look at the example that that I've set for you and follow in my footsteps. Like you can be faithful, you can endure. Follow with me. You know, you can endure the suffering, the persecution, the opposition uh for your faith. And uh like I say we can look to other ministers and faithful churches to say, like, hey, you know, as a church We can do the same thing. So, you know, in answer to that question, where where will we be, you know, forty-fifty years from now? Question hasn't been answered yet, uh, but we know what the possibilities are. We know that with God's help, you know, depending on him, his grace, his strength, that forty, fifty years from now, if Christ doesn't come back And or call us home that we can be doing the same exact thing that we're doing today, right? Submitting to our head, Jesus Christ Following his word and uh preserving the unity within the church and persevering against the opposition outside of the church that we can be doing the same thing then that we are now. Amen. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we've had uh to look at your word. Uh we pray that you would use it uh to build us up in our faith, uh, that you would encourage us, and uh we're grateful that uh you've given us all that we need for life and godliness. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. . Please visit us online . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.