The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, uh, why don't you take your Bibles with me and turn to 1 Peter chapter 5? 1 Peter chapter 5. Uh we'll be taking a short break from the book of Romans. And uh the book of Romans has been a rich study, so much more to come. Uh but today uh we're recognizing our newest elder, David Lupinetti And I thought it would be appropriate to give him a charge from Scripture and also to remind all of us of what an elder is supposed to be. So we're taking a look at First Peter, and the context of First Peter, as many of you know, is the church during a time of suffering. The theme verse of 1 Peter is found in 1 Peter 5 and verse 12, where Peter says, through Sylvanus, our faithful brother, for so I regard him. I have written to you briefly, exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God, stand firm in it We can view this verse, 1 Peter 512, is really the purpose statement for the entire book of 1 Peter, to stand firm. And the threat of persecution is enough for some believers to lay flat instead of standing firm. But Peter exhorts us that we need to stand firm even during times of affliction, during times of persecution, during times of suffering. In chapter 4 of 1 Peter, Peter has exhorted the believers to expect suffering. Don't be surprised by it. 1 Peter 4 and verse 12 says, beloved, do not be surprised. at the fiery ordeal among you which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange thing were happening to you. In verse 13, we learn that we're to exalt in our suffering. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. We're also to embrace suffering. In 1 Peter 4 and verse 14, it says that if you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. Embrace it. This is the spirit of glory and of God that rests on you We learn much of that in in the book of Romans as well, that we can embrace our suffering because God is working good even in the midst of suffering We 're also to examine our suffering. 1 Peter 4. 15 makes sure that none of you suffers as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or a troublesome meddler. And then we're to entrust ourselves to a faithful Creator in the midst of suffering. 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 19. Therefore, those also who suffer according to the will of God shall entrust their souls to a faithful creator in doing what is right. Have you ever considered that the one that you're trusting to measure your suffering Is the creator, the faithful one, you're trusting a faithful creator to measure out your suffering This is the same God that Isaiah 42, 5 says, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and its offspring, who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it, and this is the one that we're trusting with our suffering. And then beginning in chapter 5, Peter begins to exhort the shepherds of the flock. And you could ask the question, what's the connection Between shepherding and suffering. We've been talking about shepherding or uh in in chapter five we talk about shepherding, but in chapter four it's been all about suffering. I mean, is there like a hard break, a hard line between chapter four and chapter five? Is Peter leaving his discussion about suffering back in chapter 4 and turning to something that's completely new? Or is there a connection between shepherding and suffering? I would argue that Peter is not leaving his discussion about suffering because suffering is actually central to the role of a shepherd. Because suffering for righteousness is the occupational hazard of the ministry. To shepherd well is also to suffer well. It's part of the job description for Shepherd. And that's demonstrated in a number of ways. Now, first of all, suffering is explicitly mentioned as found in the example of Christ, who is the chief shepherd. So if we're the under-shepherds, we're following the chief shepherd, how can he suffer and we don't experience any suffering? First Peter chapter five and verse one it speaks about uh Peter as an eyewitness of the sufferings of Christ. So if these elders are to follow in the footsteps of Christ, they can expect to suffer as well. Also, suffering is part of shepherding, and it's uh proving to be an example to the flock. You know, so Peter here instructs the shepherds to be an example. Be an example to the flack. And how are they to be an example? They're also to be an example in suffering. He can't tell the congregation to be prepared for suffering and then the elder is going to escape it. No, if if the congregation is going to go through suffering, that means that the shepherd has to be an example of doing that. Prove yourself to be an example. Verse 3, it says, not yet, nor yet is lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. And finally, if Peter is encouraging the believers not to be surprised by suffering, uh the one who principally should not be surprised by suffering is the shepherd. You know, strike the the shepherd and the sheep will scatter, right? If uh if you're going to get at a congregation, you're going to make the target the leader of that congregation or the leaders of that congregation. Up in Canada during the the COVID lockdowns, uh, when uh uh the the church in Edmonton uh refused to to shut their doors, they didn't go after the Ushers. They didn't go after you know the people teaching Sunday school. They went after the shepherd. You know, he was the one who got locked up. It's the the pastor of the church. And Peter knows that if there's going to be a fiery ordeal in the church, that the fire is going to be the hottest for the shepherds. Verse 17 of chapter 4, it speaks about judgment beginning at the household of God, and what better place to begin that judgment than the shepherds of the flock? Safety has never been the number one priority of the ministry. Ministry has always been a dangerous calling, and suffering has always been an occupational hazard of the ministry. So elders need to be Exhorted to stand, to stand firm, and they have the task of providing help and comfort and strength and guidance for others, even in the midst of suffering. So they're expected to be examples and to exhort others during times of suffering, and this is what Peter is doing in his letter. He's coming alongside of these elders all across Asia Minor. uh who are starting to feel the increased pressure from the world around them, and he's exhorting them to stand firm. And even though this is primarily directed towards shepherds, there's an example for all of us. There's something that all of us can learn from this. So let's jump into the exhortation by the Apostle Peter in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 1. Why don't you follow with me as I read? It says, therefore, I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God among you. Exercising oversight not under compulsion, but voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sordid gain, but with eagerness, nor yet is lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flack And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for this text, Lord. We're grateful for what it communicates to us. And Father, we uh thank you that on this day for what this text also represents to uh another elder who will be uh affirmed in our church Father, we pray that you'd give us elders who have conviction, men who are willing to stand up for truth. And Father, I pray that you would continue to raise up even more shepherds among us And Father, that we would be prepared as a congregation for whatever is to come, Lord. We live in very tumultuous times. I think everyone would agree with that. And Father, we need leaders who will stand firm, who will stand strong, who will be an example. And Father, I pray that you would continue to grant this even to our church For the sake of your glory. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In this text, we're going to see the humility in the exhortation to the elders, the simplicity in the exhortation to the elders. The purity of the exhortation to the elders and also the dignity in the exhortation. And we'll start with number one, the humility of the exhortation in verse one. Take a look at verse one with me. Says, therefore, I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed. And as Peter exhorts the elders among them, he's exhorting them in three ways, primarily as a fellow elder, as a witness, and as a partaker of future glory. Rather than exerting exhorting them as an authority, the apostle comes alongside of them and he says, I'm just a fellow elder I'm one of you. As one who is with them in the trenches, he's saying, I understand the battles that you face. I'm not here to address you primarily as a superior, but as a partner He's placing himself here under the same obligations that he places the elders under. And as a fellow elder, Peter bore suffering for the sake of the name of Jesus Christ. Peter himself was an example in suffering. We find in Acts chapter 4 and verse 3 that Peter was arrested. Chapter 4, verse 21, that he was threatened. Chapter 5, verse 18, that he was imprisoned. Chapter 5, verse 40, that he was beaten. Peter knew what he was asking these elders to do. He was willing to be an example of what he commanded others to do. And the elder was to be the example to the flock, not the exception. And Peter is saying that I'm coming right alongside of you as a mature example for the rest of the flack, and I'm telling you to do what I'm doing. I'm telling you to bear with and bear under suffering. And as we know from church history, he became an example even in his death. Now Peter, according to church history, was crucified under Nero, but before he was crucified, he was forced to watch the crucifixion of his own wife. And as he's turning to his wife, he's exhorting her and comforting her with the words to, remember the Lord, remember the Lord. And then when it came time for his own crucifixion, he said that I'm not worthy to be crucified in the same way as my master and requested to be crucified upside down. He was one who was an example of suffering. He was an example in what he commanded others to do. So he comes alongside of him. He says, I'm a I'm exhorting you as a fellow elder, as one of your number. I'm a fellow elder among you. But he also exhorts them as an eyewitness of the sufferings of Christ. He says, as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ. We know that Peter witnessed Jesus being rejected by the religious leaders, his alienation from his own family, the plots to take his life. The agony in the garden Peter was there, the sweat like great drops of blood, the betrayal of Judas, the Jewish court that spit in Jesus' face, beat Jesus with their fists. After the resurrection, he would have seen the nail prints in Jesus' hands, his feet, his side, the hole in his side from the spear. There was no question that Peter witnessed the sufferings of Jesus Christ. And maybe even from a distance on the night of the crucifixion might have even seen the Lord. And Peter says, I'm. I'm one who's witnessed the sufferings of Jesus Christ. As I'm exhorting you to be willing to suffer, I'm telling you that I've seen the greatest example in suffering And that's Jesus Christ. I'm telling you that I've borne witness to him. The word for witness here, the word martuse, is a word that eventually was used for somebody who was willing to die for their testimony. And Peter says, I'm one who's a witness of the sufferings of Jesus Christ. I've seen him suffer, the greatest sufferer, and I'm willing to stand up for this truth concerning Jesus Christ. And he says, I'm also a partaker of the glory that's to be revealed. And there's this connection in this context between the glory that is to be revealed and the suffering that we're willing to endure today. And the verse 1 of 1 Peter 5 here, he speaks about this partaker of the glory that is to be revealed. It could actually be a glory-to-be-revealed partaker. I'm one who's who's who's partaking of that glory that is to come, that future glory. And this is something that particularly belongs to those who are willing to suffer. If you look back to chapter 4 and verse 13 He says this, he says, but to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory You may rejoice with exaltation. What's going on here? There's a connection between the degree that you're willing to suffer and the degree of glory that you're able to experience in the future. We all experience this future glory, but there are some who will experience a greater degree of future glory because of what they were willing to suffer on this side of eternity. So he says to the degree that you suffer, to that same degree you should rejoice. Because there's the connection between what you're willing to suffer for Christ now and what you're going to enjoy in the future. And there's an emphasis, like I said, here on the glory. Matthew chapter 24 and verse 30, Jesus speaks about the time that he's going to be revealed. He says, and the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. that all the tribes of the earth will mourn. They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. Christ is coming back and that's what he's pointing to. Jesus is going to be revealed and we're going to partake in that glory when he is revealed. And what kind of encouragement would that be to those who are under the threat of persecution? You may receive the brunt of persecution and suffering now. But don't give up, don't give in, because you will receive glory on the other end. This is a future-looking type of Christianity. It's not just to look at the here and now, it's to look at what's to come in the future. And if you remember, Peter had a small foretaste of that glory that was to come, right? On the Mount of Transfiguration, he saw the Jesus Christ that just kind of peeling back his flesh and revealing that glory to them. He saw the glory of Christ. He says, I've I've seen that glory, and I'm telling you that I'm waiting to partake in that. This glory is going to be revealed to us. We're going to reflect that glory in the future. And I'm here encouraging you as one who has seen a foretaste of that glory to come. I'm encouraging you to persevere. So there's this humility in verse one. He says, I'm coming alongside of you as a fellow elder, as one who's seen the sufferings of Christ, and one who's also going to To participate in that glory that is to be revealed alongside of all those who suffer with Christ. So there's this humility in his exhortation. But not only that, there's also a simplicity in it. Verse 2, he says, Shepherd the flock of God among you. There's this responsibility that's given to shepherds, and it's to shepherd the flock. The Greek word uh po mino, it's a word means to act as a shepherd. The primary duty of the shepherd is to feed the sheep. Our English word pastor actually comes from the word for pasture, you know, bringing the sheep to pasture. It's the same idea that Jesus communicated to Peter in John 21, where he reinstated Peter into the ministry with those words, tend my lambs, shepherd my sheep, tend my lambs. It's a word for feeding them, feed my sheep. That's the responsibility of a shepherd is to feed the sheep. And what's interesting about this term, the flock of God, shepherd the flock of God, and even as Jesus says, feed my sheep, we recognize that the sheep don't belong to the pastor. It's the flock of God. Jesus says, these are my lambs. In Acts chapter 20 and verse 28, Paul says that this is the flock of God purchased by the blood of God. Referring to Jesus' blood. It's actually one of the texts that defends the deity of Jesus Christ, where he says it's the blood of God, and the one who shed his blood was Jesus Christ. So Jesus Christ here being God, but he says that these sheep belong to God, purchased by the blood of Christ. And there's this heightened sense of responsibility for those that we care for These aren't sheep that belong to you to do whatever you want. And there's coming a time when when when I mean woe to the shepherd that thinks that these sheep belong to him, right? Because one day you'll have to answer to the Lord for what you've done with what does not belong to you and give an account for it And specifically during a time of persecution, it would have been particularly important for the shepherd to care for the sheep, not to care for himself. And that's the idea that's brought up in exercising oversight in verse 2. Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight. You're here to watch over the sheep. You know, Epi uh sc uh scapeo, it's a word that uh comes from two words, you know, over and looking. You're looking over them, you're looking upon them. You're aware of what's going on in their lives, praying for them. There's a care that the shepherd is to give to the sheep. Actually, flip over to the book of Ezekiel really quick. The book of Ezekiel. This is a book that was written during a time of suffering, of persecution. Ezekiel was a contemporary of Daniel. And he wrote his prophecy during a time of affliction and oppression for the people of God. And in chapter 34, he addresses the leadership of Israel during this time. Israel was Attacked, uh, men were deported, men like Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, Abednego, uh, but there were still those who were left back in Judah, in Jerusalem. And here Ezekiel writes to these men. The word of the Lord came to him for these men who were left behind. And the question was, what were the shepherds doing while the people were being attacked? What's going on with the shepherds? How are they caring for the sheep during time of affliction? Check out Ezekiel 34. Take a look at verse 1. It says, then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, Thus says the Lord God, Woe, shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding themselves. Should not the shepherds feed the flock? You eat the fat and clothe yourselves with the wool? You slaughter the fat sheep without feeding the flock? Those who are sickly you have not strengthened, the diseased you have not healed, the broken you have not bound up. The scattered ye have not brought back, nor have ye sought for the lost, but with force and with severity you have dominated them. They were scattered for lack of a shepherd, and they became food for every beast of the field, and were scattered My flack wandered through all the mountains and on every high hill. My flack was scattered over all the surface of the earth, and there was no one to search or to seek for them. The secret of search for them. And the Lord Himself promises deliverance for the sheep, for the from these shepherds. Look at verse 7 in chapter 34. It says, Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely because my flock has become prey, my flock has even become food for all the beasts of the field. For lack of a shepherd, my shepherds did not search for my flock, but rather the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed my flock. Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will demand my sheep from them and make them cease from feeding sheep. So the shepherds will not feed themselves any more, but I will deliver my flock from their mouth, so that they will not be food for them For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out. As a shepherd cares for his herd in the day when he is among his scattered sheep, so I will care for my sheep and will deliver them from all the places to which they were scattered on a cloudy and a gloomy day. I'll bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and bring them to their own land, and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel by the streams and in all the inhabited places of the land. I will feed them in a good pasture and their grazing ground will be on the mountain heights of Israel. There they will lie down on good grazing ground and fed in rich pasture on the mountains of Israel. I will feed my flock, and I will lead them to rest, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost, bring back the scattered. Bind up the broken and strengthen the sick, but the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them with judgment And how is the Lord going to come and shepherd his flock? Look down at verse 23. This is just fascinating. Verse 23, it says, then I will set over them one shepherd. My servant David, and he will feed them. He will feed them himself and be their shepherd. And I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David will be prince among them. I the Lord have spoken. Think about when the book of Ezekiel was written. This is centuries after David. But he's saying that David is going to be set over them, my servant David will be set over them, and he will feed them. Who is he talking about? Who is this David to come to feed them? This is a reference to the greater David to come The Lord Jesus Christ who would come through the line of David, who would rule over his people. This is the David who was promised in Psalm 110, whose throne and kingdom would be established forever. In 2 Samuel 7 and verse 16, where David was given a covenant, and he was told that your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever, and your throne shall be established. How was this throne to be established? It was by Jesus Christ, who came in the line of David, who would be the future shepherd over his people Israel. This is actually a prophecy about Christ who is to come, who will watch over his own people. I will be their shepherd. Putting these other shepherds out of a job. I will be their shepherd. I will feed them. I will bring them back. And when he returns, when the chief shepherd returns, he's going to require an accounting from these false shepherds. How dare you take advantage of my sheep? How dare you? And it's going to be a fearful day someday for many so-called pastors. Many so-called pastors. Fearful day someday. And there's three motivations that guide the work of an elder Verses 2 to 3 are three ways in which he's to exercise oversight willingly, eagerly, and humbly. Look back at 1 Peter chapter 4 again. 1 Peter chapter 4. Take a look at The end of verse two and look at this exhortation. Chapter five, the end of verse two Excel just started at the beginning. Shepherd the flack of God among you, exercising oversight, but how? Not under compulsion But voluntarily, according to the will of God, and not for sordid gain, but with eagerness, nor yet as lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock How are we to shepherd the flock of God? Three words: willingly, eagerly, and humbly. Willingly, eagerly, and humbly. First of all, we're to do it willingly. Exercising oversight, not under compulsion, not because you were forced to do it from somebody on the outside, but voluntarily. Nobody should be pushed or forced into the ministry. It's not out of compulsion or necessity. You know, they just they just need a warm body. Somebody had to do it. We we don't serve because somebody says you need to do this Or or we just need another elder to kind of fill up the bylaws. The bylaws say we need three, so you know, get another one. That's not what we do. We don't need men that are dragged, kicking and screaming into the ministry What what if you don't have men that desire to serve? Well well you just stick with the ones who do. You don't drag somebody into the ministry and and uh and even place into the ministry an unqualified man. Not only does the Lord provide the gifting, but he also provides the desire. And we need to trust the Lord that he will provide those who need to shepherd his flock. God is the one who provides those who will serve. And it's willing service. The Lord is the one who works internally to give us the right desires. The compulsion from for the ministry is not external but internal. The Lord works on the heart. One of the qualifications for a minister according to 1 Timothy 3 is the desire for it. The service that an elder is to render is willing service. The push from people can't be your motivation because if people can push you in, then people can push you out. And it's particularly important if you could face some kind of persecution for what you do. Because knowing that the church called me to do something is not going to be enough when the pressure is turned up. I need to have an internal compulsion for ministry. It's a desire that comes to me from the Lord. I love what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 16. He says, For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of. For I am under compulsion. What's he talking about? Internally. It's the Lord who gave this to me. The necessity didn't come from men. It came from the Lord. It's internal. And he says, woe is me if I don't preach the gospel. For if I do this voluntarily I have a reward, but if against my will I have a stewardship entrusted to me. Paul had this internal compulsion for the work that he did. It wasn't an external call, it was an internal call. In Galatians chapter 1, verse 15, it says, But when God, who had set me apart even from my mother's womb, and called me through his grace, was pleased to reveal his son in me, so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood. What is he saying? Like the the call was internal. It was the Lord who gave me this. It's not because I went out and checked with every you know person in leadership like, hey, what do you think about this? How about you? Do you think I should preach? No, this came from the inside. I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood. Now that doesn't mean we're not affirmed by men, but it's to say that the desire doesn't come from men. The calling is internal. God is the one who sets men apart for the gospel of God. And that becomes, like I said, really important when you're going to have to suffer for doing it. It can't be according to the will of men. It has to be according to the will of God. It's according to the to the Lord that we serve. So it's willingly, it's a willing service, but it's also eagerly. Look again at verse 2. He says, according to the will of God and not for sordid gain, but with eagerness. There's not only a willingness to serve, but there's also an eagerness to serve. The word for eagerness here , not with uh for sort of gain, but with eagerness, the word for eagerness is uh a Greek word uh prathumas, pra thumos, it's a a word that means uh a passion. It's a it's a great passion desire for ministry and shepherds are engaged in ministry and they're not driven by the money for it, they're driven by the passion for it. I love what my professor Alex Montoy used to say. He says, Men, we don't we don't get paid to preach. We would pay to preach. That's who we are. It's not for a paycheck. We don't just do do ministry for a paycheck. We do it out of the burden that we have to honor the Lord, and it's an eagerness that we have. And it's shameful when people get involved in ministry for the sake of money. And that's the the meaning of the term sorted gain. It says, and not for sorted gain. That's uh the the word sorted is dirty, and it's not the money that's dirty, it's the desires for it that are dirty It's because of the desires for it. When people are motivated by money, it corrupts the money itself. It's like the money is fine until your dirty desires corrupted it. When Crufflow Dollars says if I want to believe in God for a $65 million plane, you can't stop me. Somebody stop them, right? Somebody stop them. Costi Hinn, the nephew of Benny Hinn, worked with his uncle in his book, God Greed, and the Prosperity Gospel. He gives a sample of the kinds of travel arrangements that he and his uncle would make. Hotels and shopping sprees that he experienced in two years of working with his uncle. Listen to this. Air travel on a private jet, the Gulf Stream 4, average cost of ownership, $36 million. Stays at the Royal Suite in the Birj al-Arab in Bubai, $25,000 per night. Shopping spree at Herrod 's in London, shopping spree up and down Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, vehicle chauffeurs for as Bentley, Rolls-Royce, Mercedes-Benz, Range Rover, and Maserati. apparel and accessories by top designers. For two years he's seeing this. $25,000 for a night? It's like buy the hotel, you know. All with donations from desperate people who believe that their giving would result in healing, answered prayers, or prosperity for themselves. And at the time he believes that they should be blessed with millions because we're blessing millions after all. 2 Peter 2 lets us know that greed is a mark of false teaching 2 Peter 2 verse 1 says, But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you, who will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves. Many will follow their sensuality, and because of them, the way of the truth will be maligned. And tell me if that's not the truth. That the way of truth is being maligned because of these false teachers. And in their greed, they will exploit you with false words. Their judgment from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep. And when Pasi questioned the methods that were being used, he was told, there's nothing wrong with imparting the anointing on people's lives. And giving and people giving their money for it. God will bless them for it. And we are blessed for offering it to them. You know, this anointing that we have is just so valuable. And people, if they pay for it, you know, God, God will bless them because the anointing that we have is so powerful You know, wave your coat around and people fall back. I mean, obviously I need to be paid for that, right? The push for possessions can't be your motivation. It's a dangerous path. And if you're willing to get money for a lie, do you think you'll be willing to suffer for the truth? If you're willing to be paid for a lie, are you going to suffer for the truth? Of course not. So we don't do it for money. We're not in it for money. But we're willing to suffer for the sake of the truth. Elders need to be willing to suffer for the sake of righteousness, and how are you going to be willing to suffer for righteousness if you're willing to lie for a paycheck? John chapter 10, Jesus describes the difference between a real shepherd and a hired hand. John 10, verse 12 says, He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, he sees the wolf coming, and what does he do? He leaves the sheep and flees. I was only here for the paycheck. I'm not about to get mauled by a wolf. I'm out of here. Leave the sheep to fend for themselves. All I wanted was the money. He's not in it for the good of the sheep. He doesn't have an internal compulsion for it. He's just there for what he can get out of it. Get it while the getting's good, right? If the wolf is coming, I'm out. He sees the wolf coming, he flees The wolf snatches them and scatters them. He flees because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep. And how true is that of today's pastors? Not concerned about the sheep. As long as the sheep provide my Bentley and my $25,000 night, I'm fine. Word for hired hand is a word that was used for a day laborer. Just here for the day. Checking in and checking out. I'm not really concerned about the welfare of the owner. But a true shepherd is willing to give his life. That's why one of the qualifications for an elder is to be free from the love of money. If you have a leader who loves money, you'll have a leader who's not willing to suffer for the truth. Oh, so to serve willingly, eagerly. Number three, they're to serve humbly, humbly. Verse three, not nor yet is lording it over those allotted to your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. Ministry is not about the authority that you can wield. It's not a power grab. It's not a desire for position. It's not a desire for prominence. That's deadly for a leader when he's focused on himself. It's especially true for the leader that he should be humble. We're not in this for a title or prestige. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, in verse 1, it says, it is a trustworthy statement. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work. He desires to do. It is a fine work he desires to do, not a fine title he desires to have. It's a fine work. I aspire to the work. The title is not the point. It's the work that I want. And something is off-center if a person desires the title, but not the work associated with it. Now I've known men who desired the office of elder but not the work of being an elder. That was Diatrophe 's problem, right? He loved to be first, 3 John. He says, I wrote something to the church in verse 9, but Diocapes, who loves to be first among them, does not accept what we say. He loves to be first. He loves the position. He loves the prominence. We don't have a desire for prominence. We're not here to exercise authority over people. This is the way the Gentiles rulers operated. Remember that? Flip over to Matthew chapter 20 real quick. Matthew chapter 20 Think about the words of Christ as he's speaking to his disciples and warning them about what they're to be. Look at Matthew chapter 20, starting verse 25. Actually, I'll start at verse 24. And hearing this, the ten became indignant with the two brothers, and you remember the context. James and John are coming to see if they can get on the right hand and the left hand of Jesus. Remember that? They want the place of prominence. They want the position. So the ten heard about it and they became indignant with the two brothers. But Jesus called them to himself and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them, and their great men exercised authority over them? It is not this way among you, but whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant. Slave. And whoever wishes to be first among you shall be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. The motivation, again, for service for an elder is not about position. He says, if you want to look for a position, look for the position of a servant. Look for the position of a slave. It's not to be this way among you. You're not to sit from your seat and just kind of point to the work and tell people what to do. No, you're to look in there to say, where is the work so I can come and do that I'm here as a servant. I'm here as a slave. I'm here to follow my master. He's the one who did not come to be served, but to serve and give his life as a ransom for many. He was sacrificial in a service. And that's the way that we're to be. We're to be motivated by the service of people, service to people, not their service to us. I think the the you know there was one joke that you heard, it's like, you know, how can you tell the tell who's the the Baptist pastor? It's like who's the guy with all the chicken around them? You know, it's like at the at the church dinners, it's like who's the guy with the biggest plate? It's like we're we're not here to just be served, sit back and be served. I saw this one video of a supposed pastor sitting on a throne. You know, just kind of like telling people what to do and commanding people this way and that way. It's like what what nonsense? What kind of nonsense is that Saw this other video of uh you know one pastor Eddie Long, who has since been exposed for his uh debauchery and immoral lifestyle, but they had him paraded him around in a throne, had him on top of the throne Men at the four corners of the of the of the chair hoisting them up while they're singing, prepare the way of the Lord. It's like the sky needs to open up like right now, right? It 's like what if I ever even have the thought of being hoisted on a chair and paraded through the church, I mean somebody, like like, you know, kick me off the chair. Like I don't need to be up there. That's the last Sunday at Baltimore Bible Church, believe me. Prepare ye the way of the Lord. What kind of blasphemy is that? But this is the kind of foolishness that so many churches are putting up with. Like, Lord, help your people. Have mercy on your people. And it's our confidence that uh that Christ's real sheep will hear his voice, right? My sheep hear my voice, and they'll follow me, right? Instead of these fake shepherds lording it over the sheep. Back in 1 Peter chapter 5. It says, nor yet is lording it over them. The word for lording it over is kata kuriuo. It's uh from two words, kurias, which is the word for lord, and kata, which Intensifies it. It's to lord it down on people. I'm the Lord who's lording it down on the people, dominating, controlling, ruling. It's not to say that elders don't have a genuine spiritual authority, but that authority is for oversight and to serve. It's not to lord it down on people so that people can serve you. A certain kind of leadership that we need to exhibit is an exemplary leadership. We're not to Lord it over, but we're proving to be what? Examples. We're the examples. That's the kind of leadership that we need to have. One day MacArthur was asked to give his uh definition on on leadership. So ask, kids, could you boil it down into like you know one word? Is there is there a way that you can boil leadership down? And after he said he gave it some thought, he says, I can tell you what leadership is in one word. Example. Example. The minister is to be a living illustration of what he says. He's not to lead by an iron fist, forcing people to bend to his will, demanding submission, but it's the power of his life, the power of his example. And that's where we get into that word example in verse 3. But proving to be examples to the flack. That word, for example, is the word tupas. That's where we get our English word type from. It means a stamp, an impression, a mark that's made by a blow. And some of you are old enough to remember the typewriters, right? I remember I I used to have the I mean like the the the kids today they have no idea what we went through, right? White out and ribbons, you know, pulling ribbons and You know, you hit hit a key and like two keys struck the paper instead and you have to like scroll it back and do it all over again. They have no idea. You know, control, alt, delete. I mean they have no idea what we had to go through. Typewriters But when you you had a typewriter, what's the idea behind it? That the the lever with the the the the symbol of the the the letter on it, you know, on the on the arm, the metal arm, when it struck the ribbon It struck with such blow that it left an impression behind. That whatever that letter was, when it hit the ribbon, that's the letter that was on the page. And that's what's meant by example. We're to have such a life, such an example, that when we come into contact with somebody else, that we leave an impression on them. Something of our character is stamped on them. And that's what this word is for example. Tupas. It's a stamp. It's an impression. It's a mark that's left by a blow. The life of a leader. Should be so impactful that when he comes into your life that he leaves a mark behind. It's not that he forces you to follow, it's the power of his example that compels you to follow. It says, no, I want to be like him. There's something that I've seen in his life. There's something that I want to follow about him. That's why the primary qualifications for leadership are character qualifications. Character qualifications. What kind of life do you have? And all of us are called to lead by example, aren't we? All of us are called to make disciples, right? And the disciple, somebody who's making a disciple, you're not just teaching them all that Jesus commanded. Do you know what a disciple does? The disciple teaches them to obey all that Jesus commanded. We're not just out here giving information. We're out here about transformation. If we're making disciples, we're seeing people transformed into the image of Jesus Christ. I want you to look like Jesus Christ. I don't just want you to pass a quiz. I want you to have a life that imitates your Savior. And as elders, that should be our primary objective within the church. I want to see people look more like Jesus. And I want my life to look like Christ so that I can say, follow me as I follow Christ. Because it's about your life being transformed that you would obey all that Jesus commanded you. We're to be an example. Don't underestimate the power of your example. Jim Elliott was a missionary to the Aka Indians in Ecuador. He was killed by a spear by the same people that he had hoped to lead to Christ. And during his life, Jim Elliott longed for more people to become missionaries. But do you know how Jim Elliott made the most missionaries? It was in his death that he was willing to give his life for the sake of the gospel. Inspired more people to go to other countries to share the message of Christ than he ever could during his life His death sparked an interest in Christian missions among the youth of his day. And he didn't accomplish that because of his powerful words or his position or his prestige or his prominence. He accomplished that by his example He was an example. Listen to what he wrote in his journal. Listen to this. He says, God, I pray thee, light these idle sticks of my life And may I burn for thee. Consume my life, my God, for it is thine. I seek not a long life, but a full one, like you, Lord Jesus Saturate me with the oil of the Spirit that I may be aflame. But flame is often short-lived. Canst thou bear this, my soul, short life In me dwells the spirit of the great short-lived, and he's referring to Christ, that he only lived for 33 years, right? Whose zeal for God's house consumed him. Make me thy fuel, flame of God. That was his prayer. Would you take these idle sticks of my life and set them on fire for you? Consume my life, it's yours. I don't desire a long life but a full one. Lord, transform my life so that it can be all that you want it to be. And after he died, the power of his example became the fire that was lit for missions all around the world. What kind of example are you? What kind of example are you seeking to be? And as elders, this is what we're endeavoring to do, is to be an example of what we teach. We need to practice what we preach. Practice what we preach. One person said, you know, we can't practice all that we preach, but we should practice before we preach. We should be an example of moving forward. No, I'm not perfect, but I'm moving in that direction. I'm moving towards Christ-likeness. So what we preach is we're being authentic. No, this is the way that I'm living myself. This is what I'm seeking after myself. And lastly, we have the dignity of the exhortation. Look at verse 4. The dignity of the exhortation. It says, and when Christ, when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. When the chief shepherd appears, the word for chief shepherd is only found once in the entire Bible, and it's only used for Jesus Christ. John chapter 10, Jesus is called the good shepherd, the one who lays down his life for the sheep. Hebrews chapter 13, Jesus is called the great shepherd because his blood secures an eternal covenant before God And in 1 Peter, Jesus is the chief shepherd, the arch shepherd, because Jesus is understood to watch over his entire flock, including the shepherds. So shepherds are sheep too, and we're all underneath Christ. And it would have been a great comfort and a motivation for people who are in a time of suffering and persecution to know that there's a chief shepherd who's watching over all of us. You know how he watches over his loved ones, how he calls them all his own, right? That we have a chief shepherd who's watching over all of us. And to know that we belong to him and that we're part of his fold would have been a tremendous comfort. Your life will one day be vindicated if you live for the chief shepherd, and this chief shepherd will not lose any one of us. Flip over to John chapter 10 real quick. John chapter 10 Take a look at verse 27. Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand I and the Father are one. Jesus takes care of his sheep. He does not lose one of them. And if you've given your life to Jesus Christ, You don't have to worry about your life ever being lost. Jesus is the one who's given himself for you. He's the one who lays down his life for the sheep. And because of his life, we're protected for eternity. One of our hymns says, Oh the deep, deep love of Jesus, spread his praise from shore to shore. How he loveth, ever loveth, changeth never, nevermore, how he watches over his loved ones, died to call them all his own. How for them he intercedeth, watcheth o'er them from the throne. Jesus watches over us as the shepherd, even from heaven, right now, interceding for us, praying for us that we would make it all the way home. And it's this chief shepherd who will one day appear. The appearing of Christ is a major theme in the book of 1 Peter. 1 Peter 1, verse 7. It speaks about the praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. First Peter chapter 1 verse 13, it speaks about uh fixing our hope completely on the grace to be brought at the revelation of Jesus Christ. First Peter chapter 4, verse 13, it says, so that also at the revelation of his glory ye may rejoice with exaltation. This is the the appearance of Christ that we long for, that we look forward to, and his first appearance was personal, visible, bodily And his second appearance will be personal, visible, and bodily. He will come a second time in the same way that he came the first time. He was received from earth up into heaven, into the clouds, and he will come in the clouds back to the earth from the heavens. And when he appears, what does he bring with him? Back in 1 Peter 5 and verse 4, he brings with him the unfading crown of glory. There's a crown that we will receive on that day. And this uncorruptible crown is a crown of reward. It's not the diadem. It's the Stephanas It's the crown that was used for victors in military battle or those in athletic competitions. It was a wreath that was made that was placed on the head to recognize a victory. And this is a crown that will not lose its beauty. It's an unfading crown of glory. It will never fade like the leaves of the ancient crowns would fade. This is a crown that will never fade. It will retain its beauty. And faithful believers will reflect the glory that belongs to God as we're rewarded for what He has called us to do. Many believe that this crown of glory is uh the same as the crown of life mentioned elsewhere. Crown of uh for all those who believe. But for those who are especially faithful, the crown will shine with more brilliance, I believe. James chapter 1 and verse 12, it says, Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, for once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love him So there's some connection here, even with the crown of life, with the man who perseveres under trial. Revelation 2, verse 10. Do not fear what you are about to suffer Behold, the devil is about to cast some of you into prison, so that you will be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days, but faithful until death, and I will give you, be faithful until death uh uh or rather, be faithful until death and I will give you the crown of life. That there's some kind of connection between being faithful under tribulation and the crown that we will wear in eternity. So what we're looking for is faithfulness. And in all the leaders that we would have here at BBC, we pray that God would give us faithful leaders, men who are willing to stand by their convictions, sacrifice themselves for the sake of others. Men who are willing to serve with a willing heart, eager heart, humble heart, men who are not moved by external pressure or monetary gain They're not motivated by position or prominence. We need men who are willing to suffer for the sake of righteousness and if necessary, even give their lives for the sake of the truth. We need faithful men. There was a man by the name of John Rogers, who was an English reformer. He was a friend of William Tyndale. He was responsible for continuing William Tyndale's work of translating the scriptures into English. If you've ever heard of the Matthews Bible, John Rogers was actually responsible for some of that translation. And in 1547, when Edward VI succeeded the throne of England, Rogers. And his works were protected. But in 1553 there was somebody else who succeeded the throne, and it was Queen Mary, also known as Bloody Mary, because of all the blood that was shed of those that believed in the gospel under her reign. She came into power and Rogers was in prison because he denied the real presence of Christ in the Mass. You know, even today we're celebrating communion and we're not saying that Jesus is in the wafer. So he denied that Jesus is inside the wafer and because of that, he came to prison. He was in prison for it. He remained in jail for over a year. He wasn't allowed to see his wife or his eleven children, one of whom was born while he was in prison. Can you imagine that? A baby's born and you're in prison while your wife is having the baby alone. And after a year in prison, he was ordered to be executed. And he was asked if he would revoke his abominable doctrine. You know, revoke these doctrines that, you know, Christ isn't in the wafers and these other doctrines that were representative of the Reformation So they revoke them. We'll let you go. Turn away from these doctrines. We'll let you out of here. You can go and see your wife and your eleven children. Don't you care about your children? Don't you care about your wife? And listen to what he says. That which I have preached, I will seal with my blood. That the word of God was that important to him that he was willing to lose even his own life. And as he proceeded to the stake, to a great crowd, with a great crowd accompanying him, there were many who were emboldened and not afraid to make exclamations to strengthen him, to strengthen his courage. Even his children assisted at it. Some of the children that he weren't that he that he wasn't able to see during his time in prison, he was able to see them as he was going to his execution Even his children assisted him, comforting him in such a manner that one historian says it seemed as if he had been led to a wedding instead of to his death. And Fox 's book of martyrs details his death. It says, The fire was put unto him, and when it had taken hold both upon his legs and shoulders, he as if one feeling no pain washed his hands in the flames. As the flames are coming around him, he's washing his hands in the flames, as though it had been in cold water, and after lifting up his hands unto heaven, not removing his hands until at such time as the devouring fire had consumed them, so he's lifting up his hands until the fire gets all the way up to his hands. And most mildly, this happy martyr yielded up his spirit into the hands of his heavenly father. A little before his burning at the stake, his pardon was brought if he would but recant Just say that you don't believe in this anymore. But he utterly refused. And he was the first martyr of all that blessed company that suffered in Queen Mary's time. And he became an example of one who was willing to suffer for his faith. And my question for you is, is the truth important enough for you to suffer for it? That's not just for the pastors. That's for every one of us, isn't it? Are you willing to suffer for the truth? Now let me ask you another question You know, because you might think that like, you know, I might be able to muster up enough courage at the time of death to say, like, I will not reject Jesus Christ, you know, burn me if you must, you know. Maybe you think that you might be able to do that. Let me ask you a much simpler question. Are you willing to stand up for Jesus today before your friends and family? To open up your mouth and bear witness for Jesus Christ, even if people are hostile to it, are you still willing to say the name Jesus? When he comes to mind, you're sitting next to somebody as an unbeliever, are you willing to pull a track out of your pocket and say, hey, I've got something I want you to read Are you willing to suffer for the truth? We're living in tumultuous times, aren't we? These are difficult days that we're in, and I I believe that the hostility against the truth is only going to increase. And uh my question for us is uh who's going to be left standing firm when the pressure comes down? When the pressure comes down, we need to be those that are standing firm. And we need those who are willing to be examples of standing firm. And that's why we're grateful that the Lord is bringing and raising up men among us and bringing men to us. And uh you need to pray for your leaders. Uh pray that they'll stand in the evil day, uh pray that they won't cave in to the pressures around them, and that we'll have men among us who are willing to stand for the truth. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh your truth, uh we thank you for your word and uh for the example that we find in your word Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, as your people, that we would stand for truth, that we wouldn't back down, even in the threat of persecution. Father, I pray that we'd have those who are motivated not by money, not by prestige, not because somebody told them to do something to make a stand, but uh men who are And women who are compelled internally , because we love Jesus Christ, because we love the truth. Father, that we're willing to take a stand, that we're we're eager about it, we're willing for it. Father, I pray that we be examples. And Father, we look forward to the day when we'll receive that unfading crown of glory. And Father, I pray that that crown is as brilliant as it can possibly be. Because we've been willing to take a stand for the truth now. So Father, we know that one day we'll we'll stand before you and we will receive reward. Now for the life that we've lived, but Father, all of that is only for your glory. We receive a crown just so we can cast it down. Because you're the one who's worthy of all the glory, and it's your power that works mightily within us. It's not because of us, it's not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give the glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.