The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Great to be with you, to worship with you. Always a phenomenal experience to worship with our brothers and sisters in Christ here at Baltimore Bible Church. Pastor George asked me a couple weeks ago if I would preach today. He's in the midst of seminary classes and finishing up and glad to help out where I can. I thought after Thanksgiving when the crowd left to go home from our house that I'd get a head start. And so I went to Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. And I started studying that passage, and if you were here last week, Pastor George got up last Sunday and said, let's turn to Philippians 4, verses 4 through 7. I just got a little more out of that message because I'd already pre-studied it. So today we're going to look at 1 Peter chapter 4. Verses 7 through 11. And if we're to give a title to it, take heed to these matters. And to give a brief summary of the book of 1 Peter, we could summarize the theme as standing firm or the Christian's response to suffering. It's a good book to go to when you're struggling with trials and suffering in your life. And if we were to give a short outline of the chapters, there would be four points to 1 Peter All starting with the letter S. They're not original with me, but I actually had to memorize this for my reaffirmation a little over a year ago. The salvation of the believer. the sanctification of the believer, the submission of the believer, and then the suffering of the believer in pretty much the last couple chapters. So again, this theme of suffering, Peter spent a lot of time in this short letter speaking about suffering, facing his own suffering And seeing his brothers and sisters who were struggling, the opening verses of the book talk about the dispersion. Why were they dispersed? Because of persecution. And they were often maligned and mistreated, so he is trying to encourage them. Notice in 1 Peter chapter 4, in fact in verse 1, before we get to our text. We notice this at the start of the chapter, 1 Peter 4. 1. Therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh. Arm yourselves also with the same purpose, because he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Arm yourselves. Be prepared for that suffering that will come. But now our text, if you'll skip down to verse 4 through 7. Peter writes, The end of all things is near. Therefore be of sound judgment, of sober spirit, for the purpose of prayer. Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one another without complaint. be as each one has received a special gift, employed in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Whoever speaks is to do so, as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves is to do so as one who is serving by the strength which God supplies. So that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belongs the glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Let's have a word of prayer. Lord, we ask for your wisdom this hour, for your insight. May I accurately proclaim your word. It is your word Not my word. It is the holy word of God. As Pastor George said, it is inspired. God breathes. May we allow it to penetrate into our hearts, to teach us, to draw us closer to you, and to bring lost ones to salvation this hour. In Jesus' name. Amen. So in this section of 1 Peter, it begins with the opening phrase, the end of all things is near. As I was flipping through my newsfeed this morning, I didn't look closely at the article, but it said we have 17 years. before the end. Global population explosion at only seventeen years. Well the end has been near for a long time. Peter cited this two thousand years ago, that the end is near. And he's not talking about the end of life It is really the culmination of life when Jesus comes again. Amen. And that will be glory. It will be the time of the fulfillment of all things, the reward of all things. For we read in 1 Peter 1:3, the end is when our living hope will be realized. We see in 1 Peter 1 4, it is when we will receive our imperishable, undefiled inheritance that will never fade away. It is the time in chapter 1, verse 9, we will receive the outcome of our faith, the salvation of our souls. My grandfather, his name was uh, we called him Grandpa Vanderlinden , was a pastor in Albuquerque and then retired in Southern California. Would back in the days when you used to write letters to each other, would close his letters with an arrow at the bottom and the words, keep looking up. Keep looking up. And we need to keep looking up. Paul wrote in Romans chapter thirteen, verse eleven. Do this, knowing the time that it is already the hour for you to awaken from your sleep. For now salvation is nearer to us than when we believed. The night is almost gone, the day is near. So Peter is writing this 2,000 years ago. How much closer is it to us today? And besides the fact, we're reminded about our own lives that our lives are like a vapor. that is quickly vanishing away. Or as Hebrews says that the Bible tells us it is appointed as a man once to die, and after this the judgment. Jesus could return any time. Do you believe that? Or no one has a guarantee on another hour, another day of their life. But too often we have had the attitude, and I include myself in that category, thinking, well, I'll really get serious with Christ when I do. Fill in the blank. Or I hear people in later in more recent days saying, until I fill my bucket list, what what is a bucket list anyway? Do we have in our bucket list winning the loss to Jesus Christ? In our bucket list reading through the whole Bible in our bucket list saying, what other ministry can I get involved in at Baltimore Bible Church? But no, the bucket list is going to some foreign land or some exotic place, some vacation. The return of Jesus Christ at the end of the age should be a truth that transforms our lives. What Peter is proclaiming should be a compelling motive for us. For soul searching, and to say, I need to take heed to these matters. Notice in the middle of verse 7, we have the word therefore. And now Peter is pointing us to four truths, I believe, the therefore, based on the fact that the end is near, four truths to take heed in our life. Since the end is near, let's examine our heart according to these four truths. First, number one, diligent prayer Notice once again, verse 7. The end of all things is near. Therefore, be of sound judgment and sober spirit for what? The purpose of prayer. To be of sound judgment can also be translated to be self-controlled, having a sound mind. Maturely examine the Word of God in light of our own life, our own character. Kind of a synonymous phrase is have a sober spirit. Which again is the idea that we need to be sober spiritually alert to avoid being spiritually intoxicated so we are not spiritually alert in our life. And as we do these things, I believe it will draw us to greater holiness. Draw us closer to the Lord. It will cause us to take things seriously and magnify then our prayer life. That we are dependent on God for all of these things, that we need to pour out our hearts in prayer. 1 Peter 1, verse 13. Says, therefore, prepare your minds for action. King James Version, gird up your loins, if you remember that. Keep sober in spirit. So my friend, we are to be clear-headed. Have a mental sobriety. For the sake of our prayer life. As Colossians 3. 1 says, set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. To have that soberness of spirit that causes us to have a deeper prayer life. Prayer should be urgent matters in our life in these difficult days. These last days that we live in, with a culture that is more debased by the hour, should draw us to our knees. So that we are of sound judgment and sober spirit. Why? For the purpose of our prayer life. My friend, how passionate is your prayer life? And I asked myself that. And I have to answer too many times, too often lacking. When we're in stress and anxiety, as we heard last Sunday, what do we do? We worry instead of praying. Let's turn it over to the Lord. So, since the end of all things is near, we need to take heed to diligent prayer. But number two. to fervent love in verse 8. And we will rest on this point a little bit longer. Above all, keep fervent in your love for one another, because love covers a multitude of sins. He begins that verse by saying, above all, all means all. And above means above all. That we need to make this a priority of our lives. Above all How was your love life for brothers and sisters in Christ? To your family members, to your friends, to those that ought to be the closest to us Sometimes it is very much lacking. First Corinthians chapter 3, the opening prologue to the love chapter, reminds us that if we do not have love , We are like a clanging cymbal and a noisy gong. You know, if you played the gong and the cymbal at the wrong time in an orchestra or a band It's awful. I remember going to when my wife was teaching third grade at Faith Baptist School in Michigan. And she was across the hall from the band room and at the beginning of the year when I'd go visit her, the band is just assembling and they're playing in there and I would say, what in the world is that? It sounds like a traffic jam And it's the band that, yeah, it's their first year of band practice, like a noisy gong and a clanging cymbal Without love, my friend, we are nothing. And then we see the phrase, keep fervent in your love for one another. That word fervent is an illustration like an athlete who is fervently disciplining himself or herself. who stretching and straining, particularly in the idea of athletic race , energize and exerting themselves for the cause of winning that race. How about for the cause of loving others? Straining, stretching Stretching to the max. Peter didn't say we should just tolerate one another. He said, We are to have a fervent love. First Peter chapter 1, verse 22 says, having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth. For a sincere brotherly love. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Are we stretching? Are we straining? I heard a story about a man who was very sick, deathly ill, went through a whole bunch of tests. And the doctor called his wife in and said, I don't know if your husband's gonna make it. He is so full of stress and anxiety. And here's what I want you to do: he needs to quit his job. Take all pressure off of him. Don't give him any duties. Don't relieve him of all his stress. Don't give him any responsibilities. Whatever he loves to eat. Let him eat whatever he wants. Tell him how wonderful he is, smother him with affection, and he should recover. So She got in the car, her husband said, so what did the doctor say? He said, You're gonna die She heard that and said, I'm not doing this. I didn't sign up for this I don't think that was a true story, but uh I did hear another preacher tell it, so But does it illustrate? If I gotta make that kind of commitment, I'm out of here. I didn't sign up for this So how do we stretch our love? How do we strain? By holding nothing back. I believe the problem. Where we fail to do this is that too often we are self-centered. So self-centered we don't even know the needs of our family members, of our spouse, like we should. To take that into consideration. So self-centered that we don't need the needs of those within our church body. The reason why we don't have fervent love is because, my friend, we love ourselves too much. We love ourselves too much. For I believe fervent love is loving the unlovely, loving the unlovable, loving our enemies. Loving those who have not been kind to us, treated us kindly, loving to the point of sacrifice that it costs you something. Please turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. We referred to that a moment ago. You're familiar with this passage, but let's look at it beginning in verse 4. It describes how our love ought to be fervent and stretched and go the extra mile. 1 Corinthians 13 4 says, love is patient. Love is kind and is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant. Love does not act unbecomingly. It does not seek its own, is not provoked. It does not take into account a wrong suffered Does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Have you ever done a self-check on 1 Corinthians 13? Many times I get an F When I examine my love for others, according to this passage, or maybe a D minus if I'm doing well. First John reminds us, if we don't love the brethren and the cistern, we're not a child of God's. The one who does not love does not know God. For God is love, or John 13, 35. By this shall all men know you are my disciples. What? If you have love. For one another. I know some people are hard to love. That includes family members that were just with you at Thanksgiving time. And oh, Uncle Earl had to bring up politics. And Aunt Irma had to brag about all her grandchildren. Making me so jealous, well, she doesn't have the only grandchildren that are special in this world. And they're coming back for Christmas Some people are hard to live with. Maybe that's why the next phrase in verse 8 says, because love covers a multitude of sins. That is a quotation from Proverbs 10, verse 12. I'll begin with verse 11 that says, The mouth of the righteous is the fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions. I believe Peter is quoting from this passage. Sorry, confused with that phrase covers a multitude of sins. Well, let's talk about what it does not mean. It does not mean that we sweep sin under the rug, that we're trying to cover up for people. It does not mean that we're going to ignore sin. that we're not going to engage in discipline as needed and with the goal to restore people. It's not because we love kicking people out of the church or out of our home. There's a purpose behind all of that. It does not mean that we avoid the difficulties of confrontation. We're given our marching orders in Matthew chapter 18, verse 15. If your brother sins against you, Go and tell him his fault between you and the whole world? You and him alone. If he listens to you, what? You've gained your brother. So we are commanded, Galatians 6. 1, we're also commanded to restore somebody in a spirit of meekness. But what I believe it does mean is that love is tender and compassionate. Love is gracious, merciful, forgiving. In response to the sinner, love delights in restoration. Again, Galatians 6. 1 says, you who are spiritual should restore this person in a spirit of gentleness. So I believe love covering a multitude of sins, first of all, means that we need to be willing to forgive. We're asked to forgive. We don't hold crudges and say, well, you cross the line and I just cannot forgive that. I will not forgive. Is that what Christ did for you and I? And when Peter was asked by Jesus Christ, how many times do you think you should forgive? Peter thought he was doing a great job by saying, How many times? Seven times. And Jesus said, no, that's not enough. Seventy times seven is how we ought to forgive. Colossians chapter 3, verses 13 and 14 says Bearing with one another and forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you. So also should you. Beyond all these things, put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. I believe when we cover, allow love to cover a multitude of sins, that we need to be willing first and foremost to forgive. But I also believe it means we need to be slow to take offense. Slow to take offense. Because we can be offended times too quickly, too easily. Proverbs, listen to this, chapter 19, verse 11 says, Good sense makes one slow to anger And it is his glory to overlook an offense. Overlook an offense. Please turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 5 through 8. Paul is taking to task the Corinthians because some believers are suing other believers and going to a court of unbelievers. And in the midst of this passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 5. Paul says this, I say this to your shame. Is it so that there are not among you one wise man who will be able to decide between his brethren? But brother goes to law with brother. And that before unbelievers? Actually then It is already a defeat for you that you have lawsuits with one another. Notice these next phrases. Why not be wronged? Why not rather be defrauded? On the contrary, you yourselves wrong and defraud, you do this even to your brothers. Are you willing, for the sake of love, covering a multitude of sins, to be defrauded, to be wronged? And once again in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 5, love does not seek its own. What I want to get out of this. Love is not easily provoked. Love does not take into account a wrong suffered, is not keeping score. I've had some counseling sessions where each The male and female came out, the husband or wife came out with their long lists. You know, and I said, we need to get rid of these lists. And we need to start from scratch and not just pour out our heart with all the offenses that have taken place. Because the truth of the matter is, if you look hard enough, you're going to find faults, you're going to find grievances, you're going to find irritations about one another in your home. With your spouse, with your siblings, and tragically even with our church family. We can dwell on it or we can let it glow go. Because as I said a moment ago, I believe fervent love is compassionate. It is gracious. It's merciful. And forgiving in response to the sinner who has come to us asking for forgiveness. How are we practicing this in your marriage? In your home, at Thanksgiving and Christmas with your extended family. It's amazing how we fail to live this out in our lives. And how tragically we make a big deal about something that really is not that big of a deal. Oh well, she squeezed the toothpaste at the wrong end. Or he left his hair in the sink. Or the kids' clothes are all over the bedroom. Hey, that means they're alive. You still have them with you. Isn't a joy picking up for somebody else to serve one another? We need a little more grace, a little more love. I am so thankful for my wife who is very graceful with me. She did a phenomenal job decorating for Christmas. We had family coming for Thanksgiving that can't come for Christmas, so we had Thanksgiving and Christmas last week And she sent, I bring up all the boxes and she decorates. So that that's my part. And I came home from uh church or a staff meeting or whatever. And I noticed a piece of furniture, I said, because everything has to be rearranged for Christmas. I said, where did that piece of furniture come from? She said, it's been sitting in front of the living room window for months. I said, it has? Clueless in Cockysville Boy, did I mess up on that one? I thought it was a new piece of furniture. Or she'll send me the grocery store with a list of things to get. And often I fail to get the most important things. She'll send me for sour cream that was on the list, and I got ice cream that was not on the list. Don't we get upset too often about foolish things in life? Frustrated over tiny things. We can't live on eggshells We need a place where people feel secure. At home. At BBC. Among our brothers and sisters in Christ. Remember this, my friend. The person who offended you and I is not the only sinner in the room. They're not the only sinner. Aren't we all sinners saved by the matchless grace of Jesus Christ? Oh, so-and-so didn't talk to me last Sunday. They didn't smile at me when they've walked past. When I was at Maranatha Baptist Church, I had a lady write me a letter saying, I'm offended, Pastor, I'm leaving the church because you walked past me and didn't talk to me. And I honestly did not remember it And you know, sometimes you you're thinking about, I gotta get to the platform. It's eleven o'clock and it's ten fifty-nine and I I probably did brush by her and thankfully she did forgive me and stayed at the church for another thirty-five years. And that was after one time when I mowed her front lawn and I scratched her son's car with a lawnmower. So she was forgiving in the end My friend, we can dwell on it or we can let it go. Philippians chapter four, verse two. Paul names two ladies in Philippi. Yodia and Syntiche are asked to agree in the Lord. Wouldn't you love to have your names in the Bible? As two who could not agree. Somebody has come up with these names for them, nicknames odious and so touchy. Are you odious and so touchy? Yes, at times people will say stupid things. They have different opinions, different convictions. We can get uptight easily and offended, but we need to let love cover a multitude of sins. And let it go. And sometimes we don't even need to talk about it again. And just let it go. Philippians chapter 1, verse 9 reminds us, Paul says, And this I pray, that your love may abound still more and more, and real knowledge and all discernment. One thing that can't be absent from our church, a Bible-leading church like this, is anyone who feels unloved, uncared for We need the presence of looking around us before, after church. Who's alone? Who needs somebody to sit with us at the fellowship meal in a few minutes? Instead of just being with our friend group, we need to be constantly looking out for others and not ourselves And that is not just the pastor's duties or the deacon's duties. It's for all to love fervently and let love cover a multitude of sins I've spent way too much time on that second point. Let's move on. Third, so we have diligent prayer, fervent love. Third, glad hospitality in verse 9. Be hospitable to one another without complaint. The word hospitality means being friendly to your best friend. No, to strangers. Hospitality is love in action. It is opening your heart as you open your home to others. Back in that day, they didn't have a motel fix that would leave the light on for them. And if there was a place for them to stay, oftentimes they were very dangerous and dirty, or a place of ill repute. So they needed a place for believers to find shelter and safety and security with a fellow Christian. Hospitality was critical. And they were dependent on one another to do that. So I guess we're getting a little music feedback here. Hope you can still listen. On top of that, they did not have church buildings. So where did the church meet? In homes. And I'm thankful, even though I was not around 12 years ago or the number of years ago I'm not sure when Baltimore Bible Church started as Bible studies in homes. Some of you open your homes. Some of you open your homes for small groups. We're so thankful for that. But tragically, some people say, well, hospitality is not my gift. Peter didn't really give us an option there. He didn't say only for those who have the gift. He's talking about the normal course of action for every believer in the body of Christ. Letting people in our lives at church and inviting them to our home or inviting them somewhere to have some coffee along the way. And notice in verse 9, be hospitable to one another without complaint. The ESV translates it without grumbling. We must be careful that we don't do this with a grumbling, complaining attitude. In the Greek, it means without secretly wishing you didn't have to be hospitable. So I'm having you over, but I really don't want you over. Do you think you can hide that? If you're thinking that and feeling that, Benjamin Franklin once said, fish and visitors smell after three days. So what if the guests want to stay more than three days? We're in big trouble. I grew up in a home where my parents Love to open their home to new people in the church. Missionaries, guest speakers, often came over for dinner or spent an evening or two in our home. And I learned a lot by just sitting at the table with missionaries and godly men and women. But I must admit there were a few times when I'd hear my mom on the phone saying, sure, Pastor, they can stay at our house and I'm saying No, no, no. I'm tired of having to be on my best behavior. Can we just skip this It's just my observation, and I could be wrong, that hospitality has been lost in the modern-day church. And it's left up to too few people. How can we be hospitable? By welcoming new people Opening your home to the church family on a regular basis doesn't have to be every week. Start with once a month or every other month or so. Hosting a small group in your home. I'm sure some of the folks that keep hosting small groups would like to share the love and the hospitality. How about those outside your friend group? Inviting them first and not your friends. How about the widows, the widowers? Singles. Who in our church could use some encouragement right now? They're lonely, they're struggling, they're grieving, they're going through trials Who seems lonely and especially during the holidays? How can we open our hearts and our homes? Too often we make excuses, well my house isn't big enough. It's not nice enough. I'll I'll wait till after I remodel and get the $25,000 to get a new kitchen or New bathroom or whatever it is. It's always another day, another place. I'm not really good at meal preparation. Well, there are frozen pizzas at the grocery store. It doesn't have to be a grand feast. What matters is the heart of us. And yes, it can be time consuming, and it infringes on our privacy. But we are told to show hospitality and glad hospitality to one another So, since the end of all things is near, we need to take heed to diligent prayer, fervent love, glad hospitality, and fourthly, faithful service. The next verse goes on to point out how we need to use our spiritual gifts to serve the Lord. Verse 10 says, as each one has received a special gift. employ it by serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We read about the spiritual gifts And we here at BBC hold to some are permanent and some were temporary during the apostolic age. But we read about some of these spiritual gifts in Romans chapter 12, 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Ephesians chapter 4, listing of the spiritual gifts. Some of the examples of those that are still valid for today would include serving or teaching. Encouraging, giving, leadership, mercy, faith, discernment, and helping others. And we notice in this verse, we use these gifts to serve us. To serve one another. In three of these verses we see one another. This is not for ourselves to love ourselves to love one another. to show hospitality to one another, to serve with our spiritual gifts. And this word serve, many of you know comes from the word that is translated deacon means to serve. To be a servant, to be a table waiter, to wait on others to serve and not want and wait to be served, but how can I serve the body of Jesus Christ? And we also notice the word steward. Steward was a house manager. He had no wealth of his own. but distributed his master's wealth according to the master's will and discretion. We are stewards of gifts our God and our master has given us. And we don't have time to get into much detail at this point because often people ask the question: how do I find my spiritual gift? My answer is: get involved. Start serving And it will rise to the top that you have the gift of helps, or you have the gift of teaching, or you have other gifts, as we get involved. If you've been at BBC very long You know that we have a lot of needs, a lot of opportunities, a lot of ministries, and nothing is closed here that I'm aware of that says no workers needed More workers are needed in every ministry. New members. Upcoming members. There are plenty of opportunities. Old time members, not old, but You've been here for a long time. It's not time to check out. I think I've used this illustration people would say, I've done my time. Were you in jail? I've served my time. What does that mean? No, we are to stay active, stay serving. And we see of the manifold grace of God. Manifold means multicolored. It's what you find in an array of flowers or a beautiful rainbow. Of the manifold grace of God, the varied colors and shades of God's grace comes into the church as he gifts individuals. And no two people have the exact same gifts. I mean sometimes there's overlapping of course and that maybe have a predominant gift and m a gift that's not as predominant that we're using in the ministry, but it's all this beautiful rainbow and tapestry of serving God. showing God's grace to others. And no one can say as 1 Corinthians cites that I'm only the foot, I'm only the nose. What if we were just one big giant eyeball? That would be pretty grotesque. We need all parts of the body to function. Verse eleven goes on to say, Whoever speaks is to do so as one who is speaking the utterances of God. Whoever serves as one who is serving by the strength which God supplies Talks about speaking gifts, serving gifts. If you have a speaking gift, use it for the glory of God. A serving gift, use it for the glory of God, as God has gifted you. But do not bury your talent. As we see in the parable of the talents in Matthew chapter 25. Beloved, the end of all times is near. Jesus is coming. And maybe today Or God may take us home. We need to take heed to these matters. If you're not a child of God, as Pastor George shared the gospel and the announcements. Today is the day of salvation to come to this wonderful grace of God where Jesus laid down his life for your sins, our sins. He paid the penalty we could never pay in a zillion years. We could never be good enough. As Pastor George said, our good works are like filthy rags But we must all come to Christ in saving faith to repent of our sin, to receive by faith The gift of eternal life said, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The end of all times is near. Have you engaged recently in diligent prayer, fervent love, glad hospitality, or faithful service? In my years of serving as a pastor, most of my years in Michigan, I've seen too often that A large percentage of our believers were failing in these areas, and times failing in my own life, that I needed to be corrected. Convicted and draw closer to God. For we don't want lonely Christians in our midst Hurting Christians don't feel the love and care and the concern. I thank God for our care ministry that helps out so abundantly in that area. But all of us can be caring. It's not just for the care ministry. We all need to be serving. It's not just for the deacons to be serving. We all need to be involved in our diligent prayer, our fervent love, our glad hospitality, and our faithful service. Beloved, the end of all times is near. So we bow together in prayer. And before I pray out loud, I'd like to ask you to take just a minute to search your own heart. Confess if there's been sin of lack of prayer , lack of love , hospitality. A lack of faithful service in your life. Would you take a moment to examine your heart to confess any known sin in these areas? To ask God to help you. Be more diligent in your prayer life, to be more fervent in your love, to be more glad in your hospitality, and to be more faithful in your service. Lord Jesus, we ask earnestly that you would take the word of truth from 1 Peter, plant it deep in our heart. May we be honest with ourselves and before God who knows our hearts where we have sinned in these areas, where we have failed And ask for forgiveness, genuine forgiveness, to repent and to return to the first works that you've called us to engage in as believers in the body of Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.