The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Well if you open up your Bibles to uh the book of Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew, uh for the past couple of weeks we've been uh focusing our attention directly on um uh correctly identifying who Jesus is and uh increasing our confidence. and who he is as the Son of God. If you remember his hometown of Nazareth identified Jesus as nothing more than a carpenter. King Herod identified Jesus as a prophet raised from the dead. But after the feeding of the five thousand and walking on the water, the disciples responded in a different way. They said that you are the Christ. You are certainly God's son. You are certainly God's son, and they worshiped him. And that's how the disciples identified Jesus Christ. And we'll see that Jesus isn't really finished with reminding his disciples about who he is. Uh many of the miracles that he performed before are going to be the same miracles that he'll perform again in uh chapter uh 15. Uh and in chapter 16 verse 15, uh he asks his disciples the same question. You know, who do who do you say that I am? It's a question they've already answered. They've already said you are certainly God's son , but it's like the disciples suffered from short-term memory loss. And he they they had to continue to be reminded of who Jesus Christ really was. And he wanted them to continue to recall it to their memories that you are the Christ, you are the Son of the living God. And in Matthew chapter 15, it was time here for them to apply that truth about who Jesus Christ was, that Jesus Christ was indeed the Son of the Living God. And if he is the Son of the Living God, that means that Jesus Christ also carries authority. That what Jesus Christ says is what sticks, that uh that Jesus Christ speaks the truth, that he only speaks the truth, and that to oppose Jesus Christ is actually to oppose God Himself. That if you fight against Jesus Christ, that you're fighting against God Himself. And in uh the passage before us in Matthew chapter fifteen What uh Jesus does is uh he he really uh reminds us of the the confidence and authority, uh the confidence and the authority of God. over the traditions of men, that we need to have confidence in his words over any words that are spoken by men. So let's take a look at this in Matthew chapter 15, starting at verse 1. It says then some Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. And he answered and said to them, Why do you you yourselves transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God said, Honor your father and mother, and he who speaks evil of father or mother is to be put to death. But you say, whoever says to his father or mother, whatever I have that would have would help you, has been given to God. He is not to honor his father or mother. And by this you invalidated the word of God for the sake of your tradition. You hypocrites, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. After Jesus called the crowd to him, he said to them, Hear and understand. It is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth. This defiles the man. Then the disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard the statement? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant shall be uprooted. Let them alone, they are blind guides of the blind. And if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into a pit. Peter said to him, Explain the parable to us. Jesus said, Are you still lacking in understanding also? Do you not understand that everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is eliminated? But the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and those defile the man. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders. These are the things which defile the man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. Bow with me in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, once again, and uh Father, we pray that You Lord would teach us. Father, we thank you for your word, and we pray, Lord, that you would instruct us. The authority that it presents to us. And our Father, we pray that you would help us to submit to that authority and that we would recognize your word as the true authority. And our Father, I pray that you would uh help me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Many of you know that my uh my grandmother went home to be with the Lord in December of uh 2015. Uh she was a sweet and uh and a godly lady, but uh for years she was she was bound by a corrupt religious system. uh for years. Uh there was a church that she attended in Harlem that was called the True Church of God, uh where the pastor lived in this lavish home where he drove in expensive bends and he twisted the scriptures, you know, for his own ends. He convinced the people that they didn't just need to give 10% of their money to the Lord, but they needed to give 30% of their money to the Lord. He required that his members turned over their savings accounts to him. At one time he invited a bank into the church. He invited a bank into the church in order that all the members might take out a loan in order to give more money to the church. He coerced the people to take out these these loans. He told members that they that if they uh they got married and they had a honeymoon, that they had to honeymoon at a resort that the church owned. And uh also convinced his members uh that if they died, they had to be buried in the cemetery plot that his church had purchased. So so from you know beginning to end he had these people kind of kind of locked in And I praise God that uh before my my grandmother passed away, uh that she was kind of released from from his his pride, the pride that that he had in his in her life. And um Sadly, she agreed to be buried at the church's cemetery, so when I went to my grandmother's uh graveside service, I had to be tortured to listen to this guy uh give the eulogy But I was grateful for the the opportunity that I had afterwards to actually uh have a word with him, you know, after I got past his bodyguards. True, true story. Got past his bodyguards, and um I was able to talk to him and uh I let him know that um you know what The thing that pains me the most is that my grandmother spent such a long time underneath your ministry. That's the thing that pains me the most And one day you're going to have to stand before God and give an account for the kind of leadership that you've given to these people and uh had the opportunity to talk to him and uh like I said kind of had to work my way past the bodyguards and one bodyguard was actually reaching into his uh to his jacket while I was uh speaking to him. And uh I was able to talk to him and you know just very thankful for the opportunity that I got to share the word of God with him and told him to repent that he needed to repent before it was too late, because God will not be mocked, right? God will not be be mocked. She was bound by a false religious authority. A false religious authority. And there were those who who taught their own doctrines, their own ideas, as if they were the commandments of men. And that's exactly what we're going to talk about today. There's these Pharisees, the scribes, the leaders of the people, but they're not expressing the authority of God. And expressing his words for the people, they're expressing their own authority over the people, expressing their own will over the people. And uh what Jesus does is he gives us a pattern for discerning truth from error And building our confidence in the authority of God's word over traditions, over the words of men. And really helps us answer the question, what do my traditions say about who my real authority is? Who is my real authority? There's a couple questions that Jesus helps us to answer. And the first question is this, are you bound by your religious tradition instead of God's Word? Look at verses 1 and 2 again. So then some Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. So here you have uh, as I mentioned last week, the popularity of of Jesus has kind of reached an all-time high. Uh thousands of people were gathering to Jesus for teaching, for healing, for feeding, and now Jerusalem is starting to get a little bit nervous about this guy, Jesus. Over in John chapter 11 after Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, Scripture says this in John 11 verse 47. It says, Therefore the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council and were saying, What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs, and if we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation You know, it's kind of the point that all men would believe on him, right? And here they're they're worried that all men are going to believe in this Jesus Christ, which lets you know what they're they're really worried about. They're not really worried about the truth. They're worried about their own position. That Rome might come and take my position from me. They'll take away our nation from us. Because they looked at it as their nation. This is our nation that's under our dominion. And it appears here that the scribes and Pharisees in Galilee might have called into Jerusalem for some backup because they they couldn't deal with Jesus. Jesus was too difficult for them to handle. He already attacked their system head-on. in the Sermon on the Mount, where he said that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, that you won't even enter the kingdom of heaven. He's embarrassed them on more than one occasion when they tried to confront Jesus Christ. There was an occasion where they criticized him for eating with sinners and tax collectors. And Jesus replied, it's not those who are healthy and need a physician, but those who are sick. You know, go and learn what this means. You know, you guys need to go and study a little bit more. Go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice. When they criticized his disciples for eating grain from the field on a Sabbath day, he again confronted them and says, Have you not read You know, these are guys that are supposed to be experts, right? Haven't you read what David did when he became hungry, he and his companions, how he entered the house of God and they ate consecrated bread? Have you not read in the law that on the Sabbath priests in the temple break the Sabbath and are innocent? You know, the priests are working on a Sabbath day. But if you had known again what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the innocent. You guys need to go and study a little bit more And when Jesus healed on the Sabbath day, they tried to accuse him again of breaking the Sabbath. And he says, What man is there among you if his sheep falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will he not take him out? How much more valuable then is a man than a sheep than it is lawful to do good on a Sabbath? So here the Pharisees just over and over again, just embarrassed, scolded, humiliated by Jesus Christ, by his wisdom. You know, he's pointing out our ignorance of the law of God. Haven't you read? Don't you study? Don't you read anything? And here they call into Jerusalem for backup. They need the heavy guns to come and take care of Jesus Christ. So Jerusalem is called in. Jerusalem would have been regarded by the Jewish people as the seat of religious authority and power, just like the Roman Catholic uh church views the you know Rome and the Vatican City and you know that's where all the power is you know the big guns are over there and here Jerusalem was was seen as the the same thing. You know Jerusalem is where you get the heavy gun artillery from And the the scribes and Pharisees that come from from there, you know, they're of the higher quality scribe and Pharisee. One commentator points this out in uh there's a popular proverb that said, If two men were to enter the kingdom of heaven, one of them would be a Pharisee and the other a scribe. So the scribes and Pharisees already have a high level of respect, but those that come from Jerusalem have even a higher level of respect. So this group comes from the holy city of Jerusalem, where the temple stood, where David ruled, where the most prominent schools of religious learning would have been. And uh they come to Jerusalem, which would have already been looked down on by the rest of Israel. So it's like, you know, you've got kind of like the highest regarded city to one of the lowest regarded places in Israel. And these esteemed visitors arrive with the word of accusation for this, you know, simple Galilean prophet. You know, they're coming to take care of Jesus. And this is like the clash of the Titans, you know, the most powerful. representatives of Judaism, you know, facing off with this miracle-working prophet. And here comes their their grand accusation, the grand accusation against Jesus Christ. Look at verse 2. Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. And you might be wondering, like, really? Is that the best they could come up with? You know, your disciples don't wash their hands when they eat bread. You know, you're coming to face off with Jesus and you couldn't come up with anything better than that? But but here they go. And you might be wondering, like I said, really? But but first of all, it shows that they were really grasping at anything to try to accuse Jesus with. You know, after they scrutinized Jesus to the hilt, all they could come up with is that your disciples don't wash their hands. Like that's the most attack that they could come up with with Jesus. The most devastating attack that they could come up with is about washing hands. And second, it shows that they couldn't find in Jesus any violation of the scriptures. As they examined Jesus' life, there was nothing that he did that contradicted the word of God. So they had to go back to the tradition of the elders. Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? That's the most they could come up with. According to Josephus, a Jewish historian, the Pharisees delivered to the people a great many observances by succession from their fathers, which were not written in the law of Moses. In other words, they they believed that there was like this great tradition that was kind of passed down by word of mouth, you know, since even from Moses ' time that people would practice And that they, as the Pharisees and the scribes, that they were like the repository of all this information that had been passed down orally. You're not going to find this in the Bible. This is just what's been passed down through the fathers. That's what they they believed, and they believed that these things had an authority. No evidence exists for this because it was all by word of mouth, so you don't have anything written down, you know, not until much later on where they actually started writing down, you know, some of their teachings. But by the time of Jesus, there was this elaborate system of rules that went far beyond the original intent of the scriptures and added unnecessary burdens to the people. in uh Matthew chapter 23 uh talks about the Pharisees and it says they tie up heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders but are unwilling themselves to move them with so much as a finger. So here they go, just laying on these heavy burdens outside of the law, but they're not going to help you at all with it. And one of these burdens had to do with the way that you wash your hands. According to Exodus chapter 30 and verses 17 to 21, the priests were required to wash their hands and feet before they entered into the tent of meeting, to minister before the altar of the Lord. It was a symbol of their purification before him, purification for service. But the oral law, you know, that's not written down, required all of Israel to wash. You know, not just the priests before they do their service to the Lord. Everybody has to wash in a ceremonial way, you know, before you read the Bible, before you pray, uh before you have a meal. Everybody needs to wash in this ceremonial way. Why don't you turn over to Mark chapter 7? Just to learn a little bit more about this, Mark chapter 7, starting at verse 3, where it talks about these uh these religious rules that they had. Start verse 2, it says he had seen that some of his disciples were eating their bread with impure hands, that is unwashed. For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they carefully wash their hands, thus observing the tradition of the elders. And when they come from the marketplace, you know, where the Gentiles were uh they associated with the Gentiles, they do not eat unless they cleanse themselves, and there are many other things which they have received. in order to observe such as the washing of cups and pitchers and copper pots. So they had all these different rules about how you wash your hands, how you wash your pots, you know, different types of pots and how you do all these, you know, different kinds of things. And they they attempted to apply these laws to the people. The same laws that might have been applied to the consecrated priests, they they now try to apply to the nation at large. And it's not like the Pharisees here were were worried about passing along germs. You know, that's that's not what's what's going on here. This is a ceremonial washing. You know, if if you ever uh come to my house for for dinner, you know, sometime before we bring out the food or you know maybe after I pray, you know, my wife will often say, you know, there's a bathroom over here if you'd like to wash your hands. And uh people figure out that that's really not a suggestion. You know, it's not like it's not like just, hey, you know, if you'd like to know where the bathroom is, it's pretty much like there's a bathroom over here if you'd like to wash your hands, right? But uh they weren't worried about the germs. That's not what the Pharisees here are worried about. For the Pharisees, it wasn't about hygiene, it was about holiness. It wasn't about sanitation, it was about the ceremony. They weren't concerned about dirt, they were concerned about defilement, which is what Jesus points out in verse 11. And uh they required obedience to their traditions. And uh, like I said, some of these oral laws were eventually uh written down uh in what's known as the Mishnah. uh in the and a commentary on that which was known as the Gemara and eventually uh collected in what was known as the Talmud. So you had all these collections of writings, which appeared centuries after Jesus, but it's kind of a collection of writings that talks about some of these traditions. And the Talmud has an entire section just on the hands. An entire section of this Jewish writing just talks about the ritual cleansing and you know what to do with your hands, and it's pretty elaborate. According to uh Etersham, a Jewish commentator, in order to wash your hands ceremonially, well listen to what you had to do, a measure equal to one half one and one half of an eggshell was needed. No less quantity than this might be used. The water was poured on both hands, which must be free of anything covering them. The hands were lifted so as to make water run down the wrist, in order that the whole hand was washed, and the water polluted by the hand did not run down again to the fingers. Each hand was rubbed with the other if it was cleansed. Otherwise you could rub it against your head or you could rub it against the wall. You know, if the other hand isn't clean, you can rub it, you know, against your head against the wall. And then it just goes on and on like this. You know, all these different rules about how to how to wash your hands, how to cleanse your hands. For a whole chapter, a whole section, you know, is dedicated just to this. And they applied this to the people, that everybody had to do this ceremony before you ate anything. And it might have been even when when Jesus fed the 5,000, which might have been 20 to 25,000, that these You know, Pharisees are examining Jesus and saying, hey , am I seeing what I think I'm seeing? Are your disciples eating without washing their hands? I mean, I didn't see the water trickle down And anybody living in the land of Israel was subjected to this kind of uh scrutiny by the scribes and the Pharisees. One rabbi said, It's better to go four miles than to incur guilt by neglecting the hand washings. One commentator tells the story of a famous rabbi named Akiba who was imprisoned. And having his allowance of water reduced, he took what little water there was to wash his hands before eating instead of drinking it. So he doesn't have any water to drink, but he would rather wash his hands than actually drink the water that he was given, saying that he would rather die than transgress the institutions of the ancestors. And there were actually uh uh according to to one author , talked about the the the rabbinical teachings. One one writer said this, anyone living in the land of Israel, eating his daily food in purification, you know, after washing his hands, eating it in purification Is certain that he will eat bread in the kingdom of God. It was that important to them. If you eat bread in the right way, if you wash your hands in the right way, you know, if you can be certain that you'll enter into the kingdom of God. So how does Jesus respond to this kind of accusation? You know, this tradition that's been built up that the nation, the whole nation is accustomed to this. Tradition that had the strength of history behind it. You know, they say, hey, this came down from our fathers. You know, everybody's practicing it. You know, the religious leaders are practicing it. How does he respond to their accusation? What you find is that Jesus doesn't apologize for breaking their tradition. He doesn't try to defend his disciples for why they broke the tradition. He doesn't try to justify himself. At this time, he completely dismisses their accusation like it doesn't even matter And basically what Jesus lets them know is that I'm not bound by your traditions. I'm not bound by that. And he turns to what really does matter, which is the word of God. If we want to talk about something that we need to be bound by, let's talk about the word of God. Why don't we deal with that? And Jesus argued in a way that was much more foundational than they were prepared for. Instead of answering their little criticisms, Jesus attacks the foundation that they're resting on. Where is your authority? What are you binding yourselves to? And have you ever considered how your system stands up in relationship to the divine word? And you let them know that loyalty to God is not measured by obedience to their words, but to his. Loyalty to God is measured by his own words. And that's something that we need to be convinced of as as believers, or you might find yourself submitting to an authority that really isn't God's authority at all And and the commandments of of men. And and I can't tell you how many conversations I've I've had with people about things that just don't matter Things that don't even touch the divine word. You know, people want to argue with me about all kinds of things. You know, what's your church like? You know, when do you stand up in service? When do you sit down How many songs do you sing? How many prayers are there? What do your members wear to church? Do you wear a robe when you preach? Do you use grape juice or wine in communion? Do you use the liturgy? I'm not bound by any of that I'm not bound by anything outside of the word of God. And I'm not saying that we don't have traditions, but the authority that we're bound by is the authority of the word of God. And where the word of God speaks, we listen. That's what we're bound to. Not bound by any man's traditions. In Isaiah chapter 66 and verse 2 it says, But to this one I will look. to him who is humble and contrite of spirit and who trembles at my word. That's what God is looking for. Somebody who is going to tremble at his word. In 2 Timothy 3 and verse 17, the Word of God is inspired. It talks about the Word of God being inspired, so that the man of God may be adequate. equipped for every good work. You know what that means? There is not one good work that God requires of us to do that can't be found in the Scripture. This Bible equips us for every good work. There's not one good work that God requires of us that is not found in Holy Scripture. That's the sufficiency of the Bible, right? In uh second 2 Peter chapter 1 and verse 3, it says seeing that his divine power is granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence. We have everything that we need. Everything that we need is going to be found in the scriptures. And if somebody comes to you and says that something is required of you that can't be found in this book, I don't care what title they have. I don't care what revelation they claim, I don't care what kind of tradition they point to, you are not obligated to obey them. Isaiah chapter 8 verse 20 says, to the law and to the testimony. And if they do not speak according to this word, it is because they have no dawn. They don't have any light. And the scriptures are the light, right? And uh Jesus uh doesn't directly address their accusation, but talks about what the authority is, the true authority is, which undermines everything that they they say. You know, just like if the the Roman Catholic Church sent a a representative from the Vatican here to to check out our worship service and you know they start picking on, you know, well, how many times do you sit, how many times do you stand, and you know, you don't wear a robe and you haven't lit this candle and you haven't said this So what? I'm not going to feel bound by that because they're not coming with the Bible. They're not coming with the Word of God. I'm much more interested in having a conversation about what do we do with this book? You know, if I'm going to have a conversation with anybody from another, you know, religious tradition, what do we do about this book? And that's the real question, right? That's the real question. So the first question, again, is uh Are we bound by our religious traditions instead of to God's word? Number two, the question is, does your religious tradition violate God's word? Does your religious tradition violate God's word? And here Jesus strikes a blow at the foundation of their entire system, like I said again In their their minds, the oral tradition uh was a protection for the law of God. Uh they consider their traditions the fence around the law of God so that if you stay behind the fence, You know, just listen to us. You don't have to worry about disobeying the word of God. Just listen to our rules, and you don't have to worry about God's laws. But here Jesus shows that their laws don't protect the law of God. Your laws actually violate the law of God. And the entire purpose for your existence is undermined. Like we don't need you guys. You know, if if if your purpose is to protect the law of God and you're actually in violation of it, we don't need you. Their traditions were inconsistent with God's law. Look at uh verses 3 and 4 here. It says, He answered and said to them, Why do you yourselves transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God said, honor your father and mother, and he who speaks evil of father and mother is to be put to death. And their laws here provided loopholes and granted permission to get around the clear teaching of the scriptures. And uh Jesus says you transgress the commandment of God, uses the Greek word parabino, uh which means to go by the side, to turn aside from, to get past. Like you find all kinds of ways to get around the clear teaching of the Bible, and it's inconsistent. With the law of God itself. And he specifically cites the fifth commandment, the command to honor your father and mother, which is repeated throughout the scriptures. It's in Exodus 20, verse 12, Deuteronomy 5, 16, Deuteronomy 27 and 16. And then Ephesians chapter 6, you know, verses 1 to 3 recognizes that this is the first command that comes with the promise. And Israel understood that the commandment of honoring your father and mother didn't just apply to children who are still living at home. You know, that even after you were out of the home on your own, that you were still obligated to honor your parents, honor your mother and father. Even after a child was grown out of the house, they still had this obligation to care for the one who nurtured them, to care for the one who cared for them. And taking care of your parents' physical needs was just a part of that responsibility. to honor your parents. You know, and that's why in 1 Timothy chapter 5 and verse 4 it says if a widow has children or grandchildren, they must first learn to practice piety in regard to their own family. and make some return to their parents. Make some return to their parents. For this is acceptable in the sight of God for the children to honor the parents. And that's one of the reasons why it was so devastating when um uh couples you know lost their children or didn't have children, uh because it was expected that these children would take care of them in their their older older age. So it talks about this command to honor. And then on the flip side, there's a command not to curse your parents, you know, not to wish ill on your parents. You know, actually to wish death on your parents even. In Exodus chapter 21. In verse 17 it says, He who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. So children were expected to seek their parents' welfare, not their parents' destruction, and even a curse that was verbalized. You know, cursing your parents out loud, wishing you know, mom and dad were dead. Even verbalizing that was enough in the Old Testament for the death penalty in ancient Israel. Let them be put to death. But in the face of such a clear command that was given in the Old Testament, and such a severe warning against cursing your parents, wishing ill on your parents. The traditions of the elders actually contradicted the command to take care of your parents. It actually contradicted it. It set up their own false authority. Look at verses 5 and 6. It says, but you say. You know, this is what the the word of God says, but you say, whoever says to his father or mother, whatever I have that would have would help you has been given to God. He is not to honor his father or his mother. And by this you invalidated the word of God for the sake of your tradition. It was called uh the word was called Corbin. Uh you find that over in um in another account over in Mark. But uh Corbin was a word that was used in the Hebrew Bible to describe all kinds of offerings. You know, whatever I would have given to you is now a gift to God or Corbin Yeah, and they had to refer to items that that were removed from common use, dedicated to God, funds that were pledged to the temple, to the service of God And here you have this pledge that was given to God that could no longer be uh be used for common purposes. And one of the common purposes they considered was taking care of your parents is a common purpose. They could claim that they were unable to meet their obligation because like this this money or these possessions, these resources that I have, you know, can't can no longer go to you because once they leave my hands, they immediately have to go to the temple. They immediately have to go to some kind of religious use So even though I might have this obligation, I'm sorry, it's it's dedicated to God. It was like a convenient way for people to get out of paying a debt, because they could say that, hey, whatever money I have, it's dedicated to God You know, so if you take it from me, it's just gonna go right to God. I mean, I don't you know what you want to do. Right? They could say it's just dedicated to the Lord. But what's kind of interesting is that the money didn't even have to leave their hands in order for it to be dedicated. So you had these people walking around with resources that could have helped their parents, but they say, hey, I I can't I can't transfer it from my hands to yours because as soon as it goes into your hands, it's like I violated this vow that I made to God that it's just going to go straight to him And the scribes and Pharisees made it easy for these people to per to avoid a clear command from Scripture. I can no longer take care of my parents because this has been vowed to God. Over in Mark chapter 7. It says, but ye say, this is in verse 11 to 13, it says, but ye say, if a man says to his father or his mother, whatever I have that would help you is Corbin, that is to say, given to God, You no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother. And you know the scribes and Pharisees were making sure they held to the vow, thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you've handed down, and you do many such things as that. And you know, some of these kids might have wanted to help, but they couldn't. You know, they were prevented. You know, and some of these kids might have wanted to get out of it. And the Pharisees gave them an easy way to do that. And not providing for your parents was just as bad as wishing them dead, wishing a curse on them. And Jesus says, don't come here talking to me about violating your traditions. When you're clearly in violation of the word of God, don't talk to me about your traditions. You know, let's talk about what's really binding on the conscience, which is God's word. And then finally he talks about this hypocrisy in verses 7 and 9. Look at it again. He says, You hypocrites, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. But in vain do they worship me, teaching his doctrines, the precepts of men. The word hypocrite here is taken from the Greek theater. It was a play actor, somebody who pretended to be one thing, but really behind the mask, he was somebody totally different. And Jesus says, that's just what you are. You know, you come down here parading from Jerusalem as if you're all worried about the honor of God. You know, we really want to want to make sure that everything's being done according to the rules. But he says, you could care less about the honor of God. You could care less about what God really has to say and what God really considers important. And he says Isaiah's words that were written 700 years before could apply directly to you. Why don't you flip over to Isaiah chapter 29 real quick? Isaiah chapter uh twenty-nine, where you have Isaiah speaking to the to the people of his day who are engaged in uh in hypocritical uh uh worship. And uh Jesus uses these words to speak of the Pharisees. Isaiah chapter 29, look at verse 13. And the Lord said, Because this people draw near with their words and honor me with their lip service, but they remove their hearts far from me and their reverence For me consist of tradition learned by rote. Therefore, behold, I will once again deal marvelously with this people, wondrously marvelous in the wisdom of their wise men will perish in the discernment of their discerning men, will be concealed. And right here he talks about this vain worship. You know, vain tradition, tradition learned by rote or the commandments that were taught by men is another way that that could be stated. And what he says is that the worship that they gave was all empty. You know, there was no substance to it. You know, it claims to be consistent with God's word, but it's really not. It claims to be based on God's authority, but it's really not. It claims to be about God's honor, but it's really not. It's all empty. It's fake. It's an empty substitute, and it's unable to produce a worship that's acceptable to God. I like what one commentator said. He says, human tradition engages the lips, but only God's word can engage the heart. You know, so all these human traditions, it's all about what's on the outside. It's all external. But only God's word can really change the heart and allow worship to be acceptable before God. And this is just one example of their traditions that violated Scripture. And uh Mark said you do many such things like that. You know, so it what it's just the like the tip of the iceberg where they're violating scripture. And the application for us is uh are you faithful to examine the scriptures themselves to see if the things that a preacher says is true? Is that what you do? Do you check to make sure that it's not violating scripture, whatever a person says, whatever a person proclaims, whatever a person says that we should practice this or that? Do you actually examine the scriptures to see, does this violate the s the plain scripture, the plain reading of the Word of God? Do you exercise discernment When you listen to a message, or does the sermon go out the window as soon as somebody throws on a robe and puts on a backwards collar and says, hey, you know, I'm a pastor, I'm a preacher, I'm a bishop, or whatever else they want to call themselves. You know, does discernment just go out the window? Hey, it's the man of God. You know, everybody got to listen to the man of God. You know, what what and and then they they use these phrases, you know, totally out of context. You know, touch, touch not the Lord's anointing. Touch not the Lord's anointed. Anyone know where that scripture comes from? You know, this is David talking about putting his hand to murder Saul, and he says, you know, I wouldn't touch the Lord's anointed. What does that have to do with your pastor's sermon? You know, all of a sudden it's touch not the Lord's anointing. Scripture twisted all out of context, you know, that to call himself the Lord's anointed. That's not what the Bible's talking about. Don't apply that scripture to yourself We're to exercise discernment when we we listen to people who proclaim that they're speaking truth, that they're opening up the Word of God to us. That's what the Bereans did, right? Over in uh Acts chapter 17, if you want to flip over there real quick, in Acts chapter 17, you have uh Paul, who was an apostle, who did speak the word of God, and he actually considered people noble. He honored people who would actually check behind them. Over in Acts chapter 17. Let's listen to this. Acts chapter 17, starting at verse 10. It says, the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. And when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so Paul didn't feel threatened by that. You know, open the Bible. I mean, please check the scriptures to see if what I'm saying is true. He didn't feel threatened by that. He rejoiced to know that people were checking his words against scripture, and then you have Pastors that feel threatened when you want to ask them a question. Like, hey pastor, can you show me where that don't don't question me. I'm the man of God. You know, this is what God told me. What are you talking about? If Paul and the other apostles said, check me, please, now you think that you're above them? And I can't ask you a question about like where did you get this from? Like like if a man feels threatened by the Word of God, that should let you know there's a problem, right? If a man feels threatened by this book, the book that's meant to give life, the book that's meant to guide his people, you know, if a man feels threatened by this book There's a problem. There's a problem with that. And if you're preaching the word of God, you shouldn't be afraid of the word of God. But there's some who name the name of Christ who are afraid of this book I had a I had a Roman Catholic friend uh who had one of those you know those big family Bibles, you know, sitting on the the living room table, those big white Bibles with the pictures in it and all that. He had this big, big family Bible that was sitting on his on his uh living room table. And he said one day that, you know, I was kind of wondering about what the Bible meant and what it said. So he says, you know, I opened up the family Bible and I'm starting to to flip through it. And he says, My father walked in while I was, you know, reading the Bible and says, What are you doing, boy? He's like I'm I'm trying to read the Bible. He says you better put that thing away. That's dangerous. You might become a Protestant is what he said. Better put that thing down. That's that's dangerous. You know, it's like this fear of somebody understanding what's in the book. You know, don't don't pick up that book. That's why the Roman Catholic Church for years didn't want to want to uh and uh didn't want to give the Bible in the common language of the people so that they could actually understand Why? Because they reserved all the interpretation for themselves, the meaning for themselves, like we're the only ones that know what's going on. And even when they they did uh translate the scriptures into to English when they allowed the scriptures to be translated into English. They still held that only the Holy Mother Church has the true interpretation. So you can read it, but you can't understand it without us. Seriously? Seriously? And the Jews unfortunately weren't much different. The Jewish Talmud said this, the words of the scribes are more lovely than the words of the law. For the words of the law are weighty and light, but the words of the scribes are always weighty. There's a rabbi named Halel who said, My son, attend to the words of the scribes more than to the words of the law. But you have Paul in Galatians who says, you know, if we are an angel from heaven, you know, preach anything other than what I've preached to you, let him be accursed. You know, Romans chapter three, verse four, you know, let God be found true, though every man a liar. Like our our responsibility, our obligation It's to the word of of God, amen. So the question you need to ask is, are you bound by your religious traditions instead of God's Word? Does your religious tradition violate God's word? And here's the the the third question here. Does your religious tradition agree with Christ? Does your religious tradition agree with Christ? Look back at Matthew again, Matthew chapter 15. Look at verse 10. It says, after Jesus called the crowd to him, he said to them, Hear and understand. It is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth. This defiles the man. And here Jesus steps aside. From the scribes and Pharisees and addresses the crowd. And like I said, he never interacted directly with the Pharisees over the question, you know, about the the the eating with unwashed hands. And you think that Jesus might at least try to find some common ground with the Pharisees? You know, build bridges, not walls. You ever hear that statement? You know, let's build bridges, not walls. You know, was it really that big of a deal for the disciples just to wash their hands like the Pharisees wanted them to? You know, why why offend the religious community? You know, can't we all just get along? You know, Rodney King theology, right? Can't we all just get along? And there are some in the crowd who wouldn't understand the position that Jesus took. And Jesus already knows that, that people won't understand. And in fact, when he spoke these words to the crowd, he assumed that there would be some who wouldn't understand. And that's why he says over here in uh in in verse 10, hear and understand. You know, there's people that wouldn't understand. It's similar to the to the phrase that he used often, you know, he who has ears to hear, let him hear, you know, hear and understand. And he knew that there would be people who wouldn't understand his words, and the Pharisees didn't understand his words. Many in the crowd didn't understand his words, even the disciples didn't understand the words that Jesus gave. You know, later on they asked for an explanation of what he meant, and we'll we'll get into what that means later. But even though it's not fully developed here, Jesus is laying the groundwork for for for for for really what's going to be developed throughout the the Bible uh in relationship to to God and his people, how God interacts with his people and what really cleanses the people of God. Because there was going to come a day when even the dietary laws would be set aside because Christ will be the one who makes us clean. Christ is the one who presents us before God. And uh later God would tell Peter, you know, what God has cleansed, no longer consider unholy. You know, speaking about the Gentiles here, but also giving a picture of the food that was also cleansed. Even the food that we uh we eat would be declared clean according to Mark chapter 7. Uh it says that Jesus declared all foods clean. And in uh 1 Timothy chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. Since everything created by God is good, nothing is to be rejected if it is received with gratitude, for it is sanctified by means of the word of God and prayer. So right here when Jesus tells the crowds to hear and understand, It is not what enters into the mouth that defiles the man, but what proceeds out of the mouth. This defiles the man. He's really laying the groundwork for what's really going to be developed throughout later scripture. And they don't understand any of this yet. You know, they don't get the full picture yet. But what they do understand is that Jesus is saying that the Pharisees and their traditions are wrong. And I am the authorized interpreter of the law. Like, listen to me. You know, hear and understand It's not what they're saying is true. It's what I'm saying is true. So he sets himself against the Pharisees here. And this would have sent like shock waves throughout Israel. Because who does this guy think that he is? Here he is contradicting the whole established system, all the religious leaders. Who does he think he is contradicting the elders to their face? But for those of us who are convinced of his true identity, this makes perfect sense, right? Jesus is the Christ. Jesus is the Son of the living God. And above any word, whose word do we want to hear? We want to hear his. Do you remember what uh Jesus said back in John chapter 10, verse 27? He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Jesus himself is the ultimate standard for truth. Do you believe that? Jesus is the standard for truth. Christ is the power and the wisdom of God. This is what it says in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 24. And if the the words of your religious teacher or your religious tradition don't conform to the words of Christ, they are to be rejected. And this is what Jesus Christ plainly lays out. Does your religious tradition agree with me? That's going to be the standard. That's going to be the determiner. Does your religious tradition agree with me? Why don't you flip over to Colossians chapter 2? We read it a little bit earlier today, but just want to show you this again, Colossians chapter 2. Because this is the same thing that uh that Paul taught the Colossian Christians over in Colossians chapter 2. There are Christians that were feeling threatened, intimidated by false teachers, people who claimed that they had a special knowledge, a special insight. And that if the Colossians really wanted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, they had to listen to them. But listen to what Paul says over in Colossians chapter 2, starting in verse 6. Says, therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed and overflowing with gratitude. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made complete, and he is the head over all rule. and authority. Jesus Christ is the rule of all, is the head of all rule and and authority. So again, we're complete in him. And if there's anybody who's trying to convince you that you're not complete without them You know, uh again, there 's somebody that you need to run from. You're in spiritual danger if you're with somebody who says that you're not complete without them. And uh just just one more for today. Uh just one more. If you're going to have confidence in the authority of God over traditions, like I said, you need to make sure you're not bound by man's tradition over God's word. Number two, that your religious tradition doesn't violate God's word, that your religious tradition agrees with Christ, and one more, that your religious tradition is more concerned about being rooted in God. than offending men. More concerned about being rooted in God than offending men. Look again at uh Matthew chapter 15 as we wrap up here. It says, Then the disciples came and said to him, Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard the statement? But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant shall be uprooted. Let them alone, they are blind gods of the blind, and if a blind man guides a blind man, both will fall into the pit So here the disciples apparently seemed nervous about offending the Pharisees. You know, these are the most popular interpreters of the Word of God. You know, they would have had held the Pharisees in high regard just like many of the other people would have. And it would have seemed strange to them that Jesus isn't trying to kind of make make inroads with the Pharisees. You know, if these are the most popular teachers, don't you want to be in with them? Don't you want these guys on your side? If you're really going to establish the kingdom, don't you want the teachers of the kingdom to be on your side? So they come to Jesus and ask the question in verse 12, you know, don't you know that the the the Pharisees were offended when they heard this statement And the the implication is like, Lord, don't you care about that? They're offended. Don't you care, Lord? And how could you expect to win people to your kingdom and to your side without the endorsement of the Pharisees? And if you distance yourself from the most popular teachers, how do you expect to gain a following? You know, Jesus, did you know that these guys actually came from Jerusalem, like the headquarters of Judaism? Like, why doesn't that matter to you? And explains himself over in verse 13. Look at verse 13 again. He answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly father did not plant will be uprooted. And it gives two answers here. Number one, my heavenly father did not plant them. Why would I want to make sure I keep company with people that my heavenly father has not planted? Number two, they will be uprooted Every plant that my heavenly father has not planted shall be uprooted. They're going to be uprooted. Why would I want to join them? And he uses a familiar illustration about the field and pictures men as the plants in the field. But all men are not the plants that God has planted, and that's a sobering thought, isn't it? Just because you're a plant and even a religious plant, you know, that doesn't make you one of the Lord's plants. And the nation of Israel would have seen themselves as God's planning, you know, the God planted us. Isaiah chapter 16 and verse 19 to 22 It says, No longer will you have the sun for light by day, nor for brightness will the moon give you light, but you will have the Lord for an everlasting light and your God for your glory. Your sun will no longer set, your moon will no longer wane. For you will have the Lord for an everlasting light, and the days of your morning will be over, then all your people will be righteous. They will possess the land forever, the branch of my planting. the work of my hands that I may be glorified. The smallest one will become a clan, and the least one a mighty nation. I the Lord will hasten it in its time. So we we learn, you know, from from this chapter that there's this this uh uh this establishment of of of Israel and he's talking about you know this future kingdom to to come that he will establish it in its time and that this is the nation that he's planted. But what we learned from later Revelation is that not everyone who was part of national Israel was part of spiritual Israel. And even John the Baptist would say in Matthew chapter 3 and verse 10, the axe is already laid at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Everybody's not going to make it in. And the Pharisees would have seen themselves as God's special plants that were established as protectors of the law of God. Again, according to the Mishnah, it said Moses received the Torah on Sinai, handed it down to Joshua, Joshua to the elders, the elders to the prophets, and the prophets to the men of the great assembly, speaking about, you know, they thought themselves. You know, they they figured that they were the men who were to to establish judgment, to raise up disciples, to fence in the Torah and the law of God. They considered themselves the shepherds of Israel, but instead of feeding the flock, they were feeding themselves. Over in Ezekiel chapter 34, it talks about these shepherds who uh who feed themselves instead of feeding the flack in Ezekiel chapter 34. In Jeremiah chapter 23 it says, I will raise up shepherds over them, and they will tend to them, and they will not be afraid any longer, nor terrified, nor will any be missing. So God says, I'm going to raise up my own shepherds, because these guys aren't cutting it. And Jesus wasn't afraid of offending the scribes because they were not the shepherds he was looking for. These guys are not going to be the leaders. And then he says, let them alone. You know, the disciples here are worried about them. And, you know, some commentators look at this and they say, you know, well, this must be a parallel with the you know the parable of the tares and the wheat. You know, remember that one? You know, there were tares sown among the wheat, you know, plants that the Lord didn't plant. They say, well, maybe he's talking about that. But in that case, uh, the disciples were looking to judge The tares, you know, to uproot the tares. And he says, you know, wait until the final judgment. In this case, the disciples are trying to make friends with the tares. And he says, let them alone. Don't try to make friends with these guys. Don't try to establish bridges to these guys to make them a part of your group. That's not the context here. The disciples are are looking to patch things up with the Pharisees. Don't you know that they're offended? Like we need these guys. And Jesus says, leave them alone. We don't need these guys. They're blind guys They're lost. And many of them don't even know that they're lost. You know why would a person who can't see why would a person who can't see try to point other people to the to the path? It's like you can't see the path in the first place. They're blind So don't don't don't try to go after them, don't try to get them on your side, don't follow them. They're blind guides of the blind. And here Jesus Christ is standing before them, who is the way, who 's the truth, who's the life, who's the road to heaven, and they totally miss it. Pointing people away from Jesus Christ. They're blind. And Jesus says whoever follows them will end up in the pit with them. And in this case, we're talking about the pit of eternal destruction. And uh later Jesus will speak of the Pharisees in Matthew 23. He says, Would to you scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites, because you travel on the sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he becomes like you, he'll be twice as much the son of hell as yourselves. So why would Jesus be worried about in association with these men? And why are we worried about building bridges to people who are taking us to hell? That's the question. So so offending people isn't the top priority. One author said some people must be hurt or offended so that all people will not be damaged A tradition that presumes to override the Word of God doesn't deserve respect. And the Pharisees were like these intrusive plants that didn't belong. And the application for us is uh, are you offended when people are offended by Christ and his word? You know, does that offend you that somebody would want to distance themselves from you because they're you're you're attached to Christ and his word and they don't want anything to do with that? Does that offend you? And I'm not saying that we should be offensive as Christians, but the Bible says that we need to speak the truth in love, right? You know, the Bible says we need to speak the truth in love. But sometimes we forget that speaking the truth is love. It's not just that speaking the truth, we need to speak the truth in love, but speaking the truth is love. Over in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 13, it says love is patient, love is kind, love is not jealous, doesn't brag, doesn't act unbecomingly. Listen to what it says in verse 6. Does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. So speaking the truth is love And if somebody's offended because you speak the truth, you shouldn't try to try to patch things up and like, oh, I didn't really. No, I didn't mean that. It's not that I didn't mean that. I did mean that. And later on in Acts chapter 4, when the religious leaders command Peter and the apostles, don't speak any longer about this Christ. What did Peter and John say? They said, you know, whether it's right in the sight of God to give heed to you or, you know, to God, you be the judge. But we can't stop speaking about what we've seen and heard. We can't stop with speaking the truth. Over in Acts chapter 5, verse 29, but Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men. So if you're offended because we're obeying God, you just have to be offended. It's not for me to try to patch that up. That's for you to pass that up with God. Because He's the one you're offended by. It's not about me. It's about His word. So if we're rightly Dividing the Word of God, if we're rightly interpreting the Word of God, if we're rightly communicating the Word of God, we don't have to be afraid to stand on the truth. And if people are offended, they have to be offended, but it's not for us to try to patch things up if it's about the Word of God. God doesn't need somebody to defend them, right? I like like what uh Spurden said, you know, uh the word of God is like a line. You don't defend it, you just let it loose You know, the the word of God can take care of itself, right? You know, so if it's just the word of God, hey, you know, the word of God can take care of itself. I don't have to try to make things up and patch things up. You know, you have to deal with the word of God. And what the scripture says is that he who is of God hears the words of God. So as long as we're speaking the word of God, we don't have anything to be fearful of. We don't have anything to be ashamed of. You know, we're speaking the word of God in truth. And uh because we're we're of God, we listen to Him. So the the question for us is uh where is your authority to be found? Is it truly found on God and His Word? Is it truly found on him or is it in uh something something else, something lesser than God in his word? And like I said, you know, traditions are fine to have, but when you start to do bound by your tradition, bound by the words of men, and you're not bound by the words of God, you need to ask yourself a serious question about who is my true authority? Who is my true authority? And if we're fearful of speaking the truth, we need to ask ourselves, who are we really trying to follow? Is it our ambition to please God? If it's our ambition to please God, we'll be dedicated to Him, to His Word, to His truth, and we won't be offended by Him. Amen. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for your word. Father, we pray that uh you would use it in our lives. Father, we pray that um that we wouldn't follow any uh false authorities, that we wouldn't be afraid to question people. Uh As it regards your your word. Father, I pray that uh you, Lord, would would be our our true source of uh of strength, Lord, that we would rely on you, that we would rely on your truth. And uh Father that uh for those that we know are are loved ones, friends, family that are still caught up in in false religions, mixed up in uh just false uh uh Uh authority, Lord, people that assume authority that doesn't belong to them. Father, I pray that they would be freed from that. Father, I pray that they would see through that And that you would uh allow them to uh to establish themselves upon you and upon your word. My Father, we're grateful for uh this church, Lord, and uh Father, I thank you for those that are that are here that I love you and are committed to you. And Father, we pray for those who do not know your Son Jesus Christ. That they would know that there's uh no way to uh to free themselves from defilement, uh from uh uh the the ways that they're unclean within their their hearts uh apart from you and that it's not about the rituals, it's not about what's on the outside, it's about what's on the inside, which We'll take a look at next time we get together. But Father, we just pray that we'd be followers of Jesus Christ and that we demonstrate our commitment to Him, Lord, by listening to Him. My Father, that those who are of God, those who truly listen to Christ, or those that are his followers and those that are his sheep. His sheep hear his voice and they follow. In Jesus' name we praise you and give thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.