The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. I want to take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 5 today as we continue our journey through the book of Romans. And uh this chapter has just been such a a rich study for us as a church as we've walked through this together. Martin Luther had this to say about Romans chapter 5. He says in the whole Bible, there is hardly another chapter which can equal this triumphant text Because the apostle here most clearly describes God's grace and mercy and shows how abundantly it has been poured out on us. And for all the blessings that we could thank God for during this Thanksgiving season, there are no greater blessings that we could give God for than to thank Him for what we find in Romans chapter 5. And out of all these vast spiritual riches that come to us, they all come to us through one person. It all comes to us through the person of Jesus Christ. Our representative, our head, the Lord Jesus Christ. How do we have peace? We have peace through our Lord Jesus Christ. How do we have grace? It's through Jesus that we've obtained our introduction by faith into this grace. How do we experience love? God demonstrates his love toward us and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. How are we justified? We're justified by the blood of Jesus Christ. How are we saved from the wrath of God? We're saved through him. How are we reconciled? We're reconciled through the death of his son. How do we exalt? How do we rejoice in God even when we face trials and difficulties? How do we still find joy in God? It's through our Lord Jesus Christ. And how have we been Presently, how if we presently receive reconciliation, being brought back to God Himself, it's through our Lord Jesus Christ. We've now received the reconciliation. It's all through him, it's all in him, it's all by him, it's because of him, it's by his life, by his blood, and the question could be asked, how can one person be the key? To all the riches that we find in this chapter? How can someone else's righteousness be applied to our account How could it be that the benefits and rewards of somebody else's life actually belong to me? You know, it doesn't seem to add up MacArthur, commenting on this passage, said, this flies in the face of Jewish belief and all religion, for men have always believed That if they're going to be forgiven of their sin and if they're going to have access to God and enter into a right relationship with Him, it's going to be because of something that they do. We have a hard time accepting what somebody else does. It's going to be because of some level of virtue, some amount of goodness, some religious achievement. Some religious ritual and ceremony in which they engage, no one really from a human viewpoint is going to come up with the idea that somebody else and something that somebody else does is going to make me right with God The scheme of man-made religion always says if I'm going to be right with God, there's got to be something that I can do. And we've seen that throughout Romans, haven't we? People would rather trust in some law or ceremony or ritual. They convince themselves that worshiping on a certain day, refraining from eating certain foods, wearing certain clothing. Participating in a certain service or being baptized in a certain way, making a pilgrimage to a certain place or being blessed by a certain priest or pastor. Some holy person somewhere is going to give me a special connection to God. There's something that I can do to connect myself to God, but at the end of the day, they're relying on something that they can do. There's something that I can achieve. There's somebody that I can connect myself to that that can help me to achieve this. We're like the rich young ruler so often who knelt down before Jesus and asked, the good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? There's got to be something that I can do. But salvation is not about what you can do. It's about what has already been done for you. And it's a concept that we would have had a hard time dealing with if it weren't for all that we find in the scriptures. And for the original audience, this was difficult to grasp. How can someone else do the work and I get the benefit from it? It doesn't seem to make sense. How can God apply somebody else's benefits to my account? How can somebody else's actions affect my relationship with God So what Paul does in verses 12 to 21 is he takes something that people would have been familiar with to explain something that they would not have been familiar with. Basically, what he does in verses 12 to 21 is he's saying, if you want to know how one man's actions can have a far-reaching impact, if you want to know how somebody else's actions can be credited to your account. If you want to know how somebody else's actions can affect your relationship with God, let me introduce you to Adam. Because it's like that. Because what Jesus does in redeeming you is what Adam did in ruining you. What Jesus did in justifying you is what Adam did in condemning you. What Jesus does in giving you life, Adam did by bringing you death. So how does one man grant his benefits to so many? Verse 12 of chapter 5 says, just as through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. That's what they would have been familiar with. Because they would have all understood that they were living the consequences of somebody else's actions. And the problem that the original recipients of Romans had is how can a good God justify sinful people? The problem that we have today Is how can a good God condemn guilty people? That's the problem that we have. R. C. Sprohl called it the misplaced locus of astonishment. We're astonished at the wrong things. We're no longer amazed by God's grace. We're more astonished than amazed by God's judgment. Why would God condemn anybody? Don't we deserve better than that? So the familiar is no longer familiar. It would have been familiar to the people in Rome that, like, yeah, we're suffering the consequences of somebody else's sins. What's not familiar to us today is that we would receive consequences because of somebody else's sins. We have a bigger problem being called sinners than we have being called saints. I remember I was witnessing to this one young lady who said, I may be bad, but I'm not a sinner. As if being bad wasn't enough. You know, I may be bad, but I'm not a sinner. Even though we've been born sinners, we're sworn sinners, we're still amazed that we would be condemned to sinners. What should amaze us is that God would save any of us. That's what should amaze us. And what Paul was trying to do in Romans is explain the most amazing truth that the one life of Jesus Christ is able to save us to the uttermost. There's a lot to cover in this text before us, but don't miss the big picture. All that Adam ruined in the fall is redeemed and reconciled by Jesus Christ. And for that we can give God thanks. Amen. Let's take a look at Romans chapter 5, take a look at verse 12 with me. It says, therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin. And so death spread to all men because all sinned. For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam. who was a type of him who was to come, but the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many. The gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For on the one hand, the judgment arose from one transgression, resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand, the free gift arose from the many transgressions, resulting in justification. For if by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life. through the one Jesus Christ. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, today, as we always do every Lord today. By asking that you would open up your word to us, help us to understand the things that we read in your word. My Father, without you, we can't understand these things Now Father, it takes you to open up our eyes and our hearts to understand and appreciate what we read. So Father, we pray that you would use your word today to penetrate our hearts. That you would speak to us, Father, that you would give us, Lord, just a greater appreciation for who you are and for what you've done through the person of Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Anthony Hokema, in his book titled Created in God's Image, It says the recognition that something is wrong with the moral nature of man is found in almost all religions. Even in religions that consider sin to be an illusion, like Hinduism, that teach that sin is not a moral rebellion, but a state of ignorance or an illusion. still have to admit that this illusion is universal, which really doesn't help them out because if the un if the illusion is just as painful as the reality, then what's gained by calling it an illusion? We we still deal with the consequences of sin and it's everywhere. Even secular thinkers and atheists who suppress the knowledge of the true God and don't want to acknowledge an ultimate standard of right or wrong or truth and goodness or beauty. are still left with the reality that sin is a very real and present danger. Even an atheist will talk about what's wrong with the world I mean think about that. How can you say what's wrong with the world if uh the world doesn't need to be anything? Like what's right or wrong in an atheistic worldview But even people who say that I don't believe in a God, I don't believe in a ultimate standard of right or wrong, they'll still say, But something's wrong with this world Something's wrong with what I see around me. Even an atheist will talk about that and talk about fighting for justice and desiring that people would speak truth, even though they have no basis upon which to have any of that. There's no universal standard for any of it. Dr. Carl Menninger in a book titled Whatever Became of Sin writes, though the word sin has largely disappeared from our vocabulary, Sin, both individual and collective, is still very much in evidence in our present-day culture. So when you have certain horrific crimes that take place, even secular media is forced to use biblical terminology. You know, this was evil. They even say this was demonic or hellish. Even though they refuse to acknowledge sin for what it is, they still have to admit that sin is universal. It's everywhere, it's around them. And when they can't think of anything else to say it's like it's it's sinful. It's evil. Every time a person is struck with the evil of this world, every time uh disease or death we're we're faced with the reality that we can't fix this. We're in a world and we can't fix this. Ecclesiastes 7 and verse 2, still true. Death is the end of every man, and the living need to take it to heart. We're all approaching the same way. We're all going down the same path. We need to take it to heart. Everyone is going to die. And the question is, are you ready for that time when it approaches? And all of this is traced back to one man and to one sin. Romans 5 verse 12, therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. And just like one man brought sin and disaster upon us all, one man and the obedience of that one man brought deliverance to us all, and that is the way that Adam is a type of Christ. And that's how it's limited to him being a type of Christ. That he was a type of Christ because of his representative headship over humanity. That's how he's a type. His sin in the garden was applied to the account of humanity because he was acting as a representative in the garden. But that's where the similarities stop. And thank God that's where the similarity stopped. And we can thank God that Jesus is not like Adam. There's many ways that Jesus is not like Adam. And verse 14 says that Adam was a type of him who was to come. And that representative headship, and we'll have more to say about that next time we're together in Romans because uh verses 18 and 19 really are a parallel to 12 and 14, so we'll save more of our comments. uh for that there. But the the similarity between Adam and Christ stopped there at his representative headship. But what we have in verses 15 to 17 are the dissimilarities between Adam and Christ. And these verses point out the contrast between Christ and Adam, how they are not alike. In verse 15, if you read it with me, it says, but the free gift is not like the transgression. Verse 16, it says, the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. Verse 17 says, we receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness. So what we have in Christ is not like what we have in Adam. And there's three significant contrasts that we find in our text for today, and I'll just go ahead and give them to you. Number one, we have an abundance of grace in the place of death. We have the gift of righteousness in the place of condemnation, and we have the reign of the believer in the place of the reign of sin and death. So number one We have an abundance of grace in the place of death. Take a look again at verse 15. It says, but the free gift is not like the transgression. For if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to many. Back in verse 12, we are reminded that therefore justice through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin. When Adam opened up the door for sin, it came in with unwanted company. Sin came in with death. And as we mentioned, the death of Adam was really threefold. Number one, Adam immediately experienced the separation from his Creator. He was alienated from God. The presence of God in the garden was no longer a welcome visit. Time with God wasn't a walk in the park anymore. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 18 says that we were excluded or alienated from the life of God, separated from his life. We enter life spiritually dead. Unresponsive to God. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 1 says, And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. But not only did Adam die spiritually immediately, but he also died physically in time. And this was also a separation. Just as he's separated from the life of God spiritually, he was also going to be separated from his physical body. And that's why death is actually called a departure. A departure. In Genesis 35, verse 18, it speaks about Rachel dying. And it says that her soul was departing. Before she died, it's a separation of the soul from the body. Second Timothy 4 and verse 6, the Apostle Paul says, For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. You know, and for the believer, it's just our ride home, right? But the time of our departure is coming. Death is a departure. It took Adam 930 years to depart, but eventually death caught up with him. And at the top of the hit list in Genesis chapter 5, we find Adam, the father of humanity. He lived 930 years and he died. His soul departed from his body. And then finally the third death that Scripture speaks of is eternal death, eternal separation from the presence of God, as it pertains to any of his common grace, any of his temporal blessings. It's not because that God is not there, because God is there to punish, but he is not there to bless. Eternal separation from all the goodness, the grace, the blessings of God, where people will only know his wrath. Because after the fall, we were all by nature children of wrath. And the Bible describes this wrath as a death beyond death, for the soul and body are both Tortured, killed in hell. And that's the penalty that Adam let through the door when he let sin entered in. Let sin enter in. It was vast, far-reaching. But what we have introduced to us in Romans 5. 15 is this amazing grace that is just as vast and far-reaching as the fall. That's what we have. And this is where the astonishment should be, that we would be partakers of this amazing grace, this free gift from God. Look at verse 15. But the free gift is not like the transgression. And how is that? For if by the transgression of the one many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to many. And the first contrast that we're introduced to here is that in Christ we have a free gift. As opposed to a penalty, we have the gift. And this deliverance and eternal life came to us as a free gift. And that's an important word that shows up in this text at least five times. In verses 15 to 17, salvation is defined as a free gift, the gift by grace, the gift of righteousness. And it immediately identifies a separation between Christ and Adam. Because obedience was Adam's obligation. He fell to transgression, and this was his due It was due to him the judgment, the condemnation. But when Christ came to deliver us, that was his free choice He decided to do this. It comes to us as a free gift. When you think about the grace of God, have you forgotten that it is undeserved? That God is not obligated to give you his grace? That this comes to you with nothing that you've done to earn it, nothing that you could do to pay for it Undeserved kindness. Often think about the unforgiving servant in Matthew chapter 18. Remember that? Nothing that he could do to pay back the amount that he owed, an insurmountable debt. But it says in Matthew 18, 27 that the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him. You can't pay me back. And that's what's wrong with so many of the world's religions. They think they can pay God back. Hey God, thanks for doing me a salad. I'll hit you back. No, you can't. There is nothing that you can do to pay God back for what He's done. God gives you His salvation as a gift. Anything else is like a slap in the face of God, like you don't understand what I've done for you. If this servant came back after he had this insurmountable gift that was given to him, his entire debt was wiped clean, and then he comes with his little pennies in his piggy bank, do you think that's going to honor the king? You have no idea what I've done for you. We can't pay God back for what he's done. It's an undeserved kindness. It's a gift of God. And this is the first thing that we realize. What came through Christ was an undeserved kindness. He's given us a gift. Salvation is never because we earn it. It's not because we didn't do enough to forfeit it. It's not because we were born innocent. It's only because God is a God of compassion. And that's where our hope comes from. And Ephesians 1. 4 says that it is God who chose us in him before the foundation of the world. It's a choice that God made, and he did not have to make it. Not a necessary choice, it was a free choice on the part of God. And when the Son of God agreed to become the sacrifice for sin, that was at his own initiative. He says, nobody takes my life from me. You think think the soldiers and who came to Gethsemane could have done anything with Christ? You know, I I love when they come to arrest Christ and he says, you know, who do you seek? He says, Oh, we seek Jesus of Nazareth. Or I I am, and then they all fall flat. It's like don't think that you're coming in here with your little sticks and stones like you're going to come and take me. Like I'm I'm the one who created all these things. All I have to do is speak the word, and you can drop dead at this very moment. So he laid his life down on his own initiative. It was his choice, his free gift of salvation. How do you thank God for his gift of salvation? Undeserved kindness. My sin, O the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin not in part, but the whole is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, O my soul. But not only do we receive this gift of grace, that's one contrast that we find in this verse, but the other contrast is that in the place of death, We receive the grace of God that provides us with much more and abounds to many. Adam's transgression opened up the door for death. But by grace, what do we have? By grace, we've been entered into this salvation, this eternal life by God's grace. What is the free gift of God? Romans chapter 6, verse 23. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is what? Eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. We've received eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord through grace. It's through grace that we've received this gift of life, of salvation. Verse 15 again says, For if by tran the transgression of the one, the many died. Again, Adam's sin brought in death. Many died. Many died. When we think about the the world that was just made of cemetery, I I remember often, you know, when uh when I was young, we'd drive the New York through way often uh to New York City and uh there was this one stretch of road where on both sides all you could see for as far as you could see is just tombstones. Nothing but tombstones. I remember, you know, even as a child, I looked around and it's like, we're going to start running out of room. We're going to run out of room because everybody dies. Everybody's going to die. But what we have in Christ is eternal life and all that was robbed by sin It's not just returned to us at the factory setting. It actually comes back to us with an upgrade. It comes back to us with an abounding, much more than So, what does it mean for the one who's received the grace of God? Think about it. All that we lost in Adam, we regain and much more through Christ. What do we lose in Adam? We came into death. We talked about that, right? We die spiritually, physically, eternally. What do we gain in Christ? We will not die eternally. That's what we have in Christ. The free gift of God is eternal life. What does that mean? A billion years from now, I will be just as alive then as I am right now And not only that, I will be more alive then than I am right now. That's incredible to think about. I will not die, I will just transform. I will never perish. Isn't that what Scripture says? John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish. You're not going to perish. John 10, 27, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. John 11, verse 26, Jesus spoke to Martha after Lazarus died and says, Everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this? That's what we need to come back around to. We believe this. He says, everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you know what that means? That meant for Martha that you know what Lazarus might be in the tomb, but he's not dead. Because he who believes in me never dies. He hasn't perished. He's not lost because I know where he is. You know, you lose something when you don't know where it is. I know where he is. He's in heaven. Lazarus did not die eternally. And I love that the hymn when we've been there 10,000 years. Bright shining as the sun, we've no less days to sing God's praise than when we first begun. Like we're just getting started. I mean, this is just a warm-up. You know, like forever we're part of this this eternal choir giving praise to God. We will never die. Never die eternally What does that also mean? It means that you're not dead spiritually. We've been made alive spiritually. We've been regenerated. That's why Romans will go on to tell us that we are to present ourselves as those who have been made alive. We'll get into that in chapter 6. Ephesians 2 verse 5 says, even when we were dead in our transgressions, we were made alive. Colossians 2:13, when you were dead in your transgressions, the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive. That old unresponsive heart started to beat. I mean, life was breathed into you, and you responded to God. You've been made spiritually alive. We've been born from above. I mean that's what Jesus told Nicodemus, right? He says, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. We need to be born again. That happens from above. And for those of us who've trusted in Christ, that's happened for you. Do you know how I know that that's happened for you? Because you would not have believed if you were not regenerated. You would not have believed if God didn't give you the the the heart that started to beat and mouth that started to move and said, Yes, I believe in that. Do you know what had to happen to Lazarus before he came out of the tomb? He had to be made alive first. For Lazarus, even to hear the words, Lazarus, come forth. Do you know what had to happen first? He had to be made alive first so that he could respond to the words of Christ. You had to be made alive so that you could respond to the words of Christ. When he called you, you came because you've been made alive by the power of God. You've been made spiritually alive. And finally we will be raised physically. Our dwelling, earthly dwelling, is subject to pain, to disease. One day our bodies will break down. They can no longer take the onslaught of this cursed world. But the moment we die , We will be transferred from pain to paradise. That's what the scriptures teach us. That's the truth that Jesus assured us of. The thief on the cross, he says, Today you will be with me in paradise. You know, not not wait until your soul sleeps for a while and then finally I'll come and wake you up. You know, there's no time of transition in between. No, it's immediately Go from pain to paradise. Today you'll be with me in paradise. And saints are right now in the presence of the Lord in the spiritual form. But that's only the first step. There's another step to come. At the return of Christ, we will make our transition from perfected spirits in heaven to a glorified body in a physical form. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 16. It says, For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. 1 Corinthians 15, 52, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 4, what is mortal will be swallowed up by life. And at the return of Jesus Christ will receive the glorified body that is fit for eternity. Glorified body that is fit for all of eternity. And he'll wipe away every tear from our eye. Revelation 21, he will wipe away every tear. There will no longer be any death, there will no longer be any mourning, no crying, no pain, the first things have passed away. Like I said, what Jesus gives us is abounding grace. Much more. We don't return back to the garden, we go to glory. And we don't return to a, like I said, a factory reset. We get the upgrade. We have so much more in Jesus Christ. Abounding, much more, superabundant blessings that we have in Jesus Christ. There's coming a time when we'll no longer have to pray for a Sophia. Where we'll no longer have to pray for a Mac We'll no longer have to pray for those who are among us who are facing all kinds of afflictions. We'll no longer have to do that because the first things will have passed away. That is the hope that we have as believers. But not only do we have this abundant grace, we also have the gift of righteousness, the gift of righteousness. Take a look at verse 16 It says the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For on the one hand, the judgment arose from one transgression, resulting in condemnation. But on the other hand, the free gift arose from many transgressions, resulting in justification. And again, what this verse is doing is it's pointing out the contrast between Adam and Christ. The result of Adam's sin was that it brought about judgment and condemnation. And the idea is not that it just brought about judgment and condemnation for Adam. The idea is that it brought about judgment and condemnation for us, for all of us. That's what came through the one who sinned. Like it or not, Adam was your representative. He's your representative head. And his decision affected the rest of us. But don't miss it. It was only the first sin that represented us. It's only his first sin. The rest of the transgressions, that's your business. That's yours. Like people like to say around here, that's your. That's yours that you have to deal with. Your transgressions. Adam Adam did the first. We pay for that, but then the rest of them, you pay for that yourself. That's on your account. Those are the ones that you're starting to put on the tab. Adam put one on and you put the rest. It's only his first transgression that we pay for that's placed onto our account. Because that was the representative sin. Verse 17 it says, for if by the transgression singular of the one death reigned, that's Adam's transgression Verse 18 says, so then as through one transgression singular, there resulted condemnation to all men. So his one sin, that first sin, And verse 19 says this, for as through the one man's disobedience, singular, the many were made sinners. The only sin that's imputed to us Placed on our account or counted against us was from Adam's first sin. And that just gives you a small idea about how heinous sin it really is. One drop of sin in the human stream was enough to contaminate the whole of it. According to the EPA. Safe drinking water can contain 500 parts per million of total dissolved solids. You can figure that out later. 500 milligrams of dissolved solid material in every liter you drink. And that's safe. I I used to drink out of the garden hose as a kid. I don't know how many parts per million I was trying to drink down. But but I I'm okay. There's nothing wrong with me. There's nothing But for Adam, the one sin, one in billions. One in billions. Contaminated the whole. His one sin. Polluted and contaminated the whole. That's how poisonous and virulent sin is. And that's how much God hates sin. That the one would be enough to condemn the whole. Habakkuk 1, verse 13 says, Your eyes are too pure to approve of evil. You cannot look on wickedness with favor. And think about that the next time you take sin lightly. That one sin was enough to condemn the whole human race. And you don't think that God hates sin? You don't think that God is serious about sin? You think he can play around with sin, treat sin lightly? One sin was enough to condemn the whole human race. But consider what Paul says here. By contrast, the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For on the one hand, the judgment arose from one transgression. That's how the judgment came, because of one transgression, resulting in condemnation. But on the other hand, the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification. When Jesus died, it was not just for Adam's one sin. When Jesus died, it was for all things, for every transgression, for multiple transgressions. Because God can't allow us to come into his presence with any transgression. That's why David says in Psalm 19: who can understand his errors? Who can even detect the errors that he has? How many sins have you committed today? How many sins have you committed while I've been preaching up here? I mean, who knows what's going through your minds? I mean this this is this is just how how impacted we've become by our sins. Like it's it's permeated into everything that we do Our words, our thoughts, our actions, our attitudes. Like sin is just everywhere. Psalm 130, verse 3 says, if you Lord should mark iniquities, who could stand? Like Lord, if you're going to take my sins and judge me for every one of them, who's going to be able to stand on that day? Prophet Isaiah says, Woe is me, I'm undone. Peter, when he realized that he's in the presence of the sovereign God, he says, depart from me because I'm a sinful man. And apart from Adam's sins, our own sins have been piling up since the garden. John Murray, in his commentary, says, the one trespass demanded nothing less than the condemnation of all. But the free gift unto justification is of such a character that it must take the many trespasses into its reckoning. It could not be free of the it could not be the free gift of justification unless it blotted out the many trespasses. God has to take care of all sin. One sin condemned the entire human race. And how many more sins have been committed since that time? And the one death of Christ, one satisfaction of Christ, paid for it all. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Synod left the crimson stain, but he washed it white as snow. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. One death was able to pay for it all. Jesus paid it all. Amen. And the reign of righteousness in the place of the reign of sin and death. This is our third point, verse 17. It says, For if by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one. Much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. And you really have to pay attention to the way that this is worded, because you might have expected Paul to say something different. Especially like when you're looking at like the opposites and the contrasts that are going on in this text. If you're just looking for something to contrast this with, you might think that he would have said, For by the transgression of the one, death reigned. And through the obedience of the one, life reigned. But that's not what he says. You might also expect them to say, you know, by the transgression of the one, death reigned, but through the obedience of the one, Christ reigned. But that's not what he says. What does he say? For by the transgression of the one death reign through the one, much more those who have received the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness. And who's that? That's us. Speaking about believers, it's those who will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. That's the contrast that he makes And the first observation that we could make here was already covered back in verse 14, but death reigned. Death reigned, just like a king rules over a nation, controls the destiny of his subjects. Death was a ruler who reigned over us, and nobody gets away besides Enoch And Elijah. And then you have Christ, you defeated death. But besides that, nobody gets away. Nobody gets away. Still the rule. It's appointed unto men wants to die. And also the people who are taken up in the rapture, but we can get to that later. But death is king. Death is king over mankind. And how did death gain its power over mankind? It was through the one transgression. Right? It's through the one transgression. That's all death needed to get into the door. I only need one transgression to get my foot in. But here's the contrast. Much more. So death is reigning, but much more Those who receive the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness. And who's that? That's us. We're the ones who receive the much more We're the ones who receive the grace of God. Back in verse 15, that's what it says, right? Much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man Jesus Christ abound to the many. That's us. We've received the grace of God. We're the ones who've received the free gift of the gift of righteousness. But on the other hand, the three gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification. That's the gift of righteousness. We've been declared righteous. So for those who've received the gift of righteousness, the gift of grace, we're the ones who will reign. And this is an incredible statement to think about. Number one, believers will reign. Believers will reign. The Bible's clear that there's going to be a future reign of believers. Real quick, flip over to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 19. Matthew chapter 19, this is right after the rich young ruler departed from Jesus. You know, basically the demands that Jesus was making on this ruler. He thought it was too high of a price to pay, too much of a commitment to pay. So he departs from Jesus And then he warns his disciples that it's hard for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Basically, those who think they have more to lose are often not willing to give up what they have And Peter follows up with the question in verse 27. Look at Matthew 19, verse 27. Then Peter said to him, Behold, we have left everything. And followed you. What then will there be for us? And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that you who have followed me In the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel There's coming a time when you disciples, you will reign. You're going to be given thrones You'll sit on twelve thrones and judge the twelve tribes of Israel. When is that going to happen? He says, in the regeneration. This is a particular word that actually means to be born again. It's the same word that we find in Titus chapter 3 and verse 5 that speaks about our spiritual regeneration. And it uses the same word here, this polygonasia, to speak about a physical regeneration. This world is going to be born again. Romans chapter 8, it actually lets us know about that just a little bit later on, whenever we get to that. It says that the creation itself will also be set free from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. There's coming a time when even this world will be born again. There's coming a time in the future when our bodies will be redeemed and physical creation itself will be set free from its corruption, and it's during that time that believers will reign. 2 Timothy 2 verse 12 says, if we endure, we will also reign with him. We're going to rain. And this rain is a future rain. You know, back in Romans chapter 5, let's us know that this rain is coming in the future. It says, uh, for if by the transgression of the one death reign through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign. It's a future reign. The text does not say that we are reigning. It's the future tense of this rain. Actually, in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, Paul responds sarcastically to those who think they're already reigning. You know, you should share this with your uh you know people in the Word of Faith movement who think they can speak things into existence and you know, we're the head and not the tail and everything else. You might want to share this with them. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 8. It says, you are already filled. You've already become rich. You've become kings without us. Indeed, I wish that you had become kings so that we might also reign with you. And basically, Paul is being sarcastic. Like, you think you've already entered into the millennial kingdom? You think you're already there? He says, but what about us? He says, for I think God has exhibited us, apostles, last of all, as men condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. Basically, Paul is saying, I die daily. I'm out here as a spectacle to men. I mean we're we're up here for the slaughter, but you're already reigning, you're already rich, you're already healthy, you've got everything that you need. You know, I I wish that it was true so that I could reign with you. Because that's not the experience that I have So the rain has not started for believers, but that will come in the future. We will reign. And this rain will be a rain in life. In contrast to the rain in death. That was characterized by sin. This will be a reign that's characterized by life. And just just just think about this. You don't have to just write these down You might not have time to turn to all of them, but just write this down. This is the future reign that's described in Scripture. The future reign is going to be characterized by redeemed people. Jeremiah 31, 34. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me. From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, and I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more. It's going to be characterized by righteous standards, Isaiah chapter 2, verses 1 to 3. It says the word which Isaiah the son of Amos saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. Now it will come about that in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the chief of the mountains, and will be raised above the hills, and all the nations will stream to it And many peoples will come and say, come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us concerning his ways. Wouldn't you love that if if that was like the United Nations right now? It's like let us let us all go and hear from the Lord. Let's let's learn from him It will be characterized by an end of warfare. Verses 4 and 5, Isaiah 2, it says he will judge between the peoples, the nations, will render decisions for many peoples, they will hammer their swords into plowshares, their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, and never again will they learn war. There's going to be true social justice. Among every race and class of people, Isaiah 9, verse 7, there will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of the hosts will accomplish this. It's the Lord that accomplishes this. It's going to be an end to physical deformities, disease, sickness. We'll never have to say another prayer for healing. We'll never have to plan for another funeral. Isaiah 33, 24, and no resident will say, I am sick. The people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity, and even the land itself will be changed and become fruitful. Isaiah 27, 6, in the days to come, Jacob will take root, Israel will blossom and sprout, and they will fill the whole world with fruit. That's a real time that is coming. And the saints will reign during that time. And how does that rain happen? It's through the one Jesus Christ. It's through Christ. No Jesus, no rain. We don't have this without Christ. Matthew 19, 28, and says, Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, that you have followed me in the regeneration. When the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, that's when the reign comes. When he sits on his glorious throne, that's when you will sit upon the twelve thrones judging the tribes of Israel Matthew 25, 31, when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. And we'll join in the rain. And that's glorious to think about. And before we leave this passage, I just want to remind you again that all that Jesus redeems is what the curse has removed and ruined. Now think about this. Just back to Romans chapter 5. We're about to wrap up this. Romans chapter 5 and verse 12. Think about what Adam lost. So it's therefore justice through one man, sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. Adam opened the door for sin, death came in with it. But what does Jesus do? He answers the problem of death. His abundant grace. For by the transgression of the one the many died. Much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man Jesus Christ abound to the many Verse 16. Verse 15. He he removes what Adam introduced. Adam introduced death. Jesus Christ takes care of death. Through his grace, he takes care of death and brings in Not only spiritual life and eternal life, but will even bring physical life when our bodies are resurrected. We'll have a glorified body. Jesus addresses the problem of death What did happen when Adam opened the door for sin? Judgment and condemnation came in. So death spread to all men because all sin. There was a judgment and condemnation. But what does Jesus do? Verse sixteen, the gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned. For on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression, resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand the free gift arose from many transgressions Resulting in justification. We have the gift of righteousness. He answers the problem of condemnation and judgment. And when Adam opened up the door for sin, he also handed over the crown of the world to sin and death. He handed over the keys of the world over to sin and death. But what happens in Christ? What happens in Christ? What we have is that Jesus is the one who now brings this dominion back to mankind. Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 13 lets us know that the one who is given the power over death is the devil. So we've come underneath this dominion of the devil. Adam turned the dominion over to the prince of the power of the air, the God of this world, the father of unbelievers, the spirit who's now working in the sons of disobedience. When Adam sinned, he turned over the reins to Satan He turned over the reins to sin and death, and now the world is under the dominion of sin and death. But what happens in Christ? In verse 17, he gives the reins back to man. Verse 17, for by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one, much more those who received the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. Everything that Satan, that uh, that Adam ruined, Jesus reverses and goes beyond. Jesus reverses and goes beyond. And that's what we can give God thanks for. But real quick, just to wrap up in Hebrews chapter 2, and this explains why Jesus became man. There's many reasons that we find in Scripture for Jesus to become man. Without him becoming man, we couldn't have a sacrifice for sins. We find that Jesus became the example in becoming man. But what we also find is that if Jesus did not become man, we would never have taken dominion over the earth. Take a look at Hebrews chapter 2, starting at verse 5. Speaking about the world, it says, for he did not subject to angels the world to come. Concerning which we are speaking. But when it's testified, somewhere saying, What is man that you remember him? Or the Son of Man that you are concerned about him. For you have made him for a little while lower than the angels. You've crowned him with glory and honor, and have appointed him over the works of your hands. That was man's appointment But again, because of falling to sin and temptation, he lost the ability to rule over the world in the way that God designed. You have put all things in subjection under his feet. For in subjecting all things to him he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected to him. We we don't see the world ruled in peace and righteousness. But we do see him, verse 9 says. Who's the him? Him who was made for a little while lower than the angels, namely Jesus, because of the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone For it was fitting for him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, and bringing many sons to glory to perfect the author of their salvation through sufferings. For both he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all from one father, for which reason he is not ashamed to call them brethren. Saying, I will proclaim your name to my brethren. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise, and again I will put my trust in him, and again, behold, I and the children whom God has given me Jesus became man because man was unable to subject the world by himself. Christ had to come to do what Adam could not. And we can thank God that our Jesus is not like Adam. Verse 14 says, Therefore, since the children share in flesh and blood, He himself likewise also partook of the same that through death he might render powerless him who had the power of death, that is the devil. and might free those who through fear of death were subject to slavery all their lives. For assuredly he does not give help to angels. Angels don't have this grace. But he gives help to the descendant of Abraham. Therefore he had to be made like his brethren in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For since he himself was tempted in that which he has suffered, he is able to come to the aid of those who are tempted. Every place where Adam was tempted and fell, Jesus was tempted and triumphed. And what we have in Christ is a faithful high priest. And the one who brings to us all of the blessings that Adam robbed from us and that sin has robbed from us. And we can give God glory that we Right now, partake of these rich treasures and heavenly blessings, the spiritual riches that we find in Romans chapter 5, that we have this gift of grace in the place of death. That we have a justification, a righteousness in the place of condemnation, and that in the place of the death that used to reign, that we will one day reign In glory besides our Savior, because our Savior has triumphed and conquered. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the riches of this book of Romans, Lord. There's just so much that we find contained here. Now Father, we thank you that we have a true and a better Adam. We have one whose triumph where Adam failed. Father, we have one who is our great and our faithful high priest, the one who has tasted death Who has come to be our sacrifice, to offer us eternal life and righteousness in the place of condemnation. And Father, we thank you that one day we will reign with Christ, that He will come back as the rightful ruler of this earth Oh Father, that he will be seen as the true King that he is. Father, that he will not come again to be crucified and hung on a cross. He will come and every eye will see him. Every eye will behold him. And Father, that every knee will bow before him, recognizing him as the Lord of glory, that every Knee will bow, but every tongue will confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And Father, we look forward to that day when our Christ will return. And we thank you for all that has been accomplished for us through the person of Jesus Christ. We thank you for a wonderful and a merciful Savior. And Father, we give you all praise and honor. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and Digital Files