The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's take our Bibles and open up to the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1. As you're turning there, I've been reading through a book by Carl Truman, and it's a book called A Strange New World, Strange New World. And he writes this. He writes that the Western world in which we now live has a profoundly confusing and often disturbing quality to it. Things once regarded as obvious and unassailable, you know, the things that were undeniable, virtues have in recent years been subject to rigorous criticism and in some cases They've been seen by many as more akin to vices or evil behavior. In other words, it seems like we're living in a world that's upside down. Up is down, down is up, right is wrong, wrong is right, and he calls it a strange new world. And he continues to say this. He says, indeed, it can seem as if things that almost everybody believed as unquestioned orthodoxy the day before yesterday. like marriage is to be between one man and one woman, for example, are now regarded as heresies advocated only by the dangerous lunatic fringe. So so we're the crazy ones now And think about it, just in our lifetime, we've gone from what was a simple question on a medical form, male or female, check the box, to a two-page questionnaire. What is your current gender identity? Check all that apply. What pronouns do you prefer that we use when talking about you? Check all that apply. How do you identify, check all that apply? And when I saw that at my doctor's office for the first time, I just wrote mail M-A-L-E across the whole page. It's like we're we're not gonna play this game. Even the word woman is considered to be so unclear and so controversial. that when Supreme Court Justice Katanji Brown Jackson was asked the question, can you define the word woman during her confirmation hearing, can you define the word woman? She said, I can't She said she couldn't define the word because she wasn't a biologist. But then you have doctors who study biology and they're asking the patients to define who they are for them. So how do we get here? The doctors can't tell you, you have to tell the doctors. There's a number of ways we could think about that question. How do we get here? But in Truman's book he explains these three concepts that are interrelated and I found this helpful. He says the first concept in this book that he explained was the idea of expressive individualism. Expressive individualism, which has been defined as the unique core of feelings and intuition that should unfold or be expressed if individuality is to be realized. In other words, you are what you feel. You are what you feel. And if you are to be your authentic self, you need to be acting outwardly what you feel inwardly. And if you question a person's individual expression, it's understood to be an attack against their humanity. You're attacking my individuality. Because that's how I'm expressing myself. What I feel is what I am. So if you attack what I feel, then you're attacking who I am. Second concept that Trieman connected to this idea is the idea of the sexual revolution, where different forms of sexual expression were normalized. And a person's inner identity began to be defined by their sexual desire. So if if I am what I feel and I feel these sexual desires, then I'm identified with that sexual desire. So if a person was going to be their authentic self, they had to be allowed to act out on that desire to be their authentic person. So now the individual identity and the sexual desires were connected. And then the third concept was this idea of what you could call a social reconstruction. It's been termed the social imaginary. Where there's a common understanding and a widely shared sense of legitimacy. So in other words, there is this acceptance by a large group, if not the whole society, because now everybody has to accept and embrace what I'm feeling on the inside and how I'm identifying myself on the outside and the goal is approval. So how I feel is who I am. I'm defined by what I'm feeling with these sexual desires, and now everybody has to affirm these desires and to approve and you know things have to be restructured in order to to fit what I'm feeling on the inside. And Truman calls this the Strange New World. But instead of calling his book Strange New World, he could have called it the same old world. The same old world, because the world we live in has often had a profoundly confusing and often disturbing quality to it And in our passage in Romans chapter 1, verses 28 to 32, the same old world is described for us. The same old world. But the word that Paul uses to describe it is the word depraved. debased or as the King James translates it reprobate and that's what we'll be examining today. Take a look at Romans chapter 1 starting at verse 28. It says, and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, there are gossips, slanderers. Haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful And although they know the ordinance of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you this Sunday as we do, every Sunday, Lord, pleading for your help, God, that you would be uh our teacher through your word. Father, that you would help us to understand these things, Lord, and Father, I pray that as we tackle these difficult uh topics, our Lord, through the book of Romans, Father, that you would help your people, our Lord, to be warned. That you'd also help your people to be encouraged. That there is hope. And Father, we pray for those who are among us who have not yet trusted in Jesus Christ. Now, Father, that they when it get to a place where they're turned over to these sins of judgment. So Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're finally coming to the end of uh Romans chapter one, and uh we could have been here a lot longer, and uh who knows maybe we might come back to some of this in the future, but um Just to remind you about where we are, we're in a section of this book where Paul is reminding us that the God who reveals his righteousness in the gospel is the same God who reveals his wrath from the heavens against ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And the specific expression of the wrath of God that's described in this passage is not the ultimate wrath, the final judgment of God. that's going to come upon the earth and upon the unbeliever at the end of the age. But rather this is a wrath that is expressed right now on the earth as we speak. We're experiencing this judgment. This is the judgment that we found mentioned three times in this passage. Verse 24. God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, which discusses immorality. Verse 26, for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions, which discusses homosexuality. And then verse twenty-eight, and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not properer, which discusses our depravity. And that's what we're introduced to in verse 28, the rejection Of God to those who are debased, depraved, and reprobate. And why does God turn men over to a reprobate mind? Verse 28, look at what it says. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer. This is the reason for the reprobate mind They didn't see fit to acknowledge God. And the phrase that it opens up with, just as is what's known as a causal conjunction, it's providing us with the basis for the wrath of abandonment. What is the grounds of the judgment of God? Why did God give these men over to a reprobate mind? The reason for the reprobate mind is that they do not see fit to acknowledge God. And again, the root of the problem is not moral, it's theological. Rejecting truth about God is the fundamental sin that leads to all the other sins of God's judgment. And the word for see-fit is a Greek word dakamadzo. It's a word that means to prove oneself, to approve after testing, to draw a conclusion about something on the basis of testing. So it's a word that was used for the examination, it was often applied to the examination of precious metals, that you would examine a metal to see is this real silver, is this real gold? You put it through the fire, you test it to see is this dent genuine? Is is this the real article? The Greek translation of the Old Testament uses it in uh Psalm 66 and verse 10, for you have tried us, O God. Tested us, you've approved us. You have refined us as silver is refined. God, God, you've tested my heart, and I'm I'm a genuine believer. God, you know who I am. Zechariah thirteen nine uses it in this comparison for Israel. Zechariah thirteen nine, it says, and I will bring the third part through the fire. This is talking about a remnant of Israel that will be spared in the last day. I will bring this remnant through the fire, refine them as silver is refined, and then test them as gold is tested. You know, they're going to go through, they're going to be the genuine believers that will last through this time of tribulation. First Peter chapter 1, verse 7 uses the same word. It says, so the proof of your faith or the genuineness of your faith, being tested, being more precious than gold, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That even as we go through trials in our life, It proves that we're true believers, that as we go through those trials successfully. And what Peter is saying is that your faith has been tested and proven to be genuine. You've been approved by the trial. But what the unbeliever does is he applies his own test to God, the living God, to determine whether or not this God is fit to serve. And then God is rejected after investigation. He's determined to be untrustworthy, unworthy of my devotion. God has been weighed in the balance and found wanting. And God is tossed out like so much trash. That's that's what's being said here. That's the idea. They've rejected God They've tested God. They've determined He's not worthy to hang on to, and I'm going to let him go. Let God go. And because they've let God go, God says, I'm letting you go. I'm letting you go Maybe they toss aside God for some intellectual argument. You know, how can how can this guy create the universe out of nothing? Maybe it's emotional. You know, I don't see how God can allow suffering. How can God do that? So I I don't have any use for a God like that. Maybe it's as it often is today, this moral argument, you know, it was wrong of God to allow slavery, to give commands for war, to judge people for for what they they love, who they love. It's wrong of God, so I have no use for a God like that. I've actually had conversations like that. I'm sure you might have had conversations like that too. I can't serve a God who would fill in the blank. I can't serve a God like that. Do you know what they're saying? I've tested God and I've found him wanting That that he he doesn't he doesn't come up to my standard. So I'm going to let God go. And for one reason or another, people determine that God has been tested and he's unfit to serve. He's unapproved. He hasn't met the standard. You know, and of course it's their own holy and righteous standard, right? And for that reason they don't acknowledge God any longer as a habitual practice. The Greek uses a word that indicates continuous action. They they continually don't acknowledge him. They continue to reject him over and over again. And it's just like Romans 118 all over again that they are suppressing the truth and unrighteousness. I have no use for a God like that. So I'm going to stuff them down, push God out of my thinking. I don't want to hold that kind of thought of God in my mind. I really like this kind of God You know, they create a God of their own making. And for the believer, it's the exact opposite, right? We're not pushing God out of our mind. We're doing all we can to keep him in our minds, right? Set your mind on things above. You know, think on the things that are true. It's the joy of our lives to fill our minds with thoughts about God. And as we look back over our life When we think things over, we can truly say that we've been blessed. We've got a testimony. I know who my God is. I've tested him, and he's proved faithful. That is who my God is Psalm 34, verse 8, O taste and see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Romans 12 and verse 2 it says, And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that you may prove Same word, Dacamazo, that you may test the will of God and ye see that it's what? It's good and acceptable and perfect. Everything about my God is acceptable. It's worthy. It's fit. Everything about my God. But for the unbeliever, God's not worthy of retaining, needs to find a God that's much more desirable than the God of Scripture. And he rejects God. That's why men are given over to a reprobate mind. They look at God, they determine he's unfit, and God says, now you'll have a mind that's unfit Look at verse 28 again. Says and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. This is the the rejection of the reprobate mind. This is point two. First thing that I want to point out is that this is a judicial sentencing. To turn them over to a reprobate mind. You know, that that word that's used there where it says, and and God gave them over Giving them over. It's important that we understand what that means. We're talking about this reprobate mind that's a judicial decision from God, that God is officially turning them over. To give them over was a term that was used for judicial sentencing. The word give them over, you know, that's translated give them over, was used in the context of handing somebody over to be judged. Handing somebody over for sentencing. Handing somebody over for torture. For example, is used in Matthew 5. 25. Where Jesus said, make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with him on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. It's handing over in this judicial sense. Matthew 10, 17. But beware of men, for they will hand you over. Same word, Greek word, parodidomai. They will hand you over to the courts and the score scourge you in their synagogues. And in the parable of the unforgiving servant, Matthew 18, verse 34, Jesus spoke about the servant who refuses to forgive. And he says, Matthew 18, 34, and his Lord moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed him. And it's the same word that's used for the one who's being handed over to the reprobate mind. It's a judicial sentencing, a deliberate handing over. I'm turning you in. I'm turning you over, and the men that are discussed here are being actively turned over by God to the consequences of their rebellion. So it's not that God is kind of sitting back passively. A spectator wondering what's going on. Rather, he is arresting the sinner, turning him over to the to face the consequences of his sin. That's what God is doing. One author said it's not like God just allows the sinner to be taken away by the current of his sin. God actually sends him down the river. Specifically, the judgment is to the reprobate mind A mind that's depraved, that's debased, and what does that mean? It's actually a play on words. In uh the beginning of verse 28 it said that the unbeliever did not see fit to acknowledge God. So what does God do? God gives him to a mind that is not fit. That's the the pattern. It's recompense. You didn't see me as fit. Now you're going to have a mind that's not fit. They did not see fit to retain God in their mind, so God gave them over to an unreasoning mind. Like the only reasonable thing that you should have been doing with your mind is recognizing me. And now, since you don't want to use your mind correctly, now you won't be able to use it correctly. And it doesn't surprise me when people can't define what a woman is, because it's an unreasoning mind. I mean, it's just so obvious. It's unreasoning. And then people look at us like, we're the crazy ones. Like, are you kidding me? I mean, we grew up knowing this. You went to school, didn't you? I mean seriously. It's an unreasoning mind. You're let me let me just say this. You're not the crazy ones, okay? You're not the crazy ones It doesn't surprise me that people refer to a singular person as they and them. It's like just overturning the laws of language I'm supposed to refer to a singular person in the plural? That's an unreasoning mind. When somebody wants to be identified as having the a wolf spirit, are you surprised? Are you surprised at that? It's an unreasoning mind. I refuse to acknowledge God. Then God gives me over to unreasoning. It's unreasonable. The way that I'm thinking now is not reasonable. And the classic illustration for turning somebody over is Nebuchadnezzar, isn't it? Classic example. If you want to flip over there, Daniel chapter 4 It's been a long time since we've been in Daniel. Let's go back to Daniel. Daniel chapter 4. Let's see what Daniel's got to say. Look at verse 28. Daniel 4. 28. Listen to this. All this happened to Nebuchadnezzar the king, and you know the context. He had a dream. He's going to be chopped down. And all this happened to Nebuchadnezzar the king. Twelve months later he was walking on the roof of the rural palace of Babylon. The king reflected and said, Is this not Babylon the Great? Which I myself have built as a royal residence by the might of my power for the glory of my majesty. What's the problem? God is not being acknowledged. They didn't see fit to acknowledge God. To acknowledge God as the one who gives me everything. He's the reason for my life, my health, my strength. Everything I have comes from Him. But no, right now he's not seeing fit to acknowledge God. Isn't this the palace that I've built myself? My power, my glory, my majesty And while the word was in the king's mouth, a voice came from heaven saying, King Nebuchadnezzar to you, it is declared, sovereignty has been removed from you. You're done. And you will be driven away from mankind, and your dwelling place will be the beast with will be with the beast of the field. You will be given grass to eat like cattle, and seven periods of time will pass over you. until you recognize that the Most High is ruler over the realm of mankind and bestows it on whomever he wishes. We acknowledge God for everything. God is the reason that I'm here. I give him glory, I give him praise, I acknowledge him as the ruler of all the earth. And it's only reasonable that I do that. And when I refuse to acknowledge him , this is the kind of consequence that I could be turned over to when I stop acknowledging God. What do I have that I didn't receive? Everything I receive is from his hand. Do you understand that it is God who gave you your reasoning in the first place, and that he can just as easily remove it? Your mind was not given so you could reason your way out of belief and to reconstruct your faith, you know, deconstruct your faith, I should say. Your mind was not given so you could congratulate yourself on your achievements. Your mind was not given so you could explore knowledge apart from God. I mean Solomon tried that out, didn't it work well for him? And this is free, okay? This is free. Every subject ultimately goes back to God. Every subject. It was the Puritan Richard Baxter. He wrote this in his Reform Pastor of All Places. He has a word for educators. Listen to what he says. Your study of physics and other sciences is not worth a rush, if it be not God that ye seek after in them. To see and admire, to reverence and adore, to love and delight in God, as exhibited in his works This is the sanctification of your studies, when they are devoted to God and when He is the end, the object, and the life of them. And therefore I shall presume to tell you, by the way, that it is a grand error and of dangerous consequence in Christian academies that they study the creature before the Redeemer. And set themselves to physics and metaphysics and mathematics before they set themselves to theology. Tutors must read God to their pupils in all, and divinity must be the beginning, the middle, the end, the life, and all of their studies. So as we're we're teaching even our children, no God God is going to be acknowledged in all of this. Like like we live in his universe. He's involved in everything. He touches everything. Two plus two equals four because of God. Because he's the the mind of logic. I mean there it doesn't work without him. Our minds are not given to us to collect facts and get careers, get the highest salary if we don't also have God Your mind was given to you so that you could glorify him. That's why you have a mind in the first place. That's why you've been given reason. It's to glorify him. That's why in Matthew 22, 37, it says he said to them, You shall love the Lord your God with what? All your heart, all your soul, all your mind. I love God with all of who I am because He's worthy of all of who I am. Remember that old commercial, the mind is a terrible thing to waste. If you're not loving God, if you're not worshiping God, if you're not giving yourself to God, you are wasting your mind. And it's a terrible thing to waste. Those who do not see fit to acknowledge God, God gives them over to a mind which is not fitting, unreasonable, and depravity starts into action. Depraved mind leads to depraved behavior, to do those things which are not proper, back in uh Romans chapter 1, to do those things which are not proper. Not appropriate, not fitting. This is the extension of the metaphor. And it's just, I mean, the the way that all these words are working together, they saw God as unfit to keep in their minds. So God gave them over to an unfit mind to do those things which are unfit to do. I mean that's what's going on here And again, they they they do this as an ongoing practice. We're not talking about a one-time action. We're talking about ongoingly. They're pushing God out, and God is giving them over. to the consequences of their their sins. So we're not talking about a one-time sin. And we know that we still sin and we're about to get to a list and You know, I I think the list is broad enough to hit everybody, you know. This is the shotgun, it's not the rifle, it's you know, it's just spreading out everywhere. We're going to read a list that has a lot of sins, but the question isn't, you know, do I sin? The question is, have I been given over to my sins? Have I been abandoned to my sins? Is this an ongoing practice for me? And here's a group of people that are going to be committed to iniquity, doomed in their iniquity. And when you see people giving over to these destructive behaviors personally or in society and you think to yourself, don't they realize Like how their decisions are making an impact on themselves, on their families, how they're harming themselves, they're harming others. You know, why why would you hit the self-destruct button on yourself? It's like it just doesn't make sense. You know, even the way that we think in this country, it just doesn't make sense. It's like the foolish woman in Proverbs 14. 1 that tears down her house with her own hands. It's like that's what we're in the process of doing here. Tearing it down with our own hands. And you have to wonder why. Why is it like this? Why does it seem like people can't think anymore? And the answer is traced back to the judgment of God. It's because God has given them up. God has given them over. That's why simple things don't seem to make sense anymore. Because God has given them over to that. And what are the results of being given over to a reprobate mind? This is point number three. The result of a reprobate mind is more sin. The result of sin is more sin. That's how it works. It multiplies. You know, they don't die, they multiply, right? Sin multiplies sin. Once you cross the boundary in your conscience, to say, you know what, I'm just going to go headlong after this. Then all of a sudden it's like, well, it just gets easier to do it the next time and the next time. And then before you know it, you're not even thinking about it anymore Your mind has become calloused. Your conscience has become calloused. It's not that you've totally eradicated the conscience, but it's not functioning in the way that it should. It's like maybe the first time you tried to shoplift something, it's like you know you came in in a cold sweat. It's like I can't believe I'm doing this. You know, you had a friend egging you on and you know Stole a little piece of gum and you ran out and it's like, you know, you're just running all the way home. It's like, I can't believe I got it. And before you know it, it's like, you know, you're you're still in Lamborghinis. It's just like It just grows. It becomes easier and easier and bigger and like the thrill is gone. I have to get something more than I had the last time. It's like a drug. You just keep on going for it. That's the way that sin works. And once the restraint is moved, you find yourself a long way down this list. Look at the result of a reprobate mind. Look at verse 29. Being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice, their gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant. Boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, how'd that get on there? Without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful And although they know the ordinance of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. And what Paul is doing here is he's just painting this representative picture of wickedness. This is not all that Paul could mention. He could go a lot longer than this list, and we know that in other places he does. You can compare this list with what we find in 1 Corinthians 6, 9 through 10, Galatians chapter 5, 19 through 21, Ephesians chapter 5, 3 to 5, and there's many more passages that we could look at. So this is not an exhaustive list. It's a representative list. And it's a pretty comprehensive list. It's a full list, but it's not everything that he could possibly say So what we have in Romans is not all there is to say about these sins , but there's enough for you to find yourself on here somewhere. Do I find my sin on this list? We're all on this list somewhere. But I said again, the question is not, have I ever sinned in this way? The question is, have I been abandoned to sin in this way? Has God just like let the gates up and you just go. Go for it. You can have it. That's the question. It's not the individual sin, but it's the lifestyle. the trajectory of my life. And there's three major groupings of sin that we can identify here. There might be more than this, but at least three major groupings of of sin. The first is a list of four that are all modified by the word filled at the beginning of verse 28. And just as they actually in verse 29, being filled with all unrighteousness, being filled with it. Then you have a list of five that starts at verse later on in uh actually in starting in the end of verse 29 with they are gossips, or actually full in the middle of verse 29, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. And then you have a list of twelve that starts with they are gossips, and then it just tells who they are. They all appear in the the same kind of um uh uh uh construction in the in the Greek language. There's the uh the same kind of um uh case that they're in. But interpreters, they often have a difficulty trying to summarize these lists because there's there's overlap. You know, you don't always see what's the connection between all of these. Uh but again it's not about the the individual sins. It's just like the you know, the full, you know, kind of picture of like all these sins. I mean, it it's just to let that land on you, like one after the other after the other. That's the point, that there 's just this barrage of sins that they're being given over to. But first of all, we have this list in um verse 29 being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil. That's the first list. All connected with being filled with it. And uses the word all here, being filled with all , just to kind of talk about the state of being filled with these sins. Yeah, unrighteousness, which is just a you know general injustice, wrong towards others, wickedness, moral wickedness, lacking moral character, greed, the desire for more than you're due. With no regard for the will of God, no regard for the rights of men, and then evil is just a general word for evil, bad, or mean-spirited disposition. And this is kind of like the heading for all that follows. Let me just give you like general category. What are we talking about? Unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, and evil. Next you have this list of of five, again in verse twenty-nine, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. So you have this this next list that's found here in And these are really uh uh sins of ill will or injury towards others. You know, you have envy, which is mentioned here, which is uh really being sickened at the success of others. You know, I I I hate to see others doing well, so you're wishing evil upon these people. Actually we see in scripture this is uh that um this kind of envy is a cousin of treachery and murder. It was because of envy that Abel was killed. It was because of envy that Joseph's brother sold him into slavery. And it was eventually because of envy that Jesus was delivered over to death. Matthew chapter 27 and 18. Religious leaders handed him over for envy, it says Then after this you have murder, and anger is at the root of murder, strife, this rivalry, quarreling, contentions. The seats mentioned on this list, a word that was originally used for for baiting a hook to catch a fish This is like the man in uh Proverbs 29, 5 who flatters his his neighbor and is spreading a net for his steps. You know, the there's a old saying that, you know, uh uh open the mouth and the lie will come out to talk about certain people. Basically it's like every time they have their mouth open they're lying. You know, how do I know you're lying? Because your mouth is open. Like these are the kind of people. Malice, a general word for evil intentions, bad disposition, seeing the worst in everything. And these are the kinds of sins, again, that they're given over to. And then you have this list of twelve starting in the end of verse 29. Starts with gossips. They are gossips. This is a word that's uh used here for a whisperer, someone who spreads rumors, secret slander. You know, kind of behind the the back doors they're the talking talking behind your back, you know. Smiling your face, right? All the time trying to take your place, right? This is what you have. Whisperers, slanderers, and these are the the people that that attack you from the front. If the whisperer does it from behind, these are the people that do it to your face. But they do it so that everybody else can also hear what they're saying about you. Try to bring men down so they can lift themselves up. Then you have haters of God, slanderous haters of God. And guess what? You can't hate God unless you also believe in God. So here you have these unbelievers who hate God while they're denying God, but they hate them. Haters of God. The unbeliever denies the very existence of the one that he's attacking. The Bible says that that was us while we were enemies of God. We were reconciled. Uses the word insolent here, where we get our word hubris from. Scoffers, they abuse with their speech, they despise God. Haughty, those who are proud and arrogant. You know, all the virtues come from them. Boastful, seeking to impress others by making big claims. You know, do we do we always have to tell people what we're doing and who we're seeing and what's going on in our their li our lives, making these big claims about ourselves, you know, got a big mouth and your head's even bigger than your mouth Then we have these two that show up, you know, how evil enters even in the privacy of the imagination in the home, inventors of evil things. These are men who dream of evil. It's like there's not enough evil out there. I've got to come up with more. Proverbs 4:16-17 says they cannot sleep unless they do evil. They're robbed of sleep unless they make someone stumble. For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. I mean, I I I live to do this Looking for another way to invent something new and then disobedient to parents. Actually we find in the under the old covenant that those who cursed father and mother were vulnerable to death Exodus 21, 17, but this is speaking even about Gentile people. They understood the severity of rebellion in the home. And then you have these final four that are linked by a similar sound, even in the the Greek language, the the Nazi kinda uh tries to retain it, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful You know, one commentator translates it as foolish, faithless, loveless, merciless. Without understanding, they're the people who uh base their decisions on speculation, superstition. Pointless. There's no substance to it. Untrustworthy. They can't be trusted to keep their word. Unloving, and this is actually from a Greek word, a storgas , which speaks about a familial affection. Love between family members. Even that's lost. These are the people who've become heartless even against their own families and unmerciful. And it's been pointed out that One of the way that's uh one of the ways that the Roman culture demonstrated a lack of mercy uh was by the the practice of what they called patria potestus, uh which is the power of the father. And a father had the right to drown or in some other way destroy unwanted offspring. And Seneca, the Roman historian, uh documents how the world Of Paul's day, there was a practice of exposing unwanted babies or actually committing infanticide. You have a child and he's he's not the way that I want him to look. He's deformed, he's got some issues, and then they they'd either say thumbs up to keep him alive or thumbs down to let him go. Merciless. It was the right of the father to allow a baby to die. And it's still a common practice today. We just call it reproductive rights today. According to the Center for Disease Control, in 2021, a total of 625,978 abortions were reported in one year, 2021. And I've heard of statistics even higher than that. And just to give you an idea, that's greater than the population of Baltimore in one year. And close to the population of Washington and D. C. we're wiping out the populations of entire cities in a year. As one author said, we cloak monstrous evil with an appearance of respectability. We can't cover our monstrous sins, but we're thankful that there is a Savior who can. Amen. We have a Savior who can. Jesus can cleanse it. And then finally we come to this final point. And this is where we start scraping the bottom. And it's the reinforcement of the reprobate mind. The reinforcement of it. Look at verse 32. And although they know the ordinance of God that those who practice such things are worthy of death. They not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. They reinforce the evil. Got to keep it going. And there's a few reasons why I say that this is scraping the bottom, because this not only appears last, but it also appears worse. Why do I say that? It says that they know these things are worthy of death. I'm not saying that they admit that these things are worthy of death, but they know that these things are worthy of death. And the word for knowledge, of knowing, it's a full knowledge. Epigonosco refers to a full and experiential knowledge. They're well aware of this. And not only do Gentiles know that there's a God, but they also know that they've sinned against this God, and that they're in danger of judgment before this God. They know that. Actually flip over to Romans chapter 2. This is a bit of a preview for where we're going in future weeks, who knows when, but sometime we'll get here. Verse 14 Look at verse 14. It says, For when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law to themselves. So even without the written law of Moses, they they demonstrate that they know instinctively the things of the law. So they know it's wrong to lie, they know it's wrong to commit murder, they know it's wrong to commit adultery. How do they know that? Verse 15 And that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them. And just like the law of Moses was proof that we couldn't keep the law, the law on the conscience is also proof that we can't keep that law either. And men are accused by their conscience. You've done wrong. That wasn't right. You know that's the wrong thing to do. Back in verse 32 it says, although they know the ordinance of God, they know the righteous sentence. They know the righteous judgment, the righteous action of God. And what's that righteous action of God? That those who practice such things are worthy of death. That's what they know. That's the righteous ordinance. The righteous sentence of God is that you deserve death for your sins. That's the righteous sentence. Just like the law says, the soul that sinned shall surely die, there's somewhere deep in your conscience, beneath all of the excuses, beneath all of the you know the the the self-righteousness and you know talk about you know uh I'm I'm a good person and I'm getting to heaven because I'm a good person, but but beneath all of that That the deep down somewhere there's that recognition that you know what? I have sinned in the sight of a holy God. And if I stand before him, I don't think I'll pass judgment. I know I won't pass judgment. There's this nagging reality that I'm worthy of death. Even for an unbeliever who may not have ever picked up a Bible. There's something on the inside that says, you know what, I'm guilty I'm guilty. You can try to avoid it all you want, try to talk bad all you want, but there's some time at some place you're alone, you're by yourself, you're laying on your bed, and you start to think, man, I was such a rotten guy today. I can't believe I did that. I treated this person horribly. This lie, I wonder who's going to find out about that. That I deserve punishment for this And there's something that's going to catch up with you one day, and it's death. He may give you a head start. Death will give you a head start, but he's never lost a race. He'll catch up to you eventually. And after death is the judgment. And everybody knows instinctively within themselves that I deserve judgment. But even though even though men know that they deserve judgment, They go beyond that and demonstrate the depth of their depravity by not only continuing in their wretchedness and practicing their sin, but then turning around and encouraging other people to do the same thing. And that's the bottom rung of the ladder. This is the depth of depravity. I'll just give you an illustration. Some of you uh might have had this experience, you know you You know, growing up when I was you know younger, I had some you know older uncles and other people that would say, you know, mm you know, hey, I I I know that I'm I shouldn't be drinking like this. I shouldn't be smoking like this. You know, they have some kind of addiction. I know what I'm doing is wrong, but don't you do that. They won they want you to avoid it. You know, don't you do this. You know, I'm I'm addicted now, but don't you do don't you start Because they want to try to help you. And obviously it's inconsistent, but you still appreciate the sentiment. Like I know I'm killing myself with this, but I don't want you to start. Please don't start. I had a had a grandfather on my dad's side. Pretty much I I really didn't know him because every time I saw him, he was drunk. Every time I saw him we was drunk. But he'd say, hey, don't don't you start this. Don't you do this? What would it be like? If he turned around and says, you know what, this is killing me, and why don't you try some? That's going beneath what he's doing to try to now encourage somebody else to do the same thing. And this is what you have in this passage. Not only do they do the same, knowing that it's worthy of death, but then they turn around and want to encourage you to join in. Join in. This is telling me, but I want you to try it. And that's the force of this statement. The structure is of uh you know just what it says here, not only, but also It anticipates something worse. Not only do they do this, but also there's something even beyond that that they do. There's something greater that they do. That's the the force of the structure here in the Greek. And interpreters throughout history have wrestled with this. Like, how can encouraging evil be worse than committing evil? And I just offer this. The sin of Satan in the garden was not that he ate the fruit, but that he encouraged Eve to eat it. That was worse. That's what catapulted the world into the condition that we live in today. Not that Satan ate the fruit. It's not that the serpent ate the fruit. It's that he encouraged somebody else to commit the evil That was the evil of Satan. Catapulted the world because of his temptation. Similar way, Jesus pronounces the woe on the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23. Not just because they're sons of hell, but they're converting other people to become sons of hell with them. And then they make them twice the sons of hell that they are And Jesus spends in Matthew 23 just, you know, this list after list, this barrage, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites. Because they're making others twice the sons of hell. Not only are they going to hell, but now I'm trying to convince you you're going to heaven. So now you're twice the sons of hell that you were before. Why are teachers held to a stricter judgment? It's not just because of what they believe, it's because of what they teach others to believe. So now they're held to a stricter judgment. It's because of who they influence. Flip over to Jeremiah chapter 6. Jeremiah chapter 6. Same kind of thing happened with the Old Testament prophets Jeremiah is prophesying about a judgment to come. But listen to what the other prophets were saying. Jeremiah chapter 6, look at verse 14. Actually I'll start at verse thirteen. For from the least of them even to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for gain. And from the prophet even to the priest, everyone deals falsely. They have healed the brokenness of my people superficially, saying, Peace, peace, but there is no peace. Were they ashamed because of the abomination they have done? They were not even ashamed at all. They did not even know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall at the time that I punish them. They shall be cast down, says the Lord. What's the What's the judgment that comes upon the priests and the prophets? It's not just because they believed the lie, it's because they were teaching other people 's the lie. Peace, peace, everything's okay. Don't worry about the judgment of God. You can continue what you're doing. Don't worry about that sin. One commentator says this regarding Paul, he says the apostle considered that this is the very climax, the pinnacle of charges which he had to bring against the heathen. That they not only plunged into the acts of wickedness, but had given more deliberate approval and praise to do such things. And then he continued, he says this, he says the most damning condition Is not the practice of iniquity. It is that together with the practice there is also the support and encouragement of others in the practice of the same To put it bluntly, we are not only bent on damning ourselves, but we congratulate others in the doing of those things that we know have their issue of damnation. Encouraging others to do the same thing. This is the bottom of the ladder. But believe it or not. In the passage that we just read, there's encouragement. I know it seems like there's no encouragement. It's just like, you know. Judgment after judgment, but there's encouragement here. You say, I don't I don't see the encouragement in this verse. Where's the where's the where's the encouragement? It's verse 32. And although they know the ordinance of God. Why is that encouraging? Because God hasn't left himself without a witness. The people know that there's judgment to come. Knowing that you're under judgment is actually hope. Because there's hope for change. If you understand the judgment that you're under, there can actually be a push, a motivation that I need to get out from underneath this judgment. But God allows the judgment to rest upon you that you still know that you're going to be judged. And that's a mercy of God for you to know that you're going to be judged. That's mercy from God You could have been under that and not even know. But no, you're under that and you know that you're under that. There was once a pagan Gentile city named Nineveh. One of the capitals of Assyria. They were not the people of God. They did not receive the law of God. They were not known for righteousness. They were known for the sins that we find in this very list. They were idol worshippers, they engaged in immorality, they were known for cruelty, they fought against the people of God, they severed the heads of their enemies. And one depiction of uh Syria's engagement with one of the Israelite cities, uh Lakish, it depicts the the conquering city and three men impaled on poles outside of the city. I mean they they would stick the dead on a pole and just lay it there for a decoration. Stand it up so that they know that we've conquered them. It would have appeared that they were beyond help, beyond hope. But a reluctant Jonah took a short trip on a long fish, preached a message not of repentance, but a message of what? Judgment. Judgment. You are under the judgment of God. 40 days. This place is coast. But they acknowledged that we're worthy of judgment. They acknowledged that they were worthy of the judgment of God. And that was the blessing of God. In Jonah 3, verse 5, it says, Then the people of Nineveh believed God. And there was enough contained in Jonah's message that the fear of God's judgment led them to repentance. And what's encouraging is that God has not left himself without a witness. Even for those that have been turned over to their sins, there's still that knowledge that I'm underneath the judgment of God. And that God can use that even to bring people to himself. And I'm not sure who you may be praying for, but I can let you know this, that they are convinced that there's a God. They may not acknowledge it to you But somewhere deep inside, they know that there's a God. They're convinced that there's a God. And they're also convinced that they've sinned against that God. They might not acknowledge it, but they know that there's a God. They know that they've sinned against God. And according to this passage, they also know that they deserve a judgment to come. And by God's grace, God can use that knowledge to lead people to repentance. To be fearful of the judgment of God. We even heard in a testimony today, didn't we? Fearful of the judgment of God, and it led to repentance. And God can turn the most hardened sinners around. And you should know that because some of you are sitting right here. Amen? So keep praying, keep trusting, and I'll also add this word, one author says this, the heathen are a law unto themselves, but they are not a gospel unto themselves. So in addition to praying and trusting, we've also got to keep preaching, keep sharing the good news because it's through the message of the cross. the gospel, which is the power of God into salvation, the people come to know the Lord. And even though it seems like we're living in a world that's upside down Up is down, down is up, right is wrong, wrong is right. Strange new world, it's still the same old world. And God has given us everything that we need in His Word to do His work. And the same gospel that worked mightily in Paul's day can work mightily in our day. We sang it earlier, didn't we? Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, Grace, God's grace, Grace that is greater, greater than all of our sins Every sin that's listed in this chapter, God's grace is greater than that. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you for your marvelous, infinite, matchless grace. freely bestowed on all who believe, and those who are longing to see his face, would you this moment his grace receive? Father, I pray that if there are any Any ears that are listening to this message that have not yet understood and trusted in Jesus Christ? Father, I pray that today would be the day that they would know your matchless grace, that they would be saved for eternity. Father, that they would feel the weight of the judgment of God upon them. No, because feeling the weight of that judgment can also lead to repentance, to escape the judgment to come. Even as John the Baptist talked to the Pharisees who are coming to be baptized, who's warned you to flee from the wrath to come. There should be a fear of the wrath to come. But with that fear of wrath to come, Father, there's also hope that we can escape the wrath to come. And Father, we thank you that those of us who've trusted in Jesus, that we've escaped the wrath. And because of Christ, Lord, that we experience his grace. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.