The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's take our Bibles and uh turn back to the book of Romans. We've been away from Romans for so long we might have to go back to chapter one. Just to remind you of where we've been, but uh we won't do that today, not today. Uh today we'll just return to chapter three uh to take another look at what many interpreters consider to be the heart of Paul's message in the book of Romans. Romans chapter 3 verses 21 to 26 And there's a good reason for considering Romans 3, 21 to 26 to be the heart of Paul's message to the Romans. First of all, this passage is where Paul finally turns to the solution for the problem that he's raised in the first three chapters. In the first three chapters of Romans, Paul has described the predicament that all mankind finds himself in. We're all guilty of breaking God's law In chapter 1, the Gentile nations are guilty and without excuse because they have the moral law of God that's written on their hearts. And they've broken that. In chapter 2, the Jewish nation is guilty and without excuse, because they had the law that was written in stone, that was passed down to them written on the tablets. And they broke that. And then in the middle of chapter three, towards the middle of chapter three, lets us know that the entire world stands silent. will stand silent before the bar of God's justice so that every mouth may be closed, and all the world will become accountable to God. We're not law abiders, we're lawbreakers. And just when you expect the judge to lock the door, throw away the key, and pass the sentence of eternal condemnation for breaking the law of God. Romans chapter 3 verse 21 gives us these hopeful words, but now. But now, apart from the law of righteousness, The righteousness, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. In other words, God has provided a solution for the dilemma that mankind finds himself in. And that solution is presented to us in Romans 3, 21 to 26. Another reason, Romans 3, 21 to 26, can be considered the heart of Paul's message to the Romans is because the major theme of the entire epistle is defended in this passage. The major theme of the book of Romans is the righteousness of God. The word righteousness shows up some sixty-nine times in the book of Romans. And the great burden that Paul has is not to declare us righteous, but to declare God righteous. To vindicate his righteousness, to demonstrate that God is a righteous God And we find a reference to the righteousness of God five times in verses twenty-one to twenty-six of chapter three. In verse twenty-one, if you look at it, it says, But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. If you look down to verse 22, even the righteousness of God, verse 25, it speaks about God who displayed, who God displayed publicly, displayed Christ publicly. as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness. Verse 26. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness. And then again in verse 26, so that he would be just. That's the same Greek word for righteous, that he would be righteous. And the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ. What we have here in this passage is Paul's central defense of the righteousness of God. God is a righteous God. God is a righteous God. And even in the forgiveness of sins, he still will display himself to be righteous. That's another reason this passage is considered the heart of the book of Romans. And the final reason this passage is considered to be the heart of the book of Romans is because this is where the doctrine of justification by faith alone is explained. The doctrine of justification by faith alone, which is considered to be the very heart of the gospel and the soul of Christianity itself. Martin Luther, the German reformer, said, this is the article, the doctrine of justification by faith alone. This is the article by which the church stands or falls. Because if this article stands, the church stands, and if this article collapses, the church collapses. John Calvin said that the doctrine of justification by faith alone is the principal hinge. by which the Christian religion is supported. J. I. Packer, before he died, popularly known for uh his book on Knowing God, he says before before he died, he described the doctrine of justification like this. He says the doctrine of faith alone is like Atlas. It bears the world on its shoulders, the entire evangelical knowledge of saving grace. And it was MacArthur's biblical doctrines that considered the doctrine of justification by faith alone to be the very heart of the gospel and the soul of Christianity itself. And there's no place in Scripture where justification by faith alone is more powerfully expressed than here. A Donald Gray Barnhouse, he pastored 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, who also took 12 years to preach through the book of Romans, so we're right on schedule. Don't worry about it. We're right on schedule. He said that this theme, somebody's crying about that one. Don't worry, don't worry, I'll get to it sooner than that. Don't worry about that He said this theme of the Epistle of Romans is in reality the theme of the entire New Testament and the whole Bible. Basically, he's saying that this is so important that it's the center of the scriptures. And the commentator Leon Mora says, Romans 3. 21 to 26, he says that it's possibly the most important single passage ever written. That's that's high praise for the passage that we're in. So uh don't worry if we're taking a little bit longer to to walk through this uh because we don't want to miss what it's saying here. Uh but let's uh jump back into the flow of the text. So today's going to be more of a review, but uh we'll jump into chapter 3 verses 21 to 26. Why don't you follow with me as I read But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith, this was to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, and Father, we do pray that you would grant us your help, Lord, as we always ask for your help as we come before your word. Father, that you would open up your truth to us, that you would help us to understand these things, that we would apply these truths in our lives, and Father, that you would uh give us a greater understanding of who you are and what you've done for us in Jesus Christ. And your righteousness that we may give you glory that you're so rightly deserving of. So Father, I pray that you would grant us your help, God. And I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's a popular misconception about the Bible that I'm sure you've probably heard before, and it's the idea that the God of the Old Testament is vastly different than the God of the New Testament. And what's often meant by that is the idea that the God of the Old Testament appears to be this mean, angry, jealous, vindictive God who pours out his wrath against sinners. But the God of the New Testament is this gracious and loving and merciful God who showers his love upon sinners. Has anybody ever heard that dichotomy before? And there's people who consider this to be such a contradiction, apparent contradiction, that they reject the Bible as divine revelation. Then they say that there's just no way that these two testaments can be talking about the same God And then they conclude that the Bible must not be true because the God of the Old Testament and the God of the New Testament don't appear to be the same God. I actually remember sharing the gospel with one of my neighbors who brought this up as a concern, and he said this about the Bible. He says, why does it seem like the God of the Old Testament was angry all the time? You know, he's just always wiping people out. And we can think about a number of examples where the wrath of God was expressed on the land and upon people. Find Noah's flood in Genesis 6 to 9. God wiped out the entire earth and saved eight souls alive. Sodom and Gomorrah experienced the judgment of God and only Lot and his daughter survived. Not even his wife made it out. Egypt was judged by God because of their idolatry and the hardness of Pharaoh's heart, and plague after plague mowed down the population of Egypt. In Exodus chapter 10 and verse 7, Pharaoh's servants finally started to get the picture. And they said, How long will this man be a snare to us? You know, Moses keeps asking to go, let him go. How long will this man be a snare to us? Let the men go that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not realize that Egypt is destroyed? I mean, we're not going to survive this Pharaoh. I mean, like, let up. And then there are all the nations in Canaan that God commanded to be utterly destroyed. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 1 and 2, it says, When the Lord your God brings you into the land where you are entering to possess it. And clears away many nations before you, the Hittites, the Gergeshites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, the Addisites and the Dynamites. Seven nations greater and stronger than you, and when the Lord your God delivers them before you, you defeat them. Then you shall utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them and show no favor to them. You know, people look at passages like this and say, this can't be the same God of the New Testament. You know, when James and John wanted to call down fire, you know, Jesus is saying, you know, you don't know what spirit you're of. But here you find God wiping out entire groups of people. Even the Jewish nation experienced the judgment of God. Assyria in 722 came against the northern kingdom, and Babylon in 586 BC came against the southern kingdom. So the question is, why does there seem to be a difference Between the God of the Old Testament and the New Testament. I mean, doesn't the Bible say, for I do not change, says the Lord? So why does there appear to be this difference? And there's a number of ways to answer that question. Number one, when we say that the Lord does not change, we're talking about his character God is a God who never changes his character. He never changes his holy character. He never changes his holy disposition against sin. In James chapter 1 and verse 17 it says, Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. God does not change. His character remains the same, but that does not mean that every one of his actions are always the same. His character is consistent, but that doesn't mean he always does the same thing in every circumstance. Number two, there are many examples of God's wrath in the New Testament. And there will come a time when the entire world will experience the wrath of God. But this time it won't be by a flood of water. It's going to be by a flood of fire. Revelation chapter 6 speaks about this. John the apostle says, I looked when he broke the sixth seal. And there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood, and the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree cast its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind The sky was split apart like a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the commanders, and the rich. and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves among the rocks of the mountains. And they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us! And hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. They know whose wrath they're trying to flee from. Hide us from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? That's the New Testament. There's wrath to come. Just because we don't see these cataclysmic events in our day does not mean that there's not a storing up of wrath for the future. There is wrath to come. And also, when we look at the Old Testament, there are plenty of examples of the love of God and the kindness of God. And if you don't see the love and the mercy and the grace of God in the Old Testament, you're not reading your Bible correctly. And you're certainly not reading it in the same way that Paul and the others in the first century read the Bible If you have a correct understanding of the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man, the real scandal of the Old Testament is that so many people survived. That's the real scandal. The real question is not why did God destroy Sodom and Gomorrah? The real question is why doesn't he destroy every city? The real question is not why did God flood the earth? The question is why did eight souls live? The question is not why did God afflict the nation of Egypt with ten plagues, but why did any nation survive? And the question is not why did God kick Adam and Eve out of the garden for a piece of fruit? How did they make it out of the garden in the first place? The grace and the mercy of God are everywhere in the Old Testament because we're still alive. We're still alive to tell the story. And when we get to Romans chapter 3, verse 21, the question is not how could God be so mean and angry in the Old Testament? The question really is how could God be so gracious? Where is the righteousness of God? That's the real question in Romans chapter 3. The question is, where is the righteousness of God? And that's what verse 21 introduces us to. Now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. And the question, like I said, for the for those who are reading through the Old Testament and going through these first three chapters of the book of Romans, where God is saying, everybody's guilty, the whole world is condemned. The question is, well, why are we still here? Where's this display of the righteousness of God? Why haven't we all been swept away yet? How can God accept less than righteousness and still be considered to be a righteous God? Ever asked yourself how could Abraham be considered a friend of God? Abraham, a former pagan idol worshipper who lied about his marriage. And then doubted God's promise about having a son. So he slept with his wife's maid in order to have a child. I mean, how does that work? How is David considered a man after God's own heart after having slept with Bathsheba and had her husband murdered and spent a year covering it up? How does that work? God 's integrity is at stake. If God doesn't demand righteousness, how can God be deemed as being righteous? Isn't that a violation of his holy character? A denial of his eternal attributes? Proverbs 17, verse 15 says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, both of them are alike an abomination to the Lord. Proverbs 24, verse 24, He who says to the wicked, You are righteous. People will curse him. Nations will abhor him. Isaiah 5 verse 20 says, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. And then down in verse 23 it says, woe to those who justify the wicked. To declare a wicked person as innocent is an abomination to the Lord. Woe to those who declare guilty people as innocent. But then we read Romans chapter 4 and verse 5, which says, But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteous. Why isn't that an abomination for the Lord to declare the ungodly is righteous? If a judge declared a man who was guilty of rape or incest or murder to be innocent, we would be outraged. And it wouldn't help if the judge just said, well, I forgave him. It's a miscarriage of justice. The judge is legally bound to pass judgment So how are we to understand God justifying ungodly people? That's the very question that Romans 3, 21 to 26 helps us to answer. And although this. Passage speaks about how sinful men can be declared innocent in the sight of God. The main point is how can God be declared innocent when he justifies sinful people. God is concerned that his righteousness be put on display, and that's really the main idea that everything else hangs on. In verse 21, that phrase the The righteousness of God has been manifested. That's the central idea in this passage. The righteousness of God has been manifested. And everything else hangs off of that. Everything else is an explanation of that. It expands upon that. But that's the central idea. The righteousness of God has been manifested. And like I said, this is a little bit of review, but number one This righteousness of God that's been manifested, or this justification of God, how God justifies sinners, this justification is not through the law How can God justify or declare people innocent who've broken his law? The answer is, justification does not come through the law Those who would blame God for being unjust because he justifies ungodly people who don't obey the law, God says that's not how I've ever justified anybody. No flesh will ever be justified by the law, or has ever been justified by the law. If anybody is going to be justified, it has to come through another way. It's not going to come through personal obedience to the law. And the law that's referred to here is the Mosaic Law, and uh whatever the law says is what the Jewish people were supposed to do, and the law that's written upon the hearts of the Gentiles, there to do all that's written upon their hearts. And the Bible lets us know that nobody obeys the law, that we're all lawbreakers. Nobody's able to perform all that's written in the book Like I said before, God does his Google search for righteous people and it comes up empty. No entries. There's none righteous. No, not one. There's nobody who obeys. There's nobody who follows the law. In chapter 3 and verse 19, it says, uh, speaks about those who were given the law, the written law of God. It says whatever the law says it speaks to those who are under the law so that every mouth may be closed and the whole world may become accountable to God. Basically what God is saying is that I'm I'm showing the the Jewish people as exhibit A If they can't do it, don't think anybody else can. Nobody can obey the law. I mean, these are people that I sent prophets to and walked with and tabernacled among them. If they can't obey the law, do you think anybody else can? We're all lawbreakers. So righteousness is not going to come through obedience to the law. So God can be declared righteous. Because he's not justifying people by saying, oh, yeah, you've kept the law when they actually didn't. That's not what God does. He justifies people by another means. Number two, justification is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures And there's a precedent for God's actions in the Old Testament scriptures, and Paul demonstrates that God is completely consistent with himself There's a consistency between the Old and the New Testament. So again, for those that believe that there's some kind of a break between Old and New Testament, Revelation, there's a consistency between Old and the New Testament. And here we're told that even the Old Testament bears witness to God justifying people apart from the law. And two of the prominent illustrations would have been Abraham and David. Why don't you flip over to chapter 4? Romans chapter 4. Take a look at verse 1. It says, What then shall we say that Abraham our forefather according to the flesh has found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it, what's the it? His belief, his faith, was credited to him as righteousness. Abraham was declared righteous, not because of what he did, but because of who he believed. That's how he's declared righteous. Not because of his good works and Abraham existed before the Mosaic Law existed So it wasn't because he obeyed the Mosaic law. It's because he believed and trusted in God. And that's how people have always been saved. That's how righteousness has always been granted to people. It's because we believed and trusted God. Look at verse 6. It continues to give another example. The example is David. It says, just as David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. What is David saying? God, I thank you for the blessing that you don't hold my sins against me. God, I'm going to be able to stand before you not because of the life that I've lived, but because I've trusted in you. That's what he's saying. It's not because I've been so obedient to you that I'm accepted. It's because I've trusted in you. So the law and the prophets In the Old Testament, it's just another way to speak about the Old Testament scripture, the law and the prophets. Jesus often spoke of the law and the prophets to refer to the Old Testament. And here the law and the prophets referring to all of the Old Testament. It's a consistent story. God gives righteousness as a gift to people who believe in him, not to people who are obedient to the law. So this is just consistent. God is consistent with himself. You know, God is not like you know some revisionist judge who attempts to change history because he wants to accommodate you know some new idea. No, God is saying this is how it's always been. I've always been like this. From Adam on, no flesh has been justified by keeping the law. Nobody's ever been accepted by me because of their obedience. God has only justified sinners. Why has he only justified sinners? Because that's all there is. That's all there is. It's only one kind of person to justify. Because everybody's a sinner in the sight of God. So justification doesn't come through the law. It's consistent. Justification is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures. And justification is also through faith in Christ. Look at verse 22. It says, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. And in this verse, God demonstrates that righteousness has always come through faith in Jesus, because Jesus is the only means of righteousness. And before Jesus came, he was still the only means of righteousness. Because from Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, there was a promise given of a seed who was to come, who would crush the head of the serpent. And from that time on, everybody's been looking forward to who is this deliverer going to be? And everybody who had true faith expressed true faith in the promises of God. were saved because of that one who was to come. They didn't know his name. They didn't know what he'd look like. They might not have known where he'd be born until the scriptures told us where he'd be born. I mean scriptures it's a progressive revelation over time. We're learning more and more and more and more. But whatever they understood in a seed form, they trusted in that. And if they trusted in that, guess who they were really trusting in? Jesus. Because he was the solution that was to come. So trusting in that seed who was to come, the crush the head of the serpent, was trusting in Jesus who was to come. So even their faith that was expressed toward God was really expressing a faith in Christ, even though they might not have known who he was. There was this promise of the deliverer who was to come. And it was through faith in that one that people have always been redeemed. There's no difference in salvation between the Old and the New Testament. I know some people might have grown up hearing that. I know I did anyway. It's like in the Old Testament, you know, people were saved through the law, through obeying the law, and in the New Testament, we're saved by grace and faith in Jesus Christ. That is a lie. Nobody was ever saved by obedience to the law. People were always saved by faith in Jesus Christ. It was always through faith that we're saved. By grace, through faith, are you saved, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. It's always been a gift. Nobody comes knocking on the door of heaven and demands entrance. Nobody. If you get into heaven, it's because God has graciously chosen to open up the door and let you in. And by the way, you need to know the password. It's by faith in Christ that I get in. It's because I've trusted in your promises that I get in. Nobody demands entrance. Into heaven. We're all received as a gift of God. And God does not compromise his standard of righteousness. Again, we're talking about the righteousness of God. God is still a righteous God. And God still demands perfect righteousness. But what he says is, since I can't get it from you, I'll take it from my son. My son will be the substitute. His righteousness will stand in your place. You cannot give me the righteousness that I demand. But my son can do it. He always does what pleases me This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. He always pleases me. So I will receive perfect righteousness, but it will come through my son, Jesus Christ. And instead of righteousness coming from the inside, righteousness for us has to come from the outside. It's not a righteousness that we can drum up and work up, it's a righteousness that comes from the outside. The Latin phrase is extra nas. or extra nose outside of us. It comes from outside of us. Our righteousness isn't what we offer to God. It's what God offers to us. He offers us righteousness Martin Luther referred to it as an alien righteousness. And what he meant by that is a it's a righteousness that's from out of this world. It comes from another source. It's the righteousness of another. That's how I receive righteousness. It's not what I can give, it's what I can receive. So I receive righteousness as a gift. That's what Paul referred to over in Philippians chapter 3. Why don't you flip over there real quick? Philippians chapter 3. Just to show you some of these passages here. But Philippians chapter 3, I love what Paul says. I'll start in verse 8 Actually, I'll start in verse 7. Verse 7. Philippians 3, verse 7. But whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as lost for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. It may be found in him. Listen to what he says. Not having a righteousness of my own. This doesn't come from me. Derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith That's the direction that righteousness comes from God on the basis of faith. And it can't come from myself. I don't have any righteousness of my own to offer to God for entrance into eternal life. And Jesus is our righteousness. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 30 says that by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who has become to us wisdom and righteousness. He has become our righteousness. And in Romans chapter 10 and verse 4 it says, For Christ is the end of the law, for righteousness to everyone who believes. There has to be a real righteousness behind our justification. God still demands righteousness. And there has to be a real righteousness. Just like there has to be real money in the bank account when you sign a check. Some of you 'll figure that one out later, right? There has to be real money in the bank when you write that check. And there has to be real righteousness that's presented before God. For us to be accepted by Him. And the real righteousness comes through Jesus Christ. Number four, justification is for all those who believe without distinction. Back in Romans chapter 3, look at verses 22 and 23. Says even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, for all those who believe, for there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. You see that mankind is specifically said to fall short of the glory of God? We've sinned. It's uh the Greek word uh harmartano, it's uh a word for missing the mark. Erring, falling short. So it says we've we've fallen short. You know, we've already sinned. It speaks about erring, sinning. But then it says we've we've also fallen short of the glory of God. What does he mean by that? That we've fallen short of the glory of God. Does it mean that we fail to give God the glory that he deserves? That's true. That's what Paul says earlier. Chapter 1 and verse 21 of Romans, where he says, For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God. That's actually the Greek word glorify. They did not glorify him. So we don't give God the glory that he deserves, but but why doesn't it say that we fail to give him glory? Why does it just say that we fall short of the glory? Does it mean that we that because we sin, that we won't receive the glory of God? Back in Romans chapter 2 and verse 7, it speaks about the desire for eternal life. And actually speaks about this eternal life that we pursue as being glory for those who, by perseverance and doing good, seek for glory and honor and immortality and eternal life. So is this glory speaking about this future glory that when we all get to heaven, this is future glory that we're longing for, and we fall short of that glory? And that's true as well that because of sin that men don't enter into that future glory, they don't enter into heaven. But again, this would be a strange way to talk about that. And in addition, falling short of the glory of God is in the present tense, which means that it's something that happens now. So that future glory is something that will happen in the future that we enter into that glory, but he's saying that we're falling short of that glory currently, in the present state, you're falling short of this glory right now. So there's another way to understand this, that we fall short of the glory of God. And it means that we fail to reflect the glory of God in our actions. And this would understand falling short of the glory of God as falling short of his righteousness. That we don't display the glory of God in our lives by obeying him. Actually in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 18, it speaks about our progress in sanctification. And it says that we all with an unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord, we're being transformed into that same image from glory to glory, that the more we look at Jesus Christ, the more that we behold him, the more that we seek after him. It's the more that we're glorifying him in our actions, reflecting him. And that's the way that I would understand this verse, that the glory of God is to be reflected in our obedience and our righteousness. And when we sin, we fall short of glorifying him in that way, that we don't reflect his glory. We don't reflect his righteousness. One ancient Jewish commentator says that Adam was stripped of the glory of God and became distant from the glory of God because of his sin. We no longer reflect that glory of righteousness that belongs to God. And this proves something about the way that we have to be saved. Because again, if we're going to be saved, it's not going to come from us. Because we don't reflect the glory of God. So there's a level playing field, or I like to say it a level saving field. You know, it's this level at the foot of the cross. We all have to come in the same way. Verse 23 You have to pay attention to the logic here. It says, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. There's an important word to pay attention to. It's the word for. So verse 22 says, this righteousness, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, this is our justification, is for all who believe, and there's no distinction. No distinction between us. Why? For, verse 23, all have sinned. Why isn't there no distinction between us? Because we're all sinners. That means that you can't come in here and look down on somebody else because your sin wasn't my sin And I have a sin that, you know, that's a little cleaner than your sin, so we can look down on other people because of their sin. It's like, no, like, if if if we're talking about salvation. You know, talking about qualifications for leadership or you know other things, it might be a different story. But if we're just talking about salvation, that's what we're talking about, right? Justification, having eternal life. You can't look down on anybody. It doesn't matter what you've done, what your past looks like, that we're all equal at the foot of the cross because we all had to come in the same way. You know, if if if you end up in heaven, you can look to your neighbor and say, I know what you did. You sinned. Because that's the only way that anybody gets in here is by recognizing themselves as a sinner. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. So there's no distinction as it relates to salvation. So so for those of us who belong to Jesus Christ, there should be great unity among us here. Amen. A great unity among believers because we all had to come in the same way. We all had to admit that we were bankrupt. That God, I have nothing at all to offer to you. And and I'm just I'm just I'm just pleading with you for your mercy. You know, like like the the publican who beat on his breast and said, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. And that man went away justified. Because he admitted his need. Do we admit our need before the Lord? Do we admit our need The reason why God does not rescue some by faith and others by works is because all have sinned. There are no works that anybody can offer to God to say, hey God, would you be satisfied with this? We're all bankrupt before the Lord. So God doesn't apply one rule to one group and another rule to another group. There's only one way to enter in, and it's on your knees. Only one way to enter in. And lastly, justification is a gift by grace through redemption in Christ. And that's a mouthful, but it's okay because we'll get back to that next week We'll take our time to unpack this next Sunday, but uh what this means is that salvation is to be considered a gift. And that would have been considered scandalous. Why is that? Because how do you let somebody just get in? Can God simply declare somebody righteous when they're actually not? And just say that it's a gift? That I can just do that, I can just receive him as a gift. If a judge declared a man who was guilty of rape and incest and murder to be innocent, we would be outraged. And the judge couldn't turn around and say, well hey, it's a gift. I'm feeling generous today. It's a gift. Like I said, the judge is legally bound to do what the law requires. So how are we to understand God justifying ungodly people? That's the question that Romans 3, 21 to 26 helps us to answer. We don't call a judge who ignores the law good. We don't call an umpire who ignores the rules to be righteous. You know, if a runner's coming around to home base and he's tagged out by the catcher before he touches the plate, and the umpire says he's safe. We want to say, oh, how kind of the umpire to call him safe. You know, how generous of the umpire. You know, he just says, it's a gift of my grace, you know. We would be outraged. So how can God call us safe and it not be a miscarriage of justice? It's because God paid the price for our redemption with the blood of His Son. Romans 3. 24. It says being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption. And that's what we'll unpack next week. This redemption. There was a price to be paid for you to be set free. And the only price that was sufficient for your life was the price of the blood of Jesus Christ. It was his blood that had to be paid. And those two are often connected in the scriptures. The blood and the redemption. He redeemed us, he bought us, he paid for us, but it was by his blood that that happened So we have this redemption which is in Christ Jesus in verse 24. And right after that you find the blood, verse 25, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. Flip over to Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews chapter 9, just to show you a couple of passages here. Hebrews chapter 9, just tying together the blood and the redemption. Hebrews chapter 9, look at verse 12. Actually, I'll start with verse eleven. You know I like to do that. I just can't can't resist that, right? Verse 11. But when Christ appeared as a high priest Of the good things to come, he entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation. It wasn't the physical tabernacle that gave the entrance into eternal life. And not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood. He entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. So the price had to be paid, and the price was his blood. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 1. First Peter chapter one. Take a look at verse. I'll give it a minute. 17. Seventeen. First Peter chapter one, verse seventeen. If you address as Father, the one who impartially judges according to each one's work, conduct yourselves in fear during the time of your stay on earth Knowing that you were not redeemed, there's our word, redemption, knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your feudal way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood. As of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. And as Hebrews 9:22 says, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission, no forgiveness. To free you from your penalty of sin cost Jesus his life. And that's what the blood signifies. It's a metaphor for his death. And there's no way to have God without the cross. No way to have God without the cross. To have God without the cross is to say that God is not serious about sin. It makes salvation cheap. It's like the umpire who says you're safe, knowing that you never touched home plate. It would be to say that God isn't actually righteous because he demands something that he never receives He demands righteousness and then says, I didn't really mean it. No, there's only one way that we can have God, and that's through the blood of his son. It's through Jesus Christ. A price had to be paid to redeem us. And that price was paid by the blood of his cross The cross demonstrates that a price had to be paid, and that the price was paid, and that's why Jesus Christ was crucified publicly. Because it's God planting the flag to let the whole world know I take sin seriously. So I'm going to publicly demonstrate my son Who's gives up his life as a propitiation to satisfy my wrath so that everybody knows that I'm a righteous God. And that's what we say at the end of the day, that God is righteous. God is righteous. Really quick, flip over to 1 John chapter 1. It's a passage that we might not think about often. Sometimes skip over, but let's listen to what it says. 1 John chapter 1, verse 9. It says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and merciful. No, that's not what it says. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and loving. No. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and gracious. No. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous. Righteous? What does that mean? It's right of God to forgive our sins. It's the just thing to do. Why? Because a price has been paid for it. That's why. So God maintains his righteousness. He's still a righteous God. Because he demands righteousness and he receives righteousness from his son. And now when we come before God and say, God, would you forgive me of my sins? We confess our sins. He is faithful and he is righteous. just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And it's all because of the work of Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for This time that we've had in your word. Father, we pray that you would continue to open up your word to us, help us to understand the things that are revealed in it. Father, we thank you for our salvation, Lord. What a gracious God you are. And you've maintained your holiness, your righteousness, because you've demanded a payment and you received that payment. So now it's right for you to allow guilty sinners to go free. It's right for you to call sinners righteous. Because there was one who was righteous who stood in our place. So Father, we're grateful for the love of Jesus Christ, for your love that you've given to us and sending us your Son. And that his blood is what paid for our sins. That his life that was given up unto death bought our redemption, that we're redeemed. Because of Jesus Christ. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help us to glory in this, that we would glorify you , that we would just rejoice in the salvation that's been offered to us. And that you would receive all the praise, honor, and glory. In Jesus' name, praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files