The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church All right, for those of you who are here for the Q<unk>A, unfortunately we won't be able to take questions from the pews, so I'll be asking all the questions up here First question is uh for you, uh Matt, and thanks for the for the message. And you could never wear out your welcome just by the way. Uh so uh number one, why why should we think about training men in-house? You know, why shouldn't a church think about this as like Hey, that would be a nice add-on to our ministry, you know, stage four in the ministry. You know, maybe that's our like 10-year plan that we'll start training men. Uh why try to take something like this on right now Uh there we go. Yeah. I think uh first and foremost because as Paul said at the end of his message so clearly, training men in house is not um Uh it's not it's not an addendum, it's not even an option, it's an obligation. The Bible is clear that we have a responsibility as shepherds and as churches, right? It's not just the shepherds, it's the it's a full orb church that to come alongside men and raise them up. And so for me, first and foremost, I'm driven not by the uh By the idea of it or even the the novelty of it, if it is a novelty, I'm driven by the command of Scripture that says This is what you must do. I feel compulsion driven by that. And then of course based out of that, not just the command, but the the example in Scripture, right? That's what Jesus did. Jesus didn't pour into everybody, right? He took twelve men, he poured into them. Right? And then even within the twelve he poured it he poured into especially into three of the twelve. And then as you pointed out, uh George in your message, uh it's exactly what Paul did, right? He took along men with him, especially Timothy and Titus. And he poured into them. I mean this is the model of Scripture. So we're commanded to do it. We see it's the model of Scripture. And uh And not that this is the driving point, but it is an undeniable point. We have a need for it. As I was saying, the church is a mess today in large part because Men are being put in the pulpit who haven't been trained at the local level. And then to send them off to seminary, like you said, it's a it's an incubator. that is uh at best in inaccurate for the full training of the man. You can finish off a man in a seminary, but you can't really test and purify the man in seminary. That has to come in the local church. Uh next question is for for you Paul. Um how are we we planning to to train men in the church? What does that look like And what does it look like for a church to support that effort? So how are we training men and how is the church participating in that effort to do that? Yeah, I'll uh uh speak first just briefly to the curriculum that we have put together already for our Shepherd's Institute. Basically, if you make it through our three-year program uh you will have done the equivalent of the first roughly two years of a MDIV seminary degree So that that's the way the curriculum is set up. We have two tracks available for guys. If they want to take the classes for credit, they can come do all the work. Take the test, write the papers. You know, that's what we encourage guys who have a uh think that they might have a calling towards ministry in in in some capacity. That's what we would encourage them to do. We also have a track where guys can audit the courses, which means come participate, listen to the material, listen to the lecture. and participate in that way and that will help them in their discipleship, whatever ministries around the church that they're participating in, even in their own home family life. So that's the way the curriculum is kind of set up. And the idea is that a guy could go through that time of proving and testing and training. it within the context of his own local church with people who know him best. His own pastor knows him best and his own people know him best. And so he can grow up in that way. If there are guys who are needing this finishing off, those would be the guys we send off to seminary and and even several seminaries have at least initially said, yeah, we we would love to get your guys and even potentially give them credit for the courses they completed at the Shepherd's Institute that would go towards their degree. And then for other guys who just go through the curriculum just to grow in their own usefulness to the Lord and continue serving as Sunday school teachers, uh small group leaders, disciplers, or elders, lay elders in the local church. Uh that that's the that's the goal. And in terms of how the whole congregation participates in that, well , there are a lot of ways, primarily prayer. You should be praying that the Lord would raise up shepherds. We live in a culture that is basically trying to completely uh um emasculate young men, especially young Christian men. And it is, you know, it is we're talking about pandemics and epidemics. An epidemic in the American church today is a lack of strong young young men growing up. Uh, which means young men, you need to be pushed harder and you need to accept that and receive that. Life's supposed to be hard. Get over it. Ministry's hard. You need to be trained for it. And if you haven't heard that yet, then you haven't been listening or somebody doesn't love you. But we we need that in the church. We need young guys especially pressed into service. Because times are not going to get easier. They're going to get harder. We see it. The Lord's even just giving us a warning of that and all that's going on now. You think it's hard to wear a mask and do a two hour church service? Yeah, that was That's kind of annoying, but wait till they okay, now you're you're gonna get arrested if you show up to church or whatever. It's gonna get harder, it's not gonna get easier. So so we especially need men in the coming generations who who are gonna be able to hold the line. And and you don't get to that point and say, where's everybody at now? You've got to start preparing for that now. So as churches, that's gotta be our mentality. The congregation needs to be praying for that, serving in practical ways. setting up rooms, uh uh being patient with young men who are growing as shepherds, uh uh being excited, enthusiastic about the ministry, being okay when your pastor has to spend some extra time on the Shepherd's Institute. that normally he would have been able to make a visitation call to your house or something like that. Be okay with that knowing the entire church is sacrificing so that the next generation will be shepherded in the one after that and the one after that and the one after that. Sounds great. Uh what kind of men are we looking to participate? And I know you've uh talked with this quite a bit with your own church. What kind of what kind of men are we we looking for? Yeah, so um we're looking for faithful men because again, the Bible drives everything we do, right? And that is exactly what the Bible says. Second Timothy 2. 2 doesn't doesn't say find any man, doesn't say find a man who's willing, doesn't say find a man who breathes. It says find a faithful man, right? And that faithful man means a proven man, man who has proven himself faithful on multiple levels. And so we're looking for those men who absolutely have a desire to serve. have a have a uh a conviction to serve, but they also have the character in the sense of they're faithful. They're faithful in their home. They're faithful at here at the local church level. I've told our guys there's three levels to the discipleship at at Belcroft. Level one is our is our men's ministry, our men's retreat, our men's Bible study, these things If you're not involved at that, if you're not in our regular men's Bible study and proving faithfulness there, why would you sign up for something that's way more intense? way more uh convicting in the sense of where you're going to be held accountable at a higher level. So show yourself faithful at that lower level first. And it's those men then that come out of that that say, you know what, I want more. I I want to grow more. I I want I want to be used at a at a at a at a greater level for ministry by way of serving as a as a lay elder, teaching, deacon down the road. Maybe this is uh Lord preparing me for ministry, then those kind of guys would go into uh level two or the shepherd's institute. At our church, you know, the elders will have to approve them. So I say it's a it's a limited it's a limited number number of men. But those who are interested, I tell our guys, come talk to me, and then we'll decide. and we'll work it out together to see if you're if the Shepherd's Institute is right for you now or maybe right for you l later and get you ready for it if you're maybe not quite there. Like for us, we have a number of young guys at our church that are have young families. Listen, a lot of times you need to take care of that family first. You need to get your family in order. You need to be pouring into your wife and children. If you're not already doing that, that's priority. Get that figured out, get that worked out before you start adding a whole bunch of other stuff to your plate. And if you've got that done, great. Let's let's move on. Yeah, I uh just to piggyback on that, you may even want to if you're married, ask your wife. And if you get an emphatic yes, you might have a problem. If you get an emphatic no, you might have a problem as well. But uh but yeah. Get some feedback on that. Amen. And uh just last question, uh, when and where is this training going to take place? I've talked a little bit about how that's going to work out, but uh Paul, you want to kind of talk about some of the details On the training. Yeah, uh there's this thing out there called Zoom. I know nobody's ever heard of it before. Uh Um no, we're we're going to be linking up our three churches and the men taking classes on each uh at each church campus. via Zoom. So we'll have one teacher who's teaching a specific course for the semester. And so in the spring semester, beginning in January, I'll be teaching a class. entitled Sanctification and Shepherding Dynamics. So how do people grow and how do you help people grow? That's basically what the class is. It's kind of a gentle introduction into training life and some basics on how to disciple and shepherd people. It's a great introductory class to get you back in the swing of taking classes again. Also it's a great introductory class to work with your elders to say, is this a good fit for me or not? So that's kind of why we've designed it at the front end of the program. That'll be on Thursday nights from 7 to 9 o'clock. uh via Zoom. So I'll be teaching it live in Delaware. For the students here in Delaware, they'll come in and and they'll listen to me live. And then other students will be able to either gather on campuses or gather individually. Your campus pastor, so that would be George here and Matt at BBC South, as I understand it's called now. And your campus pastors will have some specific instructions on how you can dial in. And then in addition to that, there will be a pastoral ministries class We're offering every semester we're offering a pl uh class called Pastoral Ministries for Men. Basically that'll be a one-hour class with the pastor of your campus. George, Matt, and myself will each past do it with our guys on our campus. where we'll be talking about various things like philosophy of ministry, how to think through pastoral ministry, uh all the things. Have you ever been in a church where a new young pastor was there and he thought, well this guy's sweet, but I wish somebody had taught him this, that, or the other. We're going to try to teach them this, that, and the other before they get out there and they're unleashed on people. So uh starting in January, Thursday evenings uh will be the one class and then you can coordinate with your campus pastor for the timing on the pastoral ministries class. Does that answer your question, George? Yep, that's great. If you have any other questions, you can come talk to me. You can talk to uh Brian Trueschler. I'm not sure where he's at. I know he's around here somewhere. But he's helping us out with uh the administration uh for uh Baltimore Bible Church. Um so uh and Matt Pastor Matt as well, you can uh talk to him. uh about your interest in that. Uh but uh with that said, I know we need to get out of here. So uh let me close the pray for good traffic. Yeah. Heavenly Father we come before you God and uh Father we just thank you so much for uh the partnership that we share together. uh for the like-mindedness that uh we all have and uh father for the ways that we're able to uh uh contribute to each other's churches and uh partner together in ministry. Uh Father, we thank you for the ministry today and just getting to hang out with these brothers all day is just a blessing to me and just being uh reminded of the truths that we're all committed to. Father, I pray for uh just uh good traffic and uh safe ride to uh Delaware. Uh Father, we uh uh pray for uh uh the church there and uh just a great ministry uh this evening with them. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org.