The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, it's my uh privilege to welcome to Baltimore Bible Church, a dear friend. Pastor Juan Mancayo, he's the pastor at La Fuente Church in Quito, Ecuador. If you remember a number of years ago we uh went to do a missions trip. uh there as a church short-term missions trip and uh really had a wonderful time uh with their congregation. Uh Juan Moncayo is also a a teacher. He teaches on the the Spanish side of the the Masters uh seminary He's a counselor. He's recently been invited to be part of the ACBC Board, Association of Certified Biblical Counselors. Juan is a student Uh he's wrapping up some doctoral uh uh studies, uh and that's why he's here. So uh instead of calling him Pastor J, sometime we'll have to call him Dr. J. I'm not sure if he knows how to play basketball or not, but uh he'll be He'll be Dr. J, Dr. Dr. Hota. And he's also been a friend for over uh uh twenty years and uh we've uh we share the the same mentor and uh pastor uh Tom Leek and Just grateful for you, brother, grateful for your example. He also brings his wife Marissa and their children here with them as well. So Max and Willow, I'm not sure where she went off to, but Uh Knox and Willow are here and uh really looking forward to uh just uh uh spending some time with them and uh hopefully you'll have a chance to greet them uh after the the service. But uh Juan come on up minister the word of God to us, brother. Thank you, brother. Oh dear friends, greetings uh from the Saints in Quito, Ecuador, Iglesia La Puente. It's for me an incredible privilege to be here with you. As I look around, I see many faces that remind me of the Lord's kindness and the fact that he uses the weak. And he uses the most unexpected for his kingdom. So as I come before you today, uh first I have to say, like the Fuente La Fuente Church sends lots of love, greetings It's been a blessing to serve alongside of you guys. Thanks for your love, your care, your support, your partnership for the sake of the gospel in Ecuador. Secondly, today, this is really special for me because um Coming back to Maryland brings a lot of memories. It was in this place around here with some of the people that are here that I the Lord started to cut my teeth in what would be gospel ministry And around that time I was asking a lot of questions. I was a brand new believer. Uh the Lord had saved me a few years prior. And one of the big things was that I knew that God had done something special in my heart. My desires changed. A lot of who I was started to to to change in my motivation, what Jonathan Edwards will say the affections. And it was clear that that something without my permission had happened in my heart. And what I knew is that I needed to share about that. However, as I started to share, and your pastor will tell you maybe at some point, my commitment was not totally clear when it comes to philosophy of ministry. So you could say that Juan with a mohawk some people remember that was committed to teaching about Jesus. However, I had not learned how to do that, so I was really trying to reach with gospel with a lot of hardcore Christian music or punk music or that kind of stuff. And I thought that it was really needed to do those things to kind of help out God and his purposes. So as I come before you today, I want to talk about what should be the first thing that is in our hearts when you we think about gospel ministry. when we think about missions. I want to ask you this question. What activity immediately comes to your mind as you intrinsically think of missions or intrinsically think of ministry? So for me it was making a difference. For other people it might be changing the life. For other people it would be like I want to go to church so that my family has a good context in which my kids will grow up in a positive place Some of you guys are trying to run away like I was from my past and saying that you know this is a more healthy place. Perhaps you're thinking overseas and you're thinking, you know what, let's go on a short-term missions trip because I don't know my my teenager kit my teenage aged kids are having a hard time and maybe if we take them outside of the US and they get to see this experiences outside they might be able to connect with something, they'll come back more excited and better kids And and I would say that a lot of those things could could have a place. You can even go as far as saying, you know, like we need to think about missions and thinking about going or strategizing or supporting how we're going to raise funds, how we're going to encourage missionaries, how we're going to evangelize. How are we going to pray? How we're going to disciple people. And friends, all those words are important. However, today in front of us we have Psalm 96. And I ask you guys to please turn your Bibles to Psalm 96. And as you go there, we have in front of us one of the key texts in scripture that helps us remember how we're to frame ministry, how we are to frame missions, because this is how God frames missions. This text found in Psalm 96, and as you go there, I'm gonna be reading from the LSB. And uh it's the first time that I preach from the LSB, I normally preach in Spanish, so I don't want to start talking Tongue speaking in tongue so pray for me about that because I get excited. Um but I'm gonna be reading from the LSD And the text says, Sing to Yahweh a new song. Sing to Yahweh all the earth. Sing to Yahweh, bless his name. Proclaim good news of his salvation from day to day. Recount his glory among the nations, his wondrous deeds among all the peoples. For great is Yahweh and greatly to be praised, for he is more fearsome than all gods, for all the gods of the people are idols, but Yahweh made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Describe to Yahweh, O families of the people, describe to Yahweh glory and strength, describe to Yahweh the glory of his name. Lift up an offering and come unto his courts. Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness. Tremble before him. All the earth say among the nations, Yahweh reigns, in thee the world is established, it will not be shaken. He will render justice to the people with equity. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar as well as its fullness, let the field exalt, and all that is in it, then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh for He. He is coming. For he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. So as we think of this psalm, we need to orient ourselves and understand what we see in front of us. This is a psalm that is attributed to David. And this and the neighborhood Psalms, all the way to Psalm 99, are considered theocratic Psalms, showing how God is the one who leads and reigns his people. Another possible title that you will hear for this type of psalms is what it's called a royal or an enthronment psalm. It's a psalm in which it shows that God is doing some great things and the people are praising. And using the Psalms as a way to explain what is happening. So maybe you have never heard of those words. You haven't heard of uh you know the theocratic psalm or the enthronement psalm or maybe a royal psalm, those words might be unfamiliar for us. But if you're faithfully reading through your Bible and you walk through First Chronicles 16, you will find that when David brings the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem, a really important moment You will find in 1 Chronicles, sorry, chapter 16, verses 23 to 33, this Psalm almost word for word in a section. As well as Psalm 105 and 106. So now, as I've read this passage, perhaps you think like I I don't see much missions there, and we're gonna try to show how this text is foundational not only to understand some ideas about mission but to understand what is the first action that should be based on mission. I'm going to just give you the answer now and I'm going to use the words of John Piper and John Piper said that this is the fuel and the goal of missions. And what is the fuel and goal of missions? It's worship. It's all about worship. It needs to be about worship. So an outline, if you want to follow along, it will be number one, we're going to see the call to missions. Number two, we're going to see the motivation for missions. And then number three, we're going to see the future of missions. We're going to spend a lot of time in the first point and we're going to kind of run through the other two. But we wanna make sure today that we realize that the most important thing here is worship. We are to be worshipers and we are worshiping something today. So if you are a missionary, and I'm gonna say if right now and then you'll see that we are all missionaries, like we are to be thinking about these things, but we need to anchor it in the reality of worship before God, okay? So please come with me as we're gonna do this trip and we're gonna ask the Lord to bless our time together. Oh heavenly Father, as I come before you, what an incredible privilege to be behind this pulpit, pulpit of a dear friend, which faithful men have preached So today, Lord, may me be super small so that Christ will be as the most important, the most beautiful. Help us contemplate who He is So that our hearts will be encouraged, Lord. There's so many people here and what a joy to hear kids crying and like men singing. And Lord, you're doing great things here in Baltimore. Help me serve him well, Father. Father, for your honor and your glory. In the name of Christ we pray. And his people say, Amen. So number one, the call to missions. The call to missions. So please join me in those first three verses. Sing to Yahweh a new song. Sing to Yahweh all the earth. Sing to Yahweh. Bless His name. Proclaim good news of His salvation from day to day. Recount His glory among the nations. His wondrous. So the first thing that comes to our attention really clearly and obviously is the repetition in the first couple verses. The command to sing is repeated three times in rapid succession. Now I just said it, but this is a command. You may not see it in the original. This is what is an imperative, the voice for an order. We see that the psalm begins with an odd voice that directly commands us to sing. This is c totally normal. This is what we are called to do. We must sing. Now as I mentioned to you I was pretty committed to music. Christian music to be exact. So when I think of music and I think of sing, there's a part of me that now is really excited, but in the past it was completely lost when he t talked about singing. So let me tell you a story from my ministry in Ecuador and then I'll bring you back to another story. But uh a few uh years ago when we were developing our music ministry at La Fuente This dear brother from church shared this story and I found it absolutely funny because in Latin America we love music. So this dear grandma uh had uh it's safe for many, many years and she loves to have her Christian music station on her kitchen. And as she had her music radio station there, she has some teenagers that like to mess with grandma. So these teenagers came into the kitchen and changed the radio station to a normal romantic Latino music station. So before you know, grandma comes in and she hears the words, I miss you, come back quickly, I miss you, come back quickly, with the context of a boyfriend or ex-boyfriend or something like that. So then before you know it this grandma comes in and it's like I miss you come back quickly I miss you Well the parents come in and it's like grandma what are you singing this is a terrible song And the point is that many times music can be used to manipulate people. Many times we sing things that that if you change a little bit of the words, you're not really sure we're singing to the God of the universe that's worthy to of all praise we're singing to an ex-boyfriend or girlfriend. And we need to be really careful with that. And dear friends as I see this command to sing, sing, sing, some people will be like, yes, let's sing but I'm from Latin America, so I'm we're ready to sing and clap However, our singing needs to be informed. We need to be really careful. I have her chance of singing to a god or a deity in the jungles of Ecuador. That you could kind of like take it out of context and say that that's what it's doing here. And people might actually say that in my context. That's not what God is talking about. He's not just Mother Nature or Ecuador ama la vida, loves life. I have sat with councilees with tears in their eyes as they share with me that they have attended events in which the prosperity gospel, which is no gospel at all, washare and was music and singing repetitively the same thing was used to manipulate them. That's not what it's talking here. Me myself was involved in music ministry in quotes in which we were really excited about the lights and there were people with good hearts and there was like like all sorts of Cool lights and cool different things. And I could see now that people were not going to sing God about God. They were singing about themselves and we were manipulating crowds This is a command to sing that must be in form. And the text tells us and tells us really clearly what are we to sing, who are we to sing to, who are we singing with. So first To whom do we sing? Notice the text. Sing to Yahweh, says the LSV. To the Lord, the Nazbi, or the ESV. The covenant to sing to the God, covenant God is repeated all over the place in this psalm. Please notice with me, verse one and two, sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh, sing to Yahweh. Then we jump to ch to verse four. For great is Yahweh. Verse 5, for all the gods of the peoples are idols, but Yahweh made the heavens. And then another said, verses 7, 8, and 9, look with me, please. Ascribe to Yahweh. Ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength. Ascribe to Yahweh the glory of his name. And in case it's not not clear for any of us, please go now with me to verse 13. What does it say? Before Yahweh, for he's coming. Life, ministry, the church should be God-centered. There's many times in which you will hear a lot of ministry that is men-centered now. This psalm is reminded us that God needs to be in the center of everything. Everything is for him and through him. God needs to be in the center of missions. God needs to be in the center of all types of ministry, friends. Do not miss this. The psalm wants to show that the covenant God, the one and only true God, the Lord Yahweh, He is the main character who deserves this song. And we must sing to him. So when we choose songs, when we are thinking about ministry, let's make sure that what we're singing is singing about God. Focusing in him. Now the question is so so what do we sing? Please notice the text. It says a new song And this is a really interesting phrase again from my days in Christian music because I have a lot of dear friends that are l really musically inclined and they walk around with the guitars and they will say something like, Hey like you know what? I just I just got this new riff, you know, I I I got this new this new part, this new lyrics, this new melody. And and many times it's focused on something external and and that external could be part of it, but that's not the main thing. focus. It's almost like, hey, God gave me a new song. I was just chatting with a leader in Ecuador of a church and she's like, Hey, like like God just gave me a new song, brother. You I want you to hear it and and the focus was kind of in this this this work that he did outside. However, friends, that's not what the church If you see this phrase of a new song that's seen in this Psalter in Psalm 33, 40, 98, 144, and 149. Now the point is not an external artistic creation, but that the word of God internally does something in the heart of someone in which there's a new one, a refreshed, a fresh understanding of the truths of the gospel. You see that and gather something new inside you in which you understand something new and your heart starts worshiping. And this is absolutely crazy for me. Because during that time, as I said, I was really excited with the brand new songs from the Christian station. And what the new Christian music bands were doing. And some people are their believers and they love God. But what was crazy for me is that after coming from a big concert with all the brand new songs, I was sitting in a pew bench and they got up there with tice and they started singing a hymn. I was like, what? And not only that, but then I started looking at the little letters and it's not something like written in the 16th century And that's the beauty of this friends, because we can sing songs like the ones we've sung today, in which we have songs that are fairly new, but you can see songs from the beginning of the century, even from centuries ago, and you sing and you sing, your heart sings the new song. Your song realizes your heart kind of gets connected to the souls of all these other people through church history. Like, hey, we're singing to the same God, that we're having the same human experiences, and Christ continues to be the answer. And that's beautiful. I love this 25 years ago when I lived around here. I was reminded of this. Ever since it's been a uh joy for me to be thinking of these songs that are not normally the new ones. I like new songs too if they're Christ-centered. But to be able to get my heart to sing new songs based on this beautiful melody Melodies and songs from a long time ago. In other words, friends, this is what we are to sing. We sing to our God, and we sing to our God all the time. Why? Because we're celebrating a renewed experience of divine action. Or or being once again amazed at the incredible glory of God doing things because he's so great. We're thinking of the works of Christ, we're thinking of his attributes, and that's why we continue to to look at him and contemplate at him and that's what our hearts need. And eventually sings. Now, please notice that right after we finish this triple closest thing, there is their other words. And in the original, all this are imperatives. So now these things are now followed by a flood of other imperatives that expand our perspective of worship. Once again, For me as an Ecuadorian, I love to think about worship and in my context, people think about worship and they just think about songs and they just think about someone playing a guitar or singing and that's important. However, worship Like the hands are just part of it. Or or voices are just part of it. It's our lives, right friends? So because of that, now look at the other words that are the imperative Bless his name. So you want with your life to speak words of excellence about your God. After that, proclaim the good news of his salvation from day to day. You proclaim his work, and not just on Sunday, but every day. I love coming here again. It's been a privilege to just come and visit. And I see a lot more babies in this church. And for some people when I talk about missions, some people might check out because they're like, you know what, right now I have babies, like it it'd be really hard for us to go somewhere. Your house is a missions field And day today you get to show in those little discipleship centers co-families like, hey, this is who we worship, children Notice the next part. Recount or the Nasby says tell of his glory. And this word recount, I like it in LSD because the idea here is of keeping a written record. Friends, I don't know about you guys, but I suffer from spiritual amnesia. There's moments in which God does some great things and then a new issue comes in or a new Hard thing in my life comes in and I'm like, oh God, where are you? But but he was faithful recently. And the idea here is that you must remember, you need to recount, you need to tell your heart many times what God has done. Remember that. I can tell you, dear friends, and just being a little bit sharing my heart that it's been a sweet trip for that. I'm driving up and down Route 29 And I'm thinking I I remember here like wrestling with things in my heart. I remember hearing dear friends telling me things that I'm like, I'm not really sure about that, but that's biblical. We can't fight against that Remember those things. Now, right now what could happen is that because we have this big focus and it's being exported in missions about your your personal relationship. with Christ in which it's almost like you know what this is great but notice that the text does not focus extremely on the personal side. The psalmist here is not satisfied with keeping this just your personal prayer closet personal devotion, writing your journal moments with the Lord, which could be important. They are important, but this is something that must be shared. Please look at verse 1. Who must we sing to the Lord? Who's both the audience, the cast, or the choir for all the singing? Verse 1, all the earth. Verse 3, recount of his glory, keep a written record, among All the nations, thank you. How wondrous these among all the people. Friends, there's no space in Christianity For Secret Service Christians. In which we're all like, you know what? Like I'm a Christian, but no one needs to know. We are called to share. We're called to talk. The abundance of the heart speaks the mouth and we have found the treasure of supreme value and with the opportunity to go and share about that. Now you start to see how this is a missionary psalm. And not just that, but even the psalm continues, verse 7. Ascribed to the Lord of families of the peoples. Verse 10, say among the nations, the Lord reigns. Verse 11, let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar and all it contains. And this is so great, friends, because the psalm does not say, Hey, sing who? You Israel. Sing who? You people that go to church. You that confess Christ. You Christians, you believers. Baltimore Bible Church, you saying, no, no, no, no. You're saying the earth, the nations, the peoples, families, peoples, nations, everybody is called. For this worship to participate. Yahweh is not a local deity at the same level of other deities. That's what we read a minute ago. No, he is the true God. He is the God of the universe who rightfully deserves all the praise And one day everybody will praise him. And that's the beauty of it. There's gonna be one day in which if you're in Christ, you're gonna bend your knee to Christ, and every knee will bow, every tongue confess, and in his kindness and his grace. We're gonna be there and say like you finally are here. There's other people they're gonna bend their knee. It's gonna be in total horror And fear. Beloved, the point is clear. God deserves worship. That is what missions. That's what ministry is about Scholars, like I said before, that's why they say that this is yes, this is a royal psalm, but in reality is a missionary psalm. However, here we run into a problem. I don't know what happens around here in Baltimore, but I'm sure it's pretty similar to Ecuador. But I don't go to the store and I see people being like, hey, uh, you go first, please. I just want to glorify God and everything. You know? You're driving, I don't know, like you know, here the bellway or or like any road and you see that people are like, you know, no, let him go first That doesn't happen, right? You don't see, you know, I go to my neighbors and and like they're not excited about Christ. I go to music things or like I go to stadiums or I go to things and and you don't see people reading like, hey, let's just focus on Christ. Let's just make sure that all this is about Christ. You don't see that, right? However, if we go all the way forward, and please go with me to Apocalypsis Revelation, chapter 7. See what would happen at the end. So chapter seven, verses nine through eight to ten. So the Apostle John writes, After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude, which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb. clothes in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands, and they cry out with a loud voice, they're singing, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the land. In Ecuador I don't see that. In Baltimore probably wouldn't see that, right? If I go up to the mountains in Ecuador, up to Riobamba, one of the tallest volcanoes in in in in in the world is in Ecuador, either Cotopaxi or Chimborazo, or you go to the Galapagos Islands, you can definitely find that people don't go to Galapagos to Glorify God and like this is beautiful and look what God created. That's the land of Darwin. It's funny because we live in Charles Darwin Avenue. And people are like, can we trust the missionary that lives in Charles Darwin Avenue? That's how much. So so so you see that that there are no like, you know what, let's change the name of that street. Let's let's let's let's put something biblical. That's not the world we live in So what do we do between Psalm ninety-six and then in Revelation chapter seven? How do we get from here to there? And the answer is through missions. I see this overwhelming sense that families, that nations, that regions of the world need to sing this new song. We don't see that. So how will this happen? It's through missions. It's through faithful brothers and sisters that take seriously the call to make disciples. For us to proclaim, to sing, to worship God I know you guys are studying through Romans and eventually you get to Romans 10. The beautiful words. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they're sent, just that is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news. This is great. Because many times when I think of missions and when I used to think about missions, it was this idea, and this is great, and and again, I'm not saying I'm against this, but this idea that I just want them to be safe so they have a better life. I just wanted to be saved because I see the pain that they're going through. And and I feel, that's still in my heart. We do a lot of counseling in the ministry by by God's grace. Like just in December, uh we got to see some incredible testimonies in which there were some families in which like there were some hard things happening and and a marriage that was pretty much like dissolving and they were separated for over a year, you know, because of there was sin in one side but like absolutely terrible and we were praying and and saying like hey like trust in the Lord and at the end of the day my temptation we like my desire was just to get them back together and it and it happened. Many times. By God's grace. But then I have to remember the point is not just that they're together, but that they are now living in a way that glorifies God. It's about him. And with this in mind, that's what missions is about. If we change Romans 10, we can say, how then will they worship? How then will they sing to him whom they have not heard? That's our call, friends. Missions is about worship. It's about changing that worship. The point is that when someone believes in God, the Lord saves them. That leads to a change of heart that produces a change of worship to rightful worship. We're all worshipers. You are worshiping something I don't know how big you guys are into American football. Um But every now and then in in in our church and La Fuente there's like the final of something, you know, we're gonna have a big test coming with the World Cup coming up in a in a in a few In a few months, but you start to people, it's like you know their mind is completely in there. What is the score of the game? Or maybe that's not that, maybe it's money. Maybe something else, in which you're consistently thinking about that, you're worshiping something That's why, beloved, we love missions. We want to see people, we want to see people worshiping Christ. This is the goal, this is the driving force of missions, worship. Again, John Piper writes, mission exists because worship doesn't exist. Now, as I think about this call to worship, I want to just put it in a different way, because Then we go back and we just say if you want to go back with me please to Psalms. I said that there was this imperative of sing to Yahweh a new song or sing to Yahweh of the earth and sing to Yahweh bless his name. And with that in mind now as we think about missions, we need to think that this is not a request. This is not something for you to think about. Because many people you don't see here that that the Lord puts in his word, Hey, I want you to pray about singing. I want you to first make sure that you do the singing There's a really great Bible study about singing in such a way that then eventually someone might respond and they will start to sing. Do you see that in the Bible? No. You just think. And many times with missions we do something similar. We're like, you know what? Like there's a lot of people like I I am praying about missions I'm thinking about missions. I did this Bible study in the Greek and the Hebrew of all the words that have to do with missions, and I'm really excited about missions. No one the point here is like you just go and sing, you just go and worship. You're worshiping someone. So you're already a missionary. Your dear pastor did a conference a few years ago and he reminded me of the words of Spurgeon. You are either a missionary or you are an impostor. And I was like, that that is so true. We being saved, not for us to live in a little corner, but because we're worshipers, we have to share about what is exciting for us. I remember when I met my wife, and there's a lot of people here that that know me. I was so excited. I'm still excited by the way, my love. But but I just couldn't help myself talk about what you love. That's what we need to do about our faith Now, there might be some people here that you are new in the faith, so want to take a different approach now as we go to the second part on the reason for missions Some people hear about this focus and like the church should be about worshiping God. Everything is about exalting Christ. And some people have said And because they don't understand this part, but they will say like hey, it sounds like this God that you guys are worshiping is kind of like having some self-esteem issues. Consistently he's just asking people like, hey just please worship me, please worship me. So and you need to have this clear Because people will say things like that. So now this psalm moves into that direction, verses four to ten, the reasons for missions of the reason for worship Verse four, for great is the Lord Yahweh, and greatly to be praised. And then I'm going to run to verse seven and says, Ascribe to Yahweh, O families of the people, ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength, ascribe to Yahweh the glory of his name. So you have three principles that are clu that are super important here. Number one, because he's great. That means that he's greater, he's supreme, he's high, his principle enormous, powerful. And because he is all those things, he's greatly to be praised. Or he's worthy of being praised. Or he's even worthy of supreme praise the way that the grammar reads in the original So with that in mind you're already like this is great this is huge and then add to that the idea of glorious and I remember when I was a kid I don't remember the the exact scenario but I I just remember I have this memory in my mind of two men fighting I mean I I probably was like my son maybe like seven, eight years old. I remember this two guys like really going after each other and talking. And I remember the words of one of them, and he looked at the other guy and said, You don't know who I am. And like puffing his chest. And I was like, You don't know. And the whole point was this idea that if you really knew who I was, you wouldn't be doing this And dear friends, that stuck to my mind, especially now as a pastor, because who are we but dust? The only one that could say that is God. The word for glory in Hebrew kabbar is the word that has the idea of weight, of majesty, of honor. This idea of like, hey, they're throwing the way around. The only one that could do that is God. And the beauty in missions is that he could be doing that. You don't know who I am, people. And right now, he asked he said people and he allows us to be part of coming to other people and saying like you need to know who he is. You need to know who he is. Let me worship him and let me share about this incredible God. Now, as we think of those things, we must continue to think of why do we worship? So number one, because he's great Because he's great to be praised, because he's glorious. But number two, please notice verse 5. For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Here David does a wordplay. God in Hebrew is Elohim. Idols is Elilim. So there's a little wordplay here, an Elilim or Idols. is a word that translates as worthless, uh things that have no value and this is absolutely beautiful because you see the continuous line of worship that we see all the way at the beginning and continues through all um redemption history and even to today. And David does An argument that then Paul is going to take borrowed in Acts chapter 17. So we're all looking for ways to find identity. We're all trying to worship something. We're created as worshipers, friends. And it's neat that when uh Paul goes to the Areopagus, he says the following words, and you don't need to go there, but it's in Acts 17, verses 24 and 25. The text says the God who made the world and all things in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything. He himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. And I think of this verse and today we just read it or something similar. But I just think in Ecuador. In Ecuador, Catholicism is big And we've been through earthquakes in Ecuador many years ago when Willow was about to be born, and that was a really scary time for us. We have this huge earthquake, 7. 3 in the coast Hundreds of people passed away. The infrastructure of the land was completely devastated. And then after that we've had like from from power cuts to life floods to all sorts of stuff. And I remember one image especially at some point in one of those disasters in which you could see that after that All these people after a flood, all these men went into the Catholic church, and then after that they were getting all their little icons and things out of the church to keep them safe And I found that image so interesting because literally they went in there and they had to save their God. And then you see that they get it out, they put it there, like, please help us. And I'm like, wait, you had to help your God. So so I don't know how this works. But dear friends, that's the that's the truth and the lie of idolatry. And we can all laugh and we can all think of those things, but we all have practical saviors. Everybody around the world, when things get tough, they run somewhere to say, please save me. And this text clearly says, hey, I am the God. I am the creator of heaven and earth. There's no other God like me Beloved, once again, missions is about worship. It's about what do we adore with your heart. And look at verse 6 now. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. And I love like this idea of biblical counseling. The reason why I like biblical counseling is because it helps me understand better the human experience and how God explains the human experience in a better way, because He created us. And when I think of the human experience, I like to think that that God has given us senses that when we uh engage with some stimuli, our hearts respond. It would be with awe or with reverence or with magnificence or you get excited or you get teary-eyed or things like that. And and people go all the way to Ecuador, to the Galapagos Islands, to to see animals, and you can see they're like, oh, wow, this bird Or wow, you know the whole idea of evolution. I'm like mm. But but but people get really excited about things like that. Or they go out to the mountains and they see the volcanoes, el Kimborazo, el Cotopaxi, and they're like, wow, this is beautiful, this is so high, this is so crazy When I was younger, when I was in sixth grade, they took us on a little trip to graduate sixth grade, that is like elementary school in Ecuador. And after that there was a bunch of us, I I I don't know what sixth grade age would be, but we were all there and you know, a bunch of boys sixth graders, all abnunctions and like trying to be cool. And I remember that they took us in this boat to this place called the poor men's Galápagos, which is like a little island really closer to the to the coast, but in which you can see a lot of animals still that they will eventually get to Galápagos. And as we were there, you can see all these guys trying to be tough or trying to be like, hey, look at me how cool I am and we were in the edge of the boat and it was a tiny boat and the laws for like what can you have in a boat, they're pretty Uh m uh shapeable I would say uh when it comes to Ecuador. So all our of us are there messing with each other and then the captain said, Look, and we were like, look at what and we're all trying to be cool, and before you know it, really close from us, uh Huge humpback whale breached and landed. And at that moment, all the school guys trying to be all tough and all that, we all were quiet. Because those are the beautiful moments in life when you realize that you're so small. When you realize that at that moment if that world touches the world done But but the beauty of this is not just the sense of like oh those abnormal like sixth graders but the idea that there's something ingrained in us that says like wow We all were quiet. I think our teachers were trying to get us quiet for a long time, but that made it. At that moment that whale came up and we were all quiet. And you just can't hear this. John Piper writes it really well. He says, like one of the most unloving things that you can do to someone is go to the Alps and give them a mirror. We were created to contemplate. This text is absolutely beautiful because here the text shows a list of attributes that are connected to his throne to his sanctuary. And they continue to explain what was said in verse 4. Why do you say that he's great and worthy to be praised? It is because of his glory, his majesty. his power and beauty, that he is worthy to be praised. Because if you truly know who God is, your heart will respond in all an adoration. Beloved, from images to celebrities to sports teams to nature to anything else, missions exist to help people worship the true God, creator of heaven and earth. Missions exist to help all the peoples fall out of love with all broken cisterns and fall in love with the true living water. Missions exist for people to turn away from idols and go to Christ, the only one that will truly satisfy their souls. Missions exist to help people find the rightful place for them to experience through all amazement, excitement, veneration, and boasting, namely in the Lord. What a privilege to be part of, my friends. What a privilege. That's why look how the text continues. Ascribe to the Lord the families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength, ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name, bring an offering and come into his courts. And this is a section, if you want to do a little deeper study in Psalm 29, verses 1 and 2, it's written the same idea, pretty similar. And in that context, it's for the angels. This is for men, for humanity. We are to sing. All creation sings them. Now, the singing and the adoration must be practical. And that's why I notice, as I mentioned before, verse 7 talks about families. Those are discipleship centers. Families need to be a places where we're worshiping God. Friends, you already are worshiping something in your family. It's so neat. Like if you ask your children, your children will be like, hey, what is important for us? And and you could be from a sports team. From from from A from this place or state where we lived before, or there's something that your family's already being discipled to worship something. There's something that's important for them. And we pray that that that our kids will grow up saying like Yahweh is important, the Lord, Christ. Verse 8, lift up an offering and come to his courts. And again, we do not bring an offering to be accepted, but bring an offering of thanksgiving for what he has done. It's grace, faith. Calvin here points out that we do not arrive with empty hands to his presence A part of this worship is that you come presenting yourself as a offering. Hebrews chapter thirteen, verse fifteen, Through him then let us continually offer a sacrifice of praise to God, that is the fruit of lips that give thanks to God Thanks to his name. Romans 12, 1. Therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God. This also is seen in chapter and verse 9 when he talks about holiness. Years ago I had the opportunity to travel to Brazil in this music kind of time and I was translating for an important band that was in their first concert in Brazil. I remember so clearly that after the concert uh the Brazilians were crazy, were wild, there was a it was a sweet time in that sense. But then like when the band was going, there was uh thousands of people that whenever the band was about to play they will do this like And like when you see like thousands of people doing it, we were like this is crazy and the band was super excited and stuff and then after that we had a little meeting with youth workers and they were saying like you know what like they weren't they weren't too excited. And and this youth worked at us, you know what, like we've been noticing that after this Christian concert there's much so cardinality and then after this, many times we have a lot of issues after that. And this idea that you will say like this is incredible. And you will see today even in Nishan saying we just got this stadium filled with worshipers. But the worshiping doesn't happen when you sing, but what happens after? What happens with your life? And here, verse 9 reminds us that holiness is incredibly important. Tremble. Worship Yahweh in the splendor of holiness. Then we go into trembling. Tremble. Tremble. In counseling every now and then. And it's it's interesting what it was exported through missions to other places of the world. And in one sense, sometimes it's exported this idea that to be a Christian you must like dress this way and do this and do that and there's not a talk about Christ and the gospel. But in the other sense, there's this idea of like, hey, like, you can be a Christian in whatever way you want. And God, you know what, like, it's it's fine, he's your body. I remember a few years ago I was counseling this young man that he grew up in church and he was involved in a lot of Christian events. And I asked him, could you please close in prayer? And and I kid you not, he started to open his mouth and it was like kind of body God We come before you. And he used like words that I don't use even with my friends. And I was saying, like, no, like you're talking with the God of the universe. Trembles. We must have this holy reverence before the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Isaiah 66, 2, but to this one I will look, to him who is humble and contrite of spirit, but who trembles at my word. I don't know how many youth workers might be here But but just tremble when you're like I get the opportunity to open the word with the second graders. Moms As your discipling and your kids are home, perhaps, like what an opportunity that they will see in you, mom and dad, that we tremble at the Lord, at his word. There's verse 5. We tell among the people, saying among the nations, Yahweh reigns. Indeed, the word is assembled. It will not be shaken. He will render justice to the peoples with equity. That is the idea that the Lord reigns, we heard it at the beginning of the service. The Lord reigns, he is king Psalm forty seven eight God reigns over the nations. God sits on his holy throne. Psalm ninety three, verse one The Lord reigns, he's clothed with majesty, the Lord has clothed it and girded himself with strength. Indeed the word is firmly established, it will not be moved. Psalm 97 :1, the Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice, let the many islands be glad. Psalm 99, verse 1: The Lord reigns, let the people tremble, he is enthroned above all the share of him, let the earth shake. Then you think even the prophet in Isaiah, he writes about this and remember also Romans and how lovely on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who announces peace and brings good news of happiness? Who announces salvation and says to Zion, your God brings And then you go all the way forward again to Revelation chapter 19, verse 6. Then I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like the sounds of many waters, and like the sounds of mighty bales of thunder saying, hallelujah, for the Lord our God, Almighty, reigns. He reigns. And dear friends, this is so important in missions and the ministry. There's moments in which you're going to be discouraged. I can tell you, you know, a few weeks before we came in this little sabbatical. We by God's grace we've been able to live in a neighborhood that is semi-safe. But uh a few months ago I think it was right after you guys were in Ecuador. One of our pastors parked a car in the church parking lot. He went outside, went to to say hi to a counselee, went back in the building, came out, his car was gone. In a coffee shop that we normally go with my wife on dates and also in discipleship conversations, a car just like mine got totally taken everything inside, like destroyed. A block from our house, someone got pickpocketed and taken. A few blocks away someone got shot just because the password for their iPhone, someone tried to steal it and he tried to put the password. He was so nervous that he couldn't get the right numbers and he got shot at that moment And at that moment I think like Lord like can like David can you see this? And and he because God reminded me, saying among the nations Yahweh reign. He continues to be king. He has purposes. Sometimes we don't understand those purposes, but we can trust. But notice what he says after that. Indeed, the world is established. It will not be shaken. And dear friends, I I think that even I'm Ecuadorian and also American, there's so many things right now that are trying to make you forget this verse. There's a lot of things happening around and we think like what is happening? And the text reminds us the world is established, it will not be shaken. You can trust God And with this, we finish with uh future of missions, verses eleven through thirteen. And this part is beautiful because we see new characters coming in. Verses eleven through thirteen. Please notice now who's joining in the singing and worship. Before we had nations, we had peoples, we have families, but now notice the text. Let the heavens be glad and let the earth rejoice. Let their seas roar as well as its fullness. Let their fields exalt on all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy. Heavens, earth, sea. And the LSD says, as well as its fullness, and the Nazbi, I believe it's all it contains. I and I like this because every couple years you hear scientists they go to the Mariana Trench or some places really deep in the ocean. They're like, hey, by the way, we just found this new species of little craft. Of this little fish that looks kinda really funny. But have you seen this as beautiful we never knew that this existed? The fish would actually testify. God knows There's a bunch of things that we don't know. But no, God knows. And right here, they're joining in mission. From the heavens to that tree outside that right now, it's frozen. All those things are worshiping God, and one day they will come and worship. Dear friends, this should be convicting for us. If that litter tree outside is ready to worship, to be part of mission, how are we doing with our families? How are we doing with our time? How are we doing with it in our everyday life? It feels Heavens are glad, earth rejoice, seas roar, fields exalt, trees sing for joy, and this idea of sing for joy in Spanish is like ungrito de jubilo. It's this idea that it just explodes. They all join the mission. And finally, please look at the end of the text, verse 13. Before the Lord, for his coming, for he's coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the people in faithfulness. This goes back to the idea that he already introduced in verse 10. Please observe with me. Say among the nations the Lord reigns, indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved, he will judge the people with equity. Now if you look at verse 13, there's uh an idea that is repeated twice, and it's the idea of foresee is coming. And and to a way to illustrate this, it would be like I don't know how many of you guys are the younger child or the older child. But I was the older child and one of the things is that as you're messing with your younger brother, there's a moment in which the old the younger brother says like hey my dad is coming. Right? And at that moment you back up And this is really interesting, dear friends, because here, as brothers and sisters in Christ, we live in this world that is broken. We live in this world where there's a lot of pain, where there's suffering of all of all types. In which I just share some of our struggles in Ecuador. And there's a moment in which you see that even things are unfair. And some of those guys are doing these terrible things, then you see that they're doing great. And you're like, this is not fair. And this text reminds us there's one day in which our older brother's coming back to make everything right. And you can trust that moment And until that moment, it there's a few things. Number one, there's this comfort that will come in. Because he's coming, he's coming to comfort us and to clean every tear of our eyes. But at the same time, it's a day of dread. We're gonna see family members. Some of us have family members that are unsaved. You might have your spouse who's not a believer. You might have co-workers, you might have extended family, you might have people that you love, and that day is coming to judge them. What an opportunity today, dear friends, to share of this beautiful gospel. As I think, and as we finish this time, let me finish with a quote, extended quote from John Piper and his work and his incredible work, Let the Nations Be Glad. Missions is not the ultimate goal of the church. Worship is. Missions exist because worship doesn't. Worship is ultimate, not missions, because God is ultimate, not man. When this age is over and the countless millions of the redeemed fall on their faces before the throne of God missions will be no more. It is a temporary necessity, but worship abides forever. Worship therefore is the fuel and goal of missions. It's the goal of missions because in missions we simply aim to bring the nations into the white hot enjoyment of God's glory. The goal of missions is the gladness of the people and the greatness of God. One of the things that I love about the squad after that is he says like you know you will not be able to share about this God that you're supposed to be sharing if you haven't enjoyed him. And many times when we talk about missions, we think about like, hey, what can you bring to the missions field? You know, so it might be your language, it might be, I don't know, like an ability, m may m maybe maybe a little uh something that trade that you can bring in. Praise the Lord for those things But you know what you always bring to the missions field? That you're a worshiper. And I've seen so many times in which the best teams that go and the worst missionaries that go are those that What they were doing back at home where they were worshiping God and they were enjoying God, that they they just do it in a different context, man. So the way too close, friends. Number one. Let's focus on worship. Number two God has a global plan that starts in your backyard. Be faithful to worship in that context and share the gospel. Three, before you actually think of sharing the gospel, ask yourself this question. In a group this big, many people are thinking about, hey, I need to go on the missions field, but maybe you are the missions field. Maybe you don't know Christ. Today talk to someone. Trust Christ. Repent from your sins. And finally, keep praying for those of us in the other side as we're praying for you. For me it's an incredible privilege to have dear friends that have been lifted us up in prayer, that have invested in us. We love you. We pray that either it be that in the Lord's providence we're back in a few months or in a few years But I know for sure that we'll be in his kingdom altogether. And there will be no goodbyes after that. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this text. Thank you for the opportunity to open the word with your friends. A church that has been such a blessing to me personally and to the ministry in Ecuador. And Heavenly Father, we praise you today because you saved us. We want to lift up a song, a new song, as we think of what you have done and what you will do. And Father, we ask you that you would bring workers to all places in the world So that your gospel will be preached and there'll be worshipers for every nation, tongue, and nation, Father. I thank you for this time with our friends, and may you be glorified. In the name of Christ we pray. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.