The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, it's been a a long week for me and uh I'm sure a long week for some of you and even uh today with wondering if we're gonna have power or not, there's a a lot that's going on. And uh so we're gonna take uh uh uh take uh take a week off of uh Romans. We're gonna save Romans chapter 3 for uh uh next time. Uh but today we'll take a detour from from Romans and really uh there's uh a section in Romans that I really want to uh make sure that we cover together uh and uh cover without you know breaks in between. So uh we'll get back to that later. But uh for today we'll take a brief detour and we'll be turning to the book of Matthew. Uh Matthew chapter six and uh we'll be talking about What I've called the war on worry. The war on worry. If you're a citizen of the heavenly kingdom, if you're a citizen of the kingdom of of heaven, if you belong to Jesus Christ, if you belong to God. You have been set free from having to seek the riches of the world, to serve the riches of the world, or to find your security in the riches of the world. And the point that Jesus makes in Matthew chapter 6 is going to be a simple but a profound point If you belong to the kingdom of heaven, that means that you're also heaven's responsibility. If you belong to the kingdom of heaven, and heaven will take care of you And that just makes sense, doesn't it? Why why would we act like we're on our own? And we can't be swept away by the the panic uh that is taking place all over the world uh and really all over our nation. We can't be swept away by the the panic. I I call it the panic demic, you know, this panic that sweeps over us everywhere. And so much of our area right here, and even some of the prayers that we've prayed today, and I know uh with some of the conversations that I've had with you, uh that there's so much uncertainty about the future. Uncertainty about employment. You know, I just read an article that said over 300,000 federal employees have been let go. And there's some of us right here because of our proximity to you know so much of what happens in uh DC that there are many of our members who are concerned about the future as well. But I want to remind you that if you're a kingdom, if you're a kingdom citizen, if you belong to the kingdom of heaven, that this world is not your home. That we're just passing through. We're all on a temporary work visa. And our home country supplies us with all that we need until our assignment here is done. And if we know that, we shouldn't look like everyone else around us. What's different between you and the person in the next cubicle What's different between you and the friends that you talk to when they talk about their concern about the future? What's different in the way that you talk about the future versus the way that they talk about the future? We shouldn't speak just like everyone around us. We should be letting people know that, hey, if you switch allegiance and you join this heavenly kingdom, that you don't have to worry because the Father takes care. of those concerns for us. You don't have to worry about what you eat or drink or what you put on because the Father cares for those who belong to him. And there's nothing that exposes where your heart really is. Nothing exposes it more than a crisis. It's in in a crisis it starts to to squeeze out what's really going on in your heart, doesn't it? I remember during COVID uh one of our friends in in California uh told us about a local supermarket that she used to go to. And she said that they posted a sign that said, you know, two-case limit, you know, two cases of water, two-case limit on water bottles. No more than two cases per customer. And she said there was a man who came in who totally ignored the sign, loaded his shopping cart down with multiple cases of water bottles, and then when he approached the register, the cashier said, I'm sorry, sir, there's a two-case limit on the water. And this man had a full adult temper tantrum and started picking up water bottles and throwing these water bottles at the cashier, at the people next to them, just full-on adult temper tantrum. And eventually they had to call the police and arrested him and hauled him away. And I'm not sure if he even got a cup of water that day, you know, much less the cases of water that he was hoping to get. They they hauled him off But that's what happens when you think that that all my security is what I can get. You know now now you're ready to throw the the tumper tantrum if I if I might not get that. Because this is what I'm depending on. This is this is my life. This is where my security is found. And if this earthly kingdom is all that you have coming to you , Then why wouldn't we expect you to make things as comfortable as you can, possibly can here? Because this is it. And why wouldn't you have a full-on adult temper tantrum if you can't get more than two cases of water? Because this is it You know, there are people fighting over, you know, a roll of sharmin. My goodness. If that's what it takes to make your life comfortable, please, you know, take take the shaman, right? But we we don't look for our security in this life only. We have so much more that we're looking forward to as believers, don't we? We don't have to be swept away by the panic that overtakes so many of the people around us and praise God that his word marks out a clear path. to escape that kind of temptation. So let's take a look at Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 to 34 together. Matthew chapter 6 verses 25 to 34. It says, For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? Why are you so worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? Do not worry then saying, what will we eat or what will we drink or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for your word. Our Father, we pray that you would allow your word to speak to us, Lord, and particularly, Lord, in the times that we find ourselves in. Father, I pray that we would be people of faith Now that as people speak to us, Lord, as they hear us talk about the circumstances of our lives, Lord, that it would be clear to them, Lord, that we have a hope that's beyond this life. Father, that they would turn to us and say, what's the reason for the hope that's in you? And that we would be able to speak a word about our trust in our Savior, our trust in our Heavenly Father who cares for us, who watches over us. Father, I pray that there would be a distinction, Lord, even in times of uncertainty, Lord, that it would be even more clear, the distinction between the world In the kingdom of God. My Father, I pray that you would be glorified and honored, and I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray. Amen. For a period of time we had a number of people who would uh write short summaries of the messages from this pulpit. And when I originally preached this message, there was a summary that one of our former members, Isaac Green, wrote about Matthew chapter 6 and the message there, listen to what he wrote. He says, worry changes our perception of who we are in Christ and who God is for us. When we worry, we choose to believe that we are not cared for. That our lives are outside of God's control, and that we can somehow fix circumstances by dwelling on them in an anxious way. We trade what we know to be true about the character of God for a lie. A lie that seeks to persuade us that God is blind to our circumstances. Unloving, uncaring, and not powerful enough to provide for us. Thus worry at its core, like so many other sins, is a trading of truth for a lie about who we are and who God is. That's well said, isn't it? When we fall to the temptation to worry, what we are doing is we are trading in what we know to be true about God for a lie, and living as if the lie is true. It's really a practical atheism. We may believe that God exists, but we can sure act like he doesn't. One of my favorite stories about Martin Luther's life was about his wife, Katie von Bora. Uh from a very difficult time in their lives. During this time Martin Luther was carrying many burdens Fighting many battles, he was usually a jolly soul and smiled a lot, joked a lot, but instead he was depressed, he was worried. And then Catherine, his wife, endured this for days, and one day she met him at the door wearing black funeral garments for mourning the dead. And Martin Luther, when he saw her dressed up as if she was going to a funeral, he said, who died? And she said, God. God died. And he responded, you foolish thing. What's this foolishness? She says, it's true. It's true, Luther. God must have died, or Dr. Luther would not be so sorrowful. And since you act like God is dead, I wanted to join you in your mourning. Luther got the message and recovered. And the same can be said about us when we're consumed by worry. We're acting like the God of the Bible is in a coffin. Sermon on the Mount describes what life looks like underneath the rule of God, being citizens of the kingdom of heaven. But what does it mean to say that I I believe that I'm part of the kingdom of heaven and we walk around like God is dead? The one who rules over me has really died. I'm not sure if he can truly take care of me. Anxiety is inconsistent for citizens of a heavenly country. The word for worry that's used here in verse 25, for this reason I say to you, do not be worried. That word for worry or anxiety is used six times in this passage. In the King James it says, take no thought, which might lead you to think that Jesus doesn't want us to think about the future, but that's not the case. It's not that we don't think about the future. We're just not worried about the future. We're not we don't have anxious thoughts about the future. We're commanded to think about the future. It's wise to plan. I mean the Proverbs talks about careful and wise planning, but we're not to be worried and anxious about the future. And planning for the future and being worried about the future are two different things. The word for worry is the Greek word merimnao, which means to be anxious. It comes from the Greek word meridzo, which means to be divided. to be separated into parts, to be cut into pieces. And it's to have a mind that's so divided and scattered that it's like you can't think straight anymore. And that's oftentimes what happens when we're worried, isn't it? It's like our thoughts are all over the place. Trying to gather our thoughts. It's like we're scrambled in our thinking when we start to worry. Your mind races all over the place. It's like the thoughts can be so overwhelming that it's suffocating. MacArthur points out that our English word for worry actually comes from a word that means to choke. To strangle. And that's how you can feel like when you're worried, it's like somebody's taking the air out of your lungs I can't breathe. You know, some people even have like literal panic attacks where it's like their their breath becomes short. I just can't breathe. It could be debilitating, a debilitating experience. And Jesus intends for his disciples to live free from that. We can live free from that. And to demonstrate that, just how broad and overarching this general command is that we shouldn't worry, Jesus picks the most basic needs for his illustration. He picks things that we need to have to survive and he says, you know what, you shouldn't even worry about that. The things that you need to survive, like food and clothing. Don't even be worried about that. Even the most basic needs. Don't be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. He goes to the most basic needs to say, if you if you shouldn't even be worried about the most basic needs, you certainly shouldn't be worried about the other needs. That's the context. He's not talking to people here who are thinking about, you know, just a a full pantry of food, you know, often like we do, you know, you open up the fridge, it's full of food, and it's like, man, there's nothing to eat in here. Got a fridge full of food. Nothing to eat in here. And what do we mean by that? There's nothing I want to eat in here. You got plenty to eat. Just that I don't I don't want this. I want the double cheeseburger with bacon, you know That's not in my fridge today. There's nothing to eat. What am I gonna eat? I don't know, you know. The people that he's talking to are are praying as he instructed them to pray. Pray for my daily bread. I just want a piece of bread. Lord, can I have my daily bread today? And I'd remind you that it's give us our daily bread, not give us our daily spread. Flip over to Numbers chapter eleven real quick. Numbers chapter eleven. Just to remind you of the lack of contentment that the children of Israel had. Numbers chapter eleven speaks about their wandering in the wilderness. And we find this lack of contentment illustrated by the children of Israel. Take a look at uh Numbers chapter 11, look at verse 4. It says the rabble who were among them had greedy desires. That's where it comes from, right? And also the sons of Israel wept again and said, Who will give us meat to eat? We remember the fish which we used to eat free in Egypt, the cucumbers and the melons and the leeks and the onions and the garlic and but now our appetite is gone, there's nothing at all to look at except this manna. You know, before they were happy for the manna. You know, it's like God is feeding us bread from heaven. If you remember, you know, in the New Testament, uh, you know, in John chapter five, they were you know uh remarking about how you know God used to give our fathers bread to eat. They're so excited about it, right? Forgetting that the the children of Israel who actually had that bread were saying all we have to look at is this manna. That's all we've got. You know, it's bread from heaven. That's all we have. What in the world? So so unthankful, isn't it? All we have is this manna. We remember the fish we used to eat for free. You know, yeah, the the fish was free, but you were bound, you were slaves. Fish was free, you were slaves. But we want to go back there. We had fish for free. You know, forget about the whip on your back. We had the fish and the cucumbers. You know, give me a break Take a look at verse 18. God says, say to the people, consecrate yourselves for tomorrow, and you shall eat meat. For you have wept in the ears of the Lord, saying, Oh, that someone would give us meat to eat. For we were well off in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat, and you shall eat. You shall eat not one day, not two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days, but a whole month until it comes out of your nostrils. And becomes loathsome to you, because you have rejected the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we ever leave Egypt? You think about all the times they wept to the Lord to free them from Egypt. And now they're weeping because they don't have enough meat. There's a professor at the Masters University , shared the story that at one period in his life, during some religious persecution in China, that his whole family survived. off of one bowl of rice for an entire day. That's all they had. One bowl of rice, they'd split it five ways for his family members, and that's all they had to eat. And that he would actually walk around the streets looking for scraps of food on the ground just to try to fill his stomach. Daily bread. The Lord says if you have daily bread, be thankful. Be thankful for that. Basic needs. Jesus is talking to people who knew what he meant. When they asked, you know, what shall we eat? They're talking about, I don't know where I'm going to get the daily bread. When they're saying what shall we wear, they're they're really saying I I don't know what I'm gonna wear. I mean I don't I don't have another cloak. I mean this is it. If this one is ruined, what what else do I have? He's talking to people who for the most part lived at a subsistence level. But even in circumstances like these, Jesus says to his disciples, we're not to allow worry to enter through our gates. Don't let it through the door. Don't leave on the light for worry. You know, don't invite it into your home. You know, but for many of us, we're assisting the enemy. It's like leave the light on for him. Come on in, worry. I've been waiting for you Been thinking about you for a long time. Left the door unlocked, and we're waiting for the enemy to come through. But if you're part of the kingdom, you don't have to be strangled. By your anxieties. And Jesus gives us a number of reasons to wage war on worry. Take a look at verse 25 again. Back in Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6, take a look at verse 25. So it's for this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink. Number one, worry divides our loyalty. Worry divides our loyalty. Verse 25, he says, for this reason, when he says for this reason, he's pointing to the context that comes before it, right? For what reason? Look back in verse 24. No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth. For this reason, I say to you, do not be worried about your What what does he mean by that? One of the great temptations that's associated with our treasure is the enticement to trust in it. And that it becomes our God. And that we serve it. He says, you can't serve God and money. You can't serve God in wealth. And here you have these people who now their their loyalty is divided. I'm trying to serve both God and money. I think that I can do both, serve God and money. And what Jesus tells us is that you can't do that You've got to pick the master. Who are you going to be loyal to? Are you going to be loyal to me? And if you're loyal to me, that means you're trusting in me to take care of you? Or are you going to be loyal to the money because you're trusting in the money to take care of you? You can't do both. You're going to serve one or the other. And for this reason, I say to you, do not be worried about your life because you're supposed to be trusting in me and not your wealth. You can't have divided loyalty. And so many of us can have a divided loyalty that we're trusting in the money to save us. Proverbs 23 verse 5 says, when you set your eyes upon it, speaking about our wretches, it is gone. As soon as you start trusting in your riches, it's gone. For wealth certainly makes itself wings like an eagle that flies towards the heavens. You know what that is? The sinking stock market. My wealth is flying away. You're trusting in your wealth, and all of a sudden the wealth is flying away. What are you trusting in? It's making itself wings. But maybe on the other side you're tempted to trust in your ability to provide for yourself. You know, I don't care about the stock market because I've have some investment properties over here. I've got you know a full bank account over here. I'm not worried about what goes on in the stock market. But even that shows a lack of loyalty to God because you're still trusting in the money. Either way, you can show a trust in money if you don't have it. You can show a trust in money if you have a lot of it. But it's still a divided loyalty. Either way, you're trusting in the riches, you're trusting in the possessions. Money shouldn't have that kind of loyalty from us. Worry may be an indication that our treasures are stored in the wrong places. It's on earth instead of heaven. Worry can be an indication that our focus is leading us down a wrong path towards darkness instead of light. And worry can be an indication that we might be trying to serve the wrong master. You're trying to serve money instead of God. Can tell us that our loyalty is divided. For this reason I say to you, don't be worried about your life. Number two, worry doubts God's priority. Doubts God's priority. Look at verse 25 again. After he says not to be worried about your life as to what you'll eat or drink or your body as to what you'll put on, he says this, is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? He's speaking about God's priorities here. Your life is worth more than the food, and your body is worth more than the clothing. What do you think is more important to God? And Paul uses a similar kind of argument in Romans chapter 8 by speaking about what's greater. Romans chapter 8 verse 32, he says, He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, will he not also with them freely give us all things? If God has done the greater thing by giving you the salvation, don't you think he'd do the lesser thing by keeping your salvation? If God has given you the greater gift, which is life, don't you think that he'll give you the lesser gift of giving you food for your life? If God has given you the greater gift of your body, don't you think He'll give you the lesser gift of being allowed to clothe your body? Think about God's priorities here. You're doubting God's priorities in your life when you worry. That's what he's talking about. If God was able to make the body out of dirt and breathe life into that body, can't we trust him to do the lesser things? To protect us, to provide for us. He's the one who's given us life. And life is more than food. Your body is more than clothing. I mean, that's the argument. It's a simple argument It's not like God created life and physical bodies and somehow forgot that we need to feed ourselves and clothe ourselves. You know, you think about the order of creation, you know, God made everything for mankind first and then placed mankind. onto creation. He didn't place mankind onto creation first and then he's got nothing around him. No, it's like I'm going to create the environment for you and then I'll place you into it. Because he understands that man needs these things in order to survive. So here the context points to God's care for our basic needs here on earth. And when we worry, we're forgetting that God has his priorities straight. We need to consider if life is more than food and God gave me life, he can give me food as well. In verse 25, Jesus argues from the greater to the lesser. Life is greater than food, the body is greater than clothing. Down in verse 26, he argues from the The lesser to the greater. But instead of the greater to the lesser, he argues from the lesser to the greater now. Look at verse 26. Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And you who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not twirl, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, Will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? This is a great passage for some of our friends who want to place uh you know the creation around us on the same level as mankind. God is saying we're more important than the birds of the sky. We're more important than the grass of the field. If God can care for the things that are lesser, he can care for the things that are greater. Jesus uses the birds of the air here in verse 26. Look at the birds of the air. He uses the birds as a rebuke for our concern for the future. I don't know of any birds who are worried about the transition in the government. The birds aren't holding a an emergency meeting to find out what they're going to do to get their food tomorrow, you know, under the new president. How's that gonna happen? You know, we need to meet together, to convene, you know. The birds aren't doing that. The spring rolls around, it's interesting to see the you know the birds as they start to get out and everything else. This is just normal for them. They're not worried about that. They're not following the news and checking their tweets. They're just tweeting. And the idea is not that birds don't work, they just don't worry. They work, but they're not losing any sleep Over the current events. And God will provide for them today, just like he did yesterday. Job 38, verse 41 says, Who prepares for the raven its nourishment when its young cry to God and wander about without food? Who provides for them? God does. Psalm 145, 15. The eyes of all wait on you, and you give them their food in due season. He's talking about all of creation. Looks to you, looks to God, and God provides for them. Psalm 147 verse 9, he says, it says, he gives to the beast his food and to the young ravens which cry. And the birds are an example of life sustained by God. A number of years ago, two scientists decided to estimate the total number of birds on the planet. They came up with the number of between 200 and 400 billion individual birds. Compared to about five to six billion people, or how many we have on the planet, right? Amounts to about 40 to 60 birds per person. And your heavenly father feeds all 400 billion of them. God does that. So here's the question. What are you saying about the character of God when you think he cares more for the birds than for you? What are you saying about him? What are you saying about his character? What are you saying about his provision? The lilies of the field is the next example that he gives. Verse 28, why are you so worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They don't twirl, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. When the Bible wants to give an illustration of something that is brief and temporary, it will often use flowers. Over in 1 Peter chapter 1 in verse 24, it talks about how brief our lives are. And listen what it says in verse 24. All flesh is like grass. And all its glory like the flower of the grass, the grass withers and the flower falls off. But the word of the Lord endures forever, right? But it talks about what's temporary, the flowers, the grass, it's temporary. All the glory fades like the flower does. Flowers are fragile, temporary, disposable. They're often used to start fires. One commentator made this observation that in a single day the wildflowers that adorned the grassy hillside could dry up so completely that they Their withered crisp petals and stems became highly flammable, and they served as tinder and earthen ovens where Palestinians cooked their food. They are just disposable. You know, after they weather, it's like, hey, just throw them into the fire, like they're done. And the flowers are plentiful. As of 2010, there were approximately 400,000 different types of flowers. Crazy to think about it. And who cares for the flowers? God does. God does. And do you know what their primary purpose is? What's the purpose of the flowers? Decoration. It's God's decoration. It's God clothing the grass of the field. He's just decorating it, just giving it beauty. Let's decorate it a little bit. They're used as a picture of beauty. I'm told that if you uh take an expensive garment and you look at it under a microscope You know, the most expensive garment you can think of. You put it under a microscope, it'll look like a like a an old sack. But if you take a flower petal, one flower petal, you put it under a microscope, it only increases in its beauty God has made this beauty for something that's disposable. That's just decorating the field. And you think that God would do that for the field, to decorate the field so beautifully, and then he won't provide clothes for your back? Even Solomon, with all of his riches and wisdom, couldn't compete with the flower. And the point that Jesus is making is if God would use his creative energy to design a flower for nothing more than to decorate the hillside, Don't you think he'll provide for you? He'll provide for us. God knows all that we need. And what are you saying about the God you believe in when you worry about the necessities of life? You're telling me that God has his priorities out of order. It's got his priorities out of order. Worry divides our loyalty. It doubts our prior God's priorities. Number three, it denies our inability. denies our inability. Just look at verse 27 for a minute. It says, and who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? Our perception is that we really are in control of the way that things will turn out. By being worried about it. But somehow I can I can change the circumstances of my life and That there's something that I can do. But it denies that we really have the inability to even keep ourselves alive. I don't even have that kind of ability. But then worry acts as if we really do have that ability. So worry denies our inability. If you have the King James or New King James It says, which , of you by taking thought can add one qubit to a stature? And it gives the impression that people were just concerned about how tall they were. I don't think that's the point. We don't have any great evidence that that height was what people were concerned about. How tall am I getting? You know, I want to add another cubit to my stature. Uh that's that's not what this is is talking about. It's talking about about a span of life. None of us by worrying can add anything to our our lives, add a add any more years to our lives. Actually uh And uh in John chapter 9 and verse 21, uh speaks about the man who was born blind, and his parents were questioned about his ability to see after Jesus healed them. And they said, uh, you know, we don't know. Ask him who opened his eyes. He's of he's of stature. You know, they're not talking about how tall he is. They're talking about how old he is. He's old enough to answer that question for himself. Go ask him You know, so this this word for for stature was really speaking about the age, age of a person. And what scripture is saying is who by being worried can add an hour to his life? Who can add any length to his days by being worried about it? Worry doesn't have the power to add even a fraction of time to your life because worry can't change anything. It's never changed the outcome of anything. If something good happened, it didn't happen because you worried about it. If something bad happened, it's not prevented because you worried about it. Your external circumstances are exactly the same in both cases. Your worry added nothing to you but worry. Nothing has been added by worry. And I'm not saying you don't take precautions, but your worry doesn't help a thing. And what worry really does is it tries to attribute powers to yourself that only belong to God. It it denies your inability to control the future. You can't do that. And where he says, if only I did this If only I did that, if only this person would have done this, if only that person would have done that, things would have been different. As if you're in charge. Mankind's not in charge. God is the one who's sovereign. And our perception when we were is that we're in control when we're not. Somehow we think that we can do better. Do better than God's plans for our lives. Do you believe that God doesn't know? Do you believe that he's not able? Do you believe that he doesn't care? Do you believe that God doesn't have a plan for you? Do you believe that God means well, but he just can't pull it off? Do you believe it would be different if only I could like Grab the steering wheel just every once in a while. Because I'm not sure if God saw that one coming. Maybe I can grab the steering wheel. Why do we act like we're on our own and that heaven can't take care of us? Worry doubts our inability. Number four, worry doubts our identity. Look at verses 31 and 32. It says, do not worry then, saying, what will we eat or what will we drink or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your Heavenly Father knows what you need, knows that you need all these things. Worry doubts your identity. When you worry, you're acting like a pagan. You're acting like a gentile. You know, a pagan was a a gentile was a synonym for the the pagan unbelieving sinners. Back in chapter 4 and verse 15 and 16, it was a synonym speaking about the Gentiles. It was used for those who sit in darkness, who sit in the land in the shadow of death. That's the Gentiles. The Gentiles, their religious activity was considered worthless. Their prayers aren't even heard by God. in chapter 6 and verse 7. What they sacrifice is said to be sacrificed to demons. They were known for being without God in the world. Flip over to Ephesians chapter Two really quick. Ephesians chapter two, just to see this description of the Gentiles. When the Bible speaks about the Gentiles, what are they, what is scripture talking about when it speaks about the Gentiles? Look at verse 11, Ephesians chapter 2. It says, therefore, remember that you, formerly you, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision , By the so-called circumcision, which is performed in the flesh by human hands, remember that you were at that time separate from Christ excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. That is the description of the Gentiles And when Christians worry, we're acting as if we're part of that company. We're without hope, we're without God, we're without promise, we're without Christ, we're excluded. From the Commonwealth of Israel, when Christians worry, we're acting as if that's the condition that we're in. Worry is really a practical atheism. We're acting as if God is in a coffin, we're getting dressed for the funeral, but God is not dead. Worry is the practical idolatry. We're replacing the truth of God for a lie. Scripture tells us that God is infinite in knowledge. Isaiah 46, 9 through 10. Remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I'm God and there is no one like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying my purpose will be established, I will accomplish all my good pleasure. When we worry, we're acting as if that's not true. I 'm not sure if God really knows the end from the beginning. I'm not sure if he'll accomplish all of his good pleasure. It's practical idolatry. Scripture tells us that God is infinite in power. Jeremiah 32, verse 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power, by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for you. That's the phrase of Jeremiah. But when we worry, we're acting as if maybe there is something that's too difficult for God. Scripture tells us that God is a God of compassion. Isaiah 49, 15. Can a woman forget her nursing child and have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget But I will not forget you. He's saying that I'll give it to you. Even a parent might forget his child or her child, but I'm telling you, I will never forget you. I'm a God of compassion. I would never forget you We're acting as if God can forget about us. Somehow he's overlooked us. He's not really concerned about the circumstances that we're going through. As if God is untouched by the feelings of our infirmities. And if we believe that, it's a lie. It's a lie. We're believing a lie. Worry exchanges the truth of God for a lie, it exchanges the living God for a dead one, and it exchanges the relationship of God as our Father. For a God who has abandoned us. Instead of acting like children, we're acting like orphans. Chapter 6 alone. God has mentioned his father twelve times. Your father who is in heaven, verse 1. Your father, two times in verse 4. Your father in verse 6. Your father in verse 8 knows what you need before you ask him. Your father is in heaven in verse 9. Your heavenly father, verse 14, your father in verse 15. Your father in verse 18. Your heaven Father feeds in verse 26. And now in verse 32, your heavenly father knows that you need all these things. God is your father. And your father takes responsibility for you. When my kids were growing up in my house, they didn't have to worry if I'd feed them. Because that's my responsibility. If I have food, you have food. That's just the way it works, right? You don't have kids to grow up in your house and it's like, well, I'm going to eat, but you're not. No, the father provides. And if the father has, the children have. We have a father who has. God is never without. And we're his responsibility. So here's the point. If an earthly father knows that it's his responsibility to take care of his kids. Don't you think that God understands that? Do you think somebody's gonna have to take God to court for child support? God knows how to take care of his children Do you trust in your father's love for you? God has not abandoned you. And again, I don't know all the circumstances. That are represented here and I know that there are many concerns for the future. There's uncertainty, you know, for many of us here. But I want to remind you that you serve a God who will never leave you, he will never forsake you. It's a God of compassion who knows what you need even before you ask him. God knows exactly what you need And maybe you're here today and you've never trusted in a God like that. Maybe you haven't trusted in the Heavenly Father. I want to let you know that if you're willing to acknowledge your sin before Him, That you sinned against the God of heaven and earth, that if you're willing to turn to Christ and trust him completely for your salvation, as we spoke about earlier in our service, that you fully rely on him. Turn from your sins, trust in Christ completely, his righteousness, his death, his resurrection, that if you're willing to trust in him, that you can become a part of this family. You can become one of his children. And you don't have to take thought, concern, be anxious for your life. Because you'll belong to a father who will care for you. And if the father has, you have. The Father will be concerned for you. And God might even use this time of uncertainty to draw some people to himself. And that would be my prayer, that even during this time, that we as believers would urge people to come. Come to a God who will care for you. You don't have to be worried. And that there's a difference between the church and the world. That we serve a God who cares for us, who loves us, who has compassion on us. And that we're inviting people to come. But how can you invite people to come when you're just like them? When we're expressing the same worry that everybody else has, how are you inviting them to come anywhere? Worry seeks to divide our loyalty. Worry doubts God's priorities. Worry denies our inability. Where he doubts our identity, where he displaces our priority, and that's the next point, where he displaces our priority. Look at verse 33. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. But worry that displaces that priority It moves what should be number one in our thoughts and our minds and our affections, and it moves it somewhere down the line. As believers, we understand that we have this great and glorious and magnificent priority that I'm to seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. That's what I'm seeking first. But worry has a way of displacing that priority. Are you more consumed by current events than you are with the eternal kingdom? Not that current events aren't important. It's just not the priority of the Christian. That's not where we should focus all of our attention, all of our time. It's not about what's here and now, it's about what's there and then. I'm focused on the eternal kingdom, and that's God's priority, and that's first. Seek his kingdom first. The word first can mean first in order and first in importance. It's the first and the foremost in this case. What 's first and foremost in your mind? What's the first order in priority? The first that should be in our mind is about God and his kingdom. It's about his kingdom. And that's what we're seeking is first and important. It's all over the book of The kingdom of God. One of the most prominent features of the book of Matthew is the kingdom mentioned some 55 times in the book of Matthew. To be a part of this kingdom is worth sacrificing everything to be a part of this kingdom. Over in chapter 13 and verse 44, if you want to flip over there real quick, Matthew chapter 13 and verse 44. It says, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field which a man found and hid again. And from joy over it he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Verse 45. Again. The kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls, and upon finding one pearl of great value he went and sold all that he had and bought it. The kingdom of heaven is more important than anything you own right now. That that that that if you understand the priority of the kingdom, that you should be willing to give up everything in order to gain it, even willing to give up my own life to deny myself, pick up my cross, follow after him, because that is what's most important. That's the kind of kingdom that Jesus has been talking about throughout the book of Matthew. To be a part of that kingdom is worth everything. And that's what I'm focused on. God and his kingdom. And if you don't think that you're focused on God's highest priorities, eternal priorities, heavenly priorities, what would make you think that you're truly part of that kingdom? Are you seeking after his kingdom first or your own kingdom? We deny ourselves for him. We're kingdom focused. We place our attention on him. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. What's his righteousness? What does he mean by seeking his righteousness? It's all that he spoke about in the Sermon on the Mount The kind of character that belongs to the kingdom in the beatitudes. The kind of influence of the kingdom being salt and light on the earth The kind of righteousness that surpasses the scribes and Pharisees is not hypocritical. The motivations of the kingdom that were seeking a heavenly reward, that were were those who who Who turn away from our sins to trust and completely in the righteousness of Jesus Christ and that we follow after him. We need to be focused on eternal things, the kingdom, his righteousness. And if we do that, if we make that the priority of our lives, what does he say that he'll do? All these things will be added to you. What are these things? These things that the Gentiles seek for? They're looking for food and clothing. I'll add all those things to you, but you have to seek my kingdom first. Seek my kingdom first. All these other things will be added to you. I know what you need. I know that you need food. I know that you need clothing. I know you need to provide for your families. I know that. But make sure that you're seeking me and my kingdom first. Everything else is just a bonus. Seek the kingdom first, and everything else is a bonus. Your priority is not your provision. It's not your protection. Your priority is God's kingdom and his righteousness. And finally, this is the last one. Worry distorts our reality. Worry distorts our reality. Look at verse 34. He says, so do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. When I say worry distorts our reality, what do I mean by that? All that we really have is today. You know, but when we start worrying, we act as if we already have tomorrow. It's like, you know, today has enough trouble of its of its own. If you're already You know, in tomorrow, you're you're thinking about something that's not even happened yet, something that's not even real yet. And here's another way that worry attempts to play God. It attempts to create our own reality, create our own future. What if this happens tomorrow? What if that happens tomorrow? You don't even know if you'll have tomorrow. You know, you you know James speaks about you know you know making plans I'm gonna go here and buy this and sell that. You don't even know if you'll be around tomorrow It's if the Lord wills, I trust Him for all of that. You know, a lot of times when people start hoarding, it's because they're trying to protect themselves against what might happen tomorrow. But the problem with that is that you can never hoard enough. You know? It's reasonable to prepare for the future. You know, Proverbs 6 speaks about the ant. Go to the ant, oh sluggard, observe for ways. And be wise, which having no chief officer or ruler, prepares her food in the summer, gathers her provision in the harvest. It's reasonable to prepare for the winter, because you know it comes every year. Prepare your food in the summer, gather your provision in the harvest. It might be reasonable to say for three to six months. It might be unreasonable to say for the next 30 to 60 years to think that I can somehow hoard enough today that I'll be protected against the next 30 to 60 years. It's not reasonable to think that you can cover the rest of your life, that I'll never have to have a concern for anything else. It's trying to play God, being worried about tomorrow. Tomorrow will take care of itself And really, when we say tomorrow will take care of itself, it's because God will take care of tomorrow. Worry tries to play God because we act as if we're capable of handling everything that only God can handle. We're hardly capable of handling today, but now you want to handle tomorrow too? Do you know that you're limited Limited. You haven't been created with that kind of capacity. It's bad enough that we now know what's going on all over the world. As if we can handle all the information that's coming across our phones. And we're not only worried about what's happening locally, but you know, regionally and nationally and globally, like everything. I've got to worry about that too. It's bad enough that we worry about that. But now you add on to that, worrying about the future, about all of that. And you don't even know if you'll be around for it. You could be being glory and you're worried about something that's happening tomorrow You're not designed to handle all of that. You're not designed to handle that kind of burden. And when you worry, you act as if you are capable of handling all of it. We're not designed for that. We've been created limited on purpose. And it causes us to be dependent on the Lord, doesn't it? We sing it all the time. Great is thy faithfulness, right? Pardon for sin and a peace that endureth. Thine own dear presence to cheer and to guide. Strength for Today. And bright hope for tomorrow. Blessings all mine with 10,000 beside. What does he give us strength for? Today. Don't expect tomorrow's strength today. Expect today's strength today. Don't expect tomorrow's strength today. When we worry, we act as if we can use tomorrow's strength for this day But we need new mercies for tomorrow, don't we? And God's mercies are new every morning. Because we need them every morning. You'll need them tomorrow. You'll need them the next day after that, and you depend on the Lord for every one of those days. Lamentations 3. 22 says the steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies never come to an end. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. I remember growing up there was this one song that I used to hear. It says, you know, one day at a time. Sweet Jesus. You know it's country when you start saying, sweet Jesus. One day at a time, sweet Jesus. That's all I'm asking from you. Just give me the strength to do every day what I have to do. Yesterday's gone. Sweet Jesus. And tomorrow may never be mine You're worried about tomorrow, and tomorrow may never be yours. Help me today, show me the way, one day at a time. We'd prefer the remix. One month at a time. Sweet Jesus. One year at a time. Sweet Jesus, just that's all I'm asking from you. No, you get today. You get today's strength today. And that's all that you need. And we can trust in the Lord that He will take care of us. So let's help one another, let's pray for one another. Let's guard our hearts. Let's look to the Lord. God Will provide for us. Worry divides our loyalty, it doubts God's priorities, denies our inability, it doubts our identity, it displaces our priority. And it distorts our reality. But we can live outside of all these temptations if we trust in the Lord. He says that I'll provide all that you need. And I know what you need even before you ask me. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this day that you've given us and the strength that you've given us to live for today. Father, I pray for those who are here who are concerned about the future and Father, I pray that they would look to you, that they would be strengthened by your word. Your word gives us all that we need for all that we face So Father, I pray that you would uh help us in uncertain times. Lord, that we would draw strength from you. Father, I pray that there would be a difference between us and the world around us. Our Father, that we'd be able to point them to the God above that we trust, the Father who cares for us, who knows all that we need Who's not worried about the future? God who knows the end from the beginning. Now Father, I pray that we would have the kind of stability in our lives, Lord, that we would be able to point others to that stability that we have in Christ. And Father, I pray that you would meet all of our needs, Lord, according to your riches in glory, and we know that there is no lack in our God. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.