The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you would grab your Bibles with me and let's turn to 2 Timothy chapter 4. We'll be looking at 2 Timothy chapter 4 this morning. And as you're grabbing your Bibles, you can follow with me as I read. 2 Timothy chapter 4, starting at verse 1. This is the word of God. I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this afternoon, as we always do, Lord, asking for your help. Our Father, that you would open up our eyes that we may behold wonderful things in your law. My Father, I pray that you would use me this morning as the weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen As early as the 5th century in Greece, there was a widely held belief that the swan sings a beautiful song before it dies. Aesop, who is most famous for his fables, tells the story of a swan who was mistaken for a goose and was captured, but he was finally recognized as being a swan because of the beautiful song that he sang before he died. Socrates was reported by Plato to have said that although the swan sings in early life, they do not do so as beautifully as before they die. And Aristotle wrote that swans are musical and sing chiefly at the approach of death. And while many regard that to be nothing more than a myth that the swan sings before the swan dies. There's actually been reports that as the swan is dying and his lungs are collapsing, that he'll produce musical notes as he's dying. It's called the swan song. And it's a phrase that's commonly used for final performance before death, the last song, the final speech, the last words of the personal right, known as the swan song. And 2 Timothy is Paul's swan song. And chapter 4 is the last chapter that Paul ever writes. And as he pens this letter and he's approaching death, He writes almost more like an obituary than anything else. Chapter 4 and verse 6. It says, For I am already being poured out as a drink offering. The time of my departure has come. I fought the good fight. I've finished the course. I've kept the faith. In the future there's laid up for me the crown of righteousness. Which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing There are earlier times in Paul's life where he wondered whether or not he would die, uh like if you look in uh the book of Philippians in chapter two, he says, even if I'm being poured out as a drink offering, not knowing whether or not this was the end for Paul or not. But in 2 Timothy he says, I am already being poured out as a drink offering. He knew that his time of departure had come. The the drink offering was an offering that accompanied the other offerings in the Old Testament, like the grain offering, the burnt offerings. It was a measure of wine that was poured out at the end of a sacrifice. And it rose up as a soothing aroma before the Lord. Numbers chapter twenty-eight and verse eight says, You shall offer it an offering by fire, a soothing aroma to the Lord. And Paul says, That's the picture of my life. That the contents of my life are being poured out, and my soul is ascending up before God as a soothing aroma. This is the end for me. But even though Paul understood that this was his final lap, he's at the end of his personal race, he understands that the race is still underway for a younger man named Timothy. And Timothy still has a long stretch of road ahead of him He was a young man. Many people, many commentators say that Timothy might have been in his late 30s, maybe early 40s, at the writing of uh uh the the two letters to Timothy. When Timothy was first discovered by Paul, he would have been in his early twenties. Young man, but he was already well spoken of in Lustra, his hometown. And Paul invested in Timothy early on. In Acts chapter 16 in verse 3, it says, Paul said he wanted this man to go with him. I want Timothy. I want to invest in him. I want to use him for ministry. So Timothy accompanied Paul on his second missionary journey. He was assigned to different cities like Macedonia, to Corinth, to Thessalonica, on assignment from Paul. And then lastly and finally to Ephesus, and that's where we find Timothy when he receives these two letters from Paul. And as Paul's final final letter comes to Timothy, and this final letter is coming to a close. Paul issues his last and final and solemn charge to Timothy, and that charge is to preach the word And the motivation for that charge could not have been more solemn. This is a solemn motivation. Look at verse 1 again. 2 Timothy chapter 4. He says, I solemnly charge you. That word solemnly charge is all one word in the Greek, dia marturamai. It means to give a solemn warning, a word of admonishment, to ask in earnest. It's an intense word. It was used over in Acts chapter 2, where Peter pleaded with the multitudes on the day of Pentecost to be saved. Acts chapter 2 verse 40, it says that with many words he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. It was used of the rich man who opened his eyes in hell and the flames. And he asked for Lazarus, if Lazarus could be sent back to the earth. Luke 16, 28. For I have five brothers, in order that he may warn them. Dia Marturamai. Give them a solemn warning not to come to this place. And then in the translation of the Old Testament in Deuteronomy chapter 30 and verse 19, when the children of Israel are about to enter into the promised land. Moses warns them. He says, I call heaven and earth to witness against you today that I've set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse. So choose life in order that you may live. And preaching the word is a matter of life and death. And those who are commissioned to preach the word need to understand what kind of charge has been given to them. It's a solemn word. And it's not only solemn because of the word itself, but it's also solemn because of who's giving this word. Who's giving this charge? It's Paul This is Timothy's father in the faith. 1 Corinthians 4, verse 17, Paul considered Timothy his beloved and faithful child in the Lord. 1 Timothy 1 verse 2 says, My true child in the faith. In 2 Timothy 1 and verse 2, he calls Timothy my son, my beloved son. He had a deep affection for Timothy. And Timothy had a deep affection for him as well. If you flip back to chapter 1 in 2 Timothy, if you look at verse 3. He says, I thank God whom I serve a clear whom whom I serve with a clear conscience, the way my forefathers did, is I constantly remember you in my prayers night and day. Longing to see you even as I recall your tears, so that I may be filled with joy. There's this longing for one another and even tears at separation between Paul and Timothy And Paul says, this charge, Timothy, is coming from me. This is coming from a dying father to a son in the faith. And it's a solemn charge. But it's also solemn not only because of who gives it, but also because of in whose presence this charge was given. Flip back to chapter 4 again. He says, I solemnly charge you in the presence of God. It could be translated in the sight of God, in front of God. The one who stands as a witness to this charge is God Himself. So if you had any question about whether or not this was a serious charge, just think about who's listening as this charge is being given. Think about who's here to witness this charge as it's being given to you. If you remember uh Gabriel uh when he came to Zacharias, the father of John the Baptist, uh, to tell him that he would be having a son even in his old age. Zechariah started to question the word of the angel. Luke chapter 1, verse 18, Zechariah said to the angel, How will I know this for certain? For I'm an old man, my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered and said to him, I am Gabriel, who stands in the presence of God. You really want to know whether or not I'm telling you the truth? I'm telling you, I am in the presence of God. And since you don't believe that, and that's not enough for you, you know, you'll you'll be mute until the child comes. Take that. You want a sign on top of that? You won't be able to speak until your son is born. To invoke the presence of God, to say that this is in the presence of God was a serious claim. And Paul says, I'm charging you in the presence of God. And not only that, but also in the presence of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead. John chapter 5 tells us that God the Father has committed all judgment to who? To the Son. The Son will judge everybody. John chapter 5, 22, for not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. And nobody will escape their day in court before Jesus Christ. Everybody will stand before Jesus Christ. It doesn't matter if you're dead when he comes back, alive when he comes back, you're showing up. You're showing up. The believer will be judged, the Bible says. Second Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10 says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. So that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. The believer will be judged. And the unbeliever will be judged. Revelation 20, verse 13 says, The sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. The believer will be judged for their eternal reward, and the unbeliever will be judged for their eternal damnation and judgment And what Paul was reminding Timothy of is that the one in whose presence you stand is Jesus Christ, that Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge you on that last day. You stand in the presence of God, and he will judge you based on this charge that I'm given to you. You need to preach the word. You need to preach the word. And there won't be any need for evidence before the judge. You know how judges call witnesses and things like that to ascertain all the facts? God won't have to call any witnesses. Why? Because he was there the whole time. The judge is the witness. He sees everything that you've done. He knows whether or not you've been faithful to your charge. And if you're here and you're an unbeliever, I would just plead with you that you're not going to escape this day of judgment. There's going to come a time where you will stand before the judge and you won't have to ask any questions because he already knows all the answers He's seen you. He knows what you've done. The secrets that you think you get away with will be no secret before the eyes of God, the one with whom we have to deal. If you haven't turned to Jesus Christ, let today be the day when you bow your knee before Him, when you recognize Him as the Lord of all. Where you trust in him, turn away from your sins, and look to Jesus Christ, the one who lived the perfect life in your place, and died as a substitute on the cross for all who would believe in him. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus Christ is righteousness for all who would believe in him. And what events motivate this charge? Look at verse 1 again. It says the one who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom. That word uh appearing is the the Greek word uh a peth epiphanea. No, we get our our English word epiphany from this word You know, people use that word today to say, you know, a thought struck me, I had an epiphany, you know, I had a revelation, it just kind of hit me, an epiphany. But that word was used in classical Greek for the appearing of the sun on the horizon. Or being able to see the stars in the sky. Like when those stars first showed up, it's like, oh, look at the appearing of the sun, of the of the stars in the sky. And Greek rulers would use this, and other Greeks would use this as well, for the appearing of God Himself. And actually, the Greek rulers would consider themselves the appearance of God. You know, they they call themselves the Epiphanes. I'm here. Like uh remember that ruler Antiochus Epiphanes? He's basically saying that I am God manifest. You want to see God? I am God in the flesh. That's what Antiochus was saying. But there's going to come a day when the true God will make himself manifest. The true God is coming. Revelation 1:7 says, Behold, he is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. When Jesus Christ is revealed, the invisible and internal kingdom will become visible and external. Titus 2 verse 13 says, We're looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. The visible, the invisible will become visible. That's the day that we're looking for. And when Christ is revealed, the Bible says that will be revealed with him in glory. And in light of all that, Paul says to Timothy, what are you called to do? In light of the one who's charging you, in the presence of the one with whom you've been charged. With the appearance of Christ and his kingdom. What are you to do, Timothy? You're to hold to this commitment, this mandate. Do not turn away from this charge that I'm giving you. This is what you're required to do: preach the word. Preach the word. We're not called to preach beneath the word where we fail to understand the meaning, to grasp the meaning of the text. Second Timothy two fifteen says, Be diligent to present yourself, approved to God, as a workman who does not need to be ashamed. accurately handling the word of truth. Don't preach beneath the meaning of scripture. Preach the word. MacArthur often says that the meaning of scripture is the scripture. If you don't have the meaning of the scripture, you don't have the scripture. You need to understand the meaning of it. Be diligent to present yourself approved. We're not to preach around the word. Try to avoid the implications of what Scripture says. I heard of one church where they they skipped over the pastoral uh requirements, you know, the qualifications for leadership. Why? Because they knew that their pastor wasn't qualified. So they get around it. They skip it. They avoid it. Titus 2. 15 says, these things speak and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no one disregard you. Literally, let nobody circumvent you. Let nobody get around the implications of what this word has to say. We're not to preach beside the word as if we have our own independent authority. And we have many people that would say that I've had this vision, I've had this dream, I've had this revelation, and they set themselves up as an independent authority beside Scripture. You have no independent authority outside of the Word of God. First Timothy 6, verse 3 says, if anyone advocates a different doctrine and does not agree with sound words or those of the Lord Jesus Christ, And with the doctrine conforming to godliness, he is conceited and understands nothing. You know, all these people that have this supposed knowledge and wisdom, what the Bible says is you don't understand the thing. If if you don't come to this word, you have no light. We're not to preach over the word, as if our theological systems can somehow suppress the truth of the word of God. Deal with what the text says. And we're not to preach across the word. Just kind of lightly skimming over the top of the surface. You know, like those rocks you throw across the lake, you know, just kind of skimming over the surface. It's like don't just skim across the top of it. Get down into it. 1 Timothy 4:15. Take pains with these things. Be absorbed in them so that your progress will be evident to all. And we're definitely not to preach against the word. We're called to silence those who would violate the plain meaning of Scripture. 1 Timothy 1 3, as I urged you upon my departure from Macedonia. Remain on at Ephesus so that you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. Don't treat pre preach beneath it, around it, beside it, over it, across it, against it. Simply preach it Preach the word. Proclaim what it means by what it says. Which is why we make such a big deal out of expository preaching. And just a simple definition of that is that the main point of the passage should be the main point of the message. And that's what faithful shepherds are called to do. Week in and week out, we preach the word. That's a serious and a sobering call. And it's a mandate. Preach! It's a it's a word that means to proclaim as a herald. In ancient uh Greek societies, uh when the king wanted to get a word out, you know, he wouldn't send out just a public service announcement, you know, through through the mail or internet or whatever, he he'd have the herald. Somebody who would get his message and bring it to the town and proclaim it. And that herald was known as the person who was preaching. He used the Greek word karuso. He was the karuks. The message was the karuks. He was the herald. He couldn't give his own private interpretation. He was responsible to accurately reflect What did the king have to say? I need to reflect what his message is. I can't give my own private interpretation. I can't come here and just say what I think. You're not here to hear what I think. You're not here to get my opinion. You're here to hear what does the Lord have to say? What thus saith the Lord. And that's the reason we come to Scripture. Why? Because all scripture is inspired by God, profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, training, and righteousness. so that the man of God may be adequate equipped for every good work. And the only logical response to an inerrant scripture is to preach it expositionally. Martin Lloyd Jones wrote that the primary task of the church and the Christian minister is the preaching of the Word of God. That's his primary task. Primary responsibility. Jesus performed many miracles. While he was on earth. But he gives us an example. Because in Mark chapter 1, there were still more miracles to be done, still people that needed healing. But what did Jesus say? Hey, let's stay here until everybody that's sick gets healed. I mean that's that's what I came for, right? No, that's not what he said. He says, let us go somewhere else To the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for that is what I came for. I'm not here just to heal everybody and to provide food for the multitudes. No, I'm here to preach You know, it's been said that God had one son and he made him a preacher. When the disciples were confronted with serious needs in the church, urgent needs, physical needs. You know, and by by by all all people, it was the widows out of all people, the widows who had serious needs But what did the disciples say? Acts 6. 2. It is not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. That's not our primary responsibility. Let's find somebody else to take care of that because I can't neglect the preaching and the ministry of the word. I can't neglect that. Prayer and the word. And when the religious and civil authorities demanded that they stop preaching Acts 4, verse 19 says, Peter and John answered and said to them, whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. The primary task of the church and the Christian minister is the preaching of the Word of God. And why did Timothy need to be reminded about this duty, the central duty for the minister? It's because everything would have been fighting against the preaching of the Word of God. There are enemies to exposition, okay? Enemies to exposition. What are the enemies? False teachers who attack you, distractions from vain pursuits and foolish controversies, getting into all these little minor details. The fear of persecution, weakness of character, sinfulness, lack of discipline, laziness, lack of courage. Lack of confidence, ignorance, shame, neglect, fatigue, disqualification, the desire for acceptance, all enemies of expedition. And on top of that, there was the threat of death Paul is writing, he's about to die. Why? Because he refused not to keep on preaching. I'm going to preach It doesn't matter what happens to me. I'm going to keep preaching. It doesn't matter if you are threatened to die, Pastor. It doesn't matter if you are threatened with death, preacher. You keep preaching the word of God. That is your primary responsibility. And Timothy was to be prepared whether he was popular or not. You know, whether it's in season or out, he is to reprove, help people realize their sin, rebuke, warn people about the seriousness of their sin, exhort, come alongside people and help them with their sin. And he was to do that with great patience and instruction. Read through 1 and 2 Timothy sometime and see how many times these words show up. Prescribe, teach, instruct, preach, remind, speak. Rebuke, exhort, reprove. I mean it's just over and over and over again. This is your primary duty Second Timothy four three says, For the time will come when they will not endorse sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance with their own desires, will turn away their ears from the truth, will turn aside to myths, but you Be sober in all things, endure hardship, work, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. This is your call, Timothy. You can't turn away from this. Paul had already fought his fight. He finished his course. He kept the faith. And now he turns to Timothy and he says, You're up. You're up. It's your turn now. Timothy's time had come, and Timothy was to be faithful to the very end until his lungs collapsed. And then he would be able to sing his own song of faithfulness to the Savior and the advancement of his church. Preach the word. I'll end with this illustration that I found a number of years ago. The key to effective preaching. What is the key to effective preaching? Fling him into his office and tear the office sign from the door and nail on the sign. Study! Take him from the mailing list, lock them up with his books, his typewriter, his Bible, slam him down on his knees before text and broken hearts and the flack of lives of a superficial flack and a holy guy. Force him to be the one man in our communities who knows about God. Throw him into the ring to box with God until he learns how short his arms are Engage him to wrestle with God all night through. Let him come out only when he's bruised and beaten into being a blessing. Shut his mouth forever, spouting remarks, stop his tongue forever, tripping lightly over every non-essential. Require him to have something to say before he dares break the silence. Bend his knees in the lonesome valley. Burn his eyes with weary study Wreck his emotional poise with worry for God, make him exchange his pious stance for a humble walk with God and man. Make him spend and be spent for the glory of God. Rip out his telephone, burn up his ecclesiastical success sheets, put water in his gas tank. Give him a Bible. Tie him to the pulpit. Make him preach the word of the living God. Test him. Quit him. Examine him. Humiliate him For his ignorance of things divine. Shame him for his good comprehension of finances and batting averages and political infighting Laugh at his frustrated effort to play psychiatrist. Form a choir. Raise a chant. Haunt him with the day and night. Sir, we would see Jesus. When at long last he dares to say the pulpit, ask him if he has a word from God. If he does not, dismiss him. Tell him you can read the morning paper, digest the television commentaries. Think through the day's superficial problems and manage the communities where he drives and bless the baked potatoes and green beans better than he can. Command him not to come back until he's read and re-read Written and rewritten, until he can stand up, worn and forlorn, and say, Thus saith the Lord. Break him across the board of his ill-gotten popularity. Smack him hard with his own prestige. Corner him with questions about God. Cover him with demands for celestial wisdom and give him no escape until he's back against the wall of the word. And sit down before him and listen to the only word he has left God's Word. Let him be totally ignorant of the downstreet gossip, but give him a chapter and order him to walk around in it, camp on it, sup with it, and come at last to speak it backward and forward until he says, all that he says, rings with the truth of eternity And when he's burned up by the flaming word, when he's consumed at last by the fiery grace blazing through him, and when he's privileged to translate the truth of God to man, Finally transfer from earth to heaven, then bear him away gently, and blow a muted trumpet, and lay him down softly, place a two-edged sword in his coffin, and raise the tomb triumphant. The tomb triumpheth for he was a brave soldier of the word, and before he died he had become a man of God A man of God has a primary task, and that primary task is to preach the word. Preach the word And that's the song that ministers as their lungs collapse should be singing. Preaching the word of God. That is our swan song. Amen. And let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity to look at your word. We pray that you'd uh continue to bless the rest of our time together. And uh may you raise up those who understand what the priority of ministry is. And that we would never stray from your truth. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.