The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we take our Bibles and open up to the book of Matthew this morning? We're in the Gospel of Matthew again in chapter 27. As we take our final look at the betrayal of Judas in Matthew chapter 27, verses 1 down to 10. While you're turning there, in his book, The Sinfulness of Sin, the 17th century Puritan Ralph Benning wrote this. Says, nothing is so evil a sin, nothing is evil but sin, as the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. So neither the sufferings of this life nor of that to come are worthy to be compared with the evil of sin. No evil is displeasing to God or destructive to man, but the evil of sin Sin is worse than affliction, worse than death, worse than the devil, worse than hell. Affliction is not so afflictive. Death is not so deadly. The devil is not so so devilish. Hell not so hellish as sin is. The four evils I have just named, affliction, death, the devil, and hell, are truly terrible, and from all of them everyone is ready to say, Good Lord, deliver us. Yet none of these, nor all of them together, are as bad as sin. Therefore, our prayers should be more to be delivered from sin. And if God hear no prayer else, yet us to this we should say, We beseech thee, hear us, good Lord. And just think about that for a minute. There would be no affliction to suffer, no death to die, no devil to resist, and no hell to pay for if it were not for sin. Sin is responsible for every spiritual evil, for every physical evil, and for every eternal evil. Sin is responsible for all that's wrong in this earth. Every tragedy this earth has ever faced, from a hurricane to the murder of an innocent child, you can blame sin. Sin is responsible for the 6 o'clock news. The very order of creation itself was corrupted by sin. The Bible says that creation itself groans, longing to be set free from the corruption in Romans chapter 8. There would be no earthquakes, no tsunamis, no floods, no hurricanes. None of that was before the fall. There's no heart disease, no cancer, no diabetes, no tuberculosis, no pneumonia, no Alzheimer's before the fall. It's all a result of sin. And sin is responsible for all that men will face in hell for eternity. In Revelation chapter 21, verse 8, it says, But for the cowardly and the unbelieving and abominable and murderers and immoral persons and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their part will be in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. But there would be no hell to pay for if it were not for sin. And all the flashy advertisement that sin displays before us can't hide the consequences of sin forever That the bill always comes due, right? The bill always comes due for sin. And like we mentioned last week, it's always more than you want to pay when the bill comes And in the passage before us, the mask is ripped off of sin. The lights are turned on to show sin and all of its hideous depravity. And if you ever wonder just how wicked sin is, consider what we're going to find out in this passage. If you really doubted the wickedness of sin, the heinousness of sin, think about what we're about to consider. Sin is so wicked that it would seek to bind God in order to free itself. Sin is so wicked that it would seek to condemn God in order to declare itself innocent. Sin is so wicked that it would seek to kill God in order to save itself. And in the end, sin is so wicked that it would rather commit suicide and be killed and submit itself to God in humble repentance. Matthew Mead, another Puritan of the 17th century, wrote these words, be convinced of the evil of sin. Sin is the greatest evil in the world. It wrongs God, it wounds Christ, it grieves the Holy Spirit, and it ruins a precious soul. All other evils are not to be named with this. But then he says, My brethren, though to do sin is the worst work, yet to see sin is the best sight, for sin discovered and its vileness makes Christ to be desired in his fullness. And I pray that we walk away from the study with a greater disgust for sin and a greater desire for Jesus Christ. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 27, verses 1 to 10 again. It says now when morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the people conferred together against Jesus to put him to death. And they bound him and led him away and delivered him to Pilate the governor. Then when Judas, who had betrayed him, saw that he had been condemned, he felt remorse and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, saying, I've sinned by betraying innocent blood. But they said, what is that to us? See that yourself. And he threw the pieces of silver into the temple sanctuary and departed. And he went away and hanged himself. The chief priest took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since it is the price of blood. And they conferred together, and with the money bought the powder's field as a burial place for strangers. For this reason that field has been called the field of blood to this day. Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, and they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of the one whose price had been set by the sons of Israel And they gave them for the powder's field as the Lord directed me. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we've come before you this morning. Father, we're grateful for your word and for the revelation it gives to us about ourselves, the revelation it gives to us about sin, so that we may see the beauty and the glory of Jesus Christ. The one who paid for our sin. The one who was the sacrifice for sin. The one who came to take away sins. And in him there is no sin. Father, we're thankful for Christ. And it's because we have a recognition of our sin that Christ becomes all that much more beautiful to us. Father, we thank you for the conviction of the Holy Spirit who points us to Christ, the conviction of the law that drives us to Christ. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The last time we were together, we saw that Jesus was arrested late on Thursday night in the Garden of Gethsemane. Right at the end of his prayers, taken to the house of Caiaphas, the high priest, to plot his assassination. This wasn't a trial, it was an assassination plot. They already determined that Jesus needed to die. They just needed to come up with the charges, you know, come up with a good reason. During the night they exhausted all of their resources trying to come up with some excuse to put Jesus to death. And every accusation that was made came up short until finally they were able to get Jesus to convict himself with his own words because he admitted that he was the Christ, the Son of the living God. And for that testimony they answered, He deserves death. Then they spat in his face, beat him with their fist, others slapped him and said, Prophesy to us, ye Christ, who is the one who hit you? There's not even an attempt to objectively examine the evidence for Jesus. They're not interested in the evidence. They want a conviction. And just as Jesus predicted, Back in Matthew 20 and verses 18 and 19, the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him. And that was our our first point, that Jesus was delivered over to death. But look at how long low that the chief priests were willing to stoop to kill Jesus. Like I said, they they brought Jesus to Pilate, the Roman governor. Pilate, the Roman governor, who was a vile and wicked man. Pilate who paraded the images of emperors in the holy city of Jerusalem Pilate, the man who used the money from the temple treasury to build a water channel into the city of Jerusalem and club people to death when they protested against it. Pilate was the man who, according to Luke 13, had Jewish worshippers slaughtered in the middle of their sacrifices. And the chief priest considered Pilate such a defiled man that they wouldn't even step foot into the palace where Pilate resided in John 18 verse 28. But now these chief priests hold their noses Appear before the same Pilate and say, please, please, Pilate, we need your help. We need your help, Pilate. We need you to take care of Jesus for us because he's too much for us to take care of ourselves. Jesus was being betrayed by the Jewish leadership to the Roman authorities, and as we'll see later, not only did the chief priest betray Jesus, They also betrayed their nation and their God. In order to get a death sentence passed on Jesus, they had to present Jesus as a political criminal. They already had what they thought was a religious crime. Jesus claimed to be the Messiah, the Son of God. Now they have to come up with a political crime so that the Roman authorities would put them to death. So instead of coming to the Romans and saying, hey, this man claims to be the Messiah, the Son of God, they came to the Roman authorities and said, this man says that he's the king. They had to make it a political crime. And then they sold out their nation and their God in John 19, verse 15, when the chief priests answered and said, We have no king but Caesar Sold them out. Sold themselves out. We have no king but Caesar. We want nobody but Caesar. In order to put Jesus to death, these leaders of Israel rejected the hope of Israel. Wasn't that the hope of Israel that the Messiah would come and take over? But now they say, hey, we we don't have anything but Caesar. That's what we want. Rejected the Messiah and put Caesar in his place. But like I mentioned last week, sin will take you farther than you want to go And sin is so wicked that it would pledge allegiance to an enemy who brutally conquered you, who purposefully offended you. Who brazenly stole from you, who mercilessly slaughtered you, and you're repulsed to even be around, sin is so wicked that it would turn to that one. To seek help and grovel before him saying, please, please, sir, we need your help. I beg you, I need your help. We need to get rid of Jesus. And I ask you again, where will sin take you? Where will sin take you? How low will sin take you? You know, how low can you go, right? How low can you go? How low will sin take you John MacArthur says, Have you noticed that all sin causes pain, and yet people go through pain to do it? Jeremiah 9, verse 5, the Bible says they weary themselves committing iniquity. Psalm 7 verse 14, behold, he travails in pain with iniquity. Ezekiel 24, verse 12, she was wearied. She wearied herself with sin. And even after the delight of sin is vanished, we will still seek after it, even if it pains us to do it. It's amazing. The kind of hold, the stranglehold that sin has, the enslaving effect of sin. So many of the addicts that I've talked to in Baltimore, they know that what they're doing is killing them, but they're willing to kill themselves for it They know what they're doing is killing them. It's putting me to death. But that's the nature of sin. For some people, it doesn't matter how many warnings they get, how many consequences they face. Sin is tougher than you think it is, right? So people don't try to fool yourself into thinking, you know, it's not that bad. It's only this once. I'm in control. Sin will take you farther than you want to go. Sin will cost you more than you want to pay. In our second point, we saw that Judas departed for death in verses 3 to 5. Went away and hanged himself in verse 5. Sin always comes at a price. And one of the unintended consequences for Judas was a conscience that burned with guilt, right? There was nothing that Judas could do to douse the flames. Judas tried every possible means, apart from Christ, to cleanse his conscience. First of all, Judas makes an appeal to false religion. The Judaism that Judas turned back to was the Judaism that rejected Jesus, that said to him, seat it at yourself. Judas confessed his crimes and declared the innocence of Christ, but he never turned to God with that confession. Judas tried to reverse his actions and give back the money that he gained, but Judas entered the very court of the priest because the priests would not take the money from him. But even that wasn't enough to silence Judas's conscience. Everything that Judas did was temporary. Everything that Judas did was insufficient. There was nothing that Judas could do to bring relief to his troubled soul. And there's nothing that you can do to erase the guilt of your sin. There's no good work that you can do to make up for what you've done. Confession to a priest will not absolve you of any of your sins. Appealing to religion apart from faith in Jesus Christ will not save you. Your conscience will not be quieted by ignoring it or pretending it doesn't exist. Like the scripture says, you know, can the leopard change his spots or the Ethiopian change his skin? You can't change it. There's nothing you can do Like we read earlier in uh in Jeremiah, that uh even with soap that you can't wash yourself clean. There's nothing that you can do to get rid of sin apart from Christ. And your conscience is the attorney that you carry around with you in your heart who accuses you. Just this week I was reminded of uh Joseph's brothers who sold him into slavery when he was around 17 years old. Think about that. 17 years old, Genesis chapter uh 37 Joseph was made a ruler in Egypt at the beginning of seven plentiful years in Egypt, if you remember the story. And in Genesis chapter 41 and verse 46, it says that Joseph was 30 years old by that point. When the seven years of plenty started. So think about this. 17 years old to 30 years old. That's 13 Years plus the seven years of plenty, which would be 20 years. So 20 years have passed by before his brothers show up when the famine started. Twenty years have passed by It 's over 20 years since they've seen Joseph. Twenty years since they've sinned against Joseph. And when they're treated harshly in Genesis chapter 42, listen to what they say. Genesis 42, verse 21. Then they said to one another Truly we are guilty concerning our brother. Because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us. Yet we would not listen. Therefore, this distress has come upon us Reuben answered and saying to them, Did I not tell you? Do not sin against the boy, and you would not listen. Now comes the reckoning for his blood. Twenty years later Twenty years later and they're still thinking about it. It was two years into the famine that Joseph's brothers entered Egypt according to Genesis 45 verse 6. Jacob was 130 years at this point. Just follow me. I'm doing a little math, okay? Jacob was 130 years, two years into the famine, okay? Jacob lived until he was 147 years old So think about that. That's two years into the famine plus 17. Two plus seventeen, which is the 20. That's the time for Joseph between the time and saw his brothers Which means that Jacob died 39 years after this sin against Joseph. 39 years later. That's four decades since the brothers had sinned against Joseph. Put it all together. 20 years, they're still saying, now comes the reckoning for his blood. Here it comes. After Jacob dies, which is 39 years later, almost four decades, 40 years. Genesis 50, 15 to 18. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said. What if what if Joseph bears a grudge against us and pays us back in full for all the wrong which we did to him? Listen to what it says in verse 16. Genesis 15. So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father charged before he died, saying, Thus you shall say to Joseph, please forgive, I beg you, the transgression of your brothers and their sin. For they did you wrong, and now please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father. And Joseph wept when they spoke to him. And his brothers also came and fell down before him and said, Behold We are your servants. Behold, we are your servants, Joseph. Forty years later. Do you see how guilt works? There was nothing that they could do in their own strength to like scrub themselves clean. Like it was still on the forefront of their minds. What if Now comes the reckoning. It's like the other foot is going to drop. It's going to happen. Oh, here it comes. Here it comes. They're just waiting for it. Can you imagine bearing that kind of guilt for 40 years? Forty years long, it's the unintended consequence of sin. You can't silence the voice in your head. Many of you remember uh reading The Telltale Heart by Edgar Allan Poe. It's buried here in Baltimore. It tells the story of an old man who was murdered by his caretaker who's visited in the middle of the night by the police. And he convinces the police that there's nothing wrong. Police buy into it, but he still can't silence his conscience. Remember the story? The officers were satisfied. My manner had convinced them. I was singularly at ease. They sat and while I answered cheerily, they chatted of familiar things. But ere long I felt myself getting pale and wished them gone My headache then I fancied a ringing in my ears, but still they sat and chatted. The ringing became more distinct, it continued and became more distinct I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling, but it continued and gained definiteness until at length I found that the noise was not within my ears. No doubt I now grew very pale, but I talked more fluently With a heightened voice! Yet the sound increased, and what could I do? It was a low, dull, quick sound, much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton I gasped for breath, yet the officers heard it not. I talked more quickly, more vehemently, but the noise steadily increased. I rose and argued about trifles in a high key and with violent gestulations, but the noise steadily increased Why would they not be gone? I paced the floor to and fro with heavy strides as if excited to fury by the observations of the men, but the noise steadily increased. Oh God, what could I do I foamed, I raved, I swore, I swung in the chair upon which I had been sitting, and grated upon the boards, but the noise arose over all, and continually increased, it grew louder, louder, louder, and still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled. Was it possible they had not heard? Oh mighty God, no, no, they heard. They suspected, they knew they were making a mockery of my horror. This I thought and this I think, but anything was better than this, agony Anything was more tolerable than this derision. I could bear these hypocritical smiles no longer. I felt that I must scream or die, and now again hark, louder, louder, louder, louder. Villains, I shrieked Pretend no more. I admit the deed. Tear up the planks. Here, here is the beating of his hideous heart. That's guilt. That's the conscience. And of course a dead heart doesn't beat, but a guilty conscience does. And it will torture you. And Judas sees no escape, no help, no counsel, no hope anywhere, and since he can't kill his conscience, he kills himself. Believing that somehow death is better than life, but his attempt to silence his conscience on earth only amplified it in hell. And that's the sinfulness of sin. Do you see how wicked sin is? Do you see how wicked sin is? That's the sinfulness of sin. Sin is so wicked that it would rather commit suicide than submit to God in humble repentance. And like I mentioned last time, there are other reasons that people commit suicide besides guilt like revenge, retaliation, relief, but but all of them are wrong and sinful responses that demonstrate a lack of trust in the character of God. I was reminded by one of my uh uh brothers yesterday that in the midst of trial, the temptation is to seek relief instead of seeking God. Seeking relief instead of seeking God. And rather than seeking God and submitting himself, Judas sought the easy way out, or what he thought was the easy way out. Experience remorse that came short of repentance. In his book, The Almost Christian Discovered, Matthew Mead writes, Many take conviction of sin to be conversion from sin. You can be convicted without being converted. You can experience remorse without experiencing repentance. Again, Matthew Mead writes, Be convinced of the utter insufficiency and instability of anything below Christ, to minister relief to your soul. All things besides Jesus Christ are physicians of no value, no help. Duties, performances, prayers, tears, self-righteousness avail nothing. Alas, it is an infinite righteousness that must satisfy for us, for it is an infinite God that is offended by us. If ever your sin is pardoned, it is an infinite mercy that must pardon it. If ever you're reconciled, it is an infinite merit that must do it. If your heart is changed and your state renewed, it is an infinite power that must affect it. And if ever your soul escapes hell and is saved at last, it is an infinite grace that must save it. And that's what we have in Christ, right? That's what we have in Christ. Infinite grace. And if you're wondering what the difference is between conviction of sin and conversion from sin, the difference is all in where you're looking. When the unbeliever sins, he looks around. He looks around at the consequences of his sins. He sees the people that have been affected by a sin. He looks at the guilt within, the pressures that it brings. Judas hated the consequences of his sin. He looked within, he saw the effects of his guilt. He looked without, he saw that he condemned an innocent man. But the believer goes a step further and he looks up, right? He doesn't just look around. He doesn't just look within. He looks up. He recognized that it's against thee and thee only have I sinned, right? Psalm 51 verse 4, against you you only have sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. When an unbeliever sins, he looks around for relief by making up for a sin, making excuses for a sin, playing make-believe that a sin doesn't exist. Judas sought relief in confession to the priest, returning the money, punishing himself. But the believer looks up and acknowledges that his sin is ultimately before God, and only God can bring relief, right? Proverbs 28, 13, he who conceals his transgression will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. We can only find compassion from God. When an unbeliever sins, he relies on earthly, natural, and even demonic resources. Judas relied on the priest, his riches, his sinful actions. When a believer sins, he lifts his eyes to Jesus because only Jesus can provide the necessary payment for your sin. 2 Corinthians 7. 10 says, for the sorrow that is according to the will of God produces a repentance without regret, leading to salvation, but the sorrow of the world produces death. And that's the kind of sorrow that the Judas had, a sorrow that produced death. Judas looked everywhere but to Christ, and after Judas yielded his life over to Satan, there was no place for repentance to be found for him, and he never received the gift of repentance. Went away grieving, but he never turned around. Never turned back to Christ. And he departed to death. But that's what sin does. That's what sin does. You need to look to Jesus. His blood was poured out for the forgiveness of sins, right? Matthew 26, 28, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for forgiveness of sins So Jesus was delivered over to death. Judas departed to death, and the Jewish leaders are those who deal in death. Look at verse 6 Matthew 27. Because the priest took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury, since it is the price of blood. They conferred together and with the money bought the Potter's Field as a burial place for strangers. For this reason, that field has been called the field of blood to this day. When uh when Pilate, remember when Pilate took the basin of water and he washed his hands, declared himself innocent of Jesus' blood, remember that? Washing his hands did not make him clean, right? And here these Jewish leaders, they empty their hands of the silver coins, but that didn't release them from their guilt. Their hands were completely stained with the blood of Jesus Christ. But sin will blind you to the very sins that you're committing and convince you that you're something that you're not And there are a number of times in Scripture where people were blinded to their sin and even condemned themselves by their own words out of their own mouths. Like when when David was living a double life and he lusted after another man's wife and committed adultery and then had the husband murdered to cover up the transgression. But then he's all worked up over a story about a poor man's pet lamb that was butchered for a rich man's meal. Like that's what works you up. Like you're all exercised about that. How can you take the pet lamb? Ba-ba! You know, how can you do that to him? Why would you do that to little lammy And at the time that he's listening to this story, he's considering himself to be the righteous one, passing judgment on the unrighteous one. 2 Samuel 12:5. Then David's anger burned greatly against the man and said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, surely the man who has done this deserves to die. Taking the pet lamb. Until the prophet Nathan reminds him, you are the man. You're the man. Caught by the words of his own mouth. So, so exercised about a pet lamb, about an animal, after he had just murdered a man It's caught by the words of his own mouth. Like the Pharisees who invented ways to protect the law of God, but they ended up denying the very law that they attempted to protect. Like Mark 7, verse 11, it says, But you say, if a man says to his father or his mother, Whatever I have that would help you is Corbin that is given to God. You no longer permit him to do anything for his father or his mother, thus invalidating the word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down, and you do many things such as that. Out of their own mouths, they're denying the word of God. And here in Matthew chapter 27, chief priests took the pieces of silver They said, it is not lawful to put them into the temple treasury. Listen to what they say. Since it is the price of blood. Oh, really? It's the price of blood? So Judas had blood money? Where did Judas ever get that blood money from? It was from them But here they totally overlook that they had given him the money to have Jesus executed. And now they're worried about, well, we can't put this money back in the treasury. They're worried about the little things. Chief priests were the ones who weighed out 30 pieces of silver from the temple treasury in the first place. And now they're concerned about putting it back after the deed is done. Why would they have a problem receiving the money? It's because over in Deuteronomy chapter 23, verse 18, it says, You shall not bring the hire of a harlot or the wages of a dog into the house of the Lord your God. for any votive offering, for both of these are an abomination to the Lord your God. So what God was doing was he was upholding the prohibition against prostitution. The harlot And was a female prostitute and dogs, according to one commentary, was a term the Jewish people used for male prostitution. Which is often connected to pagan temple service. So Deuteronomy 23 it says, don't bring the hire of a harlot or the wages of a dog, you know, female or male prostitutes, don't bring that into the house of the Lord So the principle they glean from that is that money that was earned sinfully was not to be placed into the treasury because it was defiling That's the principle that they claim. So here the priest reads them together. They say, hey, you know, this money is defiled because it was used for sinful purposes. We can't put it back into the treasury now So it was their twisted way of trying to consider themselves holy. You know, we're so holy that we won't put this money. I mean, they're concerned about the coins that they're going to drop back into the plate. Like that's defiling. You know, we don't want to defile ourselves. While, on the other hand, they're openly defying the law of God and plotting for the murder of the Messiah. But they're worried about the coins. You know, can't put that money into the plate. What? Hypocrites, right? Hypocrites. More worried about the location of silver than they are about the Son of God. But what they might not have realized is that their reluctance to receive the money actually acknowledged that they were guilty. They're acknowledging their guilt out of their own mouth, they acknowledge that what they did was sinful and unacceptable. And you wonder how could these leaders be so perceptive about putting coins back into the treasury, but they're totally oblivious to the sin that they're committing? But again, that's what sin does. That's what sin does. This is the sinfulness of sin. John 18. Later on in John 18, they they'd be more worried about touching the floor of Pilate's house than they were about delivering Jesus over to Pilate. Because, you know, after all, they they have to eat the Passover tonight. Like, really? You're worried about the meal, the Passover meal, as if God is going to accept that from you as a celebration to him after you're killing his son? But then you're worried about, you know, I don't want to get my feet dirty with the the palace of Palace's house. You know, can't step in there. I I want to be able to eat the the Passover lamb tonight while they're killing the Passover lamb But now they're worried about eating it. I remember there was this uh one day I was studying my Bible. During a lunch break and uh and a guy walked past me and he saw me making some notes in my Bible. He says, Hey, you know, what are you what are you doing? It's like I'm you know I'm studying. You know, so I had like my colored pencils out or whatever, highlighters writing in my Bible He said, hey, what what are you doing? No, that's you can't do that, you know. It's disrespectful, you know, writing in the Bible like that. So I turned around to him. I said, uh so do you read your Bible? Do you study your Bible? He says, no, I don't I don't study my Bible. So you're worried about me highlighting the Bible, making some notes, but you don't even read it. Sin makes you oblivious. Totally oblivious. You're you're worried about, oh no, don't put your Bible down there. You know, you gotta respect the word of God. You gotta respect that. Oh, you gotta write notes. Oh, don't write any notes in there You gotta respect the word of God. So so that means that you obey it and follow it, read it, study it. No, I don't know. I just want to make sure it's in the right place Sin blinds you, right? It blinds you. Matthew 23, Jesus says, what are you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites? You tie meant and dil and cumen and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice, mercy, faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done. Do you think God is really interested in you counting your little seeds when you're not caring for your parents? When you're being unfaithful towards your wife. You think God's pleased with your little mint leaves, you know, have to separate, you know, you know, one for me, one, two, three, four, five, six, nine for me, and one for God, you know, little leaves, counting up your leaves. Gotta make sure God gets all his mint leaves. When you're ignoring the needs of widows and orphans who can't care for themselves, you're more worried about separating out your mint leaves. Do you think God is worried that there's enough cumin spice in the lamb when you're planning injustice against the very Lamb of God? Worried about all these little trifles. People want to argue about all kinds of things. It is so external, right? Alexander Strach writes this in his book. He says, in his book, If you bite and devour, he says Christians will argue and separate over topics of debate that Paul refers to as opinions. These are not fundamental doctrines or issues of moral failure such as lying, stealing, sexual immorality, you know, the things that you should separate over. Just rather these are secondary issues of personal conscience, convictions, such as Sabbath keeping, celebrating Christmas Drinking alcohol, dancing, lift the hands in worship. You know, don't don't raise your hands, you know. Gotta be reverent. Lifting hands in worship, hanging pictures of Jesus on the wall, honoring ancestors, schooling your children Proper dress, hairstyles, forms of entertainment, recreational choices, or even the use of leavened or unleavened bread during communion. Sin allows you to judge others while you're excusing yourself. You know, you pay attention to all these little details But you're ignoring the sins that are right in front of your face. And even here, in the face of monstrous evil, the chief priest imagined that they can still come out clean. If they come up with a noble use for the money. Look at this, Matthew 27 again. It says, and they conferred together, and with the money bought the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. Oh, isn't that nice Isn't that charitable? You know, we want want a place to bury foreigners just in case, you know, somebody from out of town comes here during a festival. You know, the Jewish people uh would bury people within 24 hours, like they might not be able to get home. So, you know, we're gonna separate this burial ground for those people that might be from out of town that might happen to pass away. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? It's a good deed. It's a kind deed, right? But this field was not named the field of kindness. It was not named the field of charity. This field was not named the field of love. Somehow they thought that a noble use of this money would somehow erase the filth that was in their hearts. But the name of that field became the field of blood. Why? Be sure your sins will find you out. Word got out. You know the the that field over there that those priests bought, that's a field of blood. They paid blood money for that field Became known as the field of blood. They tried to cover it up. Try to make it look like they're doing a charitable deed. Kind deed. Aren't those some nice chief priests? Can you believe that? And separate out that land for people from out of town, foreigners. But but no, like the name became the field of blood. Because word got out. And this man Judas that they didn't want to deal with gave the people another reason to call it a field of blood. Look over to Acts chapter 1. Acts chapter 1, verse 18 and 19. It says, now this man acquired a field with the price of his wickedness. And falling headlong he burst open in the middle, and all his intestines gushed out. And it became known to all who were living in Jerusalem, so that in their own language that field was called Hakalbama, which is field of blood. Edershim imagines the scene. He says this, across the valley and up the steep sides of the mountain on the potter's field of Jeremiah. Somewhat to the west above where Kidron and Hinnem valleys merge, it's a cold, soft solid where the footsteps slip or are held in clammy bonds. Here jagged rocks rise, perhaps there was some gnarled, bent, stunted tree. Up there Judas climbed to the top of that rock, now slowly and deliberately he unwound the long girdle that held his garment. It was a girdle in which he carried those sturdy pieces of silver. With that girdle he will hang himself on that tree close by. He will fasten it, he will throw himself down off that jagged rock. It is done, but As unconscious but not yet dead, perhaps he swung heavily on that branch. Under the burden the girdle gave way, or perhaps the knot which his trembling hands had made and unloosed, and he fell heavily forward among the jagged rocks beneath and perished in the manner of which St. Peter reminded his fellow disciples. Either the rope broke, the branch broke Judas can't even hang himself properly. Trying to hang himself and falls over the side of this cliff and burst out on the rocks beneath. This is this is what sin looks like. This is what sin looks like. This deed of kindness that these chief priests tried to perform was nothing but filthy rags in the sight of God. This field, which was intended for kindness, is called the field of blood. Sin pollutes even our good works. Even the best that we have, right? That's why Isaiah 64, 6 says, all our righteous deeds are like what? Filthy rags, a filthy garment. Even the best. The good things that we do, you know, this act of kindness is really an act of iniquity. That's one of the reasons our good works can't earn us heaven, right? Even even our righteousness is polluted. And finally, the scripture makes a declaration about this death. Jesus was delivered over to death. Judas departed to death. Jewish leaders deal in death, and the scripture makes a declaration about this death. And this is where we finally see some of the hope in this text because we understand that this was not some kind of uh heavenly gamble that went wrong, you know? It's not like this was a bad bet It's not like God was up in heaven, you know, rooting for Jesus. You know, come on Jesus, I know you can win those cheaperies over. And things just didn't turn out like he planned. Oh man, they they're projecting him. I didn't plan for this. That's not at all what's going on in heaven, right? That's not the case. Scripture actually made a declaration about this. Scripture predicted that this would happen And as Matthew typically does, he shows how Scripture has been fulfilled in the details of the life of Christ. Look at verse 9. It says, then that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled. And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of the one whose price had been set by the sons of Israel, and they gave them for the powder's field as the Lord directed me. And what Matthew does here is uh is interesting because he actually takes two well-known passages from two different books and combines them to form one quotation. One from Jeremiah and the other from Zechariah. But there are a number of different reasons why Matthew may have chosen to combine these two quotations. This actually is much closer to a quote that we find in Zechariah chapter 11 And uh some people wrestle with that and say, Well, why would he give words that were out of the mouth of Zechariah and say that it was Jeremiah that spoke these words? You know, why why would the scriptures say that? You know, it's like uh Matthew forgot to read his Bible. You know, the scripture can't can't get it right. You know, oh, there's just one other reason why you can't trust the Bible, right? You know, those Christians, they can't get it together. But there's a number of reasons why Matthew may have chosen to combine these quotations. First of all, there's a connection between Jeremiah and the rest of the prophetic books. Because in the Hebrew order of the prophetic books, guess which book comes first? It's Jeremiah. Jeremiah actually came first in the Hebrew reading of the prophets. So the Jewish people would have had no problem placing this quotation under the category of the prophets, which Jeremiah is the first. Just like David represents the Psalms in the poetic literature, Jeremiah represented the prophets and came first. But another reason Matthew may have chosen to connect these two prophets is because of the similar themes connected in both books In Zechariah 11, the Lord identifies himself as a shepherd, but he's a shepherd that his people have become weary of. In verse 8 and uh Zechariah chapter 11 and verse 12 the Lord asked for his wages. And basically the question is, what kind of value do you place on me as a shepherd? What am I worth to you? Flip over to Zechariah chapter 11 if you can find it with me. Zechariah chapter 11. Flip back a couple books from uh from Matthew and you'll find it right before Malachi. Zechariah chapter 11. Look at verse 12. Says this, it says, I said to them, if it is good in your sight, give me my wages, but if not, never mind. So they weighed out thirty shekels of silver as my wages Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, that magnificent price at which I was valued by them. So I took the thirty shekels of silver and threw them to the potter in the house of the Lord. And what you have here is uh is that that prophecy about the the 30 pieces of silver that were given by the chief priest to Judas. As the price for the Lord's betrayal. It's like that's that's what I'm valued at by Israel. It was the price of a dead slave according to Exodus chapter 21. Exodus 21, verse 32. Thirty shekels of silver. One commentator writes to offer this sum was therefore the equivalent to telling the shepherd of Israel that they could any day buy a common slave who would be just as useful to them as he had been. This is what they value Jesus at. 30 pieces of silver, that should be enough, you know, to betray him. And Christ comes as the good shepherd. And they determined he wasn't worth a penny more than the dead slave. What a magnificent price for the Lord of glory. Then in verse thirteen it says, Then the Lord said to me, Throw it to the potter, that magnificent price at which I was valued by them So I took the thirty shekels of silver and threw to them, threw them to the potter in the house of the Lord. And in fulfillment of this prophecy, the money that was thrown into the temple was the same money. That was given to the potter for the purchase of a field. And we see that connection between the two here. But Matthew makes another connection with the book of Jeremiah. Why don't you flip over to the book of Jeremiah real quick? Jeremiah chapter 19. And those who would have been familiar with this book would have been drawn to another familiar connection. Because this area where this field was purchased. was actually the the same area that would have been known from an earlier time in history. Because this is the same area where the powder 's field would have been located that Jeremiah the prophet speaks about. And he introduces this vivid illustration in chapter 19 where he stands before the elders and the priest of his time. Look what it says in Jeremiah chapter 19, starting at verse 1. It says, thus says the Lord. Go and buy a potter's earthenware jar and take some of the elders of the people and some of the senior priests. Then go out to the valley of Ben Hinnem, which is by the entrance of the potshered gate. And proclaim there the words that I tell you. And say, Hear the word of the Lord, O kings of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I am going to bring a calamity upon this place, at which the ears of every one that hears of it will tingle. Because they have forsaken me and have made this an alien place and have burned sacrifices in it to other gods that neither they nor their forefathers nor the kings of Judah had ever known, and because they have filled this place Listen to this, with the price of innocent blood, with the blood of innocent. The blood of the innocent. The valley of Ben Hinnem was a place that ancient Israel profaned by their idolatrous sacrifices to false gods, a false god named Molech. Part of their worship to this false god Molech was sacrificing innocent blood, the blood of their own children, their infants. Which was strictly prohibited by the law. Leviticus 20 says, You shall say to the sons of Israel, any man from the sons of Israel or from the aliens sojourning in Israel, who gives any of his offspring to Molech. Shall surely be put to death, the people of this land shall stone him with stones. But in spite of the restrictions, the valley of Hinnem was used for this detestable purpose. 2 Kings 21, 16 says, Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood until he had filled Jerusalem from one end to the other. Besides, the sin was with which he made Judah sin and doing evil in the sight of the Lord. The idea of innocent blood being shed was connected to this valley of Ben Hinnem, which was later known as Gehenna. Jeremiah 19, God says, Behold, I'm about to bring calamity upon this place, at which the ears of everyone that hears of it will tingle, because they have forsaken me, made this an alien place. They've burned sacrifices in it to other gods They filled this place with the blood of the innocent. And that phrase, the blood of the innocent, was connected to this wicked sacrifice, this blood of the innocent. Now think back with me in Matthew chapter 27 when Judas comes before the priest, what is his confession? I have betrayed innocent blood. Innocent blood. I sinned by betraying innocent blood. We'll flip over to Matthew chapter 27. Matthew chapter 27. Look at verse 24. It says when Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, I am innocent! Of this man's blood, see to that yourselves. You know again he says there he's done nothing wrong, I don't see any guilt in him. What evil has he done, right I'm innocent of this man's blood. See to that yourselves. And all the people said, his blood shall be on us and on our children. Innocent blood. Put it on us. Judas goes to the chief priest and says, he's innocent. This is innocent blood. What is that to us? What do we care about that? What do we care if he's innocent? We're going to sacrifice him anyway. In the same way, back in Jeremiah's time, that he's speaking about this sacrifice that took place in the same place. Where children, innocent children, were being offered up as sacrifices. But what did they care then? And what do they care now? Jesus is innocent. We're going to sacrifice him anyway. What is that to us? His blood be on us! Put it on us, Pilate! You don't want it on you? Put it, put it on our tab. Put the innocent blood on my tab. And Matthew brings up Jeremiah to remind them that just as innocent blood was shed before, innocent blood is about to be shed again. And just as ancient Israel rejected God before, Israel is rejecting God again. And just as calamity came before, calamity is on its way once again. And out of their own mouths they accepted the responsibility. Put it on us. Put the innocent blood on us. What is that to us? Jesus is innocent. Who cares? His blood be on us and on our children. And this field that was called the field of blood stood as a witness against them. Field of blood. Whose blood was given? It was the blood of Jesus, right? It was the blood of the innocent one, the only innocent one. Are you convinced of the evil of sin? Are you convinced of the evil of sin? Matthew Mead again writes, Sin is the greatest evil in the world. It wrongs God. It wounds Christ. It grieves the Holy Spirit. It ruins a precious soul. All other evils are not to be named with this. But then he says, My brethren, though to do sin is the worst work, yet to see sin is the best sight, for sin discovered in its vileness makes Christ to be desired in his fullness. And the blood of Christ has a better word for us, for those of us who've received him, right? Matthew 26, verse 28 says, For this is the blood of my covenant, which is poured out for many for what? For the forgiveness of sins. This innocent one who has given up gave his life up for the forgiveness of sins so that our sins could be forgiven. The innocent one was sacrificed That blood that Jesus shed for me. Way back on Calvary, the blood that gives me strength from day to day will never lose its power. Reaches to the highest mountain, it flows to the lowest valley. The blood that gives me strength from day to day will never lose its power. It sues my doubts. And it calms my fears and it dries all my tears. The blood that gives me strength from day to day, it will never lose its power It reaches to the highest mountain, it flows to the lowest valley, the blood that gives me strength from day to day. It will never lose its power. Amen. Jesus Christ shed his blood, the blood of the innocent, but his blood that was shed is meant for our forgiveness. Amen? Hope you see sin in all of its ugliness so that you can see Christ in all of his views. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just come before you uh this morning once again, and uh Father, we're grateful uh for your word. Uh we're grateful for the power of it. Uh Father, we're grateful for the display that it has of our Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, we're grateful that we can look to Him, the author and the finisher of our faith, the one who has paid the price for us, the one in whom we stand before you as blameless. Without blemish, without reproach. My father, it's because of his innocence, his purity, the one who never committed sin, the one who was born without sin. Unlike the babies that were conceived in sin in their mother's womb, this one was completely innocent, completely pure, without any hint or taint of sin. And Father, it's because he laid down his life that we have life. And Father, may we see Christ in all of his beauty. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.