The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew this morning, Matthew chapter 8. And um What we're going to read about today is one of those events that I had I wish I could have been there to see personally, you know, kind of firsthand experience with what we're about to read today. I know that it would have been terrifying. and exciting and encouraging and worshipful all at the same time. And I'm sure it would have uh given me a perspective on the the savior uh that I don't have uh currently but I'd be fooling myself to think that my faith would somehow be superior, that I could somehow turn into the like the super saint if I was able to see what we find here because We find that many of the people who witnessed personally the miracles of Jesus Christ responded in all kinds of ways to what they saw. The people who saw him personally, some believed, some doubted, some were confused, and some even hated Jesus Christ for what they saw And uh wanted to see Jesus dead, even after seeing the miraculous power of of Christ. Uh so even if I were an actual eyewitness of some of the events that took place It would still have taken God to open my eyes and open my heart to believe in uh in what we're about to read uh today in John chapter 6 verse 44. It says, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me does what? draws him. Unless the Father draws him, you can't come uh to faith. And sometimes people think that they'd respond differently, you know, if if I was actually there to see it, you know, you know, seeing his believing. You know, if I was actually there to see it then not respond differently than I than I I do now, but Even if you if you can't imagine it, I mean these these disciples had uh God and the human flesh for a roommate. Can you imagine that? These are the disciples who saw Jesus Christ day in, day out, had a personal front row seat to witness the character of Jesus Christ, and they were still slow to fully appreciate what they were seeing right in front of their their own eyes. But Jesus doesn't give them a pass on being slow to recognize who he is. He doesn't give an excuse for no belief. He doesn't give an excuse for slow belief, hesitating. He doesn't give an excuse for low belief, you know, having a little faith in God. It's not no belief, slow belief, low belief. It's inexcusable. The only thing that's uh that's acceptable to Jesus Christ is a fully convinced appreciation for who we're to follow. And uh there's no excuse for anything uh less than that. So let's take a look at Matthew chapter 8 starting at verse 23. Matthew chapter 8 starting at verse 23. It says when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being covered with the waves, but Jesus himself was asleep. And they came to him and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord, we are perishing. And he said to them, Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it became perfectly calm. The men were amazed and said, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh this text. Uh Father, we pray that you'd use it to to build and increase faith in our lives. Uh Father, we thank you for giving us this written record of our Savior Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you transform us and that you use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The account that we're uh considering today of Jesus calming, the storm, actually Begins back in verse 18 of chapter 8, where it says, Now when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. Um Jesus knew that if he was going to get a break from the crowds, that uh he had to to leave the crowds. Uh once people knew that Jesus had the ability to heal any kind of disease and sickness, he was literally pressed in uh from every side by the crowds. If you remember back in Mark chapter five, there was a woman who suffered with a discharge of Blood for uh twelve years who touched the edge of Jesus' uh garment and his robe. And uh Jesus turns around and he says, Who touched me? And his disciples are thinking about, you know, what what he's just saying. He's like, you know, what what do you mean who touched you? Right? You know, remember how they responded? It's like you see the crowd pressing in on you and you say who touched me? I mean Jesus was pressed in from every side by the crowds. You know, what do you mean, who touched me? You know, Jesus meant, you know, the touch of faith, but it seemed ridiculous to the disciples uh to say, Who touched me? Because Jesus was always being pressed in uh because of his miraculous ability. And one reason that Jesus escaped from the crowds, you know, there's different occasions where he escaped from the crowds, but one of the reasons that Jesus escaped from the crowds was because As important as it was to minister to people's bodies, it was even more important to minister to people's souls. So sometimes Jesus would escape uh like in Luke chapter four and verse forty three he says that uh I must preach the kingdom of God to the other cities also, for I was sent for this purpose, so he left the crowds, uh just so he could make sure that his primary ministry of preaching the gospel uh wouldn't be hindered. So Jesus didn't consider it his primary ministry to bring healing to the world. He considered it his primary ministry to bring salvation to the world. And as a church, we should really uh have that as our focus as well And there's another reason that Jesus escaped from the crowds, he sought to escape from the crowds. And uh that reason is uh It's really uh kind of profound and and and difficult to uh to to to really grasp the the the profundity of of why he left the the the crowds, but one of the the second reason that Jesus left the crowds was just to get a break, just to rest. In Mark chapter 6 verse 31, after a busy time of ministry, Jesus said to the disciples, Come away by yourselves to a secluded place and rest awhile. Sometimes Jesus would escape the crowds just so he could get a break from the crowds. There were many people who were coming in, going, and uh in Mark chapter 6, verse 31, it says that uh some of the disciples didn't even have a chance to eat because ministry was so busy. It's been said that uh you need to come apart before you come apart, you know, come apart from the crowds before you just completely fall apart. And uh it's not really that complicated. I remember uh Al Moller, who's the the president of Southern Seminary He said that one of the greatest challenges for him when he goes anywhere to speak is uh just finding time to go to the restroom. You know, because you know everywhere you go you're meeting people, people want to talk to you, they got a question for you. He says one of the most difficult things is just finding a break. You know, when can I get to the restroom? And it's likely the reason Jesus commanded his disciples to depart to the other side of the sea was just because he was tired. Look over at Mark chapter 3. Mark chapter 3, verse 20. Uh when we compare the account that we find in Matthew chapter eight to um the other gospel records, uh we find that uh This day that we're talking about here, the day that he departed to the other side of the Sea of the Galilee, was what's known as the long day. Commentators call this the long day. Because so many events happened on this day that Jesus is about to cross over the sea. In Mark chapter 3, if you look at uh at verse 20, look at what it says here. This is how it begins, his long day. It says, and he came home, and the crowd gathered again to such an extent that he could not even eat a meal. They could not even eat a meal. When his own people heard of this, they went out to take custody of the pen custody of him, for they were saying, he has lost his senses. You know, they're looking at Jesus, the crowds constantly around him. He can't even get a bite to eat. You know, people are thinking, you know, have you lost your mind? You know, you need to get a break. You know, people wanted to come and try to rescue him, but he had a mission. The kind of faith that Jesus kept was nonstop. If you add to this, you know, there's these crowds that pressed in around him, many of them that he healed. He also on the same day he confronted the Pharisees. Verses 22 to 30 In chapter 3 of Mark, he addressed his family's concerns in verses 31 to 35. He taught parables, chapter 4 and uh verses 1 through 9. He explained the parables separately to his disciples in verses 10 to 34 of chapter 4. And at the end of the day, the crowds were still gathering. The crowds were still mounting. This is the long day, you know, what's considered the long day for Jesus Christ. And on the same day, this is the day. If you look down at Mark chapter 4 and verse 35 , Look what it says here. It says, on that day. So we're talking about the same day. On that day, when evening came, he said to them, Let us go over to the other side. And leaving the crowd, they took him along with them in the boat just as he was, and the other boats were with him. And this is the only time in the Gospels that we We actually read about the sleep of Jesus. One commentator describes the scene, he says, faintness, weariness, exhaustion dominated the physique of the human Jesus as he lay immersed in profound slumber. Fanned by the breeze of the lake, soothed by the gentle rhythmic motion of the boat, here is a picture unspeakably sublime of the human savior in repose Jesus was just worn out. Worn out. And sometimes it's easy for some of us to forget that Jesus was a real physical human being. With all the limitations that we have as human beings. He took on our weaknesses. He took on our weaknesses 100% human. And this is one of the best passages to demonstrate that. There's a false teaching that circulated around the early church. uh that taught that Jesus only appeared to be human. You know, he wasn't really human, he just appeared to be human. It was a teaching that was known as asceticism from the the Greek word dokeo, which means to seem, to suppose, like Jesus just appeared human, but he really wasn't. And uh this is a false teaching that spread the lie that um Jesus really didn't have a human body. And uh the people who spread this kind of doctrine actually thought that they were trying to honor Jesus Christ. You know, because like how how do you really honor somebody? How are we really to elevate Jesus Christ as the most supreme when we have to admit that Jesus Stomach growled just like ours when he missed a meal. I mean, is that really superior to think about Christ like that? Or that he became weakened by a long day of work just like we do? You know, does that really elevate Christ to think about him like that? And how could a truly holy person even touch this sinful, polluted, and corrupted world like we do? You know, if if Jesus is really superior, some people thought, you know, you have to separate them from humanity. You have to push them away from this physical weakness and limitation. But what we uh find from the scriptures that uh this is exactly the kind of picture that the Bible paints of of Jesus Christ. He was born just like all of us were born. Went through all the same stages in his mother's stomach just as all of us had to go through in Luke chapter two. Talks about Mary's days being completed and the whole time Jesus is long for the ride in Mary's stomach. He grew and developed into maturity, just like all of us grow and develop into maturity. In Luke chapter 2, talks about Jesus continuing to grow to become strong. He experienced all the limitations that we do. He became hungry. Matthew chapter 4. He became thirsty. John 19. He became weary. John chapter 4. He became physically weakened, even had to be ministered to by others because of his physical weakness. You find that angels had to come and minister to his need because he was so weak in himself in Matthew chapter four and verse eleven. He became so weak at the the end of his life that The Roman soldiers had to conscript somebody to carry his cross for him because he was so weak, so weak at the end of his life. And if there was any doubt about his humanity, the ultimate proof that Jesus was human was that he suffered and died on a cross. Luke chapter 23 verse 46 it says and Jesus crying out with a loud voice said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit, and having said this, he breathed his last. Jesus was a real human I remember I was uh speaking to a Muslim some time ago who was trying to argue that, you know, uh that Jesus was a prophet and he was too holy and too pure. uh for uh uh to be subjected to the torture of the cross. You know, Jesus was just too holy for that. You know, why would you talk about Jesus in that way? Like, you know, this is kind of what he's talking to me about. He says, you know, it's just not right. It's not right for somebody this holy to suffer the torture of the cross. And I said to him, now you're starting to get it. Now you're starting to get it. Because it shouldn't make sense to us that Jesus would subject himself to our physical weakness and human limitations. Shouldn't it make sense to us But that's the glory of the cross, isn't it? It's the glory of the cross. The hymn writer says it this way. Why should I gain from his reward? I cannot give an answer. But this I know with all my heart, his gift has paid my ransom. It shouldn't make sense to us. We shouldn't be able to give an answer to that question. Why would Jesus come, live our life, and die on the cross for us? We shouldn't come up with a reasonable answer in ourselves. For why he would do that. The only reason remains in himself. It's because of the glory of God. Because of his love for us. Has nothing to do with because we are worthy of it. Jesus Christ chose to suffer pain and loss for our sake and for the glory of his Father. So you don't honor Jesus Christ. by coming to some conclusion that, you know, he walked around as some kind of man of steel. You know, nothing touched him. He was impenetrable. You know, didn't face any weakness He had to be made like us. And let me just give you a couple reasons why that's true. Number one, if Jesus wasn't one of us, how could he represent us in his obedience? If Jesus wasn't one of us, how could he represent us in his obedience? It was a man who disobeyed God in the first place, right? So it had to be a man who obeyed God in the second place. In Romans chapter 5, verse 18 it says, So then it's through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men Even so, through one act of righteousness, there resulted justification of life to all men. In 1 Timothy 2, verse 5 it says, There is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man, Christ Jesus. It had to be a man that suffered. and uh and actually uh represented us before God. How could he represent God, uh represent before God our obedience if he wasn't a man himself? Number two, how could Jesus Substitute for us in his death if he wasn't one of us. How could he substitute for us if he wasn't one of us? Hebrews chapter 2, verse 17 says, Therefore he had to be made like his brethren in all things. So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation, to make the sacrifice for our sins, for the sins of the people. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 10, by this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. It had to be a body that was offered up for us once and for all. Number three, if Jesus wasn't one of us, how could he serve as our pattern and as our example? One of the things that makes the victory of Christ over temptation and sin and Satan so spectacular is that Jesus defeated Satan as a man. Jesus defeated Satan as a man, as a sanctified man. He could have called down legions of angels. He could have made bread from rocks. He could have floated off of the temple. He could have done all those things. But Jesus defeated Satan as a man, and he'd never used his divine powers to make things easier for him. Last week we saw that he didn't even use his divine power to give himself a place to sleep at night You don't think that Jesus could have walked through the wilderness and just said, let there be house. Boom. You know, there it is. I mean he could have done it. I mean he created the whole world the whole universe out of nothing. He could have created a house if he wanted to, but he didn't do that. Why? Because we can't do that. We can't do that. He had to live just as we live, to be our pattern, to be our example. 1 Peter 2 verse 21, for you have been called for this purpose. since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. He's already charted the way. He's left his footprints for us to follow in the pattern after him. And then finally, if Jesus wasn't one of us, how could he sympathize with our weaknesses? How could he sympathize with us? Flip over to Hebrews chapter 4. Hebrews chapter 4. You know, sometimes we talk like uh you know people can't speak to us. They, you know, you can't really speak into my life unless you've gone through exactly the same thing. that I've gone through. You know, you ever talk to somebody like that? You know, well unless he's been through my shoes, unless you walked in my shoes, you know, you can't really speak to me. That's not true. You know, a lot of times it's just a smoke screen. God can speak to us, and he hasn't necessarily walked through everything that we've walked through, but when he sent Jesus Christ, it was to take away our excuses. God's omniscient, of course he he knows what we go through. But in uh Jesus Christ, he shows that he just doesn't understand us, but he's actually walked in the shoes that we walked in. Hebrews chapter 4, look at verses 15 and 16. It says, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin. Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. Jesus Christ is able to sympathize with our weaknesses. And he did that by walking in our shoes. We can't say that Jesus Christ doesn't understand. He's never done what I've done. He's done what you've done. If Jesus wasn't one of us, we don't have a representative, we don't have a substitute, we don't have a pattern, and we don't have a divine sympathizer. So uh if you don't have a Jesus that was 100% human, what Jesus are you following? What kind of Jesus are you following? You have no substitute if you're following a Jesus who never became 100% human. 1 John 4. 2 Says, by this ye know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. You can't believe in Jesus If you don't believe in a Jesus that actually came in a human body. And then John goes on to say in 2 John verse 9: Anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. If you don't have a right understanding of who Jesus Christ is, you don't have God at all. You need to have a proper understanding of Jesus. So Jesus Here he directs his disciples to depart because he's weary. He doesn't deserve less glory because he was weary because of his humanity. He actually deserves more glory because of his humanity. Let's turn back to Matthew Yeah, but first of all, you have the master of the sea, he directs his disciples, and uh we looked at that in uh Matthew chapter 8 again and uh verse 23 when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. And uh point number two, if you're taking notes. Not only the master of the sea directs his disciples, but the disaster of the sea inspects his disciples. The disaster of the sea inspects his disciples. This is the test. The test was sent. It was the storm that was sent was a test of his disciples' faith. Look at verses 24 and 25. It says, and behold There arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being covered with the waves, but Jesus himself was asleep. , And they came to him and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord, for we are perishing. This is the a test of faith. The sea that Jesus traveled on with his disciples would have been the sea of Galilee here Uh if you have a map in the back of your Bibles, you can actually take a look at uh uh the shape of uh the Sea of Galilee and the Old Testament. Uh this same sea was known by different names. One of the names that The Sea of Galilee was known by was the Sea of Chinnareth. Chinnareth, it was a word for harp because uh if you look at Galilee from the top, it kind of looks like it's it's shaped like uh some of the ancient harps. It's not very uh large. It's only about uh 13 and a half miles long, seven and a half miles wide, so it doesn't really take that long to travel. across it. Uh and when you're in the sea you actually feel like you're sitting in a bowl because you're surrounded on three sides by mountains. So you kinda like almost like you're you feel like you're sunk in, you know, in this kind of body of water. uh with these uh three mountains kinda surrounding you. Uh when Jennifer and I had a had a chance to uh take a a boat ride across the the same sea, I remember looking at the hills and uh just hoping I didn't see any storm clouds coming over the hills because I remember the story. You know, uh it's well known that uh violent storms can develop quickly on this lake. It's about 700 feet below sea level. And the the winds sweep down through the the steep ravines and it can kind of like you know kind of whip up, you know, this kind of tumultuous type of uh of uh sudden storm. Uh that's why in in Luke chapter eight where it when it speaks about These disciples being on the Sea of Galilee, it says that a fierce gale, Luke 8. 23, a fierce gale of wind descended on the lake. And they began to be swamped by the danger. So these winds just kind of sweep off of these mountains and just kind of create this torrent underneath. And uh there's an interesting word that Matthew uses for the storm when he uh in verse 24 when he says, and behold there arose a great storm. The word that he uses for storm, it's the Greek word seismos. Sizemise. It's uh where we get our English word seismic from, you know, to describe a an earthquake. Uh so so the the the word that Matthew uses, it's the only time it's ever used uh meaning of storm in the Bible at all. You know, the only time it's used for for a storm, and uh Matthew describes this kind of sudden shaking, you know, of the the the weather, of the sea, the winds, by the word for for earthquake Everywhere else it's translated as earthquake. This is the only place where it's translated as a storm. So this storm is just violent, shaking, like an earthquake on the land. It churned up the water. Kind of shook the shook the the sea like a a glass of water in your hand. And as the the water started filling up this this book uh quickly uh you had these uh uh disciples that that are fearful for their lives. In uh Mark chapter four and verse thirty-four. It says there arose a fierce gale of wind and the waves were breaking over the boat so much that the boat was already filling up. And uh when you think about the boat that Jesus is traveling with his disciples on, you're not to think of like this kind of big cruise ship This is a small vessel. In February of 1986, there was a discovery that was made that gives us some idea of the kind of boats that were used during this time. Uh a boat was found on the uh that was buried in the bottom of the Sea of Galilee that appears to be from the New Testament times. They actually call it the Jesus boat. Uh we actually, you know, saw the the little museum there where they had remains of of an old uh fishing uh vessel Measures twenty-six and a half feet in length and seven and a half feet in breadth and four and a half feet high. So, you know, maybe maybe about up to up to here Maybe a little lower, right? Four and a half feet, four and a half feet feet high. So you have this this vessel, you know, four and a half feet, it doesn't take long to fill it up with water. You know, when you have the waves just kind of breaking over the top of of this this raft here. One uh writer describes the scene like this. He says, just imagine it. Suddenly the northeasterly breeze stiffens and along the horizon of the lake to the north and east the clouds thicken The heavens rapidly grow darker and darker, and in just a few moments a wild wind swoops down the gorge of the Jordan from the heights of the Hermon on the north. The cyclonic storm is upon them. With every moment the storm grows worse until it becomes a great tempest Heaving the sea like an earthquake. Now the waves were lashing furiously and breaking over the sides of the boat so that it was already filling. Again and again the boat was buried amid the foam of the breakers which burst over the lower parts completely They were in great danger, and the master lay on the seat of the stern, steeped in profound slumber of exhaustion. Now that's tired. If if you can sleep through a a storm like this, you've got to be pooped, right? This is totally exhausted Fierce winds, violent shaking of the sea, cold waves crashing over the side of the boat, and Jesus is still sleeping You know, it kind of reminds you of some of your teenagers, right? You know, it's like nothing can wake you up, you know, in the on a Saturday morning. It's like, you know, pouring water, shaking the bed, it's like, you know, they're still sleeping. You know, here's Jesus, he's just totally exhausted. He has a reason to be, you know, not like the teenagers, but he has a reason to be exhausted. And what's so sweet to me is that Even though the storm didn't make Jesus budge, you know, the winds, the waves, the pounding, the disciples, commotion, nothing caused Jesus to budge. The one time that he gets up is when there's a cry for help. The only time he gets up is when there's a cry for help from his disciples. That to me is comforting. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, because not only do the sheep hear the voice of the shepherd, the shepherd hears the voice of the sheep. Nothing else could wake Jesus but the cry of his disciples for help. Master, Lord, save us. Instantly, Jesus is up. Amazing to to to think about. The shepherd hears the voice of his sheep. And I'm not really sure what they expected from Jesus at this point. I'm not I don't I don't really know what they were expecting. And from their reaction, it's clear that they didn't expect what actually happened. So when they're waking Jesus, I don't know what they're waking them for. You know, Master Savis, it's like, you know, uh maybe you're a carpenter, maybe you can fix the the the boat, maybe you can fix the oars, they're broken. I mean I don't know what they're calling them for at this point, but they're not expecting what's about to happen. So here they are in this kind of weak, small, puny faith. They cry out to Jesus, not really knowing what he's going to do. But even with little faith, the Lord still hears and the Lord still answers. That is comforting for people like us with small faith. That the Lord will hear even the cry of small faith, little faith But the call to Jesus, he answers that kind of call. And this is like I said for the disciples, this is some last-ditch effort. And you know it has to be bad when the sailors are calling on the carpenter to help them out on the sea. You know it's got to be bad. At least four of these disciples were experienced commercial fishermen. They grew up on the water. James and John grew up in this very location. Their father was a fisherman on the Sea of Galilee right off of Capernaum. So Jesus, you know, on the other hand, he grew up inland. He didn't grow up on the sea. He grew up in Nazareth. Everything that Jesus worked with was dry. And here they're calling on Jesus, the cry of help to the carpenter. Can you help us? Save us, Lord. These aren't people that are easily frightened, but but here they believe they're about to die on this earthquake on the sea. And in Mark's version of this account, it's even clearer how desperate They are in Mark chapter 4, verse 38. Jesus himself was in the stern asleep on the cushion. They woke him and said to him, Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Lord, we're dying out here. Like this is it. Lord, don't you even care? How can you sleep through this? And you know how how often do we kind of respond in the same way like Lord, don't you care? Of course Jesus cares This is just the first time they called on him. This is the first time they called on him. What do you mean he doesn't care? As soon as they called on him, he was right there. They don't really have a lot of hope, but there's some hope because they recognize Jesus with the title Lord, Lord. Small faith, but it's enough faith for Jesus to work with. J. C. Rowell says about Jesus, he doesn't cast people off because of their defects. You know, and how thankful are we for for that that the Lord doesn't cast us off because of our our defects. So here Jesus moves, moves to correct the disciples. So the master of the sea directs his disciples The disaster of the sea inspects the disciples, you know, it's a test of faith. And then finally you have the Master of the Sea correcting his disciples in verses 26 and 27. Look at verse 26. He said to them, Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? The first thing that Jesus does before calming the storm is he calms his disciples. Which is pretty shocking if you think about it, because that doesn't seem like it's the immediate need. It seems like the immediate need is like, Lord, the storm. We're about to die. The boat's dipping over. It's filling up with water. Like the first thing you need to do is correct this out here And then after you correct this, then you can talk to me about my weak faith and pat me on the back and try to encourage me. But like, first deal with the situation. Don't deal with me. Jesus does not immediately work to change the circumstances. That's not the first priority. You know what the first priority is? It's you. You are the first priority. It's not changing your circumstances. And some of you might find yourself in different situations. It's like, Lord, help! I'm perishing. Look at what's going on around me. Look at all this that's happening in my life. And what does Jesus first want to address? I want to address you. Let's talk to you. Why are you so afraid? Why don't you have more faith? Why don't you trust me? The first priority is dealing with the person. He immediately works to change his disciples' perspective. That's the priority. And if there was ever a time when a rebuke could be considered insensitive, it's when somebody's about to die, right? So here they are. I mean, the disciples, they think this is it. Lord, we're perishing, we're dying. We're on the verge of drowning. And basically, Jesus comes up and says, What's all the fuss about? What are you worried about? Why won't you have more faith? And it's like, I'm dying, Lord. I've been to a a number of hospital visits I I've never dreamed of coming to a person who's on the brink of death and saying, you know, what's your problem? Right? What's all the fuss about? Here you have these disciples on the brink of death, and Jesus approaches and says, What's what's what's wrong with you? What are you so worried about? You've been of little faith? Calm down. His disciples should have known better. Jesus expects more from his disciples. Matthew chapter 8, verse 18, it says, Now when Jesus saw a crowd, if you look back, Matthew chapter 8, verse 18. Now when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. Gave orders. Depart to the other side of the sea. Mark puts it like this, Mark chapter 4, verse 35. Let us go over to the other side of the sea. You know why Jesus expected more from his disciples? Because they had his word. You've got my word. What did I just say? We're going over to the other side. So what should you expect to happen? We're going over to the other side. I don't care what the circumstances say. Jesus' word trumps your circumstance And that's what he's trying to teach these disciples. When Jesus says, let's go over to the other side. We're going. Now it becomes a matter of faith. Do I believe Jesus or not? Am I going to trust what I see around me, or am I going to believe Jesus' word? And that's the difference between faith and presumption. The difference between faith and presumption. Faith is anchored to the Word of God. Presumption is anchored to nothing. And there's all kinds of people who just say, I believe. Believe in what? Everybody's talking about belief. You know, believe. We write it on our bumper stickers. We have it on billboards here in Baltimore, right? Believe. Don't even put the E in there. Believe, right? Everybody's just believing. But believing in what? Believing in themselves? Believing in their faith? Believing in their lucky stars? I mean, what are you believing in? Because if you don't have a proper object for your belief, it is worthless. Worthless. I like to call it a Jiminy Cricket kind of faith, you know? You know, when you wish upon a star , makes no difference who you are. Anything your heart desires will come to you. Strado! I'm just believing. I just believe it's going to come to me when I wish upon a star. You know, I'm just I'm just believing that it's going to come. How do you know? That's not faith, that's presumption Presumption. Faith is different. Faith is based on the promises of God. And also, I also want to make another distinction. Faith is different than presumption. Faith is also different than resignation. And uh, if you remember the story of Jonah, you also find Jonah, he's sleeping in the bottom of a boat just like Jesus is sleeping. You know the difference between Jonah and Jesus? Jesus was obedient. Jonah was running from God. He had just basically resigned himself. You know, Lord, I'm not going to obey. Whatever happens, happens Whatever will be will be. And he just goes to sleep on the bottom of the boat. That has nothing to do with faith. You know, sometimes people look at Jonah say, oh, he's like this model of faith in the bottom of the boat. That's not faith. That's disobedience He's just resigned himself to whatever you want to do with me, Lord, you just do it. When he casts himself off the side, he's expecting to die. This is not faith. Faith is different than resignation. Faith determines to obey the Lord. The disciples had a word from the Lord. Let's go to the other side. There shouldn't have been any question about it. They're going to the other side And Jesus has an absolute trust in the Father's care for him. He understands that this is his father's world, right? Everywhere that he walks, this is my father's world. And Jesus understood that his life was on a divine clock. There are several times in Scripture where Jesus alluded to the fact that his earthly days were already numbered in heaven, and that his death would only happen after his time was up. Not a moment, not a second before. My days are numbered, and I understand that. So in John chapter 7, verse 30, they're seeking to seize Jesus Christ, and it says, No man laid his hand on him because his hour had not yet come. It's not my time. John chapter 8 verse 20. These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple. Nobody sees him. Why? Because his hour had not yet come But in Matthew chapter 26 and verse 8, he said, Go into the city to a certain man, say to him, the teacher says, My time is near. I'm about to keep the Passover at your house with my disciples. He understood his timetable. And he understood that it wasn't going to be a moment before the time was up, was he going to die? So Jesus knew this wasn't it. And his disciples should have known that this wasn't it. They failed to see uh what Jesus had so plainly communicated to them about getting to the other side of the sea and that his messianic work hadn't been accomplished. How could he die in a storm when he hadn't accomplished his work yet? There's no way. And even though he was still asleep, even though he was asleep, he was still in the ship, wasn't he? What were they worried about? They had no right to be afraid. And the first priority for Jesus wasn't calming the storm, like I said, it was calming his disciples. More than being saved from the storm, they needed to be saved from little faith. That's what they needed to be saved from first. And Matthew Henry says he does not chide them for disturbing him with their prayers, but for disturbing themselves with their fears. You know, he doesn't mind being, you know. Uh prayed to, you know, woken out of a sleep. He doesn't mind that. What he does mind is like, what what are what are you so disturbed about? Why don't you believe? Why don't you trust And you know what? We have a a similar promise from God that we're going to make it on the other side too, don't we? We have a promise. You know, it's not about crossing the sea of Galilee But it's about crossing from uh from this life into the next, right? We have a promise from God. What are we worried about? What are we worried about? You have a similar promise as a believer. What excuse do you have to fear? Church history, when uh Mary became Queen of England, she worked to bring England back to the Roman Catholic Church, and one of her first acts was to arrest Bishop Ridley, Bishop Latimer, and Archbishop Thomas Cranmer After serving time in the London uh Tower of London, the three were taken to Oxford, September fifteen fifty five to be examined. Both Ridley and Latimer were burned at the stake in Oxford on October sixteenth, fifteen fifty-five. With a loud voice Ridley cried, Into thy hand, O Lord, I commend my spirit. But the wood was green, and it burned slowly, only burned his lower parts Without touching his upper body, so uh he was heard to repeatedly call out, Lord, have mercy on me, I cannot burn. Let the fire come onto me, I cannot burn. So here he is, it's like I it's like, you know, just let the fire just rise and just take me. You know, why is it burning so slow? And here you have this uh this other martyr on the other side of him, Latimer, who died much more quickly, and as the flames quickly rose, Latimer is encouraging Ridley, be of good comfort, Mr. Ridley, and play the man We shall this day light such a candle by God's grace in England as I trust shall never be put out. So here he's encouraging this friend who's burning slowly. Hey, just be the man. Play the man, Ridley. We're gonna light a fire today. We're gonna light a candle that's not gonna be burnt out. You know, uh I don't know how how uh how happy I'd be with my friend if you know he's burning quickly and I'm just like On the slow roaster, it's like, you know, encourage yourself. You know, let's let's switch laces here or something. We we have no promise about Being able to weather through every storm. We we have no promise about that in this life. What we do have a promise about is what's going to come on the other side. That's what we have a promise about. What's going to come on the other side in eternity So we can die with a mighty assurance that God's will sends us what's best. So Jesus gives his disciples a hard time about their weak faith. And next the Master of the Sea gives them a glimpse of his nature as God. Because Jesus was not just a hundred percent man. He was also a hundred percent God as well. And right here in the space of just a few verses We go from one of the clearest passages on the humanity of Christ, with Jesus knocked out sleeping, to one of the clearest passages on the deity of Jesus Christ. As a man, he was so completely exhausted and weak that even a storm couldn't wake him up. But as God, he was so infinitely powerful that he could shut down the forces of nature with just a word. Amazing. 100% man, 100% God. Same passage. No, there it is. You're looking for one passage about it. There it is. Do you know who you're following? Do you really know who you claim to follow after? Jesus, one author wrote, was still master, even if he were asleep. But they had not yet come to understand that he was Lord of nature. He stood forth now in the midst of the howling storm, calm and unruffled in his majesty Not one tremor of alarm or one token of confusion. Just imagine that, right? Silence, he said, addressing the winds as a human being. Be muggled, he commanded the turbulent dashing waves as if they were animals. Instantly, the winds hushed into peace and the waves subsided placidly. Always after the storm, the swell remains for a time after the wind has died down, but the lake, in this case, became calm at once. You know, if you if you have like a tub of water and you're kind of like shaking it up, you know, if you stop shaking it, the water doesn't stop, does it? Here it is as a miracle, it just became like glass, like just instantly. Jesus held the remote control for the universe, puts everything on pause, right? Just like stop. You know, instantly, everything just freezes. And even more than freeze, it's instantly transformed. The uncontrollable winds were immediately silenced, motionless The raging sea instantly became like glass. All the noise and commotion in a split second was perfectly calm. Picture of absolute control. And that's far beyond what any prophet had the ability to do. I mean what prophet ever commanded the elements and they just obeyed at his word? I mean prophets, you know, like Elijah, you know, they they prayed earnestly that it would Stopped raining and then there would rain again. You know, they they had to to plead with God to do this this miracle. It's not just, hey, you know, listen to me. You know, no prophet does that. They don't have that kind of authority. Men like Moses prayed for the beginning and end of plagues. Men like Joshua prayed for the sun to stand still. But it's clear in each of those cases that they weren't in charge. It was different. What we find from Jesus Christ is that the attention is given to him because the disciples say, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? It's not that that he just prayed and it happened. It's just that he said it and it happened. Just stop. Peace. Be still. Automatically, they just responded to the voice of their creator. The winds and the waves recognized in Jesus a familiar voice. They knew this voice. Flip over to Psalm 107. Because it's clear throughout Scripture that sovereignty over the winds and the waves is attributed to God. Psalm 107 Psalm 107 is a a psalm of thanksgiving. Talks about the deliverance of God in the midst of trouble and how those who are redeemed need to say so. You know, if you've been delivered, you need to need to let somebody know. Don't just keep that to yourself. In Psalm 107, look what it says here about those who do business on the sea. Psalm 107 starting at verse 23 It says those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business on great waters, they have seen the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep. For he spoke and raised up a stormy wind which lifted up the waves of the sea. They rose up to the heavens, they went down to the depths, that their soul melted away in their misery They reeled and staggered like a drunken man and were at their wit's end. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, and he brought them out of their distresses. He caused the storm to be still, so that the waves of the sea were hushed Then they were glad because they were quiet, so he guided them to their desired haven. Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loving kindness and for his wonders to the sons of men. Let them extol him also in the congregation of the people and praise him at the seat of the elders. And the same power that's spoken of over here in Psalm 107 is the same power that Jesus Christ has. Same kind of power attributed to Jesus Christ. Psalm 65, 7 asks this question: who stills the roaring seas? Who stills the roaring seas? The roaring of their ways and the tumult of the peoples. Who does that? The obvious answer is God does that. But here we find that Jesus does that, right? Psalm 89, verse 9, You rule the swelling of the sea when its waves rise, you still them. But this same exact power belongs to Jesus Christ. And throughout the scripture there are clear and direct statements about Jesus being And having the the same power that God has. We we understand that through through through the scriptures. There's certain scriptures that talk about uh Jesus being God just kind of states it outright, like uh John 1 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God or Colossians chapter 2 verse 9, you know, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. But just as clear as those statements are, there's other statements that are just as clear. And just as powerful that don't necessarily just say it outright, Jesus is God. But what they do is that they they show that Jesus can be identified with God because everything that can be said about God can also be said about Jesus. If you can remember the acronym HAND, you can walk through this next time a Jehovah's Witness knocks on your door. You know, you kind of extend your hand and say, hey, let me tell you something about my hand here. Kind of reminds me of something You know, H A N D. Let me let me tell you something about that. H , Jesus deserves the honor of God. The honor of God. In uh Isaiah 48, verse 2, uh 42, verse 8. says, I am the Lord, that is my name, I will not give my glory to another, nor will I praise the graven images. But over in John chapter 17 and verse 5, Jesus says, now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. You know, God says, I don't share my glory with anybody. Jesus says, I had glory with you before the world was. What is he saying? I share what nobody else can share. God says, I alone have this kind of glory. And Jesus says, I share that same glory. I share the glory of God. In John chapter 5, verse 23, it says, All will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. The same honor that the Father has is the same honor that's given to the Son. Jesus also shares the attributes of God. You got the H, honor, A, attributes. Only God can be described as eternal, immutable, present everywhere, all-knowing, all-powerful. And you find throughout Scripture that Jesus can be described by those same attributes. God is eternal, Jesus is eternal. Colossians chapter 1 verse 17. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Jesus is eternal. He's immutable. Just like God is immutable, Jesus is immutable. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 12. You are the same and your years will not come to an end. Jesus doesn't change. He's present everywhere, God is present everywhere and has all power. Jesus is present everywhere and has all power. In Matthew chapter 28, he tells his disciples that he has all authority, I've got all power, and then he promises them that I will be with you even till the end of the age. How can he do that if he's not omnipresent? He's everywhere. He has all power. He knows all things. God knows all things. Christ knows all things. John 16, 30. Now we know that you know all things. And Jesus also has the names of of God. There's about uh there's a list that's too numerous to try to mention, but Jesus is called God, Lord, Savior, I am, Alpha and Omega, beginning and the end, first and last, King of Kings, Lord of Lords. Who else are you going to give that title to? But God. You can't have two who are first and last unless those two are one. John chapter 10, verse 30. I and my father are one. I and the father are one And then lastly, D, H-A-N-D , D, Jesus performs the deeds of God. And one of the primary demonstrations is through the creation itself. Why don't you flip over to Hebrews chapter 1? Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews is a book that speaks about the superiority of Jesus Christ. In every category you can think of, Jesus ranks on the top. And in Hebrews chapter 1, it shows how Jesus is superior to the angels in Hebrews chapter 1 starting at verse 6. This is what it says here. It says then when he again brings the firstborn into the world, this is God talking about bringing the firstborn Jesus Christ into the world. He says, and let all the angels of God worship him. You can stop right there. Who are the angels worshiping besides God? And here God says, let all the angels worship Jesus Christ. He deserves worship. And the angels, and of the angels he says, who makes his angels wins and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. You have love righteousness and hated lawlessness, therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions, and you, Lord In the beginning laid the foundation of the earth, he's the Creator. And the heavens are the works of your hands. They will perish, but you remain, and they all will become old like a garment, and like a mantle you will roll them up Like a garment, they will also be changed, but you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. Here we have uh Jesus identified as the Creator, and whoever creates and sustains and governs the universe. has to be God. And here Jesus is proclaimed as God, 100% God. That's what was on display this evening on the boat. When the disciples stood corrected and rebuked by the master of the seas, he's the 100% man, but he's also 100% God. Theologians call that the hypostatic union Hypostatic refers to the substance or the essential nature of an individual. And Jesus was, in his nature, 100% man, 100% God, a union of 100% man and 100% God in one glorious person. Jesus wasn't all God and no man. Now that would be asceticism. He wasn't all man and no God. That would be liberalism and Ebianism in the past. He wasn't half-man and half-God That would have been Nestorianism. He wasn't some small kind of junior guide that was next to the big capital G guide. You know, that's Arianism. That's what Jehovah's Witnesses teach. He was fully God and fully man, and that's biblical Christianity. And what's interesting is that the fear that the disciples had during the storm didn't disappear. It was just redirected. You know, first they're they're they're fearful that they're about to die out here in the storm, and now their fear is redirected to Jesus Christ. What kind of man is this? Who is this? Who are we in the boat with? Matthew 8, verse 27, it says the men were amazed and said, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? And amazingness putting it mildly in Mark chapter 4, verse 41, it says they became very much afraid and said to one another, Who then is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? Very much afraid. It's like they they feared the the storm. They even feared more Jesus in the boat. No, so so what's more more fearful than a storm outside your boat? It's having God inside your boat. Yeah, that's more fearful than having a storm on on the outside Do you really know who you're following? Do you really know who you're following? Because if you really know who you're you're following, the question is, why don't you obey him then? Why don't you obey immediately when Jesus says, hey, do this? Why don't you do it immediately? We found last week when Jesus said, uh, let's go to the other side that there were people kind of hemming and hawing, hesitating, well I got this to do, I got that to do, who's going to take care of me? Why would you hesitate if you really know who Jesus Christ is? You know he's 100% man, 100% God, the only substitute that you're ever going to have. Why would you hesitate if you understand who Jesus Christ is? The other question is, uh, if you know who you're following, why do you fear? Why do you fear? If you know who's with you until the end of the age, what are you worried about? It doesn't matter what the circumstances are saying around you. You know who you have in the boat with you. Why do you fear if you know who you're following? And the last question is, is if you know who Jesus Christ is, why aren't you worshiping? Why aren't you worshiping? As these disciples understood who Jesus Christ was, fear overcame them, and it was properly directed towards Jesus Christ. They should have been afraid. Because they understood to some degree who this was. What kind of person is this? This is more than a man. They understood that. This is more than a man. We have something divine here in this boat. And if you understand who Jesus Christ is, why aren't you worshiping? Why don't you obey? Why don't you fear? Or why do you fear other things and why aren't you fearing the proper one two fear? Why aren't you worshiping Jesus Christ? That's what you should do as a response to this to this uh this account of uh Jesus calming disease The hymn writer says, Be still my soul. Thy God doth undertake to guide the future as he has the past. He's the same God today as he was in the past. Thy hope, thy confidence, let nothing shake, all now mysterious shall be bright at last. Be still, my soul, the waves and winds still know, His voice who ruled them while he dwelt below Isn't that fantastic? The winds and waves, they still know his voice. And there's not one subatomic particle in the universe that does not know the voice of its creator. Why don't you trust them? What are you fearful of? Why aren't you worshiping? Why aren't you obeying? This is the one that we come before, isn't it? Let's pray and worship our Lord together. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this description of Jesus Christ. My Father, I pray that we who say that we're following Jesus Christ, that we really understand who we're following. They were following the one who came as God in human flesh. The one who controlled the winds and the waves with just the word of his mouth was enough. And Father, this is the same one that speaks to us in his word. Father, I pray that we would never ignore the word of Jesus Christ. Father, that we would have full confidence in every word, every syllable that Jesus Christ speaks. Father, that we would fear and trust. The living Savior, that we would obey Him. And Father, I pray that if there are any here who have not bowed the knee to Jesus Christ, I pray that today would be the day. Because who would want to face a God like this? Who could command the winds and the waves with the word? Who would want to face a God like this on the day of judgment? Father, I pray that there would be men and women who would bow the knee to Jesus Christ. For your glory and honor, we pray. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.