The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open our Bibles to the Book of Matthew, Book of Matthew, chapter 5? This morning we uh return uh to what is considered One of the most challenging statements in the Sermon on the Mount. Maybe it's not the most challenging to interpret, but it's definitely the one of the most challenging to follow. It's been said that it's uh not the parts of the Bible that I don't understand that bother me the most, but it's the parts that I do understand. And whatever you understand Jesus to mean by the command to turn the other cheek We can all agree that it bothers us to some degree because we know that whatever he means by that, it's not easy, it's not comfortable, it's not convenient. Uh what Jesus is asking us to do is unnatural and demands resources outside of ourselves to accomplish. But before we uh jump back into our text for this morning, it'll be helpful just to remind you of of where we've we've been Matthew is a book that both declares and defends Jesus Christ as the Jewish Messiah and Promised King. In chapter 1, we're given the genealogy and the birth. of the king. Jesus' family line proved that he had the right to rule and could claim the throne. No one could claim a right to the throne without the lineage to prove it. And uh Christ had that lineage, but not only did he have the physical uh lineage, he was also separated from all the other kings of Israel that preceded him. uh by his miraculous birth. He had the right to rule and he also had uh the power to save because he was born outside of the uh sinful stream of uh sinful humanity He was born with the right to rule and the power to save. In chapter 2, we saw the recognition of the king. The wise men from the east recognized Jesus Christ as the one who was born, King of the Jews. Uh even Herod, uh he wouldn't expect to believe this prophecy, attempted to uh to have this newborn king assassinated, swept up in the in the mass of the killing of of infants early on, the birth of the king. did not go unnoticed. The magi from the east noticed, and uh Herod, the king, uh the supposed king at the time, noticed as well. In chapter 3, there's this announcement of the king, the greatest Old Testament prophet, John the Baptist, was the voice crying out in the wilderness, Prepare the way. of the Lord, and then there was this announcement from heaven itself, uh, this is my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. There was no question about this king's identification. Then following that, in chapter 4, there's an examination of the king where hell itself puts the Son of God to the test. Jesus goes head to head with hell's greatest foe. Satan himself appears after 40 days of fasting when Jesus is in a weakened Condition and all by himself, Jesus was victorious. Hallelujah, what a savior, right? Hallelujah, what a savior. So Jesus is authenticated by his birth, his recognition, his announcement, his examination And all of this prepares us for chapter 5, where we actually hear the king speak. And in chapters 5 through 7, we have the address of the king. He gathers his followers to a mountainside in Galilee and describes for them what kind of kingdom he's inaugurating and who will be a part of his kingdom and what he expects from those who will be citizens of his kingdom. But this is not like any other inaugural address that we've ever heard. Because who else attempts to start a kingdom like this? Instead of pointing to the noble achievements of the people who will be a part of his kingdom, the opening verses of chapter 5 point us to the character of the people of the kingdom. These are people that mourn, people that are poor, people that are gentle, people that are hungry, people that are thirsty. It's not the kind of who's whose list that you would expect for a starting lineup, right? You know, the poor, the meek, the mourning. You know, that's who I want on my my team. He highlights the character of the citizens of the kingdom. Then in verses thirteen to sixteen of chapter five, instead of unveiling the military might Of this kingdom, the kingdom that he's inaugurating, Jesus lets them know that their most powerful weapons aren't going to be the sword and the club, but they're to be known as salt and light. They'll not be forcing submission from anybody, but rather there to be a permeating influence in the world. The darkness and the decay of the world is to be overcome by the collective testimony of the salt and light of the world. And then in verses 17 down to 48, instead of Jesus introducing his citizens to all the benefits and rights and privileges of his kingdom. Jesus invites us to consider the righteousness that he demands from those who will be a part of his kingdom. Like I said, this is like no other inaugural address. Jesus doesn't give attention to achievements with character. not to power but influence and not to rights but righteousness. And and more than than merely discouraging his followers from from fighting for their rights, Jesus surprisingly instructs his followers to give up their rights. Give the rights up. To let them go. And we're directed down this path of self-denial. And nowhere else is this more clear than in verses 38 down to 42. Why don't you uh read along with me, Matthew? Chapter five verses thirty eight down to forty ten. It says you have heard that it was said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with them too. Give to him who asks you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you once again as we look into your word, your truth. My Father, we pray that you would open our eyes that we would behold wonderful things from your law. Father, instruct us and I use me as a weak instrument, Lord, to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, praise and give you thanks. Amen The last time we were here, we uh identified uh uh three sections of this passage. Uh Jesus instructed his followers to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law in verse 38. uh to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law in verse 39, uh the first part, and then uh to accept the unnatural practice of the law in uh verses 39b to 42 And I just want to quickly remind you of what we discovered last time, that first of all, the law of God had been perverted in Jesus' day. It's been perverted. And uh this is what was really being corrected in this uh section of of scripture. Jesus, again, is not overturning the law. He's not uh overturning the principle of an eye for an eye, with the words that he shares here. As I pointed out last time, Jesus himself did not come to abolish the law, but to fulfill it. So an eye for an eye was a righteous principle and uh some of those reasons uh were because an eye for an eye respects the law of God. Uh the law of God is uh holy and righteous and good. It honors the image of God and man to attack the the image was really to attack the origin of that image. It creates an impartial justice system. It didn't matter if a person was a woman or a child or a slave. Everybody was subject to this law. It deters sin. Now there was a measure of fear that was to accompany crime. People weren't just supposed to get away with evil without any kind of fear of what they were doing. There were consequences for assault, consequences for murder. And it upholds the character of God. So you can't do away with this principle without calling the character of God into question himself. And the reason why is because God says that he will repay every man for his deeds, right? So you can't say, well, an eye for an eye is wrong when God says, well, I'm going to repay every man according to his deeds. In Matthew 16, verse 27, Jesus says, for the Son of Man, speaking of himself , Is going to come in the glory of his father with his angels and will then repay every man according to his deeds God is going to judge every man according to his deeds. So if you don't recognize that there's a proper context for this principle to be fulfilled, you'll turn the scriptures against themselves. And uh so these there's an appropriate place for justice to be carried out, and recognizing that avoids all kinds of uh confusion and contradictions. Uh but what the people of Jesus today were doing was they took this principle of an eye for an eye as a personal license to seek revenge. A personal license to seek revenge, as if what was really important was their personal anger being appeased. Rather than God's law being upheld. It was all about a personal satisfaction. And this is exactly one of the reasons why the law was introduced in the first place. Because it was if it was all about your personal anger being appeased, where would you draw the line? If it's all about my anger being appeased, where are you going to draw the line? Our anger is not a great gauge for anything, right? It's not reliable for making the judgment. Actually, if you flip back to Genesis, we don't even get out of the first few chapters of Genesis before this plays itself out. Turn back to Genesis chapter 4. In uh Genesis chapter 4, we uh we find a man who was struck and wounded by a boy And he declared himself justified for his response. Look at Genesis chapter 4, starting at verse 23. Verse 23, Lamech said to his wives, already, see that's a problem, right? It's got more than one wife. Polygamy was already introduced in the first couple of chapters of Genesis. Lamech said to his wives, plural, Ada and Zillah, listen to my voice, you wives of Lamech. Give heed to my speech, you know, you lucky women, you, right? For I have killed a man for wounding me, and a boy for striking me. If Cain is avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy-sevenfold. His anger was not appeased until this boy was put to death. A boy struck me, a boy wounded me. You know what he deserves? He deserves death. Nobody does that to Lamech. It's all about his personal anger being appeased, getting his personal revenge out on somebody else. That's why we we hear crazy news in Baltimore like people getting shot over a parking place, right? Took my parking spot. How dare you take what belongs to me? That's why we hear about stuff like that. Anger is not a good gauge for anything. Anger clouds your judgment. Which is why God didn't leave it up to us as individuals to to take care of our own personal disputes. It's also why it's not wise to discipline your kids in anger as well. Discipline is to be for a child's benefit, to uphold God's word, not to appease your anger, right? Clouds your judgment, but it was not up to individuals to pass judgment for personal offenses. Everywhere you see this principle of an eye for an eye mentioned The offender is brought before a judge, and he was to determine the punishment. There was to be a proper authority for carrying out judgment in Israel and uh leaving vengeance up to the Lord. Meant that you trusted the proper authority to deal with the wrong and you trusted the Lord to intervene. You're giving that over to the Lord. You're giving it over to the proper authority that the Lord is given. So for example, in a home, the right authority within that home is the husband and the father, right? I don't have the right to discipline somebody else's child for them. I mean there's a couple times I might want to offer my services to certain families, you know. But but that's not a right that the Lord has given me, right? It's not the right that the Lord has given me. I'm not the proper authority to deal with that. I can bring it to the attention of the parents And after that, you just trust the Lord to deal with it. Because you don't have that right. In a work environment, I don't have the authority to fire somebody else's employee. I can bring it to the attention of the manager, but it is not my job to personally punish anybody for what I feel they've done against me. In society, the proper authority is the government I've not been assigned the responsibility to personally enforce the law. I can protect life as I'm able to. I can protect my home. I can certainly do that within my home. I can advocate for certain positions, but no one has authorized me to enforce the law. I don't have that right. Well listen to what God says about the governing authorities in Romans chapter 13 verse 4. It talks about the governing authorities and it says, for it is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do what is evil, be afraid, for it does not bear the sword for nothing, for it is a minister of God and avenger who brings wrath on the one who practices evil. And I find that interesting because Romans 13 comes right after Romans 12, right? Right after Romans 12. In Romans 12, God says, vengeance belongs to me. Then he turns around in Romans 13 and says, vengeance belongs to the government. Uses a form of the same word. What is he saying? That the the government is my minister to carry out my vengeance. It's my minister to carry out my vengeance. God's vengeance can be carried out by the proper authority. And in the church, the proper authority lies in the leadership of the church, the final step of church discipline. It's not a private decision. It's not a decision that's just supposed to be carried out by a member of the church. I discipline you. You know, disfellowship you. You know, that's not a private decision. It's a decision of the of the church, and that is to be overseen by the elders of that church. So we're not to shortcut or short circuit the process that God has put in place and substitute our own personal vengeance. You know, you've done this against me and I'm going to take it out on you. And that's what Jesus is. addressing here. It was an unjustified perversion of the law to take vengeance into your own hands and say, I will avenge. Vengeance is mine. And we see all the destruction that happens when people do that. So we're to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law. But number two, we're to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. Look at verse 39 back in the book of Matthew. Verse 39. Says, but I say to you, do not resist an evil person. Do not resist an evil person And that's the principle we're to affirm, not to resist the evil person. And this is not to be interpreted in isolation from the context. As I mentioned last time, God does not mean that evil people are never to be resisted. That's not what he's saying here. We have the the right and the responsibility to protect ourselves, uh to protect our families from dangers, from murder, rape, abuse. The church is to protect itself against uh immoral behavior, heresy within the church. Uh so this has to be understood within the the context. The command is not to resist an evil person, and it's specifically contrasted With the idea above that personal revenge is the way to deal with evil people. My personal revenge is the way to deal with evil people in crisis. That's not it. That's not what you're to do. That's not how you're to resist evil people And there's nothing more familiar to us than striking back, right? It's been been noted that from the very earliest days we have the desire for revenge. I never remember taking a class on revenge. My mother never sat down and taught me, you know, now when somebody hits you, you know, you gotta you gotta get back. My mom's right here, you can ask her if you want, right? We don't even have to think about it. It's it's it's an automatic response. You know, you you do this to me, I'll do it back to you. And it would have been assumed that personal vengeance was the way to resist evil people. If you want to teach people not to take advantage of you, you let them know immediately that they're not going to get away with it. You're not going to get away with doing anything to me. You're not going to get away with it. Take out our own vengeance. Make them pay. But Jesus says that this is not the way that we are to respond in his kingdom. In his kingdom It says you're to leave room for for God. Vengeance does not belong to us. And maybe you can think of some of the reasons why you respond in that way. But uh I'll tell you why I feel tempted to strike back when I feel insulted, taken advantage of. Number one, I want to be taken care of I want to be taken care of. I don't want to be insulted. I don't want to be injured. I don't want to be inconvenienced. So you have this temptation. It's like, I need to care for me. I mean, who's going to protect me? What about me? And then the other reason is I want that person to be taken care of. I want to be taken care of and I want you to be taken care of. I don't want them to get away with with wrong. But neither of those concerns goes unanswered in the scriptures. If you're a citizen of Christ's kingdom, who takes care of you God takes care of you right? God takes care of you. If you remember every one of the Beatitudes began with the word of blessing. Blessing. Nine times. And there's this double blessing for those who are insulted, persecuted, or falsely accused. Double blessing for those kinds of people To be blessed is to be favored, to be considered well off, fortunate, worthy of praise, commendation, and this is true about you regardless of how you feel, regardless of What you're experiencing at the at the moment. It's true of you that you are blessed. You are blessed. You've been given eternal promises that are beyond comprehension. Let me just list a few of them for you. You've been given the kingdom of heaven You've been promised comfort. You've been promised to inherit the earth. Promised eternal satisfaction. Promised mercy from God. Promised the beatific vision of God Himself. If you're in heart will what? See God. Heavenly reward. Do you trust God for that? Do you really trust God for that? You may be insulted, injured, inconvenienced, but that only adds to the joy of your future inheritance. It doesn't diminish it, it doesn't take it away. God takes care of those that belong to Him. Nothing will rob us of that. God takes care of us. And the person that I want to be taken care of, Not only does God take care of me, God takes care of them too, right? God takes care of them. When the Bible instructs us not to take vengeance, it does so because it recognizes that there's the proper authority. for vengeance. And even when the system is broken, God's system is never broken. Right? God's system is never broken. It always works. That's why Proverbs chapter 20 verse 22 says, Do not say I will repay evil for evil Wait for the Lord, and he will save you. Deuteronomy 32, verse 35: Vengeance is mine and retribution. In due time their foot will slip. In due time, leave room. Leave space for the wrath of God. In due time their slip foot will slip. For the day of their calamity is near, and the impending things are hastening upon them And then it says in 1 Peter chapter 2 of our Lord and verse 21, why don't you flip over to 1 Peter so you can see this? 1 Peter chapter 2. Peter is a book. 1 Peter is a book that talks about the Christian response to suffering. How does a Christian suffer? Look at 1 Peter chapter 2. The way a Christian is to suffer is the way that our Lord suffered. 1 Peter 2, look at verse 21. It says, for you have been called for this purpose. Since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps, who committed no sin nor was any deceit found in his mouth And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. And he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. Supposed to follow Christ. Christ is the example. He entrusted himself to him who judges righteously. Entrusted himself to God. Do you know what you're saying when you seek personal revenge? You know what you're saying? You're saying I don't really trust God to take care of me. And I don't really trust God to take care of them. I have to take vengeance for myself. I need to do this. I need to do this. I have to take care of this one myself. One commentator says knowing that there's an omnipotent, omniscient God who will one day meet out absolutely fair judgment upon all human humanity, and wonderfully gracious judgment on his followers, it gives us strength to endure injustice perpetrated on ourselves and others that might otherwise lead us to despair or personal Revenge, knowing that God will take care of us, then releases us from that concern and frees us to respond in love and compassion If we know that God takes care of us, God takes care of them, what else do we have to worry about, right? What do you have to worry about? Now you're free. Free to do what? I'm free to love you, free to have compassion on you, because I'm not worried about you getting what you deserve. God takes care of that. I'm not worried about me getting what I think I deserve, what I need. God takes care of that. It frees you up so that now you're able to love in a way that's sacrificial. It frees you. We can see past the offender or the offense and see the offender. In an ultimate sense, even though uh his sin was directed towards me, it's not ultimately against me, right? It's not ultimately against me. The sin is against God. David in Psalm 51 he says against thee and thee only have I sinned. He's saying all sin is directed towards God. It might be directed against me, might be directed against somebody else. Ultimately it's against God. It's God's problem, right? It's not about me. My personal honor, you know, that I need to defend, it's not about me, it's about God. So I can see past them and say, it's between you and God. I don't have to feel like I have to have to make sure that you get what you deserve. It's between you and the Lord. It's God's law that's violated, not mine. It's God's image that's injured, not mine. Whoever has offended me has a much bigger issue to deal with than my limited and temporary wrath. He has to deal with the wrath of God. Has to deal with the wrath of God and and and you know what that's like, don't you? You know what that's like, don't you? Because you were under that same sentence. You were under that same sentence. We'll back to Romans chapter 2. Romans 2. Romans 2 describes the plight of the unrepentant. The great theme of the book of Romans is the righteousness of God. The word for righteousness is used 69 times in the space of just 16 chapters And Paul in the book of Romans is really laboring to demonstrate the righteousness of God, that God is perfectly, utterly, unmistakably righteous and will not allow unrighteousness to go unpunished. And uh wrath for sin is not overlooked, but it's stored up. Stored up. Look at uh Romans chapter 2, starting at verse 5. Actually, I'll start up a little bit. Verse 3. But do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same as yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, You are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to each person according to his deeds. 2 Peter 3, verse 9 makes the same point. It says, The Lord is not slow about his promise, his some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. If God were to immediately take care of our unbelieving and unrepentant enemies, it would look like hell. There would be hell to pay and it's not yours. It's not your hell to pay. It's God's hell to pay This is the kind of wrath that we were saved from while we were enemies of God, right? While we were enemies of God We throw around that term, you know, I'm saved or are you saved? And sometimes people say, you know, say saved from what? You know, what does that mean, saved? Romans chapter 5 lets us know what we're talking about. Romans 5, 9-10. It says, much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God. That's what we're saved from. Saved from the wrath of God through him. For if while we are enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life We're saved from the wrath of God by the life of Jesus Christ. That's what we're saved from. Nobody gets away with sin. Nobody does. Nobody does. Every transgression will receive its full punishment. Either that person will receive the full punishment Or Christ has received the full punishment in their place, right? And for us that full punishment has been received by Christ. That punishment wasn't just waived, it was absorbed by Jesus Christ. Absorbed by Jesus Christ. Nobody gets away with sin. Either they'll be judged for it personally or Christ takes the judgment for them. And once we can get a grip on that, once we can get a grip on that and entrust ourselves to God. Now that we can be free to pray that our enemies would be forgiven rather than punished. That's why Christ would say, forgive them, Lord. Right? They don't know what they do. Forgive. Because he himself was paying that price. So we're to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law, to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. And finally, we get to the unnatural practice of the law that we didn't cover last week because uh Jesus doesn't leave us in the dark about how this is to be applied. He gives us some specific examples of what he means by not resisting evil. Last week we uh or two weeks ago we covered the practice of uh having charity for for an enemy. uh losing liberty for an enemy, losing property for an enemy. But now we get to the uh to the toughest one out of the bunch What in the world does he mean by whoever slaps you on the right cheek to turn to him the other also? What does he mean by that? Does Jesus mean that Christians are to be human punching bags? Whosoever will, let them come. Some would say, this is exactly what's meant here. You know, Christians are just supposed to be the punching bag of the world. We should offer no resistance to evil whatsoever And many people look to this text to defend ideas such as uh pacifism, conscientious conscientious objection to war. I mentioned uh Last time that uh people like Leo Tolstoy, the author of War and Peace, believed that in order to take this at face value we should do away with soldiers, police, law, government itself, because it resists evil. You know, we shouldn't resist evil people Mahatma Gandhi, because of this principle, urged the Jews to offer a non-reviolent resistance to Hitler. I'm sure that would work. Is this how Jesus meant for us to put this into practice? Are we not allowed to defend ourselves under any circumstance? Is that what he's saying The answer to that is is no, that's not what he means. That's not what he means. If that were the case, there would be other principles of the scripture that Jesus would be contradicting, as we've already seen, and Christ himself would be in violation of this principle because he repays for the evil that is done in the in the world. Calvin said that it's the the business of a good and judicious interpreter to seize eagerly on syllables, but to attend not to uh seize eagerly on syllables, but to attend to the design of the speaker, meaning that you have to understand the speaker within its context, right? One commentator uh notes that in no sense does verse 39 require Christians to subject themselves or others to physical danger or abuse, but it and nor does it bear directly on the pacifism just war debate. If that were true, I mean why wouldn't it uh John the Baptist tell the tax collectors to stop collecting taxes? Or tell the the soldiers, you know, drop your weapons, you know, in Luke chapter 3. When they come to him and say, you know, what should we do? You know, they're coming to him to repent, to be baptized. He doesn't say, hey, you know, stop being a soldier. You know, that's what the Lord wants you to do. He doesn't say that. He just says, be just in your service. He doesn't tell them to drop their weapons. So what does it mean to turn the other cheek? You need to under understand this. First of all, you need to understand what the slap was. What is this uh whoever slaps you on your your right cheek? The word slap in the Greek is rapidzo. It could be translated as strike. Strike. It was the same word that was used in Matthew 26 and verse 67 where it speaks of Jesus Christ himself. Matthew 26, 67, it says, Then they spat in his face and beat him with their fists, and others slapped him. Others slapped him. And uh scholars point out that the slap that Jesus identifies in Matthew chapter 5 is really the most degrading kind of slap. Because it would have come from the back of the hand. If you're if most people are right-handed, to strike somebody on the right cheek, you have to do it with the back of your hand. The back of your hand. It's been noted that the blow with the back of the hand even today in the East expresses the greatest possible contempt and extreme abuse. It was a characteristic a characteristic Jewish insult. It was actually punishable by a very heavy fine according to the Mishnah, the uh oral tradition of the Jewish people. This is the lowest kind of insult that you could give a person. Lowest kind of insult. Job describes the depth of his affliction. And the uselessness of the counsel that he received from his friends in these words in Job 16, verse 10, it says, They have gaped at me with their mouth, they have slapped me on the cheek with contempt, they have masked themselves against me. To give your face to blows was to be utterly humiliated. The Book of Lamentations, which describes the grief of the the Jewish people over the destruction of Jerusalem recognizes the the strike on the cheek as a reproach. Jeremiah says maybe if we gave ourselves to uh to a strike on the the cheek, you know, to utter humiliation, you know, maybe the Lord would have compassion on our city. Our city is being destroyed. You know, maybe if we subjected ourselves to an utter humiliation, maybe God would spare us. Verse uh twenty-nine of chapter three says, let him put his mouth in the dust. Perhaps there's hope. Let him give his cheek to the smiter. Let him be filled with reproach, for the Lord will not reject forever, for if he causes grief, then he will have compassion according to his abundant loving kindness. Like I said, to be struck on the cheek was the most extreme kind of insult. It was to be shamed, to be humiliated, to have reproach and scorn and contempt just heaped upon you. The Lord instructs his disciples not to exchange blow for blow or insult for insult, but rather to respond in compassion and mercy. We 're not to be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So the context here doesn't encourage us to open ourselves up to assault, but to open ourselves up to insult. Not to assault, but to insult. The context doesn't discourage us from protecting ourselves against bodily harm and danger, murder, rape, or whatever. But it does ask the question, how do you respond when you're insulted? In this context, it would have been the worst insult you could receive. Worst insult you could receive. The question is, is do you leave room for the wrath of God in a situation like that? Do you trust the proper authority to deal with something like that? Or do you make room for your own revenge? The scriptures hit us right where you live, right? It hits us right where we live. It's as relevant as tomorrow's newspaper How do you respond to a busload of college students singing a racist chant? How do you respond to that? Personally. I'm not saying don't let the authorities deal with them. The authorities need to deal, right? But how do you respond personally? How do you respond? We're believers, right? How do you respond when you're insulted? And if it's a believer who's offended you The Bible gives very clear directions on the way that we're to handle that as a church, right? To go to person one-on-one, you know, take one or two more with you to talk to them, bring it to the church. You short circuit the process and say, I'm sh, you know, I'm done with this. I'm taking out my own personal revenge now. Short-circuit the process of discipline. Do we do that? Anytime you violate the Lord's clear instruction on how to handle conflict and you take personal revenge, you are essentially saying that what Christ has provided is not enough. His instructions are not enough. I need to add my own personal recipe. Lord needs a little bit of help here. I'll offer some help. Robert Jones in his uh book, Uprooting Anger, he lets us know that what we're doing when we're seeking for revenge, he says this. He says, you're forgetting the size of the massive sin debt for which God forgave you. Forgetting the the debt that God forgave you, remember the the parable that Christ gave of the the servant who owed this insurmountable debt was forgiven and then he refused to offer that same forgiveness to somebody who owed him something lesser? You're declaring that you do not need God's forgiveness in your life. In Matthew 6, it says, forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven others, their debts. It says you're declaring that you do not need God's mercy on the day of judgment, because God says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive what? Mercy. You want mercy, you give mercy. You're assuming God's role as judge. The Bible says there's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? James chapter 4, verse 12. Says you're forgetting the fact that the offender, as a sinner, is in one sense deceived and enslaved by his sin, and you lack compassion for him. And again Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they're doing. Deceived and enslaved. And you're forgetting the fact that you as a sinner are capable of the same sin, and that the same root sin may already reside in you Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. We have the same problem. We have the same problem. And I want to point out one more application of this principle that uh I believe we can get from this context as well, but we're gonna save that for next time. There is so much to cover here. This is fantastic. I love it. Sorry guys, I mean we're just kinda we're just kind of driving slow here, taking in the scenery. Uh, but it's uh it's it's so rich, it's so good. It's been said that it belongs to the church to receive blows rather than inflict them, but she, the church, is an anvil that has worn out many hammers. Takes a licking and keeps on ticking, right? And it's uh through some of our affliction and trial that uh uh the Lord puts his church on display for the world to see in the gospel of his glorious grace. Amen. Uh so uh Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer and then uh we'll receive our new members. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we I thank you, God, uh, so much for this opportunity to consider your word. There's more to come. There's more to consider. There's more that you want to instruct us on. And Father, I just pray that you, Lord, would Give us your grace. Give us your strength, Father. This is outside of us. We can't do this on our own. We're weak. We need your help. So Father, I just pray that you would help us to respond rightly to those that treat us wrongly, that we would uh uh receive from From you the strength that we need to fulfill your command. Father, we want to be like Christ. That is our goal, to be like our Savior, the one who didn't revile when he was reviled, but entrusted his soul to the one who judges righteously. Father, I pray that we would uh be those kinds of people. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media Fides and digital files