The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online. at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak Well, um I'm privileged to uh introduce our guest speaker, Brett Laird, and I know that he has you know devoted his life along with his his wife Katie and they have four children uh to seeing the Lord's name glorified in the country of Ukraine. They were there from 2002 to 2015 serving with Slavic Gospel Association as missionaries there. And Brett's primary objective while he was there was to assist national seminary development and to help Ukraine become a missionary-sending nation themselves And until very recently, he has been serving as the executive assistant to SGA's recently retired president Dr. Bob Provost who's just recently retired and um and Brett also uh graduated from the Masters University and uh he also graduated from TMS as well the Master's University seminary. So we have a lot of mutual friends and relationships through that. And personally for me it's been a privilege to get to know Brett over the past few years and to see and to hear of his passion for the Lord. And seeing the gospel spread to the ends of the earth. And his love for the Lord and for people and his boldness and his courage and his devotion to serve the Lord. And the Lord's people is a great example to me and to all of us. And uh it's truly a privilege to have you here with us, brother. And um, please uh come and preach the word to us. Well you'll have to forgive me. This will be my first time in life preaching seated. Um but uh had knee surgery a c a couple weeks ago and uh turned out to be a little bit more extensive of a surgery than I was expecting, so I was thinking I was going to be at least ambulatory when I was here, uh, Pastor George, but uh thank you guys for your patience with me in in that regard. And it's just a great blessing uh to be here, to be with you and um just have enjoyed uh the fellowship they had so far. Thanks to uh Pastor George, Pastor Matt uh for your hospitality. Um I want to invite you to turn in your Bibles to the book of Jonah and You know, when on a mission Sunday, you you wanna you wanna talk about a missions passage. And so I decided let's go right to the greatest missions trip ever. Right? You ask, what is the most fruitful missions trip ever taken? And you could kind of bring to mind well maybe Billy Graham and some of his crusades, you know, with stadiums full of people. You could think of D. L. Moody, you could think of Jonathan Edwards and the Great Awakening. You could think of of a lot of New Testament examples of the apostles and and the day of Pentecost where three thousand were added to their number in one day. But actually the single greatest revival in the hit in that we know of in the history of the world that took place in an old testament context. amongst the Gentile people, one of the most brutal peoples in the world, the Assyrians, and through the means of the most reluctant missionary. in the world, Jonah. So turn to the book of Jonah, and we're just going to kind of survey the book and try to gain some missions lessons from it. I want to just begin by just kind of giving you a little bit of the historical background. I mean, it's a story we're all familiar with, right? I mean, Jonah flees and he's swallowed by the whale. all of that. We teach it to our kids. But let me just kind of take you through a little bit of what was going on. I want to take you into Jonah's world. Okay? So Jonah is, you know, he's Kind of the events of the book of Jonah take us place about 760 B. C. so you know, a little over 700 years before our Lord came. And he's ministering in Israel soon after the time of Elijah and Elisha. Okay, so he ministers during the reign of King Joash, and he then he also ministered during the time of Joash's son Jeroboam II. and just before the time of the prophet Amos. So if you're kind of thinking through Old Testament prophets, in chronological order it kind of goes Elijah, Elisha, Jonah, and then Amos. So he kind of comes right after the time of Elisha. And we don't know a whole lot about Jonah. You know, there's an ancient Jewish tradition that says that he was actually the son of the widow of Zarephath that Elijah raised from the dead in 1 Kings 17, 8 through 24. So you know we don't know that. It's not said for us in scripture, but there's a pretty strong Jewish tradition that he was that son of the widow that Elijah raised. from the dead. What we do know, uh, because it's recorded in scripture uh by us from the Holy Spirit is that Jonah was from a town called Gath Hephyr. And this town is only four miles away from a city that you're going to know very well, the city of Nazareth in Galilee. And so it's interesting where Jonah is from his kind of significance. Look at, if you wouldn't, at John chapter 7. In John chapter 7, you're going to have the enemies of Christ, the enemies of the gospel, are going to raise three objections to Jesus being the Messiah. They're going to say, here's our three big reasons why we know Jesus can't be the Messiah. First of all, in chap uh John chapter 7, verse 41, they say, it says Other some were saying this is the Christ, this is the Messiah. Still others were saying, Surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was? Right? So the first objection was Well, the Messiah is not going to come from Galilee, he's going to come from Bethlehem, right? And of course they're what? Wrong, right? Jesus was born in Bethlehem and then later on lived in Galilee. But look at verse 48, the second objection. They say, no one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in him, has he? Of course, then you look down and at the context, and we know, of course, that several of those, like Nicodemus and others of the rulers, did believe in him, right? Verse fifty, just a few verses later, right? No one of the rulers of the Pharisees believe in him, has he? But this crowd which does not know the law is a curse. And then verse fifty, Nicodemus He who came to him before, being one of them, said to them, All right, you know, our law and so Nicodemus starts kind of defending Jesus. But then look at verse 52. They answer Nicodemus, You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. Now think about that, right? This is their big objection. Jesus can't be the Messiah because no prophet arises out of Galilee. Well, this is just a deception because the prophet Jonah who had written that the book of the Old Testament that they had in their in their hands in that day was from Gath Hephor, a town in Galilee. So there was already before Jesus a prophet who arose from Galilee. That prophet is Jonah. That's one of the many reasons why Jesus continually referred to to Jonah, right? He said, you know, he 's talked about no sign is going to be given this generation except for the sign of Jonah, right? Just as Jonah was Three days and three nights and the belly of the fish, so will the Son of Man be three days and and three nights. He talks about how how Yo Nineveh repented at the preaching of Jonah. And yet Israel did not. And so Jesus refers to Jonah quite a bit. What else do we know about Jonah? Now look at 2 Kings chapter 14. 2 Kings chapter 14. We have one of the only other mentions of Jonah in the Bible. 2 Kings chapter 14, starting with verse 23. In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, became king in Samaria and reigned forty-one years. He did evil in the sight of the Lord. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. Now look listen to verse 25. He restored the border of Israel. Okay? Now when you talk about restoring the border of Israel, this means there was a military campaign to recover territory that had been captured by an enemy. He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath as far as the Sea of Erabah, according to the word of the Lord, the God of Israel, which he spoke through his servant Jonah. the son of Amitai, the prophet, who was of Gath Hepher. Okay? So Jonah's first prophecy is not recorded in the book of Jonah, it's recorded in 2 Kings. His first prophecy was that the Lord was going to give Israel a military victory that would restore its borders. Okay? So Jonah, it's interesting. His name in Hebrew means the dove, right? But his first prophecy was kind of more of a hawk Prophecy, right? The Lord is going to grant us victory over our enemies. He's going to restore the borders of Israel. And the Lord did that. Even though Jeroboam the II was an evil king, the Lord still blessed and enabled him to defeat their enemies and to restore the border of Israel. So think about this. Jonah begins his ministry as what I call the hero prophet, right? Here they are, they're oppressed by the enemies, and Jonah comes and prophesies, according to the word of the Lord, that he's going to restore Israel's borders, that lost territory. The army had come in and invaded. They'd taken their land, taken their farms, taken their houses, all of these things. And Jonah gets this word from the Lord with this great news. Hey, guess what, everybody? Nation of Israel, my fellow countrymen, the Lord is going to give us victory. He's going to restore the borders. And that's exactly what happened. So he starts with this victory prophecy. And then that takes us to the book of Jonah, the next mention. So turn there. And what do we see happening with Jonah? We see the Lord calling him to go where? We see him being called to go to the Assyrians, the archenemies of Israel. Right? So first he prophesies a victory. And now the Lord is going to send him to save the very enemies that he had prophesied against earlier. Right? So Jonah chapter 1. The word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amitai saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. So here you have the the book starts out with Jonah's missionary call, right? It's a three-part call. God says to him, Jonah, arise. Go and cry out, right? Arise, go to Nineveh and cry against it For their wickedness has come up before me. So chapter 1, verses 1 through 2, we see Jonah's missionary call, and then immediately in chapter 1, verse 3, we see Jonah's misdirected choice. He gets his missionary call and then he responds with a misdirected choice. He's supposed to arise, go, and cry out. Instead, he arose. He went, but he didn't go to Nineveh, right? He flees the opposite direction to the west to this to an area in Spain called Tarsus, right? The farthest place he could get away. And then what does he do? In verse 5, he gets on the ship and he goes to sleep. Right? So God's call arise, go and cry out. Instead he arises, goes and falls asleep on his journey away from the presence of the Lord, away from God's calling. And so you have Jonah's missionary call, his misdirected choice, and then we see In chapter 1, verses 4 through 17, Jonah's miserable consequences, right? When we reject the calling of the Lord on our lives. There are miserable consequences. No one is more miserable than a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. who is not doing what the Lord has told him to do, not living for what the Lord has told him to live for, right? Now think about this. It doesn't say that Jonah arose, went, and You know, got into drugs and alcohol and you know started you know cavorting with you know uh with the wrong type of people or anything like that. No. He just goes and he flees, but it says he flees from the presence of the Lord. He wants to get away from God. Why? Because God has a call on his life that he doesn't want to answer. He's not running from the Assyrians. He's running from the God who calls. And no one is more miserable than someone who is resisting the Lord's call on their life. What is misery? Misery is living for nothing. Misery is wasting your life. Misery is enduring all the pains and hardships of a fallen world. Without accomplishing the eternal goals that you're here for, right? As believers, why did the Lord leave us here on earth, right? Why didn't He just save us You know, forgive us and rapture us right away, right? Just take us to heaven where we could worship him in absolute holiness, right? The quote that uh that that our brothers uh read, you know You know, missions exist because worship doesn't. The Lord has left us here for the purpose of being a light in this world, and no one's more miserable than a lamp who doesn't shine light. You're made to be a lamp And if you refuse to shine light, then you will feel useless, worthless , wasting your life. Don't waste your life. Jonah faces miserable consequences in chapter one, verses four through seventeen, right? The storm comes There's this big thing, you know, all of these complete pagans are crying out like, hey, why are the gods upset with us? And Jonah's like, hey, I serve the only true and living God who controls everything, including the weather. And I'm pretty sure this is because of me. And if you want to, you know, get rid of the storm, you gotta toss me overboard, right? And now think about this. To this, to their credit, these pagan guys did not want to do that. They're like You're a prophet of the Most High God, and you we're not going to kill you, right? I mean, if God's mad at us now, he's going to be really mad if we kill one of his prophets, right? But you know the storm keeps coming and and they say they say to him and they say in verse 14 it says they called on the Lord, on Yahweh, the true and living God. So here's these pagans who were polytheists, now all of a sudden they're calling on the true and living God. And this is actually the first part of the revival. The first part of the revival happens on the ship. They called the Lord and said, We earnestly pray, O Yahweh, O Lord, do not let us perish on account of this man's life, and do not put innocent blood on us. For you, O Lord, have done as you please. So they picked up Jonah, threw him into the sea, and the sea stopped at raging. Then the men feared the Lord greatly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord, and made vows So here you have Jonah's miserable consequences, but even in the midst of that misery, God is at work, right? God is at work to seek and to save the lost. And so then you have in chapter 2, verses 1 through 10, Jonah's mournful contr contrition, right? All of a sudden, man, he's tossed overboard. He's in the depths of the sea. God mercifully sends the whale to swallow him, and we hear Jonah's prayer. Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the stomach of the fish, and he said, I called out of my distress to the Lord. He answered me. I cried for help from the depth of Sheol. You heard my voice. For you had cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the current engulfed me, all your breakers and billows passed over me. And so I said, I've been expelled from your sight. Nevertheless, I will look again toward your holy temple. Water encompassed me to the point of death. The great deep engulfed me. Weeds were wrapped around my head. I descended to the roofs of the mountains. The earth with its bars was around me forever. But you have brought up my life from the pit, O Lord my God. While I was fainting away, right, gasping for breath in the sea, right? While I was fainting away, I remembered the Lord. Right? I remembered the Lord. Now think about it. Why does he say I remembered the Lord? I mean the Lord calls him. He goes, he's fleeing from the presence of the Lord. And it's not that he forget that God existed or anything like that, but he had forgotten who the Lord was. So I remembered the Lord. And my prayer came to you into your holy temple. Those who regard vain idols forsake their faithfulness, but I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving that which I have vowed I will pay. Right? God I vowed to serve you, and now I'm gonna do it. Right? Here's his repentance. Salvation is from the Lord. And then verse 10, then the Lord commanded the fish and it vomited Jonah up onto the dry land. See we have Jonah's mournful contrition. So you had his missionary call, his misdirected choice. his miserable consequences, now his mournful contrition, in which he cried for help, he acknowledged the reality of his sin. He believed there's still hope. He remembered the Lord. He prayed to the Lord. He gave thanks to the Lord. And then he vowed to keep his promise to the Lord. And then we have in chapter 3, verse 1, a verse which One of my Old Testament professors, Dr. Varn Will Varner, says is his favorite verse in the whole Bible. Okay, so here's Old Testament professor Will Varner's favorite verse in the whole Bible. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time. All right. Let me ask you this. How many times has God said to you the same thing How many times have you ignored his word? Have you failed to keep his word? Have you rebelled against his word? Have you done the exact opposite of his word? And God in his grace comes to us a second time. Right? The God of second chances. The word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time. saying the same thing, right? Not a new message here, Jonah. Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city. and proclaim to it the proclamation which I am going to tell you. So this is Jonah's merciful call, right? He had his missionary call, and now is his merciful call. I don't know where you're at in life right now. I don't know, you know, if you're living for the Lord, if you are really on mission for God, or whether there's been some wasted years But wherever you're at, the Lord has called you clearly through his word, right? Go and preach the gospel, right? Be my ambassadors. Be my witnesses. And if you have not been busy about the work of the Lord, this morning is one of those second times, right? Arise. Go and proclaim to it the proclamation. Now notice it's kind of an interesting phrase. It's kind of, you know, it sounds kind of funny even in English, right? Arise, go to Nine of the Great City, and proclaim to it the proclamation. Which I'm going to give you, right? So like, you know, proclaim the proclamation. Proclaim exactly what I'm going to tell you. In other words, Jonah, look. I don't want you to go and wing it. I don't want you to go and make it up. You're not going with your message. I'm telling you, I want you to get up. I want you to go, and I want you to proclaim The proclamation. There is something that I have ordained you to say, and your job is really easy. Just say it. Not more, not less, just exactly it. And as Christians, I think we we think, you know, missions is hard. You know, how do you take the gospel around the world? How do we go to those people in our city who are so antagonistic against us and our culture who hates us and all these divisions? How do we reach them? You know what? It is not that complicated. You get up and you go and you proclaim to them the proclamation, right? The proclamation's right here, written in black and white, never changes. Go and proclaim to them the proclamation. What God has said, we pass on. We just pass it on. There's nothing very complex about it. And Jonah does that, right? In chapter 3, verses 3 through 10, it says, So Jonah arose and went. And then he goes and he cries out, right? Verse 4. Jonah arose, he went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three days' walk. Then chapter 3, verse 4. Then Jonah began to go through the city, one day's walk, and he cried out and said, Yet forty days and Nineveh will be overthrown. So he just does it. He arises, he goes, and he cries out. That very simple call. And his message conquers. So think about this, okay? The Assyrians, the world power, this great army known for their brutality. I mean, these were the guys, they'd come in and conquer a city and they'd chop off hundreds of people's heads and pile up their heads in front of the gate. Right, they'd nail the bodies of their enemies to the walls and just let them rot there as a sign, you know, hey, don't mess with us. This is what's going to happen to you if you oppose us. And this this guy from this little dinky nation, one guy walks into their city, right? I mean this is This is like one, you know, you or I like walking right in the middle of a rocker right now. It's controlled by ISIS, right? You know, you're gonna walk just walk into ISIS unarmed. alone and you're going to walk right into the city and just proclaim to it a message of judgment, right? I mean he didn't come and say, hey, you know, you know, hey, you know, uh, you know , you know, Ninevehites, you're really good at heart and You know, uh you know Jesus loves you and I love you and you know all this, right? I mean he comes and he's like In 40 days, Nineveh is going to be overthrown. I mean, can you imagine? You know? Can you imagine? This is a confrontational message, right? God had told him, right? Chapter 1. Go to Nineveh, the great city, and cry against it. Now see, this is the hard part. The hard part is that our method, it's good news, but there's a confrontation involved in it, right? We are calling people out of darkness and into light. And it's the out of darkness part that greatly offends them, right? We are calling them from idols to serve the living God. And so there there is a leaving, there's a a dying to the old life that precedes the call to the new life. But his message conquers, right? Verses 3 through 10. How did they respond? Verse 5, it says, Then the people of Nineveh believed in God. It's amazing, right? A divine miracle. The people of Nineveh. These brutal pagans believed in God and they called a fast and put on sackcloth, a sign of mourning, from the greatest to the least of them, the entire city. When the word reached the king of Nineveh, he arose from his throne, laid aside his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat on the ashes He issued a proclamation and it said, In Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let man, beast, herd or flock taste of things, do not let them eat or drink water. But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God earnestly. That each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we will not perish. Then God saw their deeds, and that they turned from their wicked way. Then God relented concerning the calamity which he had declared he would bring upon them, and he did not do it. So Jonah's message conquers. I mean think about this. You have this brutal, aggressive, conquering empire, and one guy armed with nothing but a confrontational message. Walks into the city, says the proclamation that God had told him to say, and the Holy Spirit of God does this amazing revival from the greatest of the least, from the king to the to the kids, they fall on their knees in repentance and start calling on the Lord. So Jonah's message conquers what the entire army of Israel couldn't do, Jonah does unarmed. Right? He brings the Assyrians literally to their knees. We need to not forget how powerful the word of God is. God, the creator of all set things, says, when I send out my word, it always accomplishes the purpose for which I sent it. There is never an unsuccessful missionary as long as he's proclaiming the proclamation. Right? Because as Paul says, he says, the Lord always leads us in victory. To some, we're a fragrance of life to life, and to some a fragrance of death to death. In other words, as the message goes out, it's like a sword that divides between those that reject the word and those that receive it in repentant faith. I want to ask you to turn real briefly to Joel chapter 2. Okay? A couple Bible books back. Joel is written chronologically before Jonah. About one generation in time before Jonah. And read with me, if you would, uh Joel chapter 2, verses 11 through 17. And as I read Try to see if you see any similarities to what we just read in Jonah, okay? This is Joel chapter 2, verse 11. The Lord utters his voice before his army. Surely his camp is very great. For strong is he who carries out his word. The day of the Lord is indeed great and very awesome, and who can endure it? Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart And with fasting, weeping, and mourning, and rend your heart and not your garments. Now return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and compassionate slow to anger, abounding in loving-kindness, and relenting of evil. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him Does that sound familiar at all? Let me read for you again what the king of Nineveh says. He says In Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let man, beast, herd, or flock taste the thing. Right? This is the fasting. Do not let them eat or drink water But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God earnestly, that each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hand. Who knows? God may return and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we will not perish. We we can't know for sure, but it seems as if Book of Joel, the prophecy of Joel is written a generation before. Somehow, some way, through perhaps another unnamed Israeli missionary, the Ninevites already had access to the book of Joel. Because what the king of Nineveh says is almost a direct citation of Joel chapter 2, verse 14. And as you read the Old Testament, remember that God called Israel to be a light of the Gentiles. Their job was to be this covenant people who spread the light and the glory of God to all the nations, right? Pastor George read Psalm 67. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy. That's being sung when? That's being sung at basically Israel's Thanksgiving celebration. Right? Let all the peoples praise you, O God. Let all the peoples praise you. The nation of Israel understood that even if their whole nation worship the Lord, that's not enough worship. God only receives the glory he deserves when all tribes, all tongues, all nations worship God in the splendor of his holiness. And so We know some of the Old Testament Israeli missionaries, but we don't know all of them. But we have some evidence that the message had gotten through. What's interesting is when you read the prophecy of Joel in context, that's a call to Israel to repent. So God gives Joel a call for Israel to repent. This Gentile Assyrian king apparently heeds it and does what God had called Israel to do. That's why Jesus in the New Testament said to Israel, he said, the Assyrians repented at the preaching of Jonah, and you haven't repented at the preaching of the Messiah. Right? And so the judgment is going to be worse on that day for you than for them. Well, Jonah's message conquers, and then in chapter 4. We see kind of the final part of the book. Jonah's motives are confronted. Now think about this. Jonah has just been the means God used for the world's greatest revival. Right. But his heart was still not right. Let me tell you something. You know, um getting on an airplane and going somewhere around the world changes nothing in you. All right. Your body gets transported. All your sin goes with you, all your weaknesses go with you, all of your bad habits go with you, everything goes with you. And same thing for Jonah. You know, he he did finally get to Nineveh, he did proclaim the proclamation. But there's something still to be done. God had to confront Jonah's heart. Verse 4, verse 1. Here's the the greatest success any missionaries have ever had, but it greatly displeased Jonah and he became angry. Now we sit there and we think, man, what a you know what a hard-hearted guy Jonah was. I want to again take you back to the historical context. Okay. This is the empire that has oppressed his people. And you know, when we think of oppressed, it's kind of easy to read the Old Testament, but we we we forget that when Israel is invaded, I mean, this is people coming in, killing your children in front of your eyes. You know, mistreating your wife in front of your eyes, you know, taking her away as a slave, enslaving you, you know, we forget the brutality that people had witnessed. These oppressors who had just made brought incredible misery and suffering. And Jonah is given a message from the Lord, yet in forty days, and Nineveh will be overthrown Now think about that. I think when he got that message, he's like, oh yeah, I'm gonna go preach that one, right? That preaches, you know. Our biggest enemies, gone. Forty days from now, gone. Israel is sitting. Safe and secure, right? Because Assyria is wiped out by the Lord. I think he almost maybe preached it with a little bit of of of sinful glee. Right? Our worst enemies, our great oppressors, gonna be wiped out. And let me just ask you this. How many Americans do you think would rejoice if they got a prophetic message from the Lord? that every single member of ISIS and Al-Qaeda would be wiped off the face of the earth in forty days. Do you think people would be rejoicing? They would. But what if then the Lord rescued all of those people? It greatly displeased Jonah. Why? One more thing from the historical context. 40 years after the events of Jonah. The next generation of Ninevites who returned to the violent and brutal ways of their ancestors did invade Israel and did create have incredible massacres and genocides and all of those horrible and wicked things. So why did it greatly displease Jonah? Because the salvation of Nineveh meant the destruction of his own people. Alright? He was angry. And he in verse chapter 4, verse 2, he prayed to the Lord and he said, please, Lord. Was not this what I said while I was still in my own country? Therefore, in order to forestall this, to keep this from happening, to avoid this , I fled to Tarshus. I don't know about you, but all growing up I was taught over and over the story of Jonah. And I was always taught that the reason that Jonah fled to Tarshus is because he was afraid to go to Nineveh. That is not the case. Jonah is telling us right here why he fled to Tarshus. It says in chapter 1, he was fleeing not from the scary Ninevites. He was fleeing from the presence of the Lord, and he explains in more detail what he means here. He says, It Lord, isn't this what I said while I was still in my own country? Therefore, in order to forestall this, To keep this from happening, to avoid this from happening, I fled to Tarshus, for I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God. slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness and one who relents concerning calamity. I went to Tarshus because I knew your character, Lord, and I knew you would forgive our mortal enemies. And I don't want you to forgive our mortal enemies. I want you to wipe them out. I'm the prophet whose first prophecy was that you are going to give us victory over the Assyrians, and then you're going to send me to save them. You're going to save me. You're going to send me to the oppressors of my people. In order to rescue them from their sin. I don't want that. I want you to judge them. I want you to wipe them out. I want you to bring all the blood and the misery on their heads. But what did the Lord who called Jonah say when he came to earth? He said, You've heard it said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I tell you, love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Jonah says in chapter chapter 4, verse 3, Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for death is better to me than life. Okay, how does Jonah get so suicidally depressed so quick? Let me ask you this. Do you want to be the guy who goes back to Israel and says, hey, hey, good news guys, God was going to wipe out the Ninevehites? We were going to be rid of all of our oppressors and enemies forever, but I preached to them, they repented, God saved them, and so now they're still around and in forty years they're kind of gonna come and you know c you know and you know massacre us all. You know, he didn't want to go back to his own country as a traitor. Right? You you think we have some people in this country who who you know who are gonna you know call you a traitor if you start you know loving your enemies? He in Israel there were certainly those as well. Lord, take my life to me, death is better to me than life. Lord says to him, Do you have a good reason to be angry? Jonah went out from the city, sat east of it, he made a shelter for himself and sat in it in the shade until he could see what would happen in the city. He's still kind of holding out hope. You know, maybe the Lord, you know, maybe their repentance is going to be kind of not really true repentance. And you know, you know, I'm going to get to watch the fire and brimstone. I want to see the show, right? I want to see the day when the vengeance comes on my enemies. The Lord appoints a plant that grew up over Jonah to be a shade over his head and deliver him from his discomfort. And Jonah was extremely happy about the plant. God appointed a worm that when Don came the next day, it attacked the planet and it withered. When the sun came up, and God appointed a scorching east wind, the sun beat down on Jonah's head, so that he became faint and begged with all his soul to die, saying, Death is better to me than life. Then God said to Jonah, Do you have good reason to be angry about the plant? And Jonah's like, I have good reason to be angry, even to the point of death. The Lord said, You had compassion on a plant. Right? You're sitting there all upset that your precious plant that sprang up yesterday and now's gone. You're mourning the loss of your plant. You know, you had compassion on the plant for which you did not work and which you did not cause it to grow, which came up overnight and perished overnight. Should I not have compassion on Nineveh, the great city, in which there are more than 120,000 persons who don't know the difference between the right and left? Who don't know the difference between the right and left hand, little children? Right? There's a hundred and twenty thousand little children who don't even know the difference between the right hand and the left hand, as well as many animals. He's saying, Look, Jonah, you've forgotten something. I'm the creator. Just like I made you, I made them. Those Ninevites that you hate are made in my image. You're all sons of Adam. That your hatred that you have between each other is not your hatred for each other does not oblige me to hate those I made. Right. Don't I should not I have compassion on Nineveh the great city? So Jonah's motives are confronted, and he's basically shown, look You know what, in this world, we're going to have mortal enemies. We are going to have those who hate us and oppress us. We're gonna have a history of humanity filled with massacres and bloodshed and hatred and envy and strife and fighting and all those things. But as the children of God, we have to rise above all of it. And what can raise us above all of it, it's the gospel, right? If the Lord left the perfection of heaven to come deal with us then we can go, you know, to those communists in in the Soviet Union. We can go to those Muslims who are doing terrorist acts all over the world. We can go to those wackos with torches in Charlottesville. We can go to all of those hate-filled enemies of us and of our people and of all this good and true. And we can bring to them the message that conquers evil. There is only one thing that conquers evil, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. And so we do fight, right? We're not cowards. When we uh when we see evil, we fight. But we fight by proclaiming the proclamation. And that's what I love about the book of Jonah, is it confronts our motives and it reminds us God is able to bring the mightiest evil to its knees. through the simple message of the gospel that you and I and everyone in this room has the ability to share. And so as you think about missions, I want you to just kind of think about Jonah, all right? Don't waste your life, right? When God says arise, go and proclaim. Just get up and go, right? The scripture says how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news and you know, if we have to hobble there on crutches, let's do it, you know And um I'm just so grateful uh for how the Lord is using you in the Middle East, in South America, all over the world, and just you know, urge you, you know You know, pray for those missionaries, uphold them, you know, um, you know, and don't forget that we live in the most remarkable of all times when God has brought literally every tribe and tongue to our own cities. And so each and every one of us can be part of that great and glorious plan of the Lord to make every tribe, tongue, and people confess the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me let me pray with you. I'm going to stand on one leg, and if you would join me in standing, let's ask the Lord to help us to arise, go, and to proclaim the proclamation. Lord God, how grateful we are to you that you are a God of second chances, Lord. As you came the second time to Jonah, Lord to me. To my shame, it's not just the second time but the five hundredth time it se it seems where I need reminded of your call in my life. Um I'm reminded of how often I fail to do uh what I I've I'm called to do. I begin living for temporal, passing, earthly, worthless things. Instead of the only thing that lasts for eternity, which is to glorify you and to spread your glory. Among the nations. Lord, I pray that you'd help me to be obedient, that I would arise, that I would go, and that I would proclaim, and that what I would proclaim would be the proclamation which you have commanded us to give, Lord. May we not share half the message, but the whole message. May we not go beyond the message, but that what we would say exactly what you've commanded us Lord, give us courage. But Lord, more than courage, we need compassion. Lord, we need love for our enemies. Lord, as this world becomes more antagonistic against your children, Lord, overseas we know the stories of persecution. Lord, we know about the Soviets and the Communists. We know about North Korea. We know about the sufferings in the Islamic world that your children face in the hands of radicals. But Lord, in our own country, as uh our society uh becomes more and more godless. They become more and more aggressive in their hatred of those who would proclaim the proclamation. And so Lord, strengthen us, Lord. Give us some backbone. Lord, and Lord, we know that the only thing that can give us courage to proclaim is compassion. A compassion which comes from the understanding that those who hate us They're the ones that need to be pitied, for they face uh an eternity of suffering, Lord, and and Lord, give us the love which creates compassion, and give us the compassion which creates action. And the action which can lead to the glorious salvation of sinners. Lord, if you can save the persecutor Paul Saul and make him Paul, Lord, then you can turn even the hardest heart to be your servant. So Lord, I pray that we would be about your work. I pray for this church. I pray for the city of Baltimore, Lord. Lord, I pray for the areas of the city filled with violence. Lord that you would turn, that they would have the heart That the Nineveh had, that they would each turn from the wickedness of their ways and from the violence which is in their hands, Lord, and that they would repent and turn to you, the compassionate King. Lord, let the new And we just thank and praise you that we have the privilege of serving you in Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.