Preach the word in season. Preach the word out of season. Preach the word with great patience and instruction. Preach with Patience preach with patience and instruction The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you uh take your Bibles and uh open up with me to 1 Peter chapter 2? We're back in 1 Peter chapter 2 uh this afternoon and uh we're moving ahead in our study in 1 Peter to verses uh 6 down to 8 If you remember the last time we were together in 1 Peter, we were examining the importance of the spiritual house of worship. which is the gathering together of God's people. And it's the gathering together of God's people that becomes the spiritual place of worship. Like we mentioned last time, the place is the people, and the people is the place. It's not about the physical location, it's about the gathering together of God's people that is the place Now we don't have a physical uh location uh or a certain geography to turn our attention to today, uh like the children of Israel did in the Old Testament. John chapter 4 and verse 21, Jesus told the woman at the well, Woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. So we don't have to turn our attention to a physical location in Jerusalem. We don't have to look towards the Wailing Wall because it's not about the physical location anymore. Not to say that as a church we don't want a physical location, but it's not about the physical location, right? Because the glory and the presence of God are no longer housed in a physical building Back in 1 Kings chapter 8 and 2 Chronicles 6, we find the prayer of Solomon for the physical temple where God made his presence known. In uh second Chronicles chapter six, uh starting at verse nineteen, Solomon praise, yet have regard to the prayer of your servant And to a supplication, O Lord my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which your servant prays before you, that your eye may be opened toward this house, a physical place. Day and night, toward the place of which you have said, that you would put your name there, to listen to the prayer which your servant shall pray toward this place. Which may seem like a strange request, because again, as we talked about last time, God can hear a prayer from anywhere. You know, it doesn't have to be towards a physical location that God would hear and forgive and meet with his people. You know, Psalm 139 lets us know, where can I go from your spirit? You know, there's there's no place on the planet that I can go and uh kind of distance myself from God. Where can I flee from your presence if I ascend to the heaven, you're there, if I make my bed in Sheol or the grave, behold you're there, if I take the winds wings of the dawn. If I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. There's not a place that you can hide from the presence of God. So prayer wasn't restricted to a physical location, and Solomon understood that, but there was a special significance and a special attention That was given to the prayers offered toward that physical location. Why? Because God made his presence known there. He manifested himself there. He committed himself to meeting with his people there. In 1 Kings 8 and verse 10, we're told that before Solomon's prayer it happened that when the priests came from the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of the Lord. So that the priest could not stand to minister, I mean it was just so overwhelming that God showed up and manifested his presence there For the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord, and that's why that place had a special significance. The Lord had filled that place. Filled that house. And you think about where does the Lord fill today? He fills the people of God. He fills us. We're the ones who are the temple of the Holy Spirit. He indwells us by faith. That place where God manifests his glory, that place where God gives special attention to, where he promises to meet with his people to hear their prayers is the gathering together of the church, the bride of Christ. In our 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 16, it says, For we are the temple of the living God. Just as God said, I will dwell in them and walk among them, I will be their God, they shall be my people. He's just walking to and fro throughout his people Ephesians 3 verse 21 says, To him be the glory in the church, and the physical temple, as we know, was abandoned by God. You know, Jesus said your house will be left to you desolate, and this is the hour where It's not in this place or that place, but the Father seeks worshipers. He's seeking a people that would give him worship, not the place So it's the gathering together of worshipers where God dwells, and that's really important for us to understand, like I said, really critical for us to understand, especially in the times that we find ourselves in where there are some people who are trying to redefine what the church is. You know, other people say, well, you know, church doesn't have to actually meet together to be the church. I mean we can do you know, you guys can do what you do like uh online, can't you? You know, isn't it just as good as uh being in uh in in in the presence of one another? Can't you guys just, you know, you know, hook up on the on the internet? But the the Bible lets us know that that's not the case. It's the gathering of the people, the gathering together of the people that is the temple of the living God. And together we offer up spiritual sacrifices that we couldn't do to the same degree and in the same manner as when we're alone. Now keep in mind as we look at uh 1 Peter that 1 Peter was actually written around 64 to 65 A. D. okay? Around 64 to 65 A. D. Some of you might remember from church history and just history in general that the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans in 70 A. D. So when Peter is writing this saying that you are the temple of the living God, you're the spiritual household, you are the priesthood, there was actually down the street a temple and a priesthood that was operating there. And here Peter is saying, no, I'm I'm telling you that you are the place where God is going to meet. You are the priesthood. Don't worry about the guys with the turbans and the sashes, the long robes. Don't worry about them. I'm telling you that you are the priesthood. The physical temple is desolate. The priesthood has been rejected. Don't worry about having to go to Jerusalem. I'm telling you that you are it. You are that temple. Do you know how mind-blowing that would have been For the people who first heard that? You know, the the the temple is right there. I I I know where it is. I've visited it before. I mean I've seen it You know, I know that there's those priests that are still roaming around. They've got their their priestly robes, the priestly garments on. You know, and I'm am I telling them that that all that is no good? And Peter is saying absolutely All all that was no good. Mind blowing for the people to hear that. Forget what you've heard. Don't pay attention to what you're seeing I'm telling you that you are that temple. The gathering of God's people is the temple of the living God. All the activity in the temple was meaningless. And what God is paying attention to, listen to this, what God is paying specific special attention to is where his people are gathered, the gathering of his people. And just like the temple would have been the center of Jewish life, the gathering together of God's people, the Christian people, is the center of Christian life. The center of Christian life is the gathering together of the people of God. Like I said, that would have been an earth shattering shift to make for the people who would have heard this. They're now to think of themselves as priests. Everybody in here, if you're a believer, you have a job description, okay? You know, I've given you a new assignment. You know, actually the Bible's giving you that assignment. You are priests. And your your responsibility is to come together and offer up spiritual sacrifices to God. That is your job. That is your duty before the living God. It's not just the job of the pastor. To come here and say, hey, well, I'm the priest and I'll offer that up for you. Or, you know, the music team will come up here and they'll do that for you. No, you are the priest and we all have to do it for God. You understand the difference I don't just come in here as a spectator to watch it happen. I come in here as a participant. I'm active in this. I am a priest, and I have a responsibility to offer up these sacrifices to the Lord. We're to think of ourselves as the temple and what we do is offering up those sacrifices to God. But where's the the justification for this change? Like I said, this would have been earth-shattering. You know, just totally mind-blowing for the people to hear. What's the justification for this, Peter? And that's where verses six to eight come in. Because this dramatic, life-altering change that we spoke about last week and just kind of reviewed for you a little bit this week. That all of that change was predicted by the scriptures, promised by God, provided by Christ, and prohibited to unbelievers. Predicted by the scriptures, promised by God, provided by Christ, and prohibited to unbelievers. So let's take a look at our passage. 1 Timothy, Timothy, 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 2. Timothy talks about the church as well, but we're in Peter. 1 Peter chapter 2, look at verses 6 down to 8 with me. It says, for this is contained in Scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious cornerstone, and he who believes in him will not be disappointed. This precious value then is for you who believe, but for those who disbelieve, the stone which the builders rejected. This became the very cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. For they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and to this doom they were also appointed. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we uh come before you uh this week as we do every week, uh Father, asking for your blessing, asking for your help. Lord, we know that we can't do this without you. We can't make these things clear without you. So we ask for your help, Lord, for your assistance, and that you would help me as a weak instrument, Lord, to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. What's the justification for considering myself a priest? You know, I can put that on a business card, you know, BBC member and priest before the living God. How how can how can I call myself a priest in this gathering, the temple of God? How can I look at a guy with the you know the priestly robes and Say, I'm sorry, you're not you're not really authorized to to make those sacrifices. I don't I don't care which way you turn your collar, but uh that's not really your duty. How can I look at a beautiful edifice, you know, uh a huge place of worship with pillars up to the sky? layered with gold and say, nope, you know, I'm I'm sorry, but you know, that group of brothers that meets together over here, that that's actually the temple. You know, that's that's where it's that's where God is meeting over there. You know, it's not in this kind of edifice What's the justification for that? Number one, it's predicted by the scriptures. Look at verse 6 again. For this is contained in scripture. This this word for, for this is contained in scripture. That word for is a causal conjunction, and it's uh giving the reason or the justification For the previous statement. Why can I claim to be one of these living stones being built up as a spiritual house for a holy priesthood? Why can I claim that? For because this is contained in Scripture. And we're right back to the sufficiency of the scriptures. The scriptures are our defense. It's all that we need for life It's all that we need for godliness. And when it comes to our identity, who we are, our function, what we do, we have to look no further than to the scriptures As the song says, you know, how firm a foundation you saints of the Lord is laid for your faith in his excellent word. It's in God's word that we find everything that we need. This is a brief illustration. History tells us that it was May 25th, 1521, that the great reformer Martin Luther was summoned to appear in Worms, Germany. by Emperor Charles V to answer for the charge of heresy because of his writings. History uh tells us that it was a crime that was punishable by death. And before the court, he was asked two questions. Number one, are these your writings? You know, he wrote about uh uh uh against the the the priesthood and you know for the lady, you know, being the the priesthood of of God. You know, wrote about justification by faith alone and in Christ alone. And they say, Are are these your writings? Are are you ready to recant them? That's the second question. If these are your writings, are you ready to turn away from these things? And after taking a night to think it over, this is what he said, unless I am convinced by the testimony of the Holy Scriptures, or by evident reason, for I can believe neither Pope nor counsels alone. As it is clear that they have erred repeatedly and contradicted themselves, I consider myself convicted by the testimony of Holy Scripture, which is my basis. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. Thus I cannot and will not recant, because acting against one's conscience is neither safe nor sound. Here I stand. God help me. Amen. The defense for our doctrine is always the scripture. It's always what what thus saith the Lord, right? It's in the scriptures. And Peter reminds these believers that this new teaching about a spiritual house is really not a new teaching. It's found in the scriptures. It's actually an old teaching found in the scriptures themselves. God predicted that he would be building a spiritual house. Why don't you flip back to Isaiah chapter 28? Isaiah chapter 28. This is the uh the passage that Peter is alluding to in uh 1 Peter 2. 6, and it's important that we understand the original context for the passage. You need to keep in mind again that Isaiah is written somewhere between 700 and 681 BC about So he's writing in the context where there's a physical temple that's that's standing The temple is in uh in Jerusalem, and uh if you remember over in uh Isaiah uh six he shares a vision uh in the year of King Uzziah's death where he saw the Lord. uh high and lifted up. I saw the Lord sitting on the throne, lofty and exalted, and the train of his robe was filling the temple. Yeah, that was that first temple that that was was erected there and uh would have been there during Isaiah's day. But he says this in uh chapter 28 in verse 16. Look at what he says chapter 28 in verse 16 He says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone. And Zion would have been the mount in Jerusalem, where the temple would have stood. He says, behold, I'm laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone. A costly cornerstone for the foundation firmly placed, he who believes in it will not be disturbed. So what does that tell us? So here we have Isaiah talking about this cornerstone that's going to be laid in Zion, you know, where the temple would have been What does that tell us? First of all, it tells us that the cornerstone that the Lord is going to lay is different than the cornerstone that had already been laid in that temple. That's important. The temple in Jerusalem already had a cornerstone. It was already laid down by the builders of that temple. And the Lord says, I am going to lay a cornerstone. Different than the one that's there. Also tells us that the temple is going to be a a different kind of temple than the one that was already built. In both uh 1 Kings 8, 2 Chronicles 6, Solomon spoke about a temple that he would build for the Lord. But here in Isaiah 28, God says that there's going to be a temple that I will build for myself. There's the temple, the physical temple that you built for me. I'm telling you that I'm going to build something for myself. And third, this temple is going to begin with the Messiah. Take a look at Isaiah 28 again. And uh verses uh 1 through 4, actually, in Isaiah. Isaiah's reminding uh Judah of the destruction that came to the northern kingdom of Israel, uh represented by Ephraim. And just follow me here for a minute. You have in uh Isaiah twenty-eight Uh towards the the beginning of the chapter in verse one. He says, Woe to the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, the fading flower of its Glorious beauty which is at the head of the fertile valley, of those who are overcome with wine. Behold, the Lord has a strong and mighty agent as a storm of hail, a tempest of destruction, like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he has cast it down to the earth. with his hand. And what that's actually talking about is uh there was a a destruction of the the northern kingdom by Assyria. Assyria was going to take down the northern kingdom. But that didn't mean that the God was done with them, okay? That didn't mean that God was done with them. Verse 5 and 6 says that in that day the Lord of hosts will become a beautiful crown, a glorious diadem. To the remnant of his people, a spirit of justice for him who sits in judgment, a strength to those who repel the onslaught at the gate. So follow follow with me, okay? Isaiah's talking about a destruction that happened in the northern kingdom, but he says, you know what? That's not it. There's something else that's coming, okay? There's something else that's coming. In that day, the Lord of hosts will be a beautiful crown and a glorious diadem to the remnant of his people. Something else is coming, okay? That's what I want you to get here. Down in verse 7 through 13, the Lord reveals that Jerusalem was going down that same path. You know, just like the northern kingdom was destroyed, there's coming uh a judgment against the southern kingdom. He speaks about Jerusalem in verse 7. Look at verse 7. It says, on these also, you know, in addition to the northern kingdom, on these also, speaking about the southern kingdom, these also will reel with wine, stagger with strong drink, the priest, the prophet. Reel with strong drink, you know, here they're drunkards, supposed to be serving the Lord, and they're drunk out of their minds. They're confused by wine, they stagger from strong drink, they reel while having visions, they totter while rendering judgment For all the tables are full of filthy vomit without a single clean place. You know, basically what it's saying is that these people who are supposed to be the priests, the prophets of God drunk out of their minds and thrown up all over the place so that there's not even a clean place on the table anymore. Just so sick with their wine And then they had the nerve to think, after you know, staggering and you know giving these false visions that we're still safe from judgment though. Don't worry about it. And they made this covenant with Egypt as if Egypt was going to save them in verse 14. God says, Therefore hear the word of the Lord, O scoffers, who rule this people who are in Jerusalem. Because you have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have made a pact. The overwhelming scourge will not reach us when it passes by, for we have made falsehood our refuge. We have concealed ourselves with deception And basically what when the Lord is saying you've made a uh a covenant with death and with Sheol you've made a pact, he's basically saying like like you're You're about to die. You think you're safe by making these agreements, these treaties. You're about to die. But again, that doesn't mean that God is done with Jerusalem either. And that's where Isaiah 28, 16 comes in. Because it says here, therefore thus says the Lord God, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone. I'm going to do a new thing. A costly cornerstone for the foundation firmly placed, and he who believes in it will not be disturbed. Those who serve in that original temple. were unfaithful stewards of that place. And God says, I'm gonna I'm gonna make a new cornerstone. I myself am going to place a cornerstone. And he who believes in it, this cornerstone, will not be put to shame. Again, this was written hundreds of years before 1 Peter was written, and God in Isaiah 28 predicted that there's coming another cornerstone and another building. There's coming a new work, a new work, and I am going to do that work. It's not going to be built by men. I'm doing this work. All this hundreds of years before Peter wrote about a new priesthood and a new temple and a cornerstone that was laid. So for those that doubted whether or not, you know, this is this this priesthood and temple is, you know, what what's this all about? This kind of you know new thing. You can point him right back to the Old Testament scriptures. Didn't the Lord say he was going to lay down a cornerstone? Didn't the Lord say he was going to do a new work? Didn't he say he was going to do this for himself? Not the the temple that you built with your hands, but a temple that he himself would build. This is the spiritual temple that was predicted in the Old Testament. So it was predicted by God. Number two, it was also promised by God. Building of this spiritual temple is predicted by the scripture, and the security in this temple was promised by God back in uh 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 6 again. He says, for this is contained in Scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a choice stone, a precious cornerstone, and he who believes in him will not be disappointed That's the promise. He who believes in him, this cornerstone, will not be disappointed. Would you notice that there is only one condition that has to be met in order to partake of this promise? One condition. What's the condition? Believe in him. He who believes in him will not be disappointed. I'm not sure if you you understand just how significant that would have been. Because what Peter is saying is that if you are going to have your life built upon the rock, this cornerstone, if you're going to be a part of this spiritual temple that offers up spiritual sacrifices, the condition for that Is that you believe in Jesus Christ? That is the condition. It's by placing your faith in the cornerstone that your life is built on the cornerstone It's faith in him. We sing about it all the time, right? You know, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. On Christ the solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand. And those who believe in him become part of the spiritual temple and this holy priesthood that gives spiritual sacrifice. Over in Ephesians 2, verses 18 to 22, it says, For through him we both have our access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but your fellow citizens with the saints are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, and Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone. In whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. We become part of that spiritual temple when we place our faith in Jesus Christ. We're not made a part of that temple because of something that we do. Something that we've achieved. We don't enter into this priesthood because we've trained for it for years and studied. You know, after years of hard work and discipline, you know, maybe I'll be admitted into this priesthood. I'll finally be approved. That's not what Peter is saying. He says it's not through your your personal effort. It's by faith and by faith alone. It's not based on your works. Flip over to Romans real quick. Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9. Paul's referring to this uh same idea of Jesus being the stone that was laid down in Zion. And Paul is uh making this specific point that Those who trust in that stone find all their righteousness in him and not in the law, not in your works. Over Romans chapter 9, look at verse 30. Romans chapter 9, verse 30. Says, what shall we say then? The Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness attained righteousness? Even the righteousness which is by faith? But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law? Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as though it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone. Just as it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, and he who believes in him will not be disappointed. It's about believing in him, right? It's Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, for by grace you've been saved through faith in that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God, not the result of works, so that no one would boast. It's what's been promised by God that if you believe in this cornerstone, you'll not be disappointed. He will not let you down. That word for uh for disappointed It's a kate skuno in the Greek. It means to be put to shame, to be disgraced. Isaiah 28, where that quote is taken from. It says he who believes in it will not be disturbed or literally whoever believes will not be in haste. What does that mean? The idea is that if you you trust in Jesus Christ, that you won't have to run out in a hurry because your God lets you down. You won't you won't be put to shame and kind of like run with your tail between your legs because you know your God didn't work out. You know, I was trusting in that God and it didn't work out, and instead of experiencing the shame, I've got to get out of here. You know, you run in haste. And there were many gods that let their people down in Scripture. The Egyptians had a whole array of of gods, you know, gods of the Nile, gods of the sun, gods of the earth, the water, the air. Gods were depicted by snakes and frogs and bulls and other creatures. But during the plagues in Egypt, those gods all let them down. All of them let them down. After the third plague, you have the uh the magicians who said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. We we can't do what this God can do. They were put to shame. The sixth plague of the boils, it says the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils were on the magicians as well as on all the Egyptians Then in Exodus 12 and 33, the Egyptians urged the people out of the land in haste. They said, We'll all be dead. Get out of here. Go ahead and get out of here and worship your God. I mean, they're just being put to shame. How embarrassing. You know, the the gods of the sun, the air, the earth, and now, all supposed to be the weapons of your God, and the God of Israel picks them up and whoops you with them. It's like, how embarrassing is that? You know, my gods mean nothing. They can't do anything. They can't save me. Dagon was the god of the Philistines. Let the Philistines down. When the Philistines defeated Israel, they captured the Ark of the Covenant, and they thought they had one up on God, you know, I've got your ark. And we're going to put it in the temple of our God, Dagon, you know, a half-fish, half-man-looking God. 1 Samuel 5 in verse 3 it says when the Ashdodites rose early in the next morning, behold Dagon had fallen on his face To the ground before the ark of the Lord. So they took Dagon and set him up in his place again. Can't have my God embarrassed like that. Come on, Dagon, get up here. Can't have you bowed down before the God of Israel But when they arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face before the ground, and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off. Only the trunk of Dagon was left behind him. So now not only is he on the ground, but now he's limbless and he's headless. Like what am I gonna do? Oh day, God, come on, God, get up, please, please get up. The hand of the Lord was heavy on them. The text goes on to say He ravaged them, smote them with tumors, both the Ashdod and its territories. When the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of God of Israel must not remain with us. Get it out of here For his hand is severe on us and on Dagon, our God. Somebody save our God. You know, come up with the bumper sticker. Save our God. Please. Don't let him go And they were in haste to remove the ark of the Lord. Their gods put them to shame. And then we all remember Baal, the god of the Canaanites, let them down. Elijah challenged 450 prophets of Baal to a test to see who's going to answer by fire. Who's going to consume a sacrifice? The God Baal was supposed to be the god of the storm. You know, all you need to do, I mean, let's make it easy for you. We'll be in your territory. You know, you're the god of the storm. Just tell them to send a lightning bolt down. Strike the sacrifice. Consume it with fire, and then we'll know that your God's the real God. He's the God of the storm, right? You know? God of thunder, right? God of the lightning, whatever. Is this is this how it's going to end? It says in 1 Kings 18, 26, they took the ox which was given them, they prepared it, called on the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, Oh Baal, answer us. There is no voice, no one answered. They leaped about the altar which they made. Came about noon, then Elijah mocked them, said, Call out with a loud voice, for he is a God. Either he's occupied, you know, maybe he's busy, or God's busy. Occupied, he's gone aside, he's on a journey, perhaps he's asleep, he needs to be awakened So they cried with a loud voice, cut themselves according to their custom, with swords, lances, until the blood gushed out of them. And you remember the rest of the story, not even a flicker from the god of lightning and thunder. Nothing And when it was Elijah's turn, just to make it a fair fight, he says, Dump some water on my sacrifice. No, no, dump it again. No, dump it a third time. And then he picks up the water and is like, let me dig a trench around and I'm going to pour more water around it. Just just to make it a fair fight. That's the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came near and said, O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel Today let it be known that you are God in Israel, that I am your servant, and I've done all these things at your word. Answer me, O Lord, answer me that this people may know that you, O Lord our God. And that you 've turned their heart back again. And then the fire of the Lord fell. Consumed the burnt offering, the wood, the stone, the dust, licked up the water that was in the trench. When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces. And guess what happened to the prophets of Baal? They ran in haste, embarrassed. And Elijah said, Seize the prophets of Baal, do not let one of them escape. So they seized them. And Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and slew them there. The prophets of Baal were put to shame, literally ran in haste, and it all seems so clear when we're looking at the gods of the ancient Near East. But what about the gods that we look to today? What about the gods of uh national security? Military strength, is that a substitute for our God Oops, what was going on in Isaiah today? Isaiah 31 says, Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help, rely on horses, trust in chariots Because they are many and in horsemen because they're very strong, but they do not look to the Holy One of Israel nor seek the Lord. Don't trust in your military. Don't trust in how many horses you can get together. Trust in the Lord. What about the gods of financial security and wealth? Zephaniah chapter 1 verse 18 says, That in the day of the Lord, neither their silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them on the day of the Lord's wrath. How many of you are trusting in your money? You know, I've got my nest egg set up. You know, I've got I've got a lot a lot a lot in store. You know, it's almost like that parable where it's like I've I've got so much I've got to build some bigger barns And then 2020 hits and it's like, oh my Lord, right? You can't trust in your wealth. Your wealth will not save you on the day of God's wrath. Actually, in Ezekiel 7, verse 19 says they'll fling their silver into the streets, and their gold will become abhorrent. They'll despise it. What I've trusted in all my life can't save me. My money can't buy me eternity. And now they turn on their money. They hate it. Why have I been trusting in this all this time? How about the gods of sensual pleasures and lust? Matthew five twenty-nine says, If your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out, throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. In Mark 8. 36, it says, What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and does what? Forfeits his soul. What are you going to give in exchange for your soul? What is so worth it to you? That you're willing to hold on to that and turn away from the true and the living God. Because whatever you're willing to say no to God for, that's your God. That's your God. Don't make any mistakes about it. You're willing to say no to God and say yes to that. That's your God. That's where you bow. That's where you put your altar. That's where you're offering your sacrifices. If you give yourself over to any of the gods of this world, you will be sorely disappointed in the end, because your gods cannot save you. Jeremiah 9, 23 says, Thus says the Lord, let not a wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast of his might, let not a rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boast boast of this that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, righteousness on the earth. You'll never be put to shame if you put your trust in Christ. And that is the promise of Scripture. That's the promise of Scripture. We can come to Christ. I don't need to go through all the hoops and have all the sashes and turbans and all that. I I can just come to the Lord by faith. And if I come to the Lord by faith, that's all I need. And if I trust in Him, I'm not going to be disappointed. I don't need the temple. I don't need all the fancy bells and smells. What you got going on in there? I don't need that. I don't need a somebody with a backwards collar behind a box telling me how many hell Marys to give up. I don't need that I trust in the Lord by faith. I go to Him. I trust in Him, and I will not be disappointed if I look to the Lord. Number three. Amen. Number three. We're provided for by Christ. Provided for by Christ. Back in 1 Peter 2, verse 7. Says, this precious value then is for you who believe. This precious value, then, is for you who believe. And the idea here is that those who believe in the cornerstone will find honor. The word for uh precious value is the Greek word to me. And uh the same words are used in uh 1 Peter 1 7 where it speaks about the proof of your faith being much more precious than gold Which is perishable, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's also used in uh 1 Peter 3, where we learn about the way that husbands are to treat their wives, you husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker. Since she is a woman and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life. You know, so in first Peter one seven it says that we will be honored on the the last day, that God will honor those who trust in him and 1 Peter 3. 7 speaks about the honor that a husband is to give to his wife. It's the same word that's used back in 1 Peter 2. 7. And what Peter is saying is that there is honor for those who believe in the cornerstone And I know some of your versions will say that he is precious or he is valuable, making a reference to Christ. And that's true. Of course we know that Christ is valuable, right? That's true, but the point that Peter is making here, and actually if you have the words he is precious, you'll actually see it in italics because it's not there in the original there. The point that Peter is really making is that you will be honored because you've recognized that Christ is honored. You will be honored because you recognize Christ as valuable. Our honor is tied to the honor of Jesus Christ. So the words, he is, like I said, are not included in the text. Uh but what Peter is doing is he's making this uh connection between us and Jesus Christ. That if you trust in Christ, that if you've placed your trust in him. That there is honor that will also be given to you. And another reason why we know that that's what's going on here is because Peter is actually making a contrast. He's making a contrast between believers and unbelievers. On the one hand, if you believe, if you recognize Jesus as the choice and precious cornerstone, there is honor for you But on the other hand, if you disbelieve, if you reject the cornerstone, if you walk in disobedience, there is destruction for you. If you believe in Christ, there's honor for you. If you turn away from Christ, there's doom for you. That's the contrast that Peter is making So think about the context again. Peter is writing here to a group of scattered, persecuted disciples. And they would have been shamed for their belief in Jesus. In 1 Peter 3 and 14 it says, even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, they were suffering for doing the right thing. 1 Peter 4. 16 says, Anyone suffers as a Christian, he's not to be ashamed. So they were suffering because they called themselves Christians. And Peter wants them to be reminded that there's no reason to be ashamed of what they believe in. There's nothing to be ashamed about. And after they've suffered, they'll experience the eternal glory of Christ. They'll be honored by Christ. 1 Peter 5, verse 10, if you want to flip over there real quick, just to get an idea of what Peter's talking about here. 1 Peter 5 and verse 10, it says, After you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace who called you to his eternal glory in Christ will himself perfect, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be dominion forever and ever. Amen. So he's saying that suffering is going to come first, and glory is going to come later. I'm telling you right now that it's going to become increasingly more difficult. For you to associate yourself with Jesus Christ because the Jesus and the God of the Bible do not fit in with the culture that we are living in, okay? It's going to become more difficult for you to say, I'm a Christian. I actually believe that the Bible has the a true understanding of what right and wrong is. I I believe what the scriptures say about that. It's going to become increasingly more difficult for you to stand up and say, I'm with the Bible. Because the Bible and Jesus don't bend to fit in with the culture. You can't follow the the gender madness and follow Jesus at the same time. It's incompatible. I can't do it. And if you're labeled as hateful or having some kind of phobia or you're persecuted for it. First Peter is saying it's okay to suffer. It's okay to suffer because there's honor coming later. There's glory that comes later. But keep in mind that your honor is connected to the honor of Christ. And it's only because we believe in Christ. That we receive this honor. Just like we're made living stones because we've come to him who is the living stone. We receive honor because we come to the one who is honorable, Jesus Christ. And there's nothing to be ashamed about. Why is there nothing to be ashamed about? Because of who Jesus is. Like we mentioned before, he's the living stone in verse 4. He was rejected by men, he was crucified. But we have nothing to be ashamed about because he was crucified. Why? Because he rose again. He's the living stone. Crucifixion was a shameful way to die. It was a disgraceful way to die. In fact, uh archaeologists have actually discovered in Rome what basically amounts to ancient graffiti And in Palatine, one of the seven hills of Rome, they came across a caricature, you know, some graffiti written on a wall, dated somewhere between the first and the third century, uh century, very close to the death of Christ. And there's an image of a human-like figure on a cross with the head of a donkey. And to the left of the image is a young man. Apparently representing a Roman soldier who's raising his hand in a gesture of worship to this crucified man with the donkey's head And beneath the cross is written in Greek, Alexemenas Sebete Theon. Alexemonas worships his God That's what they thought of Jesus Christ. He's nothing more than a donkey of a man. And here you are bowing to this donkey of a man who is crucified on a cross and worshiping him. How ridiculous. How shameful. But Jesus is the living stone. It doesn't matter what people think about him, right? 1 Peter 1 verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. He's the living stone. Not only is Jesus the living stone, he's also the choice stone. It's the word eclectas. It's the same word that's used for being elect, being chosen. It talks about our election in uh chapter 1 and verse 1, those who are chosen. Chapter 2, verse 9, you are a chosen race. And here Jesus Christ is said to be the chosen one. He's the chosen stone. And there's this predetermination by God to select us, to choose us before the foundation of the world. Ephesians 1 verse 4 says that. And in a similar way, Jesus was also chosen before the foundation of the world to be our sacrifice. 1 Peter 1 and verse 20 says, For he was foreknown before the foundation of the world and has appeared in these last times for the sake of you. So before God created man, he created a plan. You understand that? But before God said, let there be, he says, let there be a savior. Let there be a savior. There was a savior who would save mankind. Jesus was already marked out before the world was to be our Savior. He was the chosen one, the elect one to come and be the savior of mankind. Not only is Jesus the Choice stone is also the precious stone, right? The precious stone. What does it mean to be precious? It means to be highly regarded, valuable, costly, without equal, irreplaceable. Same word that was used for the centurion in Luke chapter 7. There was a centurion slave who was highly regarded by his master. The sick, he was about to die. And when the master of the centurion heard about Jesus, he sent some of the Jewish elders asking him to come and save the life of a slave. Why? Because he is highly valuable. He's irreplaceable to me. I can't lose him. That's the same kind of word that's used for Jesus Christ. He's precious. He's valuable. He's irreplaceable. And the idea here is that there is no one like Jesus. There's nobody like him. He's the treasure of heaven, the beloved Son of God God looks at Christ in Matthew 12 and verse 18 and says, Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased. God is well pleased with Jesus Christ. There's nobody like him. Nobody like him. And he's also the cornerstone. We've already pointed this out, but just to remind us of this again, he's the cornerstone. And listen to this description of the cornerstone. The most important stone in the entire building was the cornerstone. The perfection of the cornerstone helped maintain the perfect symmetry of the rest of the building. Like a plumb line stretching in every direction. The cornerstone set the direction lines for the entire building, horizontally, vertically. If any angles were off, the building would be off. If the horizontal horizontal angle were not a perfect right angle, the building would be skewed. If the vertical angle was not correct, the building would collapse outward or inward. All those angles were set by one massive cornerstone to which all other stones were laid out in agreement. That cornerstone was like the plumb line for the entire building. And I've learned a little bit about plumb lines because I'm doing some construction in my basement. And uh I had one of our brothers come in who's uh There's a retired carpenter and I was like, hey, look at my wall. You know, I'm really happy with my wall. Because like I've I've got it perfectly straight. Like I've got a line on my floor and I've got my wall laid out perfectly straight with that line. It's like I can snap a line right at the bottom. Look at that. Bam! It's straight. I got it straight. And then he looked up at the top of the wall and it's like, uh Uh what about that? My wall was straight on the bottom, it just wasn't straight on the top. Because I was kind of like using the joist in my basement thinking that the joists were straight, but the joists weren't straight So uh thanks for that Logan. I appreciate that. It's like all proud of my wall. Look at my wall, man. Look at the street. Look at that. But it's not straight because there's another line I got to worry about. The cornerstone was perfect in all directions. Every angle is perfect. So that you could measure everything else off of that cornerstone. And Jesus is perfectly suited to be our foundation. The foundation for the entire church rests on him. There's nothing to be ashamed about, Jesus. There's nothing to be ashamed about Jesus. It's not like we'll ever find something out about Jesus that we have to hang our heads in shame about It's not like we'll have to rebrand our ministry because uh the leader of that ministry was caught up in some kind of sin. Jesus is the living choice, precious cornerstone, and our lives can be built upon him without regret. If if if everything is following after Christ, I don't have to rebrand myself. You know, instead of being being known as that ministry, we've got to change names because the guy the guy fell. If I build my life on Christ, I don't have to live with regret. And there's a lot of decisions that I regret But Jesus is not one of them. Jesus is not one of them. There is no shame in Jesus. And for those who believe in him, there's honor. But for those who do not believe, there's a different story. Unbelievers will be disgraced, dishonored, they're prohibited from the blessings attached to this house. Because in this house there's honor, but outside of that house there is shame. The blessings of this house are reserved for those who believe. And I'll actually save the rest of this for next time. But uh there's nothing to be ashamed about if we're coming to Jesus Christ, who is the choice and precious cornerstone. Jesus is the choice and precious cornerstone. And uh just real real quick When we think about those who disbelieve, and we'll get more into this the next time that we get together, but a product of their disbelief Is disobedience to the word, and they're appointed for doom. That's the end of the unbeliever. And we'll explore this more next time we get together, but the end of this verse Over in uh verse eight, uh back in uh first Peter chapter two. First Peter uh chapter two At the end of this verse it says, they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and to this doom they were appointed. There is a destiny for those who disbelieve and those who disobey. And like I said, I want to spend some more time on this the next time we get together, but he will either be your living stone and your choice stone and your precious stone and your cornerstone Or if he's rejected, he will be your stumbling stone and your crushing stone, the stone of offense. But he's not going to be nothing. Everybody has to deal with this stone. You understand that? Everybody has to deal with this stone. You have to settle with Jesus Christ. One commentator said this Christ is laid across the path of humanity. Across the path of humanity is Jesus Christ. And in their encounter, in humanity's encounter with him, each person is changed. One for salvation and another for destruction. One cannot simply step over Jesus to get on with their life. And go about their daily routine and pass them by. Whoever encounters him is inescapably changed through their encounter Either one sees and becomes a living stone, or one stumbles as a blind person and Christ becomes their ruin. But either way, Christ will determine your destiny. Christ will determine your destiny either way. And you will either be permitted or you will be prohibited because of Jesus Christ. He's too high to jump over, he's too low to get under, and you're stuck in the middle. You can't get around them. You can't get around them. And that's, like I said, where verses six to eight come in because this dramatic life-altering change that we speak about, as believers, this is this is what we hope in, this is what we rest in. Because the scriptures predicted all of this would come. The scriptures promised this, that I would find in him a place of security because I won't be disappointed if I trust in him. And everything that I need is provided by Christ. Because he is that perfect stone that everything else can be set by. He's precious. He's choice in the sight of God. But for the unbeliever, he becomes a very different kind of stone. Instead of the stone that they build their lives on, he's the stone that falls over on their lives and completely shatters them. And my question for you is where are you found today? Are you found trusting in Jesus Christ? Have you come to the precious stone? Have you valued him as precious in the sight of God? Turn to the living stone before it's too late. There's uh words written by Jason Meal, uh Jason Neal, Mason Neal in the 18th century. He writes these words, Christ is made the sure foundation, Christ the head and cornerstone, chosen of the Lord and precious, binding all the church in one, holy Zion's help forever, and her confidence alone. Our confidence is found alone in Jesus Christ, and that's where you can find your rest. It was uh Amy Carmichael who said, Often in the rack, often on the rack, I tremble. Faint of heart and weak of knee, but the steadfast rock of ages never trembles under me. I might tremble on top of the rock, but the rock underneath me never trembles. There's a sure foundation, and that foundation is found in Christ and in Christ alone. And I pray that you've come to Christ, that you've looked to him as your sure foundation, because outside of Jesus Christ there is no hope. There's no hope, and you're going to stand before God one day and be sorely disappointed. Sorely disappointed. There are many in uh Matthew chapter 7 speaks about this in verses 21 to 23. Many who will stand before Christ on that last day, say, Lord, Lord! Here I am, Lord. Lord, Lord, didn't it? Didn't I do many wonderful works? Prophesied in your name, cast out demons, did many wonderful works in your name. And then it says that Jesus will look to them and he says, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity. People have built their life on something. They took out the cornerstone and put something else in its place and started constructing, started building. And Jesus turns around and says, I don't know you. You didn't build that on me. You didn't order your life by my word. We sang it earlier. You didn't order your life by my word. You didn't order it by Christ. You did that on your own. And many will stand before Christ on that day and they'll turn to them and say, I never knew you. Depart from me, workers of iniquity. Either you are found building your life upon the rock, and when the floods of judgment come, you'll be found standing at the end of the day. Or you're building your life on something else, and when the floods of judgment come, you'll be washed away with it. There's only two choices. Only two choices. Turn to Jesus Christ and find life. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for your word. We thank you for the opportunity to look to your word once again. And Father, we pray that you'd open up your word to us, Lord, and make it real. Help us to understand that there's a day coming. There's a day on the calendar. We don't know when that day is And Father, there are many of us right here who are building our life on gods that we will be ashamed of in that day. Gods of money and sex and prestige and popularity. Trust in military or finances, Father. All those gods will be washed away. Father, help us to build our lives on the rock that will stand firm in that day. The rock that you've selected, the rock that you said is precious, and that when you built your house, you said, I'm going to build it on this rock. This is the house that you built. And Father, I thank you that for those of us who believe that we're part of that house, And we pray for those in here who do not believe that they would turn to you before it's too late, Father. God, we pray that you have mercy. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.