The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and let's open back up to the Book of Romans. We're in the book of Romans chapter two We're back in the book of Romans today, where the Apostle Paul has been taking a penetrating look at the practice of self-deception. Self-deception. Some have called it the art of self-deception because it really is a creative skill. It's a skill that Many of us have developed over time, and some of us have become proficient at this art of self-deception. And what kind of self-deception are we talking about? It's what Paul discusses in Romans chapter 2 and verse 1, where he says, Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another you condemn yourself. For you who judge, practice the same things. The kind of self-deception that we're talking about is the ability to judge someone else for the very same things that we practice ourselves. And the extent to which we can deceive ourselves is amazing. And we see the same self-deception just playing out over and over again in scripture. The last time we were together, uh we mentioned how David was ready to put a man to death. for killing the pet lamb of a neighbor. In 2 Samuel 12 and verse 5, where he says, As the Lord lives, surely the man who has done this deserves to die. He's talking about killing a pet. But this man deserves to die because of that. Until Nathan the prophet pointed the finger at David and said to him, David, you are the man. You're the man. We see the same deception in the parable of that Jesus told the Pharisees in Matthew chapter 21 about the vineyard owner Who sent his servants to receive the produce from his land. And Jesus describes how the vine growers killed the servants who came to collect the produce. They beat one, they killed another, they stoned a third. And they did the same to another group of slaves that were larger than the first. And then the vineyard owner, in a last act of mercy, he sent his son, saying, They will respect my son. And then they killed the son So Jesus asks in Matthew chapter 21 and verse 40, therefore when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine growers? And the Pharisees who had been listening to his message, and they were so involved in this story at this point that they just blurted out the answer and made Jesus' point for him. They said to him, He will bring those wretches to a wretched end, and will rent out the vineyard to other vine growers who will pay him the proceeds at the proper season. But they didn't know that in their answer that they were actually talking about themselves. Condemning themselves out of their own mouths, their condemnation came. In the verse 43 of Matthew 21, Jesus says, Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing the fruit of it. It's the art of self-deception. We can so clearly see in others what we can't see in ourselves. Just to give you one more illustration of this, flip back to the book of Genesis, Genesis chapter 38. Genesis chapter 38. And this is really a repulsive story. The Bible doesn't sugarcoat immorality when we find it in Scripture. Though the Bible is plain about the immorality that we find in the world, and Genesis 38 is one of those stories. It's a repulsive story about Judah and his daughter-in-law Tamar. Just to give you the context, Tamar was married to Judah's firstborn son Heir, and the Lord put Ear to death before he could father a son, because he was evil in the sight of the Lord. And we're not told what heir did, but we know that it was wicked and the Lord put him to death. And according to the custom known as loveright marriage, it was the nextborn son's duty to marry his brother's widow And to raise up a child in his name. But Judah's nextborn son, Onan, refused to do so. And the Lord put him to death as well. So now two sons of Judah have died, and Judah is reluctant to give his third son, Shelah, to Tamar. And we find this in verse 11 in Genesis chapter 38. It says, Then Judah said to his daughter-in-law, Tamar, Remain a widow in your father's house until my son Sheila grows up, for he thought, I am afraid that he too may die like his brothers. I mean two sons are already dead. I'm not sure if I want to give another one. So Tamar went and lived in her father's house. But Sheila grew up, and Judah did not give her Give him to her as a husband. Look at what it says in verse 12. It says, now after a considerable time, Shua's daughter, the wife of Judah, died. And when the time of mourning was ended, Judah went up to his sheep shearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hira the Adulamite. He was told to Tamar, Behold, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep. So she removed her widow's garments and covered herself with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in the gateway of Enaim, which is on the road to Timnah, for she saw that Sheila had grown up and she had not been given to him as a wife When Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot, for she had covered her face. So he turned aside to her by the road and said, Here now, let me come into you. For he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. I told you it was a repulsive story. And she said, What will you give me that you may come into me? He said, Therefore I will send you a young goat from the flack. She said, Moreover, will you give a pledge until you send it? He said, What pledge shall I give you? And she said, Your seal and your cord and your staff that is in your hand. So she so he gave them to her and went into her and she conceived by him Then she arose and departed, and removed her veil and put on her widow's garments. When Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adulamite to receive the pledge from the widow woman's hand, he did not find her He asked the men of the place saying, Where is the temple prostitute who was by the road at Enaim? But they said, There has been no temple prostitute here. So he returned to Judah and said, I did not find her. And furthermore the men of the place said, There has been no temple prostitute here. Then Judah said, Let her keep them, otherwise we will become a laughing stock. After all I sent this young goat, but you did not find her. And this all kind of remained like this inside joke between Judah and his friend Hera the Adulamite, you know, locker room talk. You know, here they are, kind of, oh just let her keep it, you know, we'll become a laughing stock, and it's just this kind of inside joke. Verse 24. It says now it was about three months later that Judah was informed: Your daughter-in-law Tamar has played the harlot. And behold, she is also with child by harlotry. Then Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. All of a sudden, Judah is the defender of righteousness. When it's Judah's sin. All of a sudden, let her be burned. We're righteous in here. We don't play around with harlotry. Verse 25, it was while she was being brought out that she sent to her father-in-law, saying, I am with child by the man to whom these things belong. And she said, please examine and see whose signet ring and cords and staff are these. Judah recognized them and said, She is more righteous than I. Inasmuch as I did not give her to my son Sheila, and he did not have relations with her again. Isn't it amazing? How we can clearly see the sins in others that we can't see in ourselves. And how we can judge others for the sins that we've committed ourselves. Judah was ready to burn his own daughter-in-law for the very sin that he committed. He was so enraged that he was ready to light the match around the kindling around the stake. Let her be burned. He was blind to his own sin, but he had X-ray vision when it came to the sins of others. It's the art of self-deception. And if you're thinking to yourself, I know someone who needs to hear this message, welcome to the party, because you are the man. You are the woman. You're the one who needs to hear this message. So let's turn back to our text in Romans chapter 2, and we'll jump back into the context here. Romans chapter 2. I'll start at verse 1. Therefore, you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things. But do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance? But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath, and revelation of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to each person according to his deeds. To those who by perseverance and doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life, but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath, and indignation. There will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek, but glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good. to the Jew first and also to the Greek, for there is no partiality with God. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you today as we uh do every Lord today, asking for your help That we would hear your word , Father, that we would not allow your word to fall on dull ears, that we would be sensitive to your words that you give to us. Now Father, that we would hear you speaking to us, that this is a word for us, that there's application for us So Father, I pray that we would not walk away as a man who sees himself and forgets what he looks like. Father, I pray that we would make the adjustments that we need to make as a result of Looking at your word today. Father, I pray that you would sanctify us through your truth. Your word is truth. And I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As Paul turns the corner from chapter 1 to chapter 2, he turns his attention to the group that sits in judgment of the culture around them. Back in Romans chapter 1 and verse 18, Paul says, For the wrath of God is revealed. It's a wrath that is being revealed, uncovered, made visible. From heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. And the verse is that Follow verse 18. Paul describes a variety of sins that would have characterized the ancient Gentile world. Immorality, homosexuality, depravity. And the Jewish people who would have heard Paul mention these types of sins would have agreed with his biblical morality. They would have given Hearty approval to Paul's list, as well as anybody else who agreed with biblical morality. They would have given a hearty amen. Yes, Paul, this is exactly what we've been saying all along. As one commentator said, the man listens as if he were allowed a seat besides the judge's chair. And that can actually describe so many of uh uh so much of social media today where people, you know, pull up the judge's chair, you know. So that they can condemn everybody else on the outside. You know, we're we've become experts at at condemnation and critique They would have been like the Pharisees in Luke 18 who prayed to himself, God, I thank thee that I am not like other men. And they would have thought of themselves as righteous because they agreed with the condemnation of evil. And this is where the distinction is between the sinners in chapter 1 and the sinners in chapter 2. The sinners in chapter 1 are described in verse, chapter 1 and verse 32, where it says, And although they know the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death. They not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them. But the sinners of chapter 2, they don't give hearty approval. They just do the same things. They're not jumping in and giving approval to it, which actually makes it worse because they're hypocrites. Here they are, they want to give condemnation to the sins that they see, but then they practice the same things At least the the sinners in chapter one, they're giving hearty approval for those that are doing the same things that they're doing. But in chapter two, no, I'm going to disapprove of what you're doing while I'm practicing it myself. They're hypocrites And Paul says, You have no excuse. Uh the word for excuse is derived from the same Greek word where we get the word apologetics from You know, the defense of the faith and Paul saying, You have no defense for what you do. You have no defense. You deserve the wrath of God too. And the last time we were together We started to examine four sections of this passage. Why is there no excuse for those who condemn others and excuse themselves? Number one. When you condemn others, you're actually condemning yourself. Verses 1 and 2. Verse 1 says, Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment, for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. You point the finger at others, but you have three more pointing back at you. You are the man. Number two, you're fooling yourself In verse 3, do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? You really think you're going to get away? You're fooling yourself Do you think that God will judge their sin and not judge your sin? He's going to leave your sin alone? You're fooling yourself. It's not the case. Number three, you're thinking too highly of yourself If you condemn others and excuse yourself, you're thinking too highly of yourself. You think lightly, you're looking down upon the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience. not knowing that it's the kindness of God that leads you to repentance. In other words, you don't understand that you're living on borrowed time. You know, you think that you deserve it. You're living under his kindness, his tolerance, his patience. You're spurning the kindness of God and refusing to repent as if you don't need it. And then finally, you're storing up wrath for yourself. And this is what we find in verses 5 down to 11. Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. And this is where we left off last time. It's really a terrifying picture. The self-righteous sinner stores up wrath for himself. Now that word for to store up, it's the Greek word uh thesauridzo. We actually get our English word thesaurus from that word. The root of this word, a thesaurus, is a treasury of words. But this is a treasury of wrath. You're storing it up. You're treasuring it up. Normally the word storing up is used in a positive way. You know, back in Matthew chapter 6 and verse 20, where Jesus says, store up treasures for yourselves in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal. But here in Romans chapter 2 and verse 5, the self-righteous sinner is storing up treasures in hell Where their worm does not die and their fire is not quenched. And there's no moth or rust destroying your treasures there. And there's no thieves breaking in to steal your treasures there. The treasures that you store away in hell will be there waiting for you. The wrath of God is a treasure that is all yours. You've been storing it away for a future time to receive it. And the righteous, self-righteous sinner adds to the bank of wrath with every judgment that he makes. Storing up wrath It's wrath in increasing measure. And this is the the many stripes that Jesus spoke of over in Luke chapter twelve. If you want to flip over there, Luke chapter twelve, just go ahead and read it for you. Luke twelve starting at verse forty-seven. Where Jesus spoke of the slave who knew his masters well and did it not. Look at verse 47. It says, and that slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will will receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of a flogging will receive but few. From everyone who has been given much, much will be required. And to whom they entrusted much of him, they will ask all the more. The one who knows better, but does worse receives worse. Just like there's differences of rewards in heaven, there will be degrees of punishment in hell. And those who know better and do worse will receive worse. They're storing it up for the day of wrath. And there's a number of questions that are answered in this passage about the wrath that's being stored away. And the first question that is answered is why? Why is wrath being stored away? Back in chapter 2 and verse 5 of Romans. Why is this wrath being stored away? Verse 5, because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself. Why is this wrath being stored away? It's because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart. The word stubbornness is a word that literally means to be hardened. It was from the Greek word sclerotase. Our English word sclerosis comes from a root of this word. the abnormal hardening of of tissues or a part of the body. You can have the sclerosis of the arteries or sclerosis of the muscles or sclerosis of the liver. Or you can have a sclerosis that affects you in multiple places along your body and your central nervous system, and it's called multiple sclerosis. It's a scarring, a hardening along your central nervous system. And here in Romans, Paul speaks about a sclerosis of the heart. Which is a metaphor in scripture for, you know, the heart is a metaphor in scripture for the innermost self. It's not just where we feel emotions. It's. You know, where we feel emotions is often depicted as the gut. You know, I felt it in my gut. You know, my it was gut-wrenching, you know, my my stomach turned. You know, the emotions were often associated with the gut, but when it came to the the central control center of your life, they described that as the heart. The heart is where you made decisions. The heart is where you believe. You believe in your heart. Romans 10 9 You purpose with your heart, 2 Corinthians 9. 7. You think with your heart, Luke 9. 47. Jesus knowing what they were thinking in their heart. It characterizes your life. That's why Proverbs 23 and verse 7 says, for as he thinks in his heart, so he is. And the heart can become stubborn. That central control center of your life can become so stubborn and hardened that you're no longer moved And in the context, this stubbornness is connected to verse 4. In verse 5, it begins with the word but, showing that it's contrasting with verse 4. And what's happening in verse 4? You think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience. It's not it doesn't move you. It doesn't influence your decisions. You experience the kindness of God and you think lightly about it or you think down upon it. The Lord has been good to the self-righteous sinner. And God knows he's receiving nothing in return, but instead of the sinner being moved to thanksgiving, he despises the goodness of God. He experiences the tolerance of God and he thinks lightly of it. God has withheld his judgment from the sinner. And instead of him seeing that as a gift of God's mercy, He despises it. He looks down at it as if he deserves peace with God. I've heard people use language like, you know, God and I have an understanding. Really? You do. I've heard people say, you know, I'm comfortable with where I am with God. As if that matters. That you're comfortable. What about God? But I'm I'm comfortable with where I'm at with with God. Or I've heard this one some so many times. God knows my heart. Yeah, he does. The Bible says that the heart is desperately wicked, deceptive. Who can understand it? And here in Romans chapter 2, it says that the heart can be hardened. Your heart can be so impervious to the word of God, but then you say, Well, God knows my heart. God knows my heart. Instead of your heart being softened, your heart is hardened. And you squander the time that God has given you. The patience of God, you disdain the patience of God. And that's the first reason for the wrath being stored up. Why is the wrath stored up? Because you harden your heart against God. Second reason that the wrath is being stored up is because you have an unrepentant heart. Not only do you have a hardened heart, you have an unrepentant heart. Repentance is a change of mind, a change of mind that results in a change of attitude and a change of behavior. Over in Isaiah 55 and verse 7, it says, Let the wicked forsake his way, the unrighteous man his thoughts, let him return to the Lord, and he will have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. But the self-righteous sinner is unrepentant. He's not moved. He doesn't believe that he needs to change. And this is the Jewish perspective in Matthew chapter 3 and verse 9. John the Baptist warned the Pharisees Do not suppose that you can say to yourself, we have Abraham for our father. Hey, we're we're doing okay. Don't you know what our lineage is? Did you check my birth certificate? Now look at that last name again and see if you can read that. It's Jewish, isn't it? I'm okay because I'm related to Abraham That's how they responded to Jesus in John chapter 8, verse 39. They answered him and said, Abraham is our father, as if that's supposed to impress Jesus. We have Abraham as our father. I made Abraham. What are you talking about? As if that's something to be impressed by If you're Abraham's children, then do the deeds of Abraham. And then later on in John chapter 8 and verse 56, Jesus said, Abraham rejoiced to see my day. And here they were seeing Jesus. And what did they want to do with him? They wanted to kill him. You're not children of Abraham. You don't do what Abraham did. Abraham rejoiced to see me. He longed to see me. But here you are, you've seen me, and you want to kill me, and you want to talk about I'm related to Abraham? Don't give me that. But that's the attitude of the unrepentant. They think that they're fine just as they are. I remember reading a bumper sticker one time and it says, born right the first time. What do you think they're saying? I don't need to be born again. I was born right the first time. There's no need for uh being born again. They believe they're fine just as they are. And if they if there's improvements to make, it's just becoming a better me. Become a better you. It's not become a different you. You know, that's what we need. We need to become a different me. We don't need to just become a better me. And Paul says, you're storing up wrath for yourself. God is the one who's pouring out wrath, and here you come with your cup and say, fill it up. They're asking for it. As one commentator says, the apostle speaks plainly in order to startle the Jew out of his lethargy of self-deception. What the nation is doing by its stubbornness and impenitence is to invite retribution, which is slowly but surely building up a reservoir of divine wrath. That will be crushing when it breaks over the guilty in the day of reckoning. Or as William Gernall put it Do not think, O sinners, that you shall finally escape. God's mill goes slow, but grind small. God's mill goes slow, but grind small. The more admirable his patience and bounty now is, the more dreadful and unsupportable will be that fury which arises out of his abused goodness. You abuse the goodness of God and think that I'll get away with it. And that's why the wrath is being stored up. You abuse God's goodness. You take advantage of his patience. And when is this wrath being stored up for? Look at verse 5 again, Romans chapter 2. When is this wrath being stored up for? You are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath. And revelation of the righteous judgment of God. And what we're reminded of here is that there's a kind of wrath that's being revealed now, and there's a kind of wrath that's being stored up for later. In Romans 1. 18, it spoke about the wrath that's being revealed now. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. That's a wrath that's happening now. The wrath of abandonment when God gives people over to their sins. That's what's happening now. But then there's a wrath that's going to be revealed later. When the the wrath and the the the righteous judgment of God will be revealed. And that's a wrath that's that's continuing to be stored up. You're adding to it over time And a Torah that hasn't been revealed yet. And what's that? It's the final judgment upon sinful mankind. And that's described in phases in Scripture. This judgment to come is described in stages. Number one, well first of all, we know that there's a coming wrath of a great tribulation that will come upon the entire earth. In Jeremiah chapter 30 and verse 7 it says, Alas, for that day is great, there is none like it, and it is the time of Jacob's distress. Matthew chapter 24, verse 21. It says, For then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will be. It's going to be a terrifying period of time that will fall upon the earth. And if you want to know more about that, you need to come to the TMF Mid-Atlantic Conference that we're having in November. But there's a great tribulation described as the wrath of the Lamb. Actually over in Revelation chapter 6. Revelation chapter 6, you can go and flip there real quick. Revelation chapter 6. I'll turn you to a couple of these. Revelation 6 and look at verse 16 and 17 that describes the period of this great tribulation. I'll start at verse 15. It says, Then the kings of the earth and the great men and the commanders and the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains? And they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the presence of Him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand It's going to be a terrifying time, a terrifying period of time during this great tribulation. But beyond that, there's going to be the wrath of God that falls when Jesus returns to the earth. Flip over to 2 Thessalonians. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 This describes the time that Christ returns to this earth. Verse 5 of 2 Thessalonians 1. It says this is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which indeed you are suffering. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven. with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord. Jesus. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lamb , presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day, and to be marveled at among all who have believed, for our testimony to you was believed. There's coming a time that Jesus Christ will return to this earth with his saints. That includes us. If you're a saint, you're coming, okay? You'll be here for this day. There's a time of wrath that's going to come upon the earth where the sheep will be separated from the goats and there will be an entrance into the millennial reign of Christ. But then there's eternal wrath, where all the wicked will be gathered together to face judgment. Flip back to Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20. Take a look at verse 11. Revelation twenty, starting at verse eleven. It says, Then I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it From whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, the great, and the small standing before the throne, and the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books according to their deeds. The sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. And all history is moving toward this final day. And it'll be a day that's characterized by wrath, but it's also a day that's characterized by reward. Reward for the believer and wrath for the unbeliever. Punishment for the unbeliever. Pleasure forevermore for the believer. Unimaginable sorrow for the unbeliever and indescribable salvation and glory for the believer. That is when this wrath Is going to be revealed. Luther, Martin Luther writes, Judgment Day is called a day of wrath and a day of mercy, a day of tribulation and a day of peace. A day of damnation and a day of glory, and on that day the wicked will be punished and put to shame, while the righteous will be rewarded and crowned with glory. And the self-righteous are deceived into thinking that they'll be on the peaceful side of Judgment Day. They look out on the world and think, you know, the world's going to get it one day. One day the Lord's gonna come back and He's gonna make things right. God is gonna come back and you're gonna get it. God's gonna judge you for that. When Jesus comes back, he's gonna get you You know, y'all y'all need Jesus. Y'all need Jesus in here. People just play around with the terms. Oh, y'all need Jesus. As if they don't. But you need Jesus You need Jesus. Jesus is coming back. He's going to get you for that one. They'd be the ones holding the signs. Judgment Day is coming. They long for the day of the Lord, but the prophet Amos had a message for those who longed for the day of the Lord. Flip back to Amos chapter 5. I'll go ahead and give you a wall to find it. Amos chapter 5. But what we find in the the book of Amos is that He's prophesying to Israel. He's actually prophesying to the northern tribes of Israel before the north was conquered by Assyria in 722 B. C. Amos prophesied sometime between 760 and 750 B. C. and he writes this prophecy to people who were externally religious, but spiritually bankrupt. But yet they were longing for the day of the Lord. Here they are, like, hey, we the day of the Lord needs to come. We're look looking forward to that day of the Lord. Look at Amos chapter 5, look at verse 18. Amos chapter 5, verse 18. He says, Alas, you who are longing for the day of the Lord, for what purpose will the day of the Lord be to you? It will be darkness and not light. As when a man flees from a lion and a bear meets him, or goes home and leaves his hand against the wall and a snake bites him. Will not the day of the Lord be darkness instead of light, even gloom with no brightness in it? Here you are thinking that you're getting safety Safety in the day of the Lord, like you're running from the line, like I gotta get away from all this worldly stuff. I'm looking forward to the day of the Lord, and you run right into the bear. You run into the home thinking that, hey, here's where I have safety, and you lean your hand against the wall. You know, finally, you know, done with that, and a snake comes out to bite you. You you run into the trouble. The day of the Lord is not running out of the trouble, you're running into it. And the day of the Lord is going to be darkness for you, not light. And who are the people who the Lord speaks to in this way, saying, What are you looking forward to the day of the Lord for? You want me to return for what? Who are the people that he talks to like this? Look at verse 21. I hate, I reject your festivals. Nor do I delight in your asylum assemblies. Even though you offer up to me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them. And I will not even look at the peace offerings or your fatlings. Take away from me the noise of your songs I will not even listen to the sound of your harps, but let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. You know who he's talking to? He's talking to church folk. He's talking to the people that gather together for worship. Hey, we're the ones that are here. We're the ones that are giving up the offerings. You know, we bring the sacrifice of praise. Here we are, Lord, into the house of the Lord. I'm waiting for that day of the Lord to come. Come on, Jesus. He says, What are you looking forward to me coming back for? You're on the wrong side. And I hate your feasts. I hate your assemblies. Don't sing that song anymore. It's like scratching a chalkboard. Because your heart is not with me. You speak with your lips, but your heart is far away from me. You come in here and you gather together as the assembly of the hypocrites. Do you really repent from your sins? Has your heart truly been given to me? Or is it all just a show? Just putting on the front? I pray that we don't have externally religious people here. Empty-hearted members Those who repeat the solemn words on that day in Matthew chapter 7, where Jesus says, many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy? In your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles, and then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. There's going to be a lot of people that gather together on a Sunday longing for the day of the Lord, but they're on the outside. Because their hearts weren't changed And here they are judging everybody else, but they never examine themselves. They're self-deceived. Matthew 7. 21 says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will of my Father will enter. Has your life been changed? Have you been transformed because of your relationship with Jesus Christ? Or do you just talk a good game? You use the name of the Lord, but the Lord hasn't truly taken a hold of your life. You haven't truly repented. You haven't bowed the knee to Jesus Christ. You don't have true desires for him. The day of the Lord is a day of judgment. It's a day of joy for those who belong to the Lord, but it's a day of judgment for those who don't. True repentance determines which side of the line you're standing on. But there's one more question that's answered for us back in Romans, and maybe we could ask it this way. How does God carry out his wrath? How does God carry out his wrath? Back in Romans chapter 2. This starts at verse 6, where he says he will render to each person according to his deeds. Verse 11. He says, for there is no partiality with God. And the answer could simply be stated, how does God carry out his wrath? It's without partiality. He's not playing favorites. You know, I'll let you slide, but you know, I'm going to hold you accountable. That's not how God plays You may have heard the phrase justice is blind. There's a symbol of justice that came from Roman mythology. It's pictured as a woman who's blindfolded, in one hand there's a pair of scales, and in the other hand there's a sword. Already pulled out of the sheath. The blindfold is to show that justice is impartial. The scales are to weigh the evidence, and the sword is to bring the judgment. The phrase justice is blind might have originally meant that justice sometimes is blind to the injustices that happen, but it came to mean that justice is impartial. It doesn't take into account what you look like. Doesn't care about your wealth, your power, your status, anything else that you might have. And when God judges, he will judge impartially. And that's what Romans teaches us. God will render to each person according to his deeds. And I want you to see something that happens in this text, and you might have guessed already, we're not going to have the time to go through it all. But you might have heard of the word kiasm before. It's a a word that's used to describe two parts that mirror one another. And it comes from the Greek letter key that looks like an X, you know, two sides that mirror one another. You know, whether you look at it from the top or the side, it mirrors one another. And there's two sides that mirror one another. There's parts that go together in this text, and we'll cover this more than the next time we get together. But in verse 6 and verse 11, there are two parts that belong together. They mirror one another. How will God render his judgment? It's according to each each person according to his deeds. In verse 11, without partiality. No, God's not, no, receiving the face is literally what it means. I'm going to judge you based on the external appearance. No, God knows the heart Verses 7 and 10 go together. In verse 7, those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and immortality, eternal life. And then verse 7, glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew first and also to the Greeks. So seven and ten go together. And then verses 8 and 9 go together. But to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, wrath, and indignation. But in verse 9, there will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek. And what shows up in the middle of these pairs is the wrath of God for those who are evil and selfishly ambitious. So if the question is, how does God carry out his wrath? It's without partiality, and all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men will be dealt with. Like I said, we'll hold off until next time we're together to unpack that for you. And don't get nervous. We're not talking about salvation by works, okay? But we are saying that God will judge based on your deeds. And we'll talk more about what that means. So next time we get together, we'll learn what good works have to do with our final judgment, because that shows up in this text. We're going to learn about perseverance and what that says about your salvation. Persevering in your faith, what does that say about your salvation? We'll look at that next time. We're going to learn about what motivates our obedience to the Lord. We'll take a look at that. How to distinguish empty religion from good works. We'll take a look at that next time. And different aspects of the judgment to come. We'll also take a look at that in our texts. That's all for next time, but before we end our time together. I want to address at least one more person who might be listening to this saying, that's right, preacher. I 've been saying for years that the church is just full of hypocrites You know, those holier than thou people. It's about time someone told those religious people to stop judging. Doesn't the good book say somewhere, judge not, lest ye be judged? Like if you know no other verse, you know that one, right? You know, people think that the most popular verse is John 3. 16. That's not. It's Matthew 7. 3. Judge not, lest ye be judged. You know, everybody knows that one. Doesn't the good book say that? And usually when they say the good book they don't really know what it talks about. Doesn't the good book say somewhere? Somewhere in there, godliness is next to cleanliness. I know it says that Don't know where it is, if it's in its context, but they're quick to point it out. Just not lest ye be judged. It's like you know, you know, the home base in hide and seek. You know, you can't tag me. Judge not, I got that one. Judge not, lest she be judged. My hand's on it. Only God can judge me. As if that's all that needs to be said in your defense. God's going to judge me. God will judge me. Why isn't this a text that. Teaches us that we should never point out evil. Why is this not a text that says that no, never it's anything about anybody else's sin? Number one, because the entire context is pointing out your sin. That's what Paul is doing. He's pointing out sin. So how is he going to say you should never point out sin when that's exactly what he's doing? Verse after verse of condemnation How could he now be saying, don't judge sin? Think about it. The entire context is exposing sin. It's a critique of all of mankind to show him that he's guilty. Number two, we're explicitly commanded to judge in other passages. John 7. 24, judge with righteous judgment. 1 Corinthians 5. 12, do you not judge those who are within the church? Luke 17, 3, be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. Ephesians 5. 11, do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead even expose them. We're supposed to expose sin. That's what believers are supposed to do. We're not called to ignore the sins that we find in others. And third, it's inconsistent with logic. When people say, don't judge me, and by that they mean don't point out what I'm doing wrong, at the same time they're trying to point out something that they think you're doing wrong. Don't judge me because it's wrong to judge people and that's wrong to tell people that it's wrong to do something. So don't don't judge me while I'm judging you It's inconsistent. There'll be no way to critique anything if you couldn't ever say that anything was right or wrong. And fourth, the main point of this passage is to help you judge yourself correctly. You need to stop focusing on what other people say about you You need to focus on yourself. If you walk away with, you know, that's right, you shouldn't judge anybody, you've missed the point. You've missed the point. Because here's the frightening reality. With all of that talk that, you know, don't judge me, only God can judge me. The frightening truth is that one day God will judge you. And he'll judge you by his word. By what we're reading today, God will judge you by this book. And even your own words will be used against you. Only God can judge me, and God will. You you you've asked for it, right? You've asked for God to judge you. Here I am It's like Matthew 27 and verse 25, where the people said about Christ, Let his blood be on us and on our children. You're calling for that? You're asking for it? And this word that you try to hide behind and you try to dodge and duck, one day it's going to come crashing down on you. And the very scriptures that you try to hide behind are the very scriptures that could have saved you. Where's the salvation in this text? Where's the salvation? All this judgment. Where's salvation? Look at verse 4. Do you think lightly of the riches of his kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to what? Repentance. Repent! That's what this is driving you towards. Look at the sins that you've done wrong in the sight of a holy God and turn from your sins. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts. Let him return to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him. That's what this text is pointing you to. See your sins and turn to a holy God Reject your life, say no to you, deny yourself, pick up your cross, come to Jesus Christ. That's what this passage is pointing you towards. It's showing you your sin so that you can see the Savior. That's what's going on in this text. And it's bidding you to come, recognize your sins and come to Jesus Christ Him we often sing, come you sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore, Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love and power. Come ye thirsty, come and welcome. God's free bounty glorify true belief and true repentance. Every grace that brings you nigh Come you weary, heavy-laden, lost and ruined by the fall. If you tarry till you're better, you will never come at all. You think you're gonna fix up your life? You know, some people say, you know, I'll come to Christ when I can fix myself up. You'll never fix yourself up. If you tarry until you're better, you'll never come at all. Lo, the incarnate God ascended, pleads the merits of his blood. Venture on him, venture holy, let no other trust intrude. And then there's the refrain, I will arise and go to Jesus. He will embrace me in his arms. In the arms of my dear Savior, oh, there are 10,000 charms. There's a simple song that I used to hear as a child. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus just now. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus just now. He will save you. He will save you. He will save you just now. He will save you. He will save you. He will save you just now. He is able. Only trust him. He will save you just now. Is there anybody here today that Jesus would save just now? Under the preaching of the word, recognizing that you're a sinner who stands in the face of judgment. That you've been storing up wrath all of your life, and that there's coming a day when the wrath of God will be cascading upon you. Is there anybody here who fears the wrath of God, who'd want to turn away from their sins and trust in the Savior who could save you just now? That if you come to him, that he is able, he is able, he is able, and he can save you And we pray that God would save you just now. That right now would be the day, not just the day, but the moment of salvation. That you would come to Christ. Come to Jesus. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word Your word is so rich. Your word is so powerful. Your word is so penetrating. So true, God. It's so true. There are so many, Lord, who would hear this word and be unmoved because their hearts are hardened. Hardened hearts, Lord God. We pray that you would soften hearts, God. We pray that you would break up the rocky ground and provide soft ground where the Word of God can penetrate. Father, we pray that there wouldn't it be unrepentant hearts here. Even those who are religious, who sing the songs, who say the prayers, who carry a Bible, but they haven't truly given Jesus their heart. And it's demonstrated in their lives because their hearts are far from you. They don't desire to follow after you. They judge others for the sins that they themselves commit. Father, I pray that you would protect us. God, I pray that you would lead us to salvation, lead us to your truth. May you do your work in our hearts, God, we pray. We pray that we would all examine ourselves to see whether or not we're in the faith. And that you, Lord, would be glorified through your great salvation, and that many would come to Jesus just now. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you glory Thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.