The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, uh, why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? Let's see if we can wake you up from uh from Thanksgiving. The book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 5. We're still scaling the heights of the best known. and most extensively studied discourse in the world, the Sermon on the Mount. The Sermon on the Mount is considered by many to be the most searching and powerful utterance we possess on what concerns the moral life. And part of that reason, uh the reason that that's so true is because Jesus is not concerned with the external and superficial. Uh the righteousness that he demands goes so much deeper than that The kind of righteousness that the kingdom demands is heart righteousness. And his commentary on Matthew MacArthur says from the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount Jesus focuses on the internal, on what men are like in their minds and hearts. That is the primary thrust of Matthew 5, 21 to 48. As the Lord re-emphasizes the divine standards for living in his kingdom, the divine standards already given in the law of the Old Testament in contrast to Jewish tradition. Contrary to the external, superficial, and hypocritical righteousness that typified the scribes and Pharisees, the righteousness of God, the righteousness that God requires is first of all internal. And if it does not exist in the heart, it does not exist at all. And this morning we're going to consider for the second time what Jesus says about the heart of adultery. Follow with me as I read Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 27. Jesus says this, You have heard that it was said, You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you. For it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you. For it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we uh come before your word, once again, Father, I pray that you would uh open up our eyes that we may behold wonderful things. From this gospel. Father, I pray that you would speak to us through the words of your Son Jesus Christ. And Father, that you would change our lives. As a result of what we hear and read. Father, it's your word that brings life. It's your word that sanctifies. And Father, we pray that your word would do its work today in those who believe. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Have you ever truly considered the power of the human mind? Listen to this description by R. Kent Yeees. He says this. The complex capacity of the human brain is the subject of ever-widening scientific wonder. Its 12 to 14 billion cells are only a shadow of its complexity For each cell sends out thousands of connecting tendrils so that a single cell may be connected with 10,000 neighboring cells, each of which is constantly exchanging data impulses. These 12 to 14 billion brain cells times 10,000 connectors make the human mind an unparalleled computer The mine 's activity has been compared to one thousand switchboards each big enough to serve New York City, all running at full speed as they Receive and send questions and orders. Put another way, there is more electronic equivalent in one human brain than in all the radio and television stations of the entire world put together. Then he goes on to say this, the human brain does not miss a thing. It is capable of giving and receiving the subtlest input from the imagining a universe in which time bends to creating the polyphonic texture of a box fuge or transmitting and receiving messages from God Himself, feats that no computer will ever accomplish. And it's amazing to think about. But with this same mind that God has given to us to dream of and create works of art, bodies of literature, musical masterpieces, great inventions. These same minds can imagine the most vile and debased and lewd fantasies. In a fraction of a second, these same minds can pervert the good gifts. Of God, the gifts that God has given to us for our enjoyment and for his glory, and to a cesspool. And all of that can take place within the mind, just in your thoughts. Long before any external signs are detected. You can be sinning in your mind long before anything shows up on the outside. And it doesn't do any good trying to convince ourselves that the sins in the mind are somehow less sinful because they haven't found expression. in the physical action yet, and this is part of the deceitfulness of sin. The same mind that leads us into sin also attempts to justify the very sins that it leads us into? We tell ourselves things like this, as long as I keep my passions contained, I really haven't given in to sin yet. But sin is present even in what we desire. Even in our desires there's sin. Colossians chapter 3, verse 5 says, Therefore consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire. And greed, which amounts to idolatry. Even the desires that we have are already considered sinful by God and must be put to death. Longing for what is forbidden is itself sinful You can't allow your desires to run loose while patting yourself on the back that you haven't given in to the physical act yet. We're commanded to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and that includes our passions, our desires, what we long for. We tell ourselves things like, you know, we we just can't help ourselves. We can't help ourselves. It's it's just who we are, right? But in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, it says, No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also so that you will be able to endure it We tell ourselves that nobody really understands us. Nobody really knows what I'm what I'm going through. Nobody struggles the way that I struggle. But in Hebrews 4, verse 15, it says, For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. We tell ourselves, I'll only give in justice once. Justice once, I'll give in and I'll be done with it But in Proverbs twenty-seven, verse twenty it says, Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, nor are the eyes of man ever satisfied. And do you know that the porn industry counts on this verse to be true for its very existence? That the eyes of men are never satisfied? In 2006, and who knows what it is today, in 2006, the total porn industry revenue was $13. 3 billion. In the U. S. alone, with more than 70% of men from 18 to 34 visiting pornographic sites in a typical month. $13 billion in that year was more than the NBA , MLB, and NFL combined. What they made combined. It was more than NBC, ABC, and CBS combined. And they can afford to give you free looks because they're counting on you to come back. again and again and again and when you've kind of consumed everything that's for free then you'll start paying for it. That's what they're counting on. We don't just give in once. We tell ourselves that, you know, we're not really hurting anybody. I'm not really hurting anybody if I just kind of sin in my mind. Who am I hurting? I'm not going to hurt anybody. But it's a lie. First of all, I don't know how you can think in a self-centered and self-indulgent manner and it not come out on the outside somehow. There's somehow that that's affecting you. If you're thinking in a self-centered, self-indulgent way, it's going to come out. It's going to affect other people around you. But even if you were able to convince yourself that, hey, it's all contained, it's all on the inside, you're still hurting yourself. 1 Corinthians 6 verse 18. Flee immorality. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the immoral man sins against his own body. And you also sin against the Spirit of God. In 1 Corinthians 6:19 it says, Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? In Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 30 it says, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. You grieve the Spirit of God, the one by whom you're sealed unto the day of redemption when you sin in your mind. You grieve the Spirit of God. Don't fool yourself by thinking that you're not hurting anybody. We don't just sin against a law from God. We sin against the love of God. Sin against the Spirit of God. And there's many other lies that we could go through, the lies that we tell ourselves. Become experts at telling ourselves lies. Experts at it. But Jesus reminds us that if we are to put the heart of adultery to death, we can't modify the meaning of adultery. Make ourselves kind of imagine that it's not really there, that we haven't really sinned in that way. We can't convince ourselves that our thoughts are just our own. Your thoughts are never your own. You belong to God, right? If you're a Christian here, you belong to God. Everything about you belongs to God. Your thoughts belong to God. Your thoughts aren't just your own. So we can't modify the meaning of adultery. Look again at verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight You have heard that it was said, You shall not commit adultery, but I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. The religious leaders of Jesus' day were not guilty of failing to teach against adultery. They taught against adultery. What the people heard was a direct quote from Old Testament scripture. Right here when he says, you shall not commit adultery, that's found in the Decalogue and Exodus chapter 20 and the Ten Commandments. The religious leaders didn't fail to teach against adultery. They just failed to teach enough about adultery. They didn't go far enough in their teaching against adultery. Often the Jewish sources treated adultery Not so much as the function of purity, but of more theft. Basically, you weren't allowed to steal another man's wife. That's basically how they thought about it You know, not committing adultery, it's not taking somebody else's wife. Uh Leon Morse writes this in the ancient world, generally, it was held that a married man could have sexual adventures as long as they did not involve the married woman. Which would mean violating the rights of her husband. A woman, however, was expected to have no such relations. She should be chaste before marriage and faithful after it. And how does that work? How does that work? A woman's supposed to be faithful before marriage and faithful in marriage, but men are allowed to kind of, you know, have their kind of sexual fantasies explored. As long as they didn't take somebody else's wife. And you kind of see the double standard that they held. We see the same kind of double standard in the the life of Judah. If you remember in our reading through the book of Genesis, we ran across uh Genesis chapter thirty-eight and I kind of told the parents to kind of watch out. Because we're going to be reading uh uh some things that are true uh that the Bible describes in Genesis chapter 38, describes uh the life of uh Judah. It says he ran across his daughter-in-law, Tamar, who is dressed like a harlot He seemed to have no reservations at all about approaching this harlot. Genesis 38, 16. He says, So he turned aside to her by the road and said, Here now, let me come into you. It's like, I mean, there's there's no reservation at all there Here now. Let me come into you. But when he found out that she was pregnant, that Tamar was pregnant later on, three months later, found out that Tamar was pregnant, all of a sudden his standards for purity were just on steroids. Verse 24 of chapter 38, only three months later, it says, Now it was about three months later that Judah was informed, your daughter-in-law Tamar has played the harlot. And behold, she is also with child by harlotry. Then Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. Let her be burned for harlotry, but you know, I'm I can escape free For committing the same act. What happened? It's a double standard. It was a double standard. And the same was true when his brothers found out that uh their sister Dinah was violated, if you remember that in our reading through through Genesis. They actually slaughtered an entire village. Genesis 34, verse 7, it says they were very angry because he had done a disgraceful thing in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter for such a thing. Ought not to be done. This ought not to be done. But yet Judah is just kind of plain loose and free. How did that work? It's a double standard. And when the people of Jesus' day heard, thou shalt not commit adultery, They would have assumed a low view of God's command, a low view of it. And what Jesus does is he picks up the command and he he puts it back up high where it belonged in the first place. The command that had been pulled down by their traditions, he puts it back up where God intended it to be. Adultery was more than just the physical act. More than just the physical act. It even extended to the thoughts. That was the intent of God's command. And adultery was more than just the violation of another man's wife. It was after any woman in general. Any man after any woman in general. And if you are to put the heart of adultery to death, you can't modify the meaning of adultery. And that's what we looked at last time. This time we're going to look at verses 29 to 30. If you are to put the heart of adultery to death, You cannot minimize the magnitude of adultery. Look at verses 29 and 30 again. It says, if your right eye makes you stumble, Tear it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. And these are serious words. And they would have been just as shocking to the people who heard Jesus utter them as they are to us today. And uh there are several features here that Jesus uses to make sure that we understand just how serious he is about this. Uh first of all, Jesus repeats himself. He repeats himself. It would have been enough to just give us the illustration about plucking out the eye in verse 29. But then he turns around and gives us the illustration about cutting off the hand and using the same words. Exact same words. When Jewish speakers stated something twice, it was their way of putting an exclamation point at the end of their sentence. I mean this is serious. This is something I want you to pay attention to. Often Jesus, uh if you remember, he'll use uh like a the double amen, amen, amen, or truly, truly, verily, verily. It's kind of like him putting that exclamation point on what he's about to say. And he'd often put it before statements instead of after, just to say, hey, before I even say it, I just want to let you know it's very true. Truly, truly. Amen, amen. And here Jesus repeats himself. Verse 29 and 30, tear it out and throw it from you. It's better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off, throw it from you. It's better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. He repeats himself. And there's this exceedingly solemn and stately, something exceedingly solemn and stately in the repetition here. It's a serious, serious word. Jesus also uses a treasured member of the body for his illustration. I mean what day goes by where you're you don't make use of your eye or your hand, right? I mean you use this every day. It'll be one thing if you picked a part of the body that you you know you could do without. It's not like he says, you know, uh you might miss a tooth and you'll get over it in a while, right? It's it's the these vital parts of your your body, the much-needed members of the body that would be missed every day. That's what he uses for as illustration. And next, he also uses the favored side of the body, which is kind of interesting. Just as it is true today, it was true back then that the majority of people were right-handed. Uh think about I think the the the statisti statistic that I read was about maybe seven to nine percent of the people today might be left-handed, you know, a few uh number compared to the majority that are right-handed. In scripture, the right hand was the stronger of the two hands. It was considered the stronger of the two. It was considered the hand of power. Often in the uh scriptures, we'll read statements like this, like in Psalm 118. Verse 16, it says, the right hand of the Lord is exalted. The right hand of the Lord does valiantly. You know, this hand of hat hand of power, the side of power. The right side was also considered the side of favor or of blessing. In Psalm 110 in verse 1, it says, The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The right hand was a place of blessing, of favor So to remove the right eye or the right hand was to remove the very best that you had to offer. The very best. Josephus actually speaks of of the king who put out the right eyes of his defeated of the defeated warriors. You know, the the the enemy warriors he put out the right eye uh because it it left them handicapped and utterly unserviceable They'd hold their their shield in their left hand, you know, hold the sword in their right, the shield in the left hand, and they'd actually cover over their left eye. So the right eye was the only one exposed. If the right eye's out, you're blind. You can't do anything. How can I fight? How can I defend myself? They were done. So the the the a king would actually take out the right eyes of the defeated enemy just to make sure they can't come back and try to defeat him later on. They were done. Lost my right eye. And Jesus uses that side of the body for this illustration. Pluck out your right eye. Cut off your right hand. Jesus also speaks of dismemberment rather than disfigurement. It would be one thing to speak of disabling or disfiguring a member, but what Jesus speaks of here is a clean break from it. And to further clarify his point, he doesn't just say pluck it out or cut it off. He says, pluck it out and throw it from you. Cut it off and throw it from you. I mean, what good is a dismembered part of your body going to do? None. But he says, throw it from you. Cut it off and throw it from you. Just to make sure there's no thought of reattaching this dismembered part sometime in the future, you cut it off and get rid of it. And to show how serious he was, he pictures hell as the alternative. Hell's the alternative. It's better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. Hell is described in Scripture as a fearful place of fiery torment. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 22, it calls it the fiery hell. It's a place where God destroys both body and soul forever, according to Matthew chapter ten and verse twenty-eight. It says, Do not fear those who kill the body but are unable to kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. It's a place where the fire is not quenched and the worm does not die. In Mark chapter 9, verses 43 and 44, it's as if you're Hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than having your two hands to go into hell into the unquenchable fire, where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. And if it was true that you could avoid sin and thus avoid hell by plucking out an eye or cutting off a hand, believe me, it would be worth it. It would be worth it. If you could avoid hell by plucking out an eye, better pluck out your eye and avoid hell. You'll get over a plucked-out eye. You'll never get over hell. Unquenchable fire. I found this report dated in October 3, 2011, says churchgoers were left stunned after a man tore out both his eyes in the middle of a pre-sermon. at Sunday Mass in a scene that resembled a horror film. Parish parishioners in Via Reggio, near pizza in northern Italy, could only watch as one of their number calmly stood up and carried out the horrific self mutilation in front of them. Aldo Bionnici, 46, who is born in Britain but has lived in Italy most of his life, is believed to have suffered from voices, voices in his head. He collapsed to the floor in a pool of blood as his mother frantically tried to help him while the local priest, Father Lorenzo, rushed out to alert emergency services. The drama happened at Sant Andrea Church and last night surgeons at the local hospital said that after several hours surgery, they had been unable to save a site and he would remain blind. Terrific. Terrific. But as horrific as that tragedy is, it pales in comparison to the horrors of hell. Hell is worse than that. And if it was true that removing an eye or cutting off a limb could rescue us from the eternal flames, we should follow the voices in Aldo 's head. If that's the way to avoid hell. But the reality is, is that that's not the solution. It's not the solution. And the interpreters of scripture throughout the centuries have understood that that's not the solution. William Tyndale, who was the first to uh produce a printed copy of the New Testament in English, we talked about him a little last week. He was greatly criticized for circulating the scriptures, and one of the objections that he received to the New Testament was that the simple reader might mistakenly take such language literally and pluck out his eyes. And uh one Catholic friar said this, the whole realm will be full of blind men to the great decay of the nation and the manifest loss of the King's grace, and thus by reading of the Holy Scriptures will the whole realm come into confusion. Tyndale was defended by Key Lam Latimer, who said this, simple people are well able to distinguish between literal and figurative terms. You know, don't worry about the scriptures, okay? Let the scriptures loose and let them speak, right? Don't worry about the scriptures. Simple people can understand the difference between literal and figurative. And there's good reason to take what Jesus says here as figurative because of the context. The context itself Where does Jesus say adultery is committed in verse 28? Look at verse 28. Where does he say it's committed? It's in the heart. It's in the heart. It's not the eye. It's not the hand. It's in the heart where this takes place. Flip over to Matthew chapter 15. Matthew chapter fifteen, look at uh verse seventeen In the context here, Jesus and his disciples are being accused of breaking the law because they ate without washing their hands ceremonially. Uh it was uh merely a law of men, not a law of the scriptures, and uh these religious leaders weren't concerned about cleanliness. You know, they wanted them to follow these religious rites and do things the way that they wanted them done. Verse 17 in uh chapter 15 it says this, do you not understand that everything that goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is eliminated? But the things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and those defile the man. For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slanders These are the things which defile the man, but to eat with unwashed hands does not defile the man. Jesus makes that interesting point that it's out of the heart that adulteries and fornications come. It's not from the hands, it's not from the eyes. It's from what's on the inside. Adultery is not first committed in the eyes or the hands, but in the heart. So the solution for sexual impurity cannot merely be external because the cause isn't external. It's inside. It's inside. Even Origen, who was so convicted by a sinfulness that he castrated himself, he later said that the believer amputates the passions of the soul without touching the body. It's an internal job. It's an inside job. So the solution for an adulterous heart is not blindness. Ray Charles didn't have control over his passions because he couldn't see. Oscar Pistorius, who had both of his legs amputated when he was 11 months old, was no more in control of his passions when he shot his girlfriend, right? Amputees don't have a greater shot at holiness than the rest of us. The problem is deeper than that. Amputation isn't radical enough. The problem is our sinful hearts. It's in the inner man. And the reality of the new birth is really what lies behind this command. You need a heart transplant. You need a heart change. You need a new heart. And this is what was promised in the new covenant, the reality of the new birth. And those that have been born again. Those that have been born again are equipped with the power to resist the onslaught of temptations. Flip over to Colossians chapter 3, because uh Paul there he speaks in a in a similar way about dealing with sexual sin. in a radical way. Colossians chapter 3. Look what he says in verses 5 to 7 there. It says, Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead, to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry For it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience, and in them you also once walked. Kind of reflects back on first Corinthians six that we read. a little earlier uh this morning that we some once were some of you. Such were some of you were past sense. And in them you also once walked, used to walk like this, when you were living in them. And what Paul assumes here in chapter 3, in verses 5 to 7, is everything that he just read, just stated in verses 1 through 4. Everything in verses 1 through 4 has to be true about you, if 5 through 7 is going to be a reality for you. Okay? Everything in verses 1 through 4 has to be a reality. Look at verse 1. Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, Keep seeking the things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things of the earth. You've been raised up with Christ. It's a reference to spiritual life All those who have trusted in Jesus Christ for salvation, who've repented of their sins, have been given new spiritual life. And according to Colossians 2:12, we are raised up with him through faith. In the working of God who raised him from the dead. It's through faith, trusting in Jesus Christ, his life, death, resurrection, repentance, turning to him That we are given new life. We breathe spiritually. We're given spiritual breath. Our hearts beat for the first time when we trust in Jesus Christ. And we're given an ability to respond and relate to God in a way that was impossible for us before. Paul's also assuming that verse three is true about you. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. This is a reference to our old self apart from A relationship with Jesus Christ. It's died. We've been given a new life. Colossians 1. 21 says you were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. And that that this was our manner of life before we trusted in Christ. But upon conversion, the very life of Christ becomes your life. You've been given a new spiritual life. Paul's also verse 4 is true. about you that when Christ who is our life is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. So Paul here in Colossians 3 is writing to people who have their true life in Jesus Christ. Seeking the things that are above, setting their minds on things that are above, and their life is not restricted to just what's here on this present earth. And if that's true of you, then verse 5 can be true of you You can consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, greed, which amounts to idolatry. You can conquer the temptations that Vie for our affections. And any attempt to come under the authority of Scripture apart from a relationship with Jesus Christ will be frustrating. And it's going to be wrongly motivated because it's either going to be by desire to please men or to appease God, and both are condemned. Both are condemned. It's only in Christ that we find hope. We have a new life in Christ, and that's part of what Jesus is pointing his disciples towards. This new life, they needed a new heart. But a new heart doesn't eliminate the struggle that we as Christians face, right? It doesn't eliminate the struggle. Victory doesn't come easy for Christians. And while it's true that we've died to the old self, It's also true that the old self has not necessarily died to us. We've died to the old self, but the old self hasn't necessarily died to us. So that's why the Bible can say things like, You have died to sin. But then it can turn around and say, put sin to death. How can both be true? You've died to sin, but put sin to death. In other words, it's uh you can say it like this, it's like, you know, just because I've broken a contract you know, with uh somebody that I was uh had service for doesn't keep them from sending their advertisements to my mailbox, right? I could all I could be done with the service. I'm done with you, right? But it doesn't mean that they're done with me. They can keep sending their advertisements, hey, we've got this deal. Hey, we've gotten $9. 99. You know, sign up now. You know, it doesn't stop sin from coming to your door and knocking. Just because you've died to sin doesn't mean that it doesn't stop coming to you. And this is what happens: the relationship between us doesn't exist. We're dead to sin, but still we have to put it to death because it keeps coming back. We still deal with indwelling sin. And what Jesus is doing in Matthew is he's pointing his disciples toward a radical, radical amputation of sin in their lives wherever it creeps up. Wherever it creeps up. Sometimes people uh talk about the the commands of of God as only as if you know uh they're just giving you a standard that you can't you can't meet. You know, hey, you can't meet the standard and you know just kind of be done with it. You know, trust in God and just kinda kinda live on. But the the reality is that the standards are given to us to strive for, right? On one side it's given to us to convict us of sin, to reach for Christ, but on the other side it's saying, hey, but this is still the standard of God. This is still how you're supposed to live. And the commands were pointed to Christ as a Savior who achieved perfect righteousness in our place, that's true. But we're not only pointed to Christ as our Savior, we're also pointed to Christ as our what? As our Lord. And he gives us commands that we're to obey, we're to strive, to follow after Christ. So the Lord gives the standard of righteousness, and he says, you're commanded to strive for by my grace. You're still commanded to strive for this. The standard hasn't lowered. I'm not lowering the standard. This is still what you're to strive for. You're still to obey, but you strive for it in the grace of God. So here's the question. How do you deal with the things that stumble you? How do you deal with the things that stumble you? The word stumble, uh back in uh Matthew chapter five, it's the the word scandalizo. In Greek, the the noun form was the uh a description of the the trigger of a net or the the stick uh that an animal triggered that to cause a trap to fall down on them. Uh some of you have seen that, you know, maybe like the the bikes that's held up by a stick and a little rope that you pull and trap the animal underneath. That that stick was called the the the scandalon, the the noun form of scandalon. It was the the the the the what triggered the trap And if you're struggling with sexual sin, what is it that triggers that trap for you? What is it that triggers that trap for you? Are you dealing radically with that? Not because the thing in and of itself makes you sin, but rather because it provides your heart the opportunity to fuel your sin. Flip over to Romans 13. Too often we uh allow our freedoms and liberties to enslave us. Uh Paul in 1 Corinthians 6. 12 he says, All things are lawful for me, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. And too often we make excuses for our sins and liberties. to cover up for our sinful desires. Another verse is 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 16 where it says, act as free men and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil or as a cloak for evil to cover it up. You know, I've got liberty. I've got freedom. I'm free in Christ, brother. I've got liberties. But you're secretly using that as a cover-up so you can explore your sinful uh heart's desire. Look at what uh Paul says over in Romans chapter 13. Sorry, verse 12. It says the night is almost gone and the day is near. Therefore, let us lay aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us behave properly, as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality. Not in strife and jealousy. Look at verse 14. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lust. Make no provision for the flesh. The Greek word there is pran. Pra noia. Literally it means to think ahead. To think ahead. It's when we we purposefully set ourselves up to make it easier for ourselves to sin in the future. I'm gonna kind of stash away like, you know, something for the for the future. You know, like a little squirrel, you know, you've got to stash away a couple nuts just in case it gets cold during the winter, right? It's like when you stash away something for yourself, you reserve something for yourself because you want to indulge in it later. It's when we uh purposefully stay behind in the house when we should be out with the family. It's when we uh place the computer at an angle where nobody else can see. When we bring our smartphones to the bathroom with us behind the closed door? When we keep the TV remote nearby when we should put it away? When we purposefully walk near the corner when we know what's around the corner? Remember the Proverb, Proverbs 7? Look at verse, uh, I'll go ahead and read it for you. Proverbs 7, starting at verse 6. It says, For at the window of my house I looked out through my lattice. And I saw among the naive and discerned among the youths a young man lacking sense, passing through the street near her corner, and he takes the way to her house. In the twilight, in the evening, in the middle of the night, and in the darkness. And behold, a woman comes out to meet meet him, dressed as a harlot and cunning of the heart. How did she get here? You were on the corner in the way at twilight. It's getting dark and whoo, how did she come out here? Passed by her corner, took the way near her house. Why? Because he knew that she might come out. He's hoping that she comes out. Didn't it catch him by surprise? He knew who lived there. And while he lacked sense, he sure thought ahead, didn't he? He thought ahead, making provision for his flesh. Maybe, just maybe. And even though the man is the focus here is the one who's often susceptible to uh visual stimulation, women aren't free from conviction. It's been uh said that if men are tempted to view pornography, that women are more tempted to display it. Arthur Pink observes this. He says, now, if that is true of you, that Actually, hold on. He says this. He says, if lustful looking is so grievous a sin, then those who dress and expose themselves with the desire to be looked at and lusted after are not less, but perhaps more guilty. In this matter is not only too often the case that men sin, but women tempt them to do so. How great then must be the guilt of the great majority of modern missus who deliberately seek to arouse the sexual passions of young men And how much greater still is the guilt of most of their mothers for allowing them to become lascivious temptresses? That was written in nineteen seventy-four. You can only imagine what he'd say today, right And often where men fall for looking after women, the women fall in imagining, right? That's why those paperback romance novels still sell. It's the imagination. It's the imagination. Calvin says this, you have no right to object to me that you can scarcely turn your eyes in any direction. without being suddenly drawn away by some temptation, for you ought rather to part with your eyes than to depart from the commandments of God. Whatever hinders us from yielding that obedience to God which He requires ought to be cut off And basically what he's saying is that if plucking out your eyes could really help it help help you from sinning, could stop you from sinning, how much more worth it is for the lesser things? The lesser things. If the lusting heart is known by its self-centeredness and self-indulgence, then the trusting heart is known by its self-denial. Right? It's better to cut out a bad appendix than to die of gangrene. It's better to suffer the loss of one member than to suffer the loss of all. In 2003, the world was gripped by Ralston's true to life story. He didn't immense words about the 127 hours he spent trapped in Blue John Canyon in the deep red rock country of southeastern Utah. The bottom of a lot of canyon is a very intimate place, he said. It was about a hundred feet down in a canyon about three feet wide, seven miles away from my car, and thirty miles from the nearest paved road. The sky wasn't even visible, all that I could see was the light bouncing off the old sandstone. When he set loose an eight hundred pound boulder that was wedged between the two walls of the canyon, causing it to pin his right arm between the boulder and the canyon wall. He knew he was in deep, deep trouble. Up until that moment, the most extreme pain I'd ever felt in my life was when I smashed my fingers in the door when I was a child, he said. That pain became a zero compared to this. And the pain with every beat of my heart, Ralston's right hand and forearm, three inches thick, were compressed into a space one inch thick under a boulder that weighed six times as much as he did. He was trapped. He spent the next many hours trying everything he could to move the boulder, causing his climbing ropes, his webbing to make slings, trying to figure out a way to move it. It didn't. He chipped at the stone with his Dull mul multi-tool knife, getting an inch of rock removed in fifteen hours. He would die before that worked. I knew right away that one option was to cut off my arm, and on the third day I tried. But when I hit the bone the knife wouldn't go through, I was stuck. Now at the bottom of the remote slot canyon, a place where only a few people a month might visit, he began to prepare for death. He brought a video camera and recorded his last full and testament. He spoke to his mother, his father, his beloved sister Sophie, telling them how much he loved them. He drank the last of his water slowly, he ate the last of his food, he shivered convulsively through the cold nine hour nights, standing up the whole time pinned to the wall like a butterfly, wings clipped. Whenever he almost fell asleep, the pain woke him up On the fifth day, though, he gave up. I surrendered. I'd been trapped for 120 hours. I knew I wasn't going to make it through that night. He carved a rough epitaph in the stone, the date, his name, it was April 30th, 2003. At midnight he was still alive. The epitaph was wrong. It bugged his precise mind, but he decided to let it go. Then something happened that changed everything. In the morning of the sixth day the light bulb struck, a solution he later would say his mechanical engineer's mind should have thought of sinner. I couldn't cut through the bone in my arm, but I could break it, he said. So he did leveraging the arm against the rock, snapping it Well maybe it wasn't that simple. I forgot there are two boon bones in the arm, so I broke that one too. He said he cut through the remaining flesh and left his forearm and hand trapped beneath the boulder. It was, he said, horrific and beautiful all at once. When it was done, just for one moment, I knew what life was like without limitations. I was going to get out. I was free. I was free. When did you want to experience that kind of freedom from sexual sin? This is what our Lord offers to us with a new life, a new heart. And if I were to to boil down all the advice that's that's helped me, could boil it down to five things. Five things to unlock the the prison cell of of sexual sin. You can uh write these down if you You choose to. Number one, fix your heart on God's Son. Fix your heart on God's Son. In uh Colossians chapter 3, which we read a little bit earlier. Really focuses attention back on Jesus Christ, doesn't it? Verse 1, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above. Not on things that are on the earth you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ and God. Jesus Christ is your life. He's your treasure. We sang about that earlier, right? Fix your attention, fix your heart on God's Son. Number two, meditate on God's word. Meditate on God's word. Psalm 119, verse 11, it says, Thy word I have treasured in my heart that I might not what? Sin. Focus your attention. Meditate on God's word. Number three, bring your petition to God's throne. Bring your petition to God's throne. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16 says, Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help. In time of need. Bring your petition to God's throne. Luke 22, 40 says, pray that you may not enter into temptation. Pray. Pray. Number four, rely on on God's strength. Rely on on God's strength. In uh Colossians uh chapter three Verse 5, where it talks about considering the members of your earthly body as dead, it all goes back to the strength of God. It's not on your own strength that you do that. And uh 2 Timothy chapter 2 verse 22 says, Now flee you full less and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. Again, it's relying on the strength of God. Don't do it in your own strength. Rely on God. And number five, seek help from from God's people. Seek help from God's people. In Hebrews 1024, what does it say? And let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and to good deeds. Rely on the body. Struggling with something, acknowledge it. Open up. Confess. Say, somebody help, please. We don't want to expose ourselves, and it's often because we don't want the accountability. We're like the little squirrel trying to stash something away for the future. I can handle it on my own all the while stashing it away so you can indulge in it in the future. And how much better to expose yourself and confess your sin rather than be caught in it, right? Don't don't hide. Don't hide And these are just some of the ways that we can deal seriously with our sins and experience the grace of God I was free. I was free. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. We thank you for the encouragement that it gives us. Thank you for the hope that we have in our relationship with Jesus Christ, that Christ hasn't come only to forgive us of our sins, but also to do away with our sins. That we can grow, that there's a promise of growth in Christ, that your word sanctifies us. And Father, we pray that we would be sanctified in your truth. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.