The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, glad so many of you could uh make it here, and I know some of you brought your family uh here with you, so that's uh good to good to see and uh good to have you here with us as well, and we want to welcome you here to the uh first annual BBC Christmas Eve service and uh we say first annual in uh in faith because uh we have no idea where we're gonna be next year, Christmas Eve, but uh we're trusting God that uh he'll allow us uh a chance to to get together. But uh it's a great privilege to invite you to open up your Bibles if you have them. Uh we're going to take a look at uh the Christmas story from uh Matthew chapter 1, uh verses 18 down to 25. Uh Matthew chapter 1, 18 down to 25. And uh I'll go ahead and and read it for you. Matthew chapter one. It says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly. But when he had considered this, behold an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife For the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh just being able to consider again uh the birth, the entrance of Emmanuel, God with us. Father, we thank you that you've given us exactly who we needed. You've given us a Savior. You've given us the one who was God in the flesh, the one who came to be the Savior of all men who would trust and believe in Him. And uh Father, I pray that as we consider again uh his entrance into this world, Father, that you would just fill us again with wonder and awe, uh as we've sung it a little bit earlier, that that you're the one who can perform the glorious and possible. Things that are impossible, absolutely impossible for men, are within your power, within your control. And Father, it's just another reason to give glory and praise to you. Father, may we do that. During the season, may we talk to others about that during the season. May we proclaim you, maybe glorify you. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, it's been said that uh belief in uh Jesus Christ in his in his life, death, resurrection has transformed and even redirected world empires, cultures, and and people. Without question, uh the life of Jesus Christ was the most unique uh life and significant life in all of human history. A couple years ago, Time magazine uh uh put out an article where they you know tried to list the the top one hundred people in world history. You know, who are the top one hundred most significant people? Enrolled history and uh Jesus Christ topped the list, but we didn't need Time Magazine to tell us that, right? Uh we understand that from scripture Um there's a an essay called The Incomparable Christ. I love the words of this. The author says he never wrote a book, and yet all the libraries of the country could not hold the books that have been written about him. Speaking of Jesus. He never wrote a song, and yet he has furnished a theme for more songs than all the songwriters combined. He never founded a college, but all the schools put together cannot boast of having more students. He never marshaled an army nor drafted a soldier or fired a gun, yet no leader ever had more volunteers who have, under his orders, made more rebels stack their arms and surrender without a shot fired. Herod could not destroy him, the grave could not hold him, proclaimed as God, acknowledged by angels, adored by saints, and feared by devils. This is the incomparable Christ. This is the the Jesus that we worship and and serve during the season. And the Bible records a a number of miraculous births. There's a there's a number of miraculous births in the Bible, but Jesus' birth stands alone. in human history. Uh Jesus' birth wasn't the only miraculous birth. There were others other miraculous births in uh in scripture, if you remember Abraham, uh Abraham and his wife Sarah, they were uh uh Sarah was 90 and Abraham was a hundred, uh even maybe maybe a little bit more than a hundred. But according to uh to Genesis chapter 21, uh Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age. Uh that in uh uh other parts of scripture it actually talks about uh uh her womb womb being as good as dead But still the Lord was able to produce the impossible. As the uh Lord said in uh Genesis 21 and verse 14, you have those uh those uh uh visitors that came to to visit Abram and and Sarai there. And uh one of the visitors said, Is anything too difficult for the Lord? You know, Sarah's laughing, you know, how how can this be be possible? And uh, you know, one of the visitors said, Is anything too difficult for the Lord? There's nothing that's impossible with God. I mean, look at who you're talking about here. You're talking about God, there's nothing impossible. with God. There's another number of other births where uh people were barren, but when you have uh the uh the the birth of of Jesus Christ, it's separated out from from all of these births. You know, all the the births that seem to be utterly impossible. Uh you could kind of explain maybe two old people having a baby. There's no way you can explain. A virgin having a baby. There's just absolutely no way you could explain that. And I like what D. A. Carson said. He says there should be no difficulty in believing that God is capable of intervening miraculously in what belongs to him. The the the universe belongs to God. You know what what what difference does it make what God does with this universe? He can do anything. I mean he started it all right. Spoke it all into existence. What's the what's the big deal with God being able to create life in the womb of of Mary. And this is exactly uh what God did. And there's four truths in Matthew chapter one about the virgin birth that makes his birth utterly unique. And uh oh we'll just walk through these here. It's uh presented by Mary, proclaimed by an angel. Predicted by the Scriptures and preserved by Joseph. First of all, it's presented by Mary. If you look at verses 18 and 19 again, it says, Now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows, when his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph. Before they came together she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit, and Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly. And uh this passage here introduces us to Joseph and Mary. Um this is uh they were betrothed, which is different from what we think about as engagement today. Um like our engagement today, betrothal was a a time where the the couple was preparing themselves for marriage. They committed themselves to one another just as you know in our engagements. But betrothal was different than engagement because in a betrothal it was a a legal arrangement You couldn't get out of being betrothed unless it was, you know, through a legal means. If if uh a couple was betrothed to one another, if one of those Um members died, if if one of the the the the partners died, they were actually considered a widow. You know, even during betrothal, they would be considered a a widow. And if they were unfaithful during this period of betrothal uh it was considered adultery. You know, the same as marriage. So so betrothal was actually like the first step or the first stage and marriage. And uh according to to scripture, uh Deuteronomy uh chapter uh believe it's in chapter uh twenty twenty-four is is where it's found in Deuteronomy chapter twenty-four uh lets us know about uh uh the the means for divorce and actually talks about uh when a couple with was betrothed to one another, if uh one was found to be unfaithful, they could actually be executed. uh because it was considered a a crime. So when Mary is found with child during this time, it wasn't just uh like shameful for Mary. This is actually dangerous for Mary. to be uh found with child during this this time. It was uh taking on shame and disgrace to herself and actually taking on danger uh to herself. During this time they they didn't execute people anymore uh for uh uh committing adultery against their uh spouses. This was uh you know, something that was under Levitical law. But uh Joseph still had the right to drag Mary, you know, through this kind of public shame you know, in trial before, you know, everybody, you know, that would have uh uh seen it, she would have received a harsh penalty uh for what she she had done and been marred for the rest of her life. You know, Joseph could have gone that route, uh, but instead Joseph decided to put her way quietly. He had uh compassion uh for Mary and uh Putting away privately he didn't even need to give a reason for the divorce. It was just, you know, uh uh there was a a legal uh uh allowance for writing a bill of divorce, all he needed was two witnesses. You know, just tell him that, you know, I want to put her away, you know, and uh kind of sign it into law and that it would have been been done. Uh but as a as a compassionate man he says that, you know, I'll just put her away quietly instead of bringing her through this kind of public mocking and a in a trial But this was the last thing that he would have expected from from Mary. You know, Mary was a was a righteous uh girl. Uh she was uh somebody that he had committed himself to in in faithfulness, and uh and here Mary presents is presented as uh with child by the the Holy Spirit and and Joseph uh plans to send her away secretly. So that's the the first section here. The the the the birth is presented by by Mary But secondly, the virgin birth of the king is also proclaimed by an angel. Look at verses twenty and twenty-one. It says, But when he had considered this Behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She'll bear a son and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And uh Throughout the uh uh the the birth of of Jesus Christ you have angels showing up all over the place. You have uh angels that you know proclaim this uh announcement to the uh uh to the shepherds, you have angels that, you know, pronounce the birth to to Mary. You have uh angels that, you know, pronounce the birth of John the Baptist who would herald the king. Uh so you have angels just kind of showing up all over the place, which is One of the ways that uh God was indicating that this is a special birth, this is a unique kind of birth with all these angels that show up. And here the angels show up to Joseph and the the first thing that they They say to uh to Joseph, and the way that they address him is uh Joseph, son of David, son of David. And uh that was significant because Right here, the angel is uh letting him know that he's actually an integral piece of the messianic puzzle. You know, because uh through Mary, uh Jesus had the physical lineage to David. But it was through Joseph that he would have received the legal lineage to David. He wouldn't have had the right to rule if he was just born of Mary. In order to have the right to rule, he had to also be uh legally adopted by Joseph. And that's why Joseph was an integral part of this uh Christmas story. Uh marriage had to become uh legal and publicly recognized. in order for the kids, the children, uh to receive the the the a legitimate line through their their father. So if Joseph didn't actually marry, Mary Jesus wouldn't have been received as a legitimate child, and uh he wouldn't have been registered and and uh had the legal right to rule and to assume the the the role of uh or the the the rule of his uh father David So here we have uh Joseph as this this kind of part of the story, and it's declared by an angel that that he should go ahead and take Mary as his wife, and uh he would have needed this kind of confirmation in order to to go ahead with this because uh by all the looks of it, you know, Mary's been unfaithful, but it's the angel that vindicated Mary as uh somebody who was holy and uh also saying that the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. This is going to be a a holy child. And that's what the angel came to uh to confirm to Joseph, to take her as your wife. What's been conceived of in in her is holy, it's a holy child, and it's been conceived of the Holy Spirit. And this son, this one who's going to be born He's going to be the one who's going to save his people from their sins. This is going to be a unique birth. The third thing, it was also predicted by the scriptures, if you look at verses 22 and 23. It says, now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Matthew, throughout the book of Matthew, really, but Matthew is really concerned that the people that hear the story about Jesus Christ understand that it's not disconnected from the rest of Scripture. It's not disconnected from the the the rest of uh of the of the scriptures. The Christian message is not some some kind of detached message from everything that came before it. It was actually prophesied by the Old Testament uh scriptures in Matthew here Primarily writing to a Jew Jewish audience uh who would have revered the Old Testament scriptures. He wanted them to know that that everything that you're hearing from me was actually prophesied. It was predicted by the Old Testament. If the Messiah is not who the Old Testament predicted him to be, then he's no Messiah. He he's he's he's a a a false claimant to the throne. He he doesn't deserve the right to rule. And uh throughout the scriptures we're told that the kind of birth that the people should have expected, you know, for the Messiah uh was to be this this miraculous, unique kind of birth. Uh if you flip over to Genesis chapter three, uh over in Genesis chapter three you have uh what's been known as the the first mention of the gospel, the first proclamation of the gospel in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 13. 15, I'm sorry. Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. You have God here speaking prophetically about what would take place in the future. I'll start at verse 14. It says, The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this. Cursed are you more than all the cattle, more than every beast of the field, on your belly. You will go, you'll eat the dust of the earth all the days of your life, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed He shall bruise you on the head and you shall bruise him on the heel. And uh we've read past that before, you know, talking about this uh enmity that's going to exist between the seed of the woman and the the the um uh and and the serpent, the seed of the the serpent. And uh, you know, he shall bruise you on the head, speaking about um uh the the kind of final blow that Christ would give to to Satan, and you shall bruise him on the hill, speaking of the temporary death. But what you uh might not have picked out of there is uh it talks about between your seed and her seed. Throughout scriptures you never have uh the seed of the woman reference. You always have the seed of the man. You know, the it's through the man that the seed comes. But here you have the woman speaking about the the woman seed. Unique in all the scripture. It was uh it it was it was predicting that the the birth of Jesus Christ, the birth of this one who was going to come to be this deliverer. It's going to be a unique kind of birth. It's not through the man's seed, it's through her seed. Unique. Nowhere else spoken of in that way. Over in uh Psalm chapter two. Uh Psalm chapter two also talks about the one who's coming to conquer, the one who's coming to rule. And Psalm chapter 2 talks about the the king who's coming. In verse 4 of Psalm 2, it says, He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord scoffs at them, then he will speak to them in his anger and terrify them in his fury, saying, But as for me, I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. I have begotten you. Where else does it talk about a man being begotten by God? Nowhere else. It was it was like kind of this anticipation that they should have had that whoever this king is who's coming, whoever the seed is who's coming This is going to be a a miraculous, unique kind of entrance into the world. This is the one who's begotten by God. And uh and then you have in uh Isaiah chapter nine, which we often read. We actually read it uh this past Sunday at church. Isaiah chapter 9, where it also talks about this one who is to come, this one who's to rule. Talks about uh the child who will be born to us, Isaiah chapter 9 and verse 6 Since for a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, the government will rest on his shoulders, his name will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it, to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. It talks about this child who will be born to us, a son who will be given to us, a son who's given to us. And then it piles on these titles. You know, for who this the son is. Wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal father, prince of peace. This is a son like no other. And there should have been some anticipation that whoever this is, his birth is not going to be like anybody else's birth. It's not going to be like anybody else. He's the seed of the woman. He's begotten of God, who's the son, who's given, who can claim all of these titles for himself. This is unique. And then uh if you flip back a couple chapters in uh chapter seven of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter seven and verse fourteen, it says, Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin will be with child and bear a son, and she will call his name Emmanuel, which being translated as what? God with us. God with us. Whoever this son was was going to be utterly unique. Nobody else like him. And the the revelation of God, even from the Old Testament, anticipated the birth of this son. And what Matthew is doing in his his record Uh back in uh Matthew chapter uh uh chapter one, what he's doing is he's he's showing that the the people, uh the the Jewish people of his day, that This birth of Messiah, it was already predicted in the Old Testament. You should have expected this. You should have expected that this birth would be unique, like no other birth. And he goes on to to to prove from the Old Testament scriptures that that the the scriptures already predicted and prophesied that this is the way that the Messiah would come. The virgin shall be with child, and they shall call his name Emmanuel which is God with us. It was already predicted. uh birth and the the ultimate fulfillment of uh of Christ fulfilled all of uh the old testament passages uh relating uh to who he was. And then finally have it His uh virgin birth being preserved by Joseph as well. Verses 24 and 25. It says, and Joseph awoke from asleep, did as the angel of the Lord commanded him Took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. So here you have Joseph, who's obedient to the heavenly vision, did exactly what he was commanded to do Took Mary as his wife, so now Jesus is legally um in the line of of uh of David. Made sure that uh he also preserved her integrity. the integrity of the of the birth by uh keeping her a virgin until she gave birth to Jesus, so it was not just a a virgin conception, it was also a virgin birth. The virgin shall be with child and deliver a son. So it's the virgin who actually uh bore and uh and uh delivered the son Jesus. She was a virgin when she uh delivered Jesus Christ. And called his name Jesus, just as the angel told him to. Because he'll save his people from their sins. Call his name Jesus. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And Joseph followed through and did exactly as the angel commanded him to and called this child Jesus. And he might have missed this in the angel's pronouncement, and uh I I know at times when I've read this before that I missed the significance of this. But you have uh the the name Jesus, right? Everybody knows what the name Jesus means, right? What does Jesus mean? The Lord saves, right? The Lord saves. Jehovah saves, God saves. And then he says, uh, look at verse 21 again, it says, She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for who will save? He will save. What does Jesus mean? God will save. But then the angel says you shall call him this because who who's going to save? He's going to save. So who is the angel saying that Jesus is? God. And this is exactly as as Joseph called his son Jesus. He had this in the back of his mind. The angel told me to call him Jesus because he is going to save his people from their sins. He's calling Jesus God. From his birth, Jesus was God. And he preserved the integrity of this miraculous birth by keeping Mary a virgin until she delivered her son. And here you have Jesus coming to save, and there are many who expected Jesus to be some kind of political deliverer. From their physical enemies, their physical oppressors, but Jesus was born, first of all, to be a a spiritual deliverer. And the the enemy that all of us have is is sin. Uh the people of of their time they had that enemy of sin and we have that same enemy today. Uh sometimes when uh people talk about uh you know, sometimes we kind of throw around that term, you know, I'm saved, I'm saved, and sometimes people don't understand, you know, well, what are you saved from? You know, what are we saved from? Romans chapter 5, verse 9 says this. It says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. We saved from the wrath of God. What are we saved from? We're saved from the wrath of God because of our sins. It's our sins that make us deserving of the wrath of God. And Jesus Christ came to save us from our sins, so that we wouldn't have to endure the wrath of God. That's why Jesus Christ came. And the only place of safety is found in Jesus Christ. And all who trust in Jesus are rescued from the wrath of God. They're justified. That word justified means to be declared innocent, to be declared righteous in the sight of God. And that's the salvation that Jesus Christ came to deliver. He will save. Nobody else is able to do it, right? Only God, only God in the human flesh is able to do this. He will save his people. All that God sovereignly draws to himself is who God came to save. And what is he saving them from? He's saving them from their sins. Because of our sins we deserve the wrath of God. And Jesus Christ came in to take the wrath of God on himself. That was the purpose of the cross, that Jesus Christ would take upon himself the wrath of God and be able to set us free uh from our sins. And this is the the significance of the miraculous birth. Because if if Jesus Christ was born just like any of the rest of us, he wouldn't be able to save us. Because everybody that's born is born of what? Born a sinner. In uh Job chapter uh 15 and verse 14 it says, What what is man that he should be pure? Or he who is born of a woman that he should be righteous? Nobody's righteous. Nobody's righteous. In Psalm 51, verse 5, it says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me, and through Adam everybody else that populated the earth after Adam was all born in sin. We're all born with the wrath of God hanging over our heads. The Bible says that we're we're born as children of wrath. We're children of wrath, destined for wrath. That's how the Bible describes all of us. So if Jesus Christ was born just like all the rest of us, he would have been born with the same sin nature that all of us are born with. But on the other hand, if Jesus Christ was not born as a human, he couldn't be a substitute for us. You see the dilemma here? You know, if if if if he was just like born like the rest of us, he'd be be in sin like the rest of us. But if he wasn't human like the rest of us, how could he substitute for us? And so what you have in the virgin birth is is God brings both of these together You know, brings human and deity, you know, the humanity and deity together in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. One theologian made this observation. He says if if the human nature of Christ was not derived from the same stock as ours, but merely resembled it. He had to be a real man. If he just resembled our nature, there exists no relationship between him and us. But what you have is Jesus Christ who was born as a man in order to bring salvation to men. In Romans chapter 8, verse 3, it says, For what the law could not do, weak as it was through the flesh. God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and as an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. He had to be born in a body of flesh in order to save us. And through one man's disobedience, many were made sinners, but through the obedience of the one, many will be made righteous. Jesus Christ is the second Adam Jesus Christ, he shares the same nature as ours, shares humanity with us in order to substitute for us. If he wasn't born as a real human being, he couldn't have been our substitute. And the the question for you is um Have you looked to Jesus Christ? Have you looked to the to the to the only person? The only unique person. Nobody else could do this. Have you looked to the only person that could save you? Because he's God in human flesh? And the only one that could substitute for you. Because he came in the in the likeness of sinful flesh to become like us. There is only one Savior, and that's the one that we uh we worship, that's the one that we praise and adore uh during uh this time. And uh I just pray that uh as everyone here is uh preparing, you know, for celebration and with their families and you know we'll open up a lot of presents and gifts and share time and you know uh you know just this time of of fellowship with uh family members and and that's that's great to do. Uh but the one thing that you don't want to forget is that there's a there's a baby that we're celebrating. It's not just the joy of the season and being together. It's the baby Jesus who was born to become our substitute, the one who came to be our Savior. He is the one who can save. and will save his people from their sins. And all those who trust in him, the Bible says, are given the gift of eternal life. And I pray that you've received that gift. If you haven't, we'd love to talk to you. If your family members invited you here, I know they'd love to talk to you about this gift that we uh we celebrate during the season. I'm gonna call uh uh Jeff up to uh close us in a in a final song, but uh let me pray as he's coming out. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh this time of of year when we think about the gift that you gave us, uh the the gift that uh Is unique, a gift that nobody else could give. The gift of your Son Jesus Christ. Father, we thank you for sending us a Savior. We thank you for sending us a substitute. He was utterly unique among all births. This birth was utterly unique. It was proven uh through the prediction of Old Testament scripture, uh through the virgin birth of Mary, through the line of Joseph. Uh through the proclamation of the angel Lord, there are so many details uh surrounding the story. And uh Father, I just pray that uh that we would not lose the wonder. We hear the story just every year we hear about the virgin birth of Christ. But Father, I pray that we wouldn't lose the wonder of uh what this birth means to us and uh how you and your infinite wisdom that you joined humanity and and deity together. That Jesus Christ, the 100% God, 100% man, was the only one that could save us from our sins. Father, we thank you for giving us a Savior. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.