The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Alright, open up your uh Bibles for the book of Matthew, the book of Matthew. And it's uh a privilege to to turn again to the opening paragraphs of the book of Matthew. And uh each time we come to the to the scriptures, we we should be amazed and uh grow in our appreciation for the the Savior. And uh if we haven't uh really understood who Jesus Christ is, this is the uh the opportunity to to be left with no excuse about His life and uh the importance of it. Uh Matthew chapter one, uh we'll start at verse 18. Says now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit, and Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man, and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophets Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but he kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son And he called his name Jesus. Joseph is an important piece of the messianic puzzle, and as the angel points out in his address to Joseph in verse 20, he calls him son of David. Son of David, right up front, the angel alerts Joseph to the significance of of this meeting, that that you are a son of David and the adopted son is going to be a son of David. He's going to have all the the rights of uh of uh the the throne and uh through Joseph J Jesus gained the the right to rule. And even uh Roman law recognized that an adopted person was entitled to the family name and the family So Jesus has the right to rule in verses 1 to 17. And then in verses 18 down to 25, we see that Jesus not only has the right to rule, but he has the power to save. He has the power to save. Jesus is shown to be unlike any other king in Israel's history and the long list of uh so-and-so begat so-and-so, and so-and-so begat so-and-so You have this uh one who wasn't begotten of a man at all. And uh he breaks this kind of expected pattern throughout the uh uh throughout the first uh throughout the the uh verses of the genealogy. And even when it says uh uh in verse uh sixteen it says Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, that uh pronoun there is actually feminine in the Greek By whom? Speaking of Mary, not Joseph. So here again it points to this spectacular birth of the Messiah. There was one who was not born of the seed of a man, but of the seed of a woman. And uh the virgin birth of Christ is an assurance to us that someone came from the outside. Somebody came from outside of this polluted and corrupted race. We learned about it earlier in uh in Genesis. We learned about it in Psalm 51. Somebody came from the outside. of that pollution who came to deliver us. We have a deliverer that was born outside of the the normal screen. The deliverer was to be born of the seed of a woman. We learn about that in Genesis 3. The deliverer was to be Sent into the world. He was given to us. Learn about that in Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. He was sent to the world from above. The deliverer also had to be free from sin. Had to be free from sin, the one who appears to take away our sins can't be a sinner himself. He came to take away our sins, and uh he can't uh be contaminated with that same uh pollution. Uh He recognized uh you have uh John the Baptist who even recognized uh the sinlessness of Christ when in uh John chapter one verse twenty nine, when he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world And he kind of goes back to that old tradition of offering these sacrifices that had to be spotless, unblemished. And he says, this is the one who's unblemished. This is the one who 's spotless. This is the one who's come to take away the sins of the world. In 1 John 3. 5, it says, You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. The one who comes to take away sins cannot himself be a sinner. So we have one that was born from the outside. He's different than the rest. And as uh one theologian said, if Christ had been generated by man, he would have been included in the common guilt of man. But Jesus escaped. that corruption. So Jesus has the uh the right role. He also has the power to save and uh and this is kind of where we we left off last time in the middle of uh 18 to 25. Uh four points, this uh kind of passage can be broken down into four sections. The virgin birth of the king is presented by Mary, verses 18 and 19, proclaimed by an angel, verses 20 and 21 Predicted by the Scriptures, twenty two to twenty three, and protected by Joseph in uh twenty four and twenty five. Uh just by way of review, he was presented by Mary. Presented by Mary in verses eighteen and nineteen. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was in spouse when his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together. She was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly. Mary was found to be with child. And as I mentioned last time, if you compare this account with the uh account in Luke, uh right after Mary heard that she conceived, she immediately left and went into the hill country to visit with her cousin Elizabeth. And she returns to Nazareth three months later. So Mary's been away for three months. She shows up and guess what else is showing, right? So Samaria is found to be with child. And like I said, Joseph isn't thinking about, you know, whether or not I'm going to put her away, but it's how am I going to put her away. How am I going to put her away? Betrothal was a legal arrangement, required the presence of uh formal witnesses. The betrothed couple was considered as married. Uh even before the the the final uh stage in marriage, they were already considered uh married, and the only way that you could put away somebody that you were betrothed to uh was to get a divorce. It had to be legal, had to have two witnesses. It was that serious. And it was during this time that Mary is found to be with child. But before Joseph can follow through with these divorce proceedings, he stopped in his tracks by a heavenly messenger in verses 20 and 21. He says this, but when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And Joseph would have needed this kind of confirmation uh in order to go ahead with this uh this marriage he needed to know that that Mary was loyal and uh he needed to know what was the origin of this this child. Where did this baby come from? Because I know it's not mine Right? So he needed that kind of confirmation and and it came straight from heaven. I mean, if you you couldn't get a bigger thumbs up than an angel visiting you, right? And saying, hey, go ahead with it. You know, this is the this is the brightest green light you want to see He says, go, go, go for it, go for it. Mary, Mary. So we find that the virgin birth of the king is presented by Mary. It's proclaimed by an angel. And then in verses 22 to 23, and this is where we uh uh pick up from our last study, it's also predicted by the scriptures. It's predicted by the scriptures. Look at verses 22 and 23. So now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And uh these verses should be understood as uh Matthew's editorial comment. This is when Matthew actually steps onto the page and says, Hey, I want to give you a little explanation here. This is actually predicted. This comes from the scriptures. Matthew uses this identical formula over and over again throughout the uh uh the gospel of Matthew. He uses this word uh fulfilled. Uh it's the word uh play ra 'o. Uh the word play rao is uh used figuratively for uh uh filling filling up a vessel. Filling up a valley. It was used in uh Matthew 13, 48 in a in a literal way, uh talking about filling up the nets for a for a catch of fish. It was you know something that was full But it's also used figuratively for uh being full of emotion, full of joy, and it's also used for uh bringing things to a completion. Bring it bringing things to their their end, bringing something to pass, making something come true, accomplishing something, bringing something to a conclusion. And what Matthew is saying here is that what was presented in the Old Testament text Finds its completion, its conclusion, its end in Jesus Christ. That's what he's saying. There's a connection between Jesus Christ and the Old Testament scriptures. And Matthew's greatly concerned that we don't understand Christianity as some new new religion that's totally disconnected from anything that came before it. Matthew wants to make sure that we understand that the Christian faith is a historical faith. Historical faith. Has a connection to the past. The Christian message is not new in the sense that it's detached. from anything that came before. It's uh historically, logically, and scripturally linked to all that was revealed beforehand. And uh as I mentioned to you before, Matthew is primarily writing to a Jewish audience. That would have revered the Old Testament scriptures. And he invited them to verify what I'm saying by referring to the Old Testament text. If you want to know whether or not what I'm saying is true, why don't you check your Bibles? Check your Bibles. What I'm saying is absolute truth and expected and he welcomed that kind of of scrutiny. I want you to check me out If the Messiah that Matthew presented was not predicted by the scriptures, the Jews had every right to reject him. Every right to reject him. They would have been fools not to check it out, right? Paul in Acts chapter 17 he calls the people of Berea more noble because they compared his message with the scriptures Right? Acts 17, 11. Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. Any revelation that's purported to be a word of God was to be put to the test. Does it match up with previous revelation? That's the question. That's why we reject uh, for instance, the the visions of Joseph Smith. the founder of uh Mormonism. Uh he says in the the Pearl of Great Price that he had a vision at the age of fifteen of personages who stood above him in the light and he asked them, which of all these religious sects was right? Which should he join? And this is what he says. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wronged. And the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in the sight, that those professors were all corrupt. All of them? Really? No connection to the past at all. No connection to what came before them. That's why we uh reject the supposed wisdom of Charles Hayes Russell, the founder of the Jehovah's Witnesses. Who said this? Be it known that no other system of theology even claims or has even attempted to harmonize every statement of the Bible, yet nothing short of this can we claim. We are the first ones that get it, right? And then he made this statement in the Watchtower magazine. Listen to this. People cannot see the divine plan in studying the Bible by itself. And I'm supposed to listen to you, right? You know, no nobody can understand the the the truth. They don't come to the light by the Bible itself. It's like you have to come through through me. You know, make sure you pick up your your watchtower magazines. No connection to what came before. And that's why we also reject the alleged revelation of Muhammad, the founder of Islam, who claimed that Previous revelation could simply be abrogated , repealed, or done away with. In the Quran, it states, whatever verse we abrogate or cast into oblivion, we bring one better or like it. Again, no connection to what came before. But what does Jesus say? Matthew 5, 17, he says this, do not think that I came to abolish the law. Or the prophets, I did not come to abolish but to what? Fulfill it. I came to bring it to its completion. Bring it to a conclusion. If Jesus has no connection with previous revelation, he should be rejected. But what Matthew demonstrates is that what we find in Jesus is completely consistent with the Old Testament record. And Matthew had a complete confidence. in the Old Testament scriptures to to be a sufficient guide to the people that he wrote to. He's not saying, you know, uh put those scriptures aside because you can't get any light from that. You know, come to me. He's saying, no, go go back to your Bibles and check this out. I want you to be assured that what I'm telling you is uh is connected with the past, it's connected to history. And it's easy to look this over, but uh what we have here is a really powerful statement regarding the scriptures as the very word of God. Look at what he says again in verse 22. He says, Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Spoken by who? The Lord through the prophet. The prophet was the mere instrument, but the words that he wrote down were the very words of God. Very words of God, 2 Peter 1. 21, for no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God, right? Close to 800 years had passed since Isaiah wrote and Matthew writes, and uh Matthew pointed to the copies that these people had 800 years later as a sufficient guide to lead them into the truth. 800 years later. So what we have here is just a really powerful statement about the sufficiency of Scripture. And he quotes from Isaiah Chapter 7, verse 14. Look at verse 23 again. It says, Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. So why won't why don't we turn back to Isaiah chapter 7? Uh we won't try to cover all the ground that uh Dr. Harris so beautifully covered last week, and uh you'll definitely have to check the message out on online for that. And uh if you're wondering, no, I did not take any classes from him as he mentioned. But what he what he failed to mention is that I I took classes from the people he took classes from. So uh anyway, just to set the record straight Isaiah chapter uh Isaiah chapter 7. Let's look at uh let's look at verse 1. It says, now it came about In the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezan, the king of Aram, and Pikah, the king of Ramaliah, king of Israel, Went up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not conquer it. And uh this passage brings us to a period of time when the nation of of Israel has been divided. It's been divided for over two hundred years by this point. uh 200 years since the ten tribes have separated to the to the north and the two tribes have been uh remained in in the south. Uh the northern uh kingdom has as its capital Samaria It's known as Israel or Ephraim, and the southern kingdom has its capital in Jerusalem, and it's known as Judah. And at this point, the north and the south are enemies. North and the south are enemies. And during the days of Ahaz, both Israel as well as the Gentile nation of Aram , also known as Syria, waged war against Jerusalem. Wage war against Judah. And uh you can look it look that up in uh second chronicles uh twenty eight five to eight. Uh but here Aram and Israel, or Syria and Ephraim, they decide we're going to get together and we're going to join forces to take care of Judah. So see here you have this uh northern tribe, the northern ten tribes, Jewish tribes, joining a Gentile king to annihilate their two brothers in the South. This is basically what you have going on. They decide to join forces with the Gentile nation to stamp Judah out. And they're they're not interested in subjugation. They're not interested in just, you know, having the two southern tribes subject to them They want to wipe them out. They want to wipe them out. They don't want the king of Judah to submit. They want his entire line wiped out, destroyed. And that's that's what you find in verse uh six of uh chapter seven. It says, Let us go up against Judah and terrorize it, and make for ourselves a breach in its walls, and set up the son of Tabel as king in the midst of it. What does that mean? We're wiping out the kingly line. We're going to set up our own king. We're we're wiping you guys out. I mean that's that's the whole point. They want to wipe out the uh southern tribe and destroy the uh the kingly line. So the southern nation of Judah is shaken. Look at verse two. Says, when it was reported to the house of David, saying, The Arameans have camped in Ephraim, his heart, and the hearts of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake with the wind. But the Lord has a as a word form. Okay? Actually two words form. The first word is in uh verses three down to nine. It says uh Verse 3 says, Then the Lord said to A Isaiah, Go out now to meet Ahaz, you and your son Sherid Jeshub at the end of the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Fuller's field, and say to him Take care and be calm. Have no fear. Do not be faint-hearted because of these two stubs of smoldering firebrands. On account of the fierce anger of Rezin and Aram and the son of Romalia. Because Aram with Ephraim and the son of Ramaliah has planned evil against you, saying, Let us go up against Judah, terrorize it, make for ourselves a breach in its wall, set up the son of Tabil as king in the midst of it. Thus says the Lord God, it shall not stand, nor shall it come to pass, for the head of Aram is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is resin. Now within another sixty five years Ephraim will be shattered so that it is no longer a people, and the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Ramaliah. If you will not believe, you surely will not last So that was the the first word that God gave. He says it's that their plans that are they're not going to stand. Don't worry about it. Be calm, right? Be calm. Be calm, have no fear. Don't be faint-hearted. But the Lord knows at this point that uh this king Ahaz is still unbelieving. He's given them his word, right? He's given them the word. He says, this is not going to come to pass. But he knows that this King Ahaz is still unbelieving. And uh as we learned last week, and if you want to look it up in 2 Chronicles 28 Ahaz was a wicked king, right? Wicked king. He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. He made molten images for the Baalf. He burned incense in the valley of Ben Hinnem. He burned his sons in the fire. Live child sacrifice. This is a a wicked king, but and God knows that he's a wicked king. God knows that he's unbelieving. Even though he's been given this word from God, he says, You don't you don't believe me, right? You don't believe me So he gives Ahaz the offer of a lifetime. Offer of a lifetime. Look at what it says in verses 10 and 11. This is the second word. Then the Lord spoke again to Ahaz, saying, Ask a sign for yourself. From the Lord your God, make it deep as Sheol or as high as heaven. Can you imagine giving an unbeliever that kind of offer? It's like I can tell that you're you're not buying what I'm saying. The Lord's giving me the ability to grant you any desire you want. Just just call it. Whatever whatever sign you want me to give to you to cause you to believe, just just name it. Name your sign. Can can you imagine being able to give an unbeliever a kind of deal like that? Name your sign. I mean think about your friends, your family members, you know, people that you've been witnessing to for a while, they're still not buying, and you say, I I the Lord's giving me the ability to give you any sign you desire. Name your sign. So what do you want to see? You can make it as deep as Sheol or the grave. I can bring somebody back up from the dead if you want. I can make it as uh high as as heaven. You want me to bring an angel down? I can bring an angel down right now to convince you of the truth. Whatever you want to confirm this word, I can do it. And you know, sometimes, you know, don't we wish we had the ability to do that? It's like, you know, you don't blame the angel? Come and come and convince this guy, right? It's like he wished he could do that. If only I could perform a miracle, they would believe. But what does Ahaz say in verse 12? But Ahaz said, I will not ask, nor will I test the Lord. That's not humility speaking, that's unbelief. That's unbelief that's speaking. I will not test the Lord. I couldn't do that. What it shows is that Ahaz has no intention of trusting God. He has no intention of trusting God. A miracle for him would make no difference. He was hardened in a state of rebellion and unbelief, and that's why Isaiah responds the way that he does in verse 13. He says Then he said, Listen now, O house of David, is it too slight a thing for you to try the patience of men that you will try the patience of my God as well? What it proves here is that if people will not be persuaded by the Word of God, the greatest miracle imaginable would not be enough to convince them. Wouldn't it be? Remember the story in uh Luke sixteen about the rich man in Lazarus? Remember that? Uh the rich man died, opened his eyes in the flames. Pleaded with Abraham. Please, Abraham, Father Abraham, send Lazarus. Can you send Lazarus back to my more of my brothers? Remember that? What did Abraham said? Abraham said, uh, they have Moses and the prophets. What's that? They have the scriptures. Moses and the prophets. They have the scriptures. Let them hear them. But he said, No, Father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead As deep as Sheol, right? If somebody can come back from the dead, then they will repent. But he said to him, if they will not listen to Moses and the prophets, they will not be persuaded, even if someone rises from the dead. And Jesus proved his own point, right? The miracle could be as deep as the grave, as high as the heaven, and they still wouldn't believe, and neither would this king. And uh basically what God does in uh verse 14 is he says, you know what? I'm gonna give my own sign. I'm going to give my own sign. Look what it says in uh in verse 14. Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin will be with child and bear a son, and she will call his name Emmanuel. This is the sign that will be as high as the heaven. It's going to be it be gloriously impossible. I'm going to give you a give you this miraculous sign. It's going to be totally out of this world. Something that you can't produce. And notice this, it's not going to be a personal sign for Ahaz. It's going to be for the house of David. It's not going to be for you, Ahaz. When uh God says, ask a sign for yourself in verse 11. It was spoken in the singular. It was directed to Ahaz. Ask a sign for yourself. When God says, I will give you a sign in verse 14, he's putting Ahaz to the side, and it's spoken of in the plural. He's talking to the house of David at this point. He says, House of David, I'm going to give you a sign. Directed it to the house of David, and the sign is not going to occur in Ahaz's lifetime. It's not going to occur in Ahaz's lifetime. And it's it's true that uh Isaiah had a son in chapter eight. Uh you can uh look in chapter eight and and uh read more about that. And before the uh the boy grew up enough to say mommy or daddy Uh God took care of the the northern kingdoms just like God said he would, but that was not the fulfillment of all that God promised here It was not the complete fulfillment of what God promised here. Chapters 7 through 12 are called the the book of Emmanuel. And the the broader context, when it's examined, it's clear that no one at this time fulfilled the expectation Of Isaiah 7. 14. There was nobody that fulfilled the expectation of Isaiah 7. 14. What God promised here was a sign that was absolutely impossible, humanly speaking. A normal birth would hardly fit the kind of criteria that you have here. It doesn't fit the language. Also, the Hebrew word used for virgin, Alma. It's frequently used for a virgin, not exclusively used for virgin in the in the scriptures, but it's frequently used. It was just the normal way to speak about uh a young girl or maiden. Um it was the word that was uh most naturally suggested that it was a virgin. It's been noted that Alma is used in the Old Testament eight other times outside of uh Isaiah 14, and uh uh most times that it's referred, it definitely refers to a virgin. And when the Greek translators of the Old Testament picked up this word in the LXX, the translation of the Hebrew into Greek, they used the Greek word Parthenas Which does mean virgin, normal word used for virgin. And when Matthew picks it up, he uses the same word, parthomas But this is a this is a real virgin. They understood the context. There was no doubt that they understood exactly what was going on in Isaiah 7. 14. Like I said Is there any way that Mascod could make it more clear? Right? He couldn't make it more clear that it's a virgin before they came together She was conceived of the Holy Spirit. So there's only one fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah 7. 14. It was foreshadowed, it might have been prefigured in Isaiah's son, but there was only one reality. And that reality was Jesus Christ. And it even uses the definite article, the virgin shall be with child. Not just any virgin. The virgin shall be with child. And that virgin was Mary. Did the Jews understand all of this at the time? No. Not necessarily. But it can't be denied that Jesus is connected to the scripture that came before him. Jesus was connected. And this is what Matthew is just trying to point out. You might have missed this, but let me let me open up the scriptures for you. Let me point something out to you. Jesus is connected. But not only was the king to be born of a virgin, the king was also to be Emmanuel. You can flip back to Matthew chapter 1. This king was also supposed to be uh manual, God with us. Verse 23. Behold, the virgin shall be with child and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which translated means God with us. And the name given here is just so significant. So significant. Often Jewish people would refer to God in the naming of their children, just by the names. The word El was a word for God. Uh we hear it in words like uh El Shaddai, God Almighty. We hear it in uh in words like El El Yon, uh God Most High. Uh we frequently find this uh suffix placed at the end of Jewish names. Uh one resource is one one resource listed uh 1,088 Hebrew names that end in L for boys, and 564 Hebrew names that end in L for girls. So uh if if If you're with child , you might want to want to pick one of the thousands of names listed here for you. But there's names like Daniel, right? God is our judge. Samuel, which means God heard. Ezekiel, which means strength of God. Israel, which means prince of God. Emmanuel, which means God is with us. So uh Just kind of attaching God into the name doesn't necessarily mean that you're God. Right? That doesn't mean that you're God. It doesn't automatically indicate that. However , what Matthew is trying to tell us. Is that this is the fulfillment. This is the completion, right? If you remember what he said in verse 22, all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord. So what we find here is that Matthew's saying that what was presented in the Old Testament text finds its fullest expression in Jesus. What might have been like a sign of God being with us is truly God with us. Not only that, but the context of the Old Testament citation where he actually pulled this word Emmanuel from. In Isaiah 9, 6, it says something pretty spectacular about this one who's called Emmanuel. Isaiah 9 6, it says, For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God. Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. It's the word El Gabor, mighty God. Same word used in Isaiah 10, 21 for God. There's something otherworldly about this child. This is what Matthew's pointing out. Something's otherworldly about this child. And then finally, you might have missed this one, but the angel's pronouncement. Indicates who this child is. And it's in the word Jesus. It's in the word Jesus. I don't think I caught the significance of what the angel said before, but uh think about this with me. The word Jesus It's a word that means he will, God will save, right? God will save. Save, Lord. Oh Lord, save us. That's what the word Jesus means. What did the angel say in verse 21? Look at this. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. What does Jesus mean? God will save. What does the angel say? He will save. Who is the angel calling Jesus? It's calling God. Call him Jesus because he will save. He is the God Savior. Call him Jesus because this is God who's come down to save you. The angel knows exactly who this child is. Absolutely breathtaking. It's a miracle as high as the heavens As high as the heavens, because it brought heaven down to earth. God incarnate entered our world. And uh I know we say that that we believe that, but uh the question is, do you really appreciate that? Do you have any idea what that meant? For God to come into the world? Do you have any idea what that means? Do we really value the reality of the incarnation? That's why John the Baptist in Luke chapter 3 verse 16 he says uh he says I'm not fit to untie the thong of his handles. I know who this is. I'm not fit to stoop down and untie your shoes. This is God in human flesh. He also said this about the his ministry for the Messiah in Matthew chapter 3. Verse 3 says this. He says, I'm the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. Make ready the way of the Lord. Who am I preparing the way for? I'm preparing the way for God. The Lord has showed up. Amazing. And then when Jesus spoke of the Messiah to the Pharisees, he said, uh in Matthew 22, he says, What do you think about the Christ? What do you got to think about Messiah? You guys know a lot about the scriptures, don't you? What do you think about the Messiah? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David? And he said to them, Then how does David in the Spirit call him Lord? Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies beneath your feet. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? He's the son of David, but he's also the son of God because he is God. The virgin birth of the king is presented by Mary, proclaimed by an angel. It's predicted by the scriptures and finally it's protected by Joseph. Look at verses 24 and 25 just to wrap up there. It says, and Joseph awoke from asleep. And did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her aversion until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. And at this point, Joseph assumes all the responsibilities and risks associated with taking Mary as his wife. The narrative doesn't anticipate any lapse of time at all He simply awoke from a sleep and he did it. Woke from a sleep and he did as he was commanded. You know, there's there's no need to proc prolong the betrothal. At this point, like I said, uh he's been given the biggest thumbs up he could ask for, you know. It's okay. It's okay, Joseph. Mary. Marry her. So there's no need to continue to test Mary's character through the betrothal. But Joseph assumed all the responsibilities and risks associated with taking Mary. Now it wasn't just uh Mary who would be held under suspicion. Now Joseph would be held under suspicion. What's he doing marrying a pregnant girl? Right? What's he doing marrying a pregnant girl? Divorce for adultery was considered mandatory among some Jewish groups during this time. But uh Joseph took on the role of the provider and the protector of his uh his wife. He protected Mary. And uh what Joseph was doing by taking Mary as his wife, he was making this clear statement that Mary is innocent. I believe Mary's innocent. He was boldly declaring that she is not guilty of adultery. I believe that she's conceived of the Holy Spirit. He believed that the child was conceived of the Holy Spirit. And he was doing his part to protect Mary from slander and accusation. He says, I believe her story. I absolutely believe her. And uh he followed through with this second stage of marriage, legally took Mary as his wife. Uh during the betrothal there was uh limited social interaction uh between couples. They live separately, but uh when it says that he took Mary, it implies that he took her into his home After a formal ceremony, second phase of the marriage, and uh interestingly enough, uh when Jesus was born, he was actually born to a mother and a father. Day one, mother and a father. He also protected the virgin birth. It says in verse 25, he kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son. So he protected the virgin birth as as well. So uh Mary was not only a virgin at conception, she was also a virgin up to the point that she gave birth as well. It was a virgin birth. He kept her a virgin until she gave birth. And I found it uh interesting that uh abstinence during pregnancy was actually widely observed in in Judaism. It's actually widely observed. An early Jewish extra biblical poem says this. It says, Do not lay your hand upon your wife when she is pregnant Many many Jews believe that you shouldn't lay your hand on your wife while she's pregnant. And uh uh Josephus, who's a Jewish historian, he makes a similar uh comment as well. But whether it was because of his uh Jewish sensitivities Or his understanding of the scriptures that she's supposed to be a virgin, Joseph made sure that she remained a virgin until she gave birth to a son. And that word uh until it implies that he enjoyed a normal relationship with his wife afterwards It implies that. That's what the word until indicates. And uh nobody would have taken this verse any other way if it wasn't for all the superstition and false teaching that surrounded Mary and the second through the fourth centuries. If if it wasn't for that, we'd read this and say, yeah, you know, until she delivered and then, you know, they they had normal relationships. We we would understand it as is that, but uh There's a this kind of uh false teaching that was built up around Mary uh towards the end of the second century into the third and the fourth uh century And uh really developed in in large part because uh the the church developed this kind of low view on things that were physical. Uh but both the Old and the New Testaments view that a physical relationship is an integral part of marriage. In uh Proverbs 5. 18 it says, Rejoice in the wife of your youth. It's expected. First Corinthians 7, 3 to 5 uh warns us against depriving one another in marriage, and uh beyond that it's pretty hard to explain. Matthew chapter 13 where it talks about Jesus' brothers and sisters. It's like I I uh uh what what do you do with that, right? You know, he's got brothers and sisters, guys. You know, he's I think it's over, you know what I mean? It's got brothers and sisters. Those people that believe in uh the perpetual virginity of Mary, they do all kinds of gymnastics with that kind of stuff. It's like, well, you know, maybe uh Joseph was married before and uh you know these are previous kids. It's like, give me a break, come on. You know, just if the normal sense makes sense, don't look for anything else, right? It's it's it's just normal. There's no reason to expect anything else And then finally, he offered this protection for Jesus as well. It says he kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. The Messiah was to be born with an adopted father. And by taking Mary as his lawfully wedded wife, he was taking Jesus as his legally adopted son. It was the privilege of Jewish parents to name their children. And Joseph did name him. He was assuming the responsibility of the father. But he couldn't name him what he wanted to name him. Why? Because he's ultimately the son of God. I like what R. C. Sproul said. He says, The Lord was saying to Joseph, You're not going to choose a name for this boy You'll name him what I tell you to name him because ultimately he is my son. And you shall call his name Jesus Why? Because he'll save his people from their sins. Amen. So uh, what could be more gloriously impossible than that? As high as the heaven, as low as sheol. You couldn't have sinful human parents that did this. You couldn't have holy human parents that could do this. You couldn't have any virgin that could do this. This is an act of God. This is the sign that was predicted. Only God can do the impossible. And how often do you really consider the miracle of the incarnation? What a wonder this is What a wonder this is that God would enter into our world. And He came to save us from our sins. See, the Virgin is delivered in a cold and crowded stall. Mirror of the Father's glory lies beside her on the straw. He is mercy's incarnation. Marvel at this miracle, for the virgin gently holds the glorious impossible. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, God, for the opportunity to look into Matthew and to behold the wondrous birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He came not just for his own sake, but he came for ours. He came to deliver us from sins. He came to give his life as a ransom for our sins. And for all who would turn to him, for all who would turn from their sins and trust in Jesus Christ, he offers eternal life, forgiveness of sins. Redemption. The Redeemer has come. The deliverer has come. And Father, I pray that there's no one here who hasn't received salvation. And Father, I pray that you would open their eyes to this. glorious impossibility that only you could produce. My Father, I pray that they would come to Jesus. And for those of us who do know Christ, I pray that we would glory And marvel in our Savior. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and in Includes instructions for and limitations on, duplicating CDs and all digital files