The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you've got your copy of God's word, open to Proverbs 31. We'll start there. And uh as you're opening there, just that song, thank you for that, Miles. That's that's a favorite song of mine. And uh I love that song and that last line, right? I will do all that I can do to live for Christ. He was my all-in-all, and that's what we've been saying. Right, through the whole day today, through this whole seminar, at the end of the day, the most important reality in your life is your walk with Christ. And that your marriage relationship ultimately is nothing more supposed to be than the overflow of your heart It's a concept and a truth from Scripture that I've taught in many ways. I remember being at Grace and had tons of interns that would go through the ministry there and would teach them that and all the children's ministry teachers and even now the leadership at our at our church, this paradigm which is right here for you in marriage, but it it it it impacts us even as pastors. that all of ministry really is ultimately nothing more than an overflow of our walk with Christ. I often will use this, and this is an illustration for you in your marriage, but I often use this preaching to myself. You think of a pitcher of water filled to the brim. To fill up another glass filled with water when that pitcher is full is really easy. Just barely got to tip it and the water comes out, right? And so the key to being a faithful servant and pouring water in is to is to have a full pitcher. Because the the less water in that pitcher, the harder the job is. You've got to keep pouring it over and over over and over and then your balance gets out of your arm gets out of balance and you can spill it. That illustration is so helpful in marriage and in ministry. If you keep your heart full, your walk with your spouse. If you keep your heart full with Christ, you'll walk with your spouse It's far easier. Far easier to fulfill that calling if your heart is filled with Christ. So it is with a pastor. If his heart is filled with the word , It's so it's so much easier to be a preacher and teacher of the word and a shepherd of the word when his heart is filled with the word. And so just keep that illustration in your mind as as we continue to go through this, that without question the success The secret of a successful marriage is your own personal walk with Christ. Submission to the scriptures and submission to the King will bring into your home sweet submission to one another. It really will. You will sing sweet melody, sweet songs if you're singing with Christ. Well, we've we've looked at the priority of marriage. Has God d designed it and declared it? We've looked at the priority of a of a God-centered husband as God commands us, and we'll none of us meet that uh requirement, but we're all on a mission, right? We're all a work in process. And God has given us, um, as we saw so vividly displayed in the game, God has given us helpers. Right? And I loved how the wives were turning around, all three of them at different ways and in different ways, trying to help their husbands. See, it's there It's innate within you. You were created for this. And it was obvious from the game that the husbands needed it, right? And some some more than others, I won't say We're even trying to get some outside help, but that's uh we'll leave we'll leave that alone, but No, this marvelous privileged position and calling of a wife to be a helper is huge. But I want to start in Proverbs 31. On a verse that I think is uh just s summarizes the life and ministry of of a godly wife, of a godly woman. Proverbs thirty one verse thirty just pretty much says it all Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. You know, it's interesting when you consider the book of Proverbs, and especially Proverbs 31, because most men stay out of Proverbs 31. And most women, all they know about Proverbs is Proverbs 31, right? I mean it's just the nature of how we read our Bibles and what we know about them. But you have to be reminded that who would have been reading Proverbs 31? It wasn't necessarily the young ladies, it was the young men. This was written for young men to know what kind of woman to look for. When Solomon wrote the his Proverbs, and when the Proverbs were ultimately assembled, and all of these things They were for teaching young men. They were for instructing young men how to walk in wisdom, how to live life as a young man under self-control. And this would have been so helpful, this proverb, in teaching young men what to look for in a young lady. And this is this is this is so helpful, so encouraging. And of course it would have been helpful for young ladies to know what to. aspire to and what to work towards. But in this passage there is a principle, there is a paramount truth that must be Must be on the forefront of your minds, ladies, as well as for all of us. It's a universal principle, but I'm bringing it out here as it pertains to to our discussion on wives, and that is this. Above all else, the most important thing you need is the fear of the Lord. If you are going to be a godly wife, if you are going to be a faithful wife, fulfilling your calling to the end of your days, What will be the conduit through which you fulfill that calling? The fear of the Lord. The biblical reverential awe and respect for God Almighty will be, will be the seasoning. to grow your submission for your husband. Try to submit to your husband without first submitting to Christ, and it is a mission you will fail every single time. Submission to Christ, i. e. fear of the Lord, must be your starting point. Take that out of the equation and you're done. Well, that's the way it is for all of us, right? This reality of the fear of the Lord is there was a book written many, many years ago by a really fiery preacher called Al Martin. He wrote a book on it and called it the Forgotten Doctrine. The fear of God. It's a great book. I taught on this in one of our men's Bible studies for about three, four months. I a I did a poll uh among our men. We have about thirty men that come to our men's Bible study. I did a poll and I asked them how many men actually actually honestly knew anything substantial about the fear of the Lord other than just the phrase The average, so we took a poll from one to ten, ten being I know everything, one I'd be I know nothing. The average was a two or a three. And I would say that's that's honest. That would be most of us. Because we don't hear it talked about. We don't know much about it. But as it pertains to our lives as husbands and wives, it is paramount. And as it pertains to Christians, we're called to be men and women who fear the Lord. Proverbs 1. 7 says what? The beginning of wisdom Starts with the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the fountain, says in Proverbs 14, is the fountain of life. Proverbs 14 26 and 27. Huge. Huge. Proverbs 3, this reality. We know Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, right? Trust in the Lord and lean not on your own understanding and all your ways acknowledge him, and he will direct your path. But we forget the next verse that comes right after that, and it's a direct exhortation to fear the Lord and turn away from evil. Right? That's a byproduct of when you trust in the Lord. When you lean on your own understanding, you have ceased fearing the Lord. When the Lord wanted to truly introduce himself to his people, Exodus 19, Exodus 20 was It's again one of those chapters in the Bible like Genesis 3 that's one of the most important. Right? You learn so much, you see so much. When when God reveals himself really for the first time in an intimate, personal, relational way on Mount Sinai, that's Where it all comes together, and this God of Israel now comes down and even says this that he will reveal himself like he's never revealed himself before, and he does, giving them the law and all that happens there on that mountain. The people of Israel are terrified. You can read about this in Exodus 20. Get to the end of Exodus 20 after the Ten Commandments are given. And the lightning is is is there, the mountain is shaking. The smoke is coming up from the mountain, the fire is there. I mean it is a it is a scary scene. God had told them no one can touch the mountain, build a literally tells them build a fence around it. If any if anybody's even heading toward the mountain, I would Shoot them. If an animal goes towards the mountain, shoot them. If anybody touches the mountain, I'll kill them. I mean, he is like setting the bar for his holiness, his righteousness, his justice. He's teaching them so much. They get to the end of all that, and the people of Israel are terrified. Matter of fact, God is speaking, and all they can hear is a long is like this massive loud trumpet blast. And Moses is literally hearing the word of the Lord come out with the Ten Commandments. And they get so scared that they tell Moses, they beg Moses, tell God to stop talking to us. If he keeps talking, we will die. And Moses is like, listen, do not be afraid of the Lord. In Hebrew, it just jumps off the page. It says, do not be afraid of the Lord. Because the Lord has done this today, so that the fear of the Lord would be in you and you would not sin. His amazing parallel in what he's bringing out there. Do not have this servile fear, this fear of like slave master kind of mindset where you're afraid because we have this tyrannical leader over us. He says, no, no, do be afraid and run away from him. Have that familial, that that fatherly family fear that a child has for for his father and mother to where he respects them and runs to them. And that's what he's saying there. And that should be what guides and guards our hearts all throughout our relationship with the Lord and our relationship with one another. I believe wholeheartedly that one of the biggest blights on the church today is we is the loss of the fear of the Lord. We have lost that We no longer talk about it. We no longer understand it. We don't talk to our children about it. I have a thing with my with my nine-year-old son that I can be across the room and I can be watching him and know. He's about ready to go off the charts. You know, I can see him getting all excited and losing control, self control. And I can just go like this. That's that's our code. I just go like this. And he knows right away what it means. And it means you have lost the fear of the Lord Lord. God is watching. That's what that's code for. God is watching you right now. Don't lose sight of that. You better come back. Yeah, I I know what's going on in your brain because I know you're about ready to do something you shouldn't do. But God is watching you, right? Rem reminding you how different our lives would be as husbands and wives. If we understood God's watching. God's watching. One of the realities that drives this biblical, godly fear of the Lord, there's There's actually three you can write these down. So for you as wives, as you're gonna we're gonna talk about submission and service to your husband, you must begin with this understanding that it is nothing more Your submission to your husband is nothing more ultimately than the fruit of your submission to Christ, which is nothing more ultimately than your fear of the Lord And your your reverential awe and worship of Him. So here you go. Where does that fear come from? What are some um provocations in your life that will guide you and grow you in this understanding of the fear of the Lord. One. One is this. The fear of the Lord is is ultimately the fruit of correct concepts about the character of God. You will never have the fear of the Lord if you're not understanding the Lord rightly. So it begins with correct concepts about the character of God. The fear of the Lord ultimately is the result of your growth in your understanding of the character of God. That's why your growth in the character of God is paramount. This is part of how you walk with the Lord and grow in your understanding of Him, and then out of that will come a deeper relationship with your spouse as you're growing in this reverential respect and awe for God. It begins with correct concepts about the character of God. I. e. 1 Peter 1 17, be you shall be holy as what? I am holy. Growing in the holiness of God, growing in the understanding of the justice of God, growing in your understanding of the mercy and love of God. All of these concepts start to plant seeds of the fear of the Lord. But another very important one is understanding this, what I just described with my son, Psalm 139, of the pervasive presence of God. That you cannot get away from the sight of God no matter where you go. Psalm 139, wherever I go. David said. If I go up to the heavens, you are there. If I go down to Sheol, you are there. In my bed at night, you are there. Think about the issue with uh uh pornography, right? Which is a A terrible blight in the church. This is unbelievable. Think about the issues and how that comes up, whether it's through our phones, whether it's through actual material, whether it's on the internet, but often it's done in secret. Right? It's done when no one's watching. It's one of the reasons why it's so pol pol proliferate now because it's on the internet. Nobody has to go into the stores and buy it like they once did. So it's done in secret. But it's not done in secret. How different it would be if men and women who are enslaved to that would remember God sees everything you're doing right now, even what you're thinking, the pervasive presence of God. Oh, that would change the way we live and walk as husbands and wives. His pervasive presence. And then lastly, this reality, and this drove the Apostle Paul. He was a man who embraced the fear of the Lord like no other. And it's this reality, that you will have to stand before God and give an account. That you will have to give an account for every idle word, every time you spend, everything you've done, everything you will have to give an account. Paul says this in 2 Corinthians 5, right? He's talking about the judgment seat of Christ for believers having to stand before him and give an account for everything we have done. And he says, um We will in about verse 9 he says we will have to stand before the Lord and give an account for everything we have done in the body, whether it be good or evil. And he says, what? Therefore Knowing, as soon as he talks about that, therefore, knowing what? The fear of the Lord, we persuade men. His evangelism, his ministry was driven by the reality that he was going to have to give an account for all that he had done with the gospel and the word of God that had been given to him as a stewardship. And that drove him to minister. That drove him to evangelism. That drove him to be a faithful minister. Those three realities have helped me and I grew, I learned that from that study that I've done over the years in the fear of the Lord. And I just think that's a good way to start this section as it pertains to you wives and understanding what it means to be a helper, a submissive helpmate that serves. That's really what your your role is. We talked about the the husband and how his his role, which we saw Disintegrate in Genesis 3, right? The husband failed to lead his wife in love like Christ But it's also for the wife, you could build your role, your understanding from Scripture in a concise way. It would be the wife's role is to be a submissive helpmate who serves. It's really what it comes down to. You could just condense all that you are to be and do as a wife. You could break it down to those those three categories, those three words. A submissive helpmate who serves or who supports and serves. And we'll explain that as we go through this. But all of that really is to be nothing more than the overflow of the fear of the Lord in your life So again, I've told you unashamedly, I'm going to repeat this over and over again. The equation, the materials, the ingredients of a successful marriage really is nothing more than true salvation. Right? You gotta be a true believer, and that's an issue today. So that's where it all begins. If you're not a true believer, then this is a futile task. You do not have the Holy Spirit to help you. You do not understand the Word of God to guide you. And your heart is still enslaving you. So it's a futile task. So you've got to be a true believer. Starts there. True salvation. True salvation. Plus ongoing sanctification equals successful marriage. That's really what it takes. True salvation, a regenerate heart, and then A heart that's being sanctified ongoing by the Lord, progressively, actively, as you're engaged in the ministry. Of what God is doing, God given holiness in your life, and you're pursuing holiness yourself, Philippians 2, 12 and 13, that that marvelous interplay between God's sovereignty and man's responsibility, even in our holiness and our godliness, and you're doing your task of fighting sin as you have true salvation and ongoing sanctification, and you're working on this together, those are the ingredients ultimately of a successful marriage. Take those out of the equation and try to do it man's way. Modern psychology, psychiatry, self-help books, Barnes and Noble's the scariest place in all the earth, trust me. I tell our people the internet and Barnes and Noble are the places you you've got to like have the blinders on, you've got to go in. No, I I I I actually I I had to recant one day. I said that and then I said no no the Christian bookstore actually is I said that to our people. I said, yeah, it used to be Barnes and Noble on the internet. Now it's the Christian bookstore. And when you walk in a Christian bookstore, what do you see? If you really want something good, go all the way to the back, because that's where the good stuff is. You walk in, you see Joel Stein, Joyce Meyer, you see all right up front, all the people with their faces on the books. It's just it's nonsense. So you gotta be careful. But that's that's the world that teaches, you know, self-help, marriage help. It's not gonna not gonna happen. It's not what we're about. So Turn in your Bible to Colossians 3. I think it'd be helpful to go there. We've been in Ephesians 5. Let's go to Colossians 3 for a little bit. And let's start picking apart this reality of The role of the wife as a submissive helpmate who serves. This correlates to Ephesians 5 and so says very Very much the same thing. But in Colossians 3, starting verse 18, says, wives, submit to your husbands as is fitting to the Lord. Now, we've already seen that this is building upon what we've learned already. from Genesis chapter 2. And I'm going to go back and we're going to pick that apart, but I'm just reminding you, uh I haven't left behind Genesis chapter two in the help meet helpmate yet. But I want to talk about this reality of submission for a moment because this is so key. to a wife fulfilling her role as a helper. It's really where it all begins. Alright? You've got to understand this. You've got to embrace this. So textually here, in Ephesians 5 and Colossians 3, Ephesians 5 starting verse 22 says the same thing. It says, wise submit. Now this word is interesting. First of all, you need to understand that this is a command. So just like the husband we saw earlier was commanded to love his wife, it wasn't an option. It was an obligation. So it is here. So this isn't something you get to opt out of. This isn't, you know, I I um I'm an adjunct. Um in the class. I'm gonna I'm gonna clap out, right? I'm gonna test out of this one, Pastor. I. e. I'm we've we now hit the silver mark in our marriage. We're 25 years. I don't have to submit anymore. That was that's for the young ladies. You know? I 've been there done that. Doesn't happen that way. It's not a conditional command, right? It's clear. It's an obligation But it's also one that is ongoing. The form of this word literally means keep submitting It's an ongoing habitual command that it's something that's just part of your DNA. This is part of who you are. It's not it's not a once and done deal. It's it's like husbands love your wives, not love her at the altar and then just Go about your business. No, it's ongoing every day. This is the way it is. But it's also interesting. This word, and this is where I think it gets taught improperly, though not in your church, I'm confident of that, so don't misread that at all. But in the church at large, this is the point that's often misunderstood. This word, the form of the word and how it's used in every time when it's used like this with wives, it's in what's called the middle voice. Now that may sound academic, but this is so important. You know what that means? It means that this is in the form by which the subject of the verb does the action upon itself So what what does all that mean? It means this is voluntary. This is an action. So you're commanded to do this, but this is something that a wife does voluntarily. As she's moved in her heart, she willingly, that's the point. She willingly embraces this and does this. And why is that so big? Because nowhere in the text is a husband ever commanded to make his wife submit. Can't do it. This is the the the text makes this so clear. This is what the woman is called to do, charged by God to do. And this is something that she actually does upon herself. As she understands what God is doing, she voluntarily, willingly embraces this role. Hence why I'm calling this the privilege. of of a wife's position is to submit. This is a privilege for her. She understands what God is doing in her life and what God has created her for, and she embraces this role. Now the word itself comes from two Greek words. Literally, it's the Greek word hupotasso, and it has two words that means under and essentially support. Alright? So it's two words that come together, which means you it's someone who comes under for the purpose of lifting up or supporting or holding. It's used often in military um contexts where a a private comes under a general and the whole purpose he's a private is what? To support the general. That's the whole reason. Take that out of context. And it we lose the whole rank system in military. So it is with the wife. The whole reason that she submits has nothing to do with her essence or inequality, and we're going to talk about that in a minute. It has to do with God's design of order. Somebody has to come in and support and lift up. So that's what's going on here in Colossians 3. Wives, submit to your husbands As is fitting to the Lord. That as is fitting literally means as is designed by God. This throws us really back to Genesis chapter 2 because that's what it's saying. As God has designed you, this is your calling. As he's designed you to do this for his glory, not for your husband. It's all pointed to him. It's out of the fear of the Lord. This is an act of worship that you are willingly, voluntarily doing. That's what it is about. Now That's just a quick summary of the word and the context around submit, but I want to say something here that's so important. Because again, when you talk about this, I know it's prickly pears, right? When you start talking the S-word in church and you start bringing up the S word, it's like a curse word, submit, right? Everybody starts hacking. start going up and everybody's like, oh man, pastor's got to talk about that word. I don't like that. You know, stop that. Stop it. You know? No, it's not like that at all. Because here's something that we miss. Okay? All of us are called to submit Every single one of us. And this structure. Now, this may be new, I don't know, but you have to understand that all of this, the husband and the wife relationship, the wife is the leader. and the or excuse me, the husband as the leader and the wife Exactly. The husband as the leader and the wife as as the supporter, right? This reality is nothing more than God's ultimate design. For everything. What do I mean by that? There's a universal principle that guides everything in God's economy. And here you go. It's this two terms. Authority and submission. You can take everything that God does throughout all eternity, and you can put it into a paradigm that goes like this. Something has authority and something submits to that authority. And you see this in every way. So you start in the beginning, go all the way back to Genesis, and God has the authority. And everything else was commanded to submit to him, to follow him, to follow his ways. It's all about him. But then he establishes a husband and wife relationship. Same exact principle. Same exact principle. He gives the authority, the leadership to the husband, and he puts the wife and says, now your job is to come in and support and help him fulfill that mission. Then he creates government, right? It's an institution, another institution by which God creates for protection and for peace and for judgment on evildoers And what is the what is the structure of the government? It's built the same exact way. The government is given authority, and everyone else is called to submit. Romans 13 , you can go back and read the same exact thing. And then there's everyone else is called to come under and submit. 1 Peter chapter 2 says same thing. But then there's another institution, the church. What do you see in the church? You see the same reality, there's a group who is given authority and everyone else is to come under and submit to that authority I mean you can you can take everything that God does by way of organization and structure and you will watch it fall right into this paradigm of authority and submission. Authority and submission. Take another one that you know. The family. The family. Who's given the authority in the family? The parents. Who's called to submit in the family? The children? God designed that. You see it in Colossians 3. If you just look a few more verses, right? It says wives do this, husbands do this. Colossians 3. 20. Children obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. They have the authority. You're called to submit. Right? You're called to come under them. No matter what structure that God designs, it always follows that same pattern. That's his pattern. Even within the Trinity itself, you have this reality of functional, right? You have this functional authority of God the Father who sets the tone and God the Son functionally who comes under and supports. Ontologically, meaning essence-wise, they're the same. They have equal authority, equal essence, and all of that. But functionally, it says in 1 Corinthians 11, what? That the Son answers to the Father So you see this reality of authority and submission permeates everything. And why do I bring that up? Because that levels the playing field for women and says, this isn't about you. So don't get on your high horse and be like, well, I don't want to submit. What's wrong with that, Pastor? He's archaic. No, this is God's design for his whole structure. This is what he does. This isn't just about you. This is about him. He's built this structure and it flows with authority and submission. And what happens? So what happens in the family when the authority and the submission structure falls apart? Do we even need to have a discussion about that? Because we're in a day and an age where the parents are submitting to the children, especially when it comes to stuff like this. Right? I mean, it's ridiculous. Marriage same same way. What about government? Same way. I mean you just keep going. Oh, what about church? That gets prickly. Same thing. What happens when a church has no authority and has no submission? It's a free-for-all. It's a disaster. So it is in the marriage. When that structure is not followed, disaster comes. Really, really scary. And that that reality is clear once you start to search it out in Scripture and think about it Ladies, I want to tell you that this reality of submission sounds like it's a subservient weak place. But one thing I'm going to show you as we work through this is that actually you have so much power in your position as a wife. You have to understand. You've got to embrace it. Um one of the things Amy will often remind me of and say when she's teaching the ladies and I think she might have gotten from somebody else, but it's good. She said, absolutely. The husband is the head of the home and the wife is the neck that turns the head. Right? It holds it up. It supports it. It is the support mechanism. Think about it, right? How how effective would the head be without the net? Take the neck away. You got no head. It just falls over, man. You're disconnected. So it is with the wife. She's like the neck. She holds it up. She gives it strength. See she keeps it up there. And that's what a godly wife does She helps direct it. She helps hold it up. She helps her husband. She supports him. And so if you have any thought in the negativity on this, you're not understanding the position and the role correctly. Now, as we're here in Colossians 3, I just want you to reflect back to Genesis chapter 2. And I want to just be really clear about this. In Genesis chapter 2, we established this early on that God created In verse 18, God created the woman to be a helper. So on your notes, I have here this reality of partnership. Mr. Partnership. Genesis chapter 2. 18 and in verse 24 it uses this word helper or helpmate. It's a Hebrew word. You want to know what it means in Hebrew? This is so clear. I don't know how it gets confused. In Hebrew, the word literally means, are you ready? And I don't know how to make it any clearer than this. Assistant. Assistant. Supporter. I mean, I I don't know where the confusion comes in. She was created to be an assistant, a supporter, a helper. That's why they translated helper. If you look over in Genesis 2. 15, you're going to see the ultimate command given to Adam to guard and keep the garden, to serve and protect. So if you look there, you see God commands Adam to take care of all that he's created. Adam is the mini-sovereign, he's the viceroy, he's the leader of all that God created. When does the woman come along? Before or after that? Is she there in Genesis 2. 15 when God is speaking to Adam and saying, okay, I've created all of this and your job is to oversee it? Where is she there yet? No, she's not. This is huge. She comes when? After. Is the woman ever given any command to guard and keep the garden, to serve and protect? What command is she given? To help her husband fulfill that role of serving and protecting the garden. So you I mean again, if you just look at the text and read it contextually, you start to see really clearly that this is actually pretty simple. I mean it's pretty clear what God's design was. And it continues throughout all eternity. The husband was given the charge to lead. And serve and protect. And the husband was given the char or the wife was given the charge to come under and help the husband. And that's what help me means. And that's what this is talking about. So it's this partnership This partnership that that God designed, where you would have a leader and a supporter. Where um just like you have in the military, where you have a general and you have you have a major and a colonel and and private. Right? They're there to partner together in a mission. And you take them away and the general's lost. So it is with the husband and wife. If you remove this partnership, they're done. So the the biblical model is partnership. It really is. You're partnering together in the roles that God has given to you. One as a leader, one as a helper. On your notes, I have down here the productivity. of biblical partnership. This is that reality where Ecclesiastes 4, 9 to 12 talks about this, where two are better than one. Right? Where there's greater productivity when you have two. Right? If one falls in a hole and there's another there, what? He can help them out Right? Just reality of productivity in life. Never forget this. That productivity is is is the in many ways the very essence of who God is. Right? He is a productive God. From the very beginning he's working He is like productive. Six days, all that we see. Right? And then he calls Adam to what? Be productive. And then he calls Eve to help him to be productive. And then it just keeps going. It never stops. The church is to be productive. And so that's what this reality of partnership is to elevate, to expedite this Calling of productivity. But then there's a perversion of biblical partnership, and that's what we see in our world today. And I just want to mention this by way of clarity. Biblical partnership, submission, leadership, does not mean uniformity. What do I mean by that? It does not mean that the wife all of a sudden becomes the husband like the husband. She thinks like the husband, acts like the husband, looks like the that happens. That happens. And some of that's just, you know, happens by the way you dr like I I dress like Amy's dressing me more like she wants me to dress, I guess. I'm not wearing camouflage. So that happens. That's that's that's all right. But she is who she is, and I am who I am, and that makes us stronger. That's my point So it's not a suppressing of the of the woman and her abilities, her intellect, her giftedness at all. That is a strength that gets elevated in the partnership Just like Matt is not like George on so many levels, and George is not like Matt on so many levels, but when they come together and serve as your pastors , They are ten times stronger because their differences actually elevate one another and encourage one another and strengthen one another. And that is the picture of exactly what it should be in the marriage. So often we have this picture that the husband just suppresses the wife and tries to make the wife whatever he wants her to be. That's unbiblical. That's what the world says. That's not the way God designed it. Differences. It's not uniformity and it's not domination. Not at all. That's the perversion of biblical Partnership. And then the pervasive nature of biblical partnership is what I've already been saying. You see this co-laboring even in the illustration of Matt and George. It's everywhere. This this design by God that there would be this partnership. And what I mean by pervasive nature, so as a husband and wife embraces their roles to be partners and co-labourers God has designed They do it in everything. There is no isolation. They do it in raising their children. They do it in their finances. They do it in their ministry. They do it in everything. They are partnering together because they need one another. To help one another. Again, this uh this is another avenue in Genesis chapter three where Adam and Eve went wrong. They lost their partnership. They were not partnering together. Had they been, had Eve said, Whoa, I might I might need a little help here, Adam. Or had Adam said, no, stay away from the tree, things would have been different. But they were living independent lives. And I've seen this so many times as a pastor. Married couples living individual lives. Remember, the two shall become one. It's what that one flesh in Genesis 2, 24 talks about there. You come together and you're living together in this partnership. In this partnership. So back to Colossians 3, understanding this helpmate, is this assistant, this reality of submission is what it is to come under to help another. I want to now Talk a little bit about what this looks like. One by way of, let me just say a few things about why wives will tend to not submit. One flat out is because maybe they're not saved, right? I'm gonna just say that with great clarity, going back to what I said a minute ago. If you're not saved, then You're going to fight against this all along because this goes against your nature, your sin nature. You want to be autonomous and independent. You don't want to ever submit. Never forget this, okay? Salvation in one word, salvation is in one word is submission. That's what salvation ultimately is. Salvation is submitting to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. That's what it ultimately is. Sin in one word is independence. That's what sin ultimately is. You are independent of God's rule in your life and you want your own. And so when it comes to this reality, one of the reasons why wives refuse to submit and there's so much struggle is They're just not saved. But there's also even within the regenerate a sinful resistance toward authority. We don't like people to tell us what to do. And that's just something we have to deal with. But another reason is there's misunderstandings as it pertains to submission. And that's what I've been trying to kind of eradicate. A lot of people are misunderstood as it pertains to this this role and this mandate to submit. And so there there there's so many bad there's been so many bad teachings on it that wives have embraced that and they think it's something that it's not. And so they won't do it Another reason is, and this is I find to be the biggest one, is wives tend to not submit because they don't trust the Lord. What do I mean by that? They trust their own ingenuity and not God's design. I'm smarter than my husband. And I and I don't mean that demeaning at all, because sometimes you are, i. e. sometimes you know better. Sometimes you are right in the situation, like your thought process, but you're not submitting to your husband as the leader of the home And what you're doing is the fulfilling Proverbs 3 in the antithesis, right? You're leaning on your own understanding and not trusting the Lord. And that's one of the biggest reasons in the home of the believer, why submission becomes an issue, because they do not trust the Lord and his design. You may be right. And your husband may mess up in whatever decision he chooses to do as the leader. But never forget that, that that bad decision is still under God's sovereign control. You lose sight of that as wives, right? We think. We carry way more than we should. What do I mean by that? Wives, if you're struggling to submit to your husband because you're not trusting the Lord, you are carrying something that God was designed to carry. Let God be sovereign, not you. Let him carry the weight of whatever that decision is. If you've talked to your husband and you've done, and I'll explain that in a minute, you voiced your opinion and you have every right and you need to do that, but your husband still believes this is the way we're going. And then you just got to trust the Lord in that. And that shows, again, that your submission is not ultimately to your husband, it is ultimately to the Lord. It begins there. So if you're not submitting to him first, you'll never submit to your husband, especially in those times when you disagree with him. When you disagree with him. But those that reality of those disagreements and even maybe a bad decision comes under the sovereignty of the Lord. And you need to trust the Lord with that. Trust the Lord with that So let me uh let me talk about um what slate what uh submission is not and just give you some rapid fire. You'll appreciate this, ladies. Submission is not slavery. Okay, you know this. Proverbs 31, we looked at it a minute ago. When you read that, that woman was productive. She had lots of freedom. She was not a slave at all. Submission is not slavery. Submission is not silence. It does not mean the wife never gets to talk or never gets to voice an opinion, never gets to do anything. Are you kidding me? Not at all. Not at all. I find it interesting in Acts 18, 26, when Apollos, the great preacher of the Word, was confronted by not only a man, but also who? A woman. And was corrected, right? In a gentle, loving way. And he grew from it and he learned. And that's a blessing. Proverbs 31, 26 says that the godly woman opens her mouth in wisdom and teaching and kindness flow out of her tongue. Right? That's huge. Doesn't mean the uh submission doesn't mean acqu acquiescence, i. e. yes, dear, whatever you want, dear, whatever you say, dear, that's not what it means at all. At all. You need to voice your concerns. You need to state your objections in a godly, kind way We'll talk more about that in a minute. It doesn't mean you have no influence, not at all. All believers are encouraged to exhort and admonish one another. It doesn't mean you're a trophy, right? Where you you're just there to just somehow um lift your husband up by giving him some sort of uh Encouragement because you're the trophy wife. You're his catch. Not at all. You're there to bring your giftedness to bear upon the marriage and the home in the fullest possible manner So that God is honored and glorified. You just don't sit in the corner. You're not inferior at all. Genesis, again, makes it clear that the image of God is given equally across the board. Not at all. So what does a submissive helpmate look like? This is the God-centered wife embraces her privileged calling to support. What does that look like? What are some examples Well, number one, here you go. The submissive helpmate that serves, that supports. First, a submissive helpmate equals Skilled service and support. Wife, you are skilled, you are blessed, you are gifted in so many ways that your husband is not, and God has created you for that. In every way. And you need to use them. You need to use them in every way to encourage him. You have abilities, you have wisdom, you have insight, you have resources, you have energy. To give to your husband, to encourage him, to show him, to help him, for the purpose that you might fully utilize these realities to help your husband meet his full potential. That's why you're there. And those have been given to you by God. What a blessing. You are to develop your skills and your giftedness. You are to learn to grow in them so that you can help your husband grow, so that you can help him fulfill his role. This is an interesting this might be an interesting example for you. If you go back later and you look at the life of Daniel and you look at the life of Joseph and compare it to the life of the woman in Proverbs 31. You will be shocked at how many parallels you see between those lives. Why? Because with the life of Daniel and Joseph, guess what they were? assistants, helpers to men over them? Joseph to Potiphar, Daniel to Nebuchadnezzar. And they were skilled men, gifted men who used their talents greatly to serve those over them, and they were extremely blessed. And nowhere is Joseph or Daniel ever seen as second-class citizens, right? And you see them developing and growing in that, much like you see The Proverbs 31. Each plays a supporting role, each serves, each oversees areas of great responsibility, each has great talents and abilities, which are Fully utilized by the authorities over them to bless those around them. That is the beautiful picture of a submissive helpmate that serves. Not only that, your submissive Calling to be a helpmate is co-laboring. And we talked about that. You co-labor in everything. This reality also means this is one that'll encourage you. To be a submissive helpmate also demands that there are times in which you need to challenge. Biblically. You need to voice your opinion and challenge and say, hey, we need to think about that. Are you sure about that? That's good. Absolutely. Hebrews 1024 says, let us consider how to stimulate one another to love and good deeds. A faithful helper will challenge, encourage, and help the leader over them. They will encourage him to grow in his weaknesses. Encourage him to grow still more in his strengths. I remember, so this is a humble admission. When I went to Bible college, I did not know how to type at all I mean I was like henpecking would say it nicely. I mean I was I never had to type. I worked with my hands by way of mechanics, not by way of typing. And so my first paper I wrote, it was Howard, I'll never forget it, it was a book review on the book written by Howard Hendricks, Heaven Help the Home. There you here we are, right still talking about the home. And I remember writing a couple page book review on it, and I wrote it by hand in pencil and and asked Amy to type it for me. And she typed it I'll never forget what she did a few weeks later. She started teaching me how to type. And I'll never forget in her loving way. She said, I'm just like the eagle that's just kicking the little eaglet out of the nest and it's time for you to fly, you know? And she did. In a gent what was she doing? Gently challenging me to grow. And I did. And now they'll watch me type and go, Dad, how do you type that fast? I was like, your mother taught me, right? She did. I mean it's a frivolous example, but are you that's not a frivolous example God put her in my life to provoke me and teach me, and that's how it works. And so it's again, it's not that the husband doesn't listen to his wife. The husband leans on his wife a lot. And there should be this sweet relationship where they can communicate together and help one another and even be challenged by one another. Challenged by one another. Not only that, the submissive helpmate equals, this is huge, counselor. Wife, you are one of your husband's greatest counselors. That should encourage your heart dearly. You are his, in many ways, his closest confidant. You know things about him. He knows things about you. You should be there to encourage him. Carol Mack, wife of renowned counselor Wayne Mack, she writes, the wife should all also serve as her husband's counselor. She is probably one of the first people that he will come to with difficulties or decisions that he is struggling with. He needs her intellect her wisdom and her thoughtful input. Does that sound like a like a suppressive role? Not at all. That sounds like an encouraging role. That sounds like vice president. That's really how it works. And what a blessing. You are wise, and you can help your husband with the wisdom that God has given to you as you grow in the Word and as the Holy Spirit teaches you. The key to that though, wives, let me just give you a helpful insight. Learn this valuable lesson. Learn when to talk to your husband, learn how to talk to your husband, and learn where to talk to your husband. This is huge. Maybe this is what we should all take away. Amy has, well she hasn't. She is teaching our daughters more and more how to do this. So the tendency is when the husband comes home, it's like bombard him with whatever it is that you're ready to talk to him about And and and Amy and I've worked this out over the years and now she's trying to get my girls because oftentimes I'll come in and they're just like, Dad, can we go here? Can we go there? Can we go here? And she's like Let your father come in, let him put his book bag down, let him take his coat off, let him get him a drink of water, like teaching them that there's a time in which You bring those things and it's not immediately, right? And so the wife learns, and when she's a helpful helper, I guarantee you Matt could get up and he could tell us already all the ways he's learned how to help George. It's like, no, I'm not going to bother George on this day because that's when he's really working on his sermon, right? And so I'm going to hold back on that and wait till this day. That's what a good helper does. I was a helper, a paid helper for years when I worked with my dad. He was the master mechanic, I was the journeyman, and we worked together, and I literally had to learn how to excel as a helper. I mean there is a process. And it got to a point where we would be on a job and and my dad literally would just go. We would never he wouldn't talk. He just and I would just be putting tools in his hands. He would go like this and I wouldn't even be there. I would already be walking to the truck to get the part that he needed because I was already ahead of him and saw, okay, yeah, I see where he's going and it's that relay that's bad. And I'm walking to the and he's going, I need the Oh, he's already got it. That's what a helper does. That's your role in the home, wife. And that's a hard role. But you got to know what's going on and be ahead of your husband and be there to help him and support him and encourage him. But what a blessing that is to the husband As he comes home and he's ready he's ready to go and engage into the next role that he has in the home as his greatest mission field, but he's got a wife who's ready there. He's got a glass of water for him to help him and Ease the transition and all the things that you do. Again, it's partnership, it's teamwork. What a blessing. What a great opportunity to be as counselor. Not only that, the submissive helpmate means friendship. You are his greatest, or his, or you should be what you should be his best friend. You should be his greatest confidant, his his greatest companion. And what a blessing that that is in life. Submissive helpmate means trustworthiness. You can go back and you can see all of this in Proverbs. 31 and even in God's design in Genesis 2. But in Proverbs 31, 2, 10 to 12 it says, And an excellent wife who can find, for her worth is far above jewels. The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. She does him good and not evil all the days of her life. That's a phenomenal helpmate right there That's what a husband needs. Her husband trusts her because in the end, when he has made his final decision, he knows that she will fully support him and will utilize her talents. her skill and her diligence to fully implement the decision. Not to undermine it, not to hold it back, not to be dead weight on the cart. Right? So that it slows down, but actually to come behind him and do all that she can to help him. What a blessing that is is. Submissive helpmate, just like we saw today with the husband, means sacrifice. To be a sophistic submissive helpmate, you have to sacrifice The faithful helper will sacrifice for the one being served. A faithful helper will seek the interest of the other above their own. Philippians 2, 3 and 4. Submissive help me, as it says at the end of Ephesians 5. 33, equals respect. You will respect your husband Ultimately, because of your respect for the Lord. When a husband makes the bad mistakes or bad decisions, and he will His wife should show deference and reverence by encouraging him, consoling him, and supporting him as a leader. A wise helper will serve as an example of respecting the husband's opinions, decisions, and guidance and instruction. Here you go, listen. even before the children. One of the greatest ways you encourage your husband, ladies, is how you talk to your children about your husband. It's huge. Respecting him. You're teaching your daughters and even your sons so much about your roles and how you communicate with them. A submissive help mate equals appreciation. That's Ephesians 5. 33 all over again. Appreciate him for the difficult job that he has. Appreciate him for the efforts that he gives Encourage and support him by expressing your appreciation for his efforts in leading you and leading the children. At the end of it all, a submissive helpmate is a phenomenal treasure to a husband. As we started in Proverbs 31, an excellent wife who can find it. She is more precious and far worth far more than jewels. What a blessing. What a blessing. As we wrap this up, I'll just say that the God-centered wife embraces her privilege not only to support her husband as a helper. but also to serve not only as her husband, but in the church. I just want you to turn over to, and I won't go long on this. I just want to point this out because this flows out of your submissive spirit in the home, it then bleeds into the church. Go over to Titus 2. We'll end in this section. In Titus 2, we see right away God's plan for A godly home helps strengthen and build a godly church. And in Titus 2, we see the plan for godly women to be serving and impacting others. Titus 2 verse 3 says, older women likewise are to be reverent. I'll let you decide if you're in that category, by the way. I'm not going to Say which one's which. Yeah, yeah. You may be older, you may be younger. You get to choose. That's you have full reign. Older women likewise are reverent in behavior, not slanders or slaves to much wine. They are to here you go. They are to teach what is good. And so train the young women to love their husbands and children, to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind and, there's our word again, submissive to their own husbands. And what's the purpose in all this? That the word of God may not be reviled. You know the word, Greek word there is blasphemed. That the word of God may not be blasphemed. This reality of a faithful woman, a God-centered woman, supports, she supports her husband She helps her husband and she serves her husband as well as those around her. And we see that with Proverbs 31 woman, right? She's serving everyone. We see that here in the church. She's serving the older women, the younger women, and they're serving constantly. And this is huge. And there's much more I could say about that, but I don't want to I don't want to belabor the point and we can have you can raise the question up in the Q<unk>A here in a minute. But I just want to encourage you that a godly helpmate, a godly wife will serve her husband. But here's the dilemma, ladies, and I want to give you this. You're confronted with a decision. Will you embrace God's view of love for your husband? Which has submission and support at its heart? Or will you embrace the world's view of love This is a war that's going to go on in your heart all the time. A worldly love is enslaved. Listen, a worldly love is enslaved to emotions And worldly love is driven by emotions. Biblical love is driven by commitment. Massive difference. Worldly love asks. How do I feel? Biblical love asks, what does God's word say? Worldly love asks, what will I get? Biblical love asks, what can I give? Worldly love focuses on personal reciprocation. Biblical love is driven by personal salvation. Worldly love is driven by the worth of the object. Biblical love is driven by the worth of Christ. Worldly love looks inward. Biblical love always looks upward. Worldly love is determined by circumstances, but biblical love is determined by the cross Worldly love is ultimately driven by self, but biblical love is ultimately, don't miss this, is ultimately the death to self. That's the war in your heart, ladies, when it comes to this calling of being a submissive helpmate who serves. Am I going to follow the world's way of love, or am I going to follow the biblical definition of love? And in the marriage relationship, it is manifested in a submissive, sweet helpmate who serves. As I finished the last session, talking, showing, reading to you that this wonderful reality of Christopher Love, I want to read to you an excerpt from his wife Mary. This is the final letter that she would write to him. And I want you ladies to listen to the way this woman was driven by Scripture. Much of what I just quoted to you in that comparison between worldly love and biblical love. Listen to her words and you tell me what kind of love. She's exuding as she seeks to help her husband, support her husband as he's about ready to die. She says, writing on July 14th, 19, or excuse me, 1651. Before I write a word further, I beseech thee to think not that it is thy wife, but a friend now that writes to thee. I hope thou hast freely given up thy wife and children to God, who hath said in Jeremiah 49, 11, Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive, and let thy widow trust in me. Thy maker will be my husband and a father to thy children. Oh, that the Lord would keep thee from having one troubled thought for thy relations. I desire freely to give thee up into the Father's hands, and not only to look upon it as a crown of glory for thee to die for Christ. but as an honor to me that I should have a husband to leave for Christ. I dare not speak to thee, nor have a thought within my own heart of my own unspeakable loss. But wholly keep my eye fixed upon thee inexpressible and inconceivable gain. Thou leavest but a sinful mortal wife to be Everlastingly married to the Lord of glory. Thou leavest but children, brothers and sisters, to go to the Lord Jesus, thy eldest brother Thou leavest friends on earth to go to the enjoyment of saints and angels, and the spirits of just men made perfect in glory. Thou dost but leave earth for heaven and changest a prison for a palace. If in natural affections should begin to arise, I hope that the spirit of grace that is within thee will quell them, knowing that all things here below are but dung and dross in comparison of the of those things that are above. I know thou keepest thine eye fixed on the hope of glory, which makes thy feet trample on the loss of earth. My dear, I know God hath not only prepared glory for thee. and thee for it, but I am persuaded that He will sweeten the way for thee to come to the enjoyment of it. When thou art putting thy clothes on that morning, O think I am now putting on my wedding garments to go to be married to my everlasting Redeemer. When the messenger of death comes to thee, let him not seem dreadful to thee, but look on him as a messenger that brings thee tidings of eternal life. When thou goest up the scaffold, think, as thou saidest to me, that it is but the fiery chariot to carry thee up to the Father's house And when thou layest thy precious head down to receive the Father's stroke, remember what thou saidest to me. Though thy head was severed from thy body, yet in a moment thy soul should be united to the head, the Lord Jesus in heaven. And though it may seem something bitter that by the hands of men we are parted a little sooner than otherwise we might have been, yet let us consider that it is the decree and the will of our Father. And it will not be long ere we shall enjoy one another in heaven again. Let us comfort one another with saying these things. Be comforted, my dear heart. It is but a little stroke, and thou shalt be with, and thou shalt be there where the weary shall be at rest, and the wicked shall cease. From troubling. Remember that thou mayest eat thy dinner with bitter herbs, yet thou shalt have sweet supper with Christ that night. This is my favorite line in all the letter. This speaks volumes about their relationship. My dear. By what I write unto thee, I do not hereby undertake to teach thee, for these comforts I have received from the Lord by thee. What kind of husband was he teaching his wife? And what kind of wife was reverberating that teaching right back to her husband? I will write no more, nor trouble thee any further, but commit thee into the arms of God, with whom ere long thee and I shall be. Farewell, my dear. I shall never see thy face more till we both behold the face of the Lord Jesus at that great day. Mary love. What a helper in a time of great need. She didn't talk about herself. She didn't talk about all those things. She pointed her husband right where he needed to go to Christ. That is a phenomenal blessing. And ladies, that's what you were created for. That's not a subservient, sad position. That is a privilege that you would have an honor to be the vessel of God. Helping your husband fulfill his mission to the glory of God. Let me pray. Father, we're humbled to be able to spend this time today dwelling and thinking upon the marvelous gift of marriage. Thank you for the honor we have to be partakers in it. And Lord, thank you for the privilege we have to reflect your glory, to point to Christ and the church. Help us to do that. May you encourage all of us in our walks with you. May our souls be ever more thirsty and hunger after righteousness. And the truth of your word. May we be like the deer that pants after the water brooks, and so may we pant after you, O Lord, our Savior Bless us in our marriages. May we serve each other out of sweetness and tenderness that comes to our hearts through your sanctifying work of grace in our lives. And Father, we'll give you all the praise and the glory for all that you do, because apart from you we can do nothing. But by your grace we are grateful for all the work that you have enabled us to do thus far, and will continue to carry on till the day of completion. Help us in these days we pray. For your name's sake we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.