The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 5, verses 31 and 32. We finally return to the to the book of Matthew and Deal with a uh a difficult subject, um not difficult because the the Word of God is complicated, but uh difficult it difficult because uh our our sin has made it difficult And um what we're going to read about today and and study is uh the subject of uh divorce and remarriage. Divorce and remarriage. And if you're not married, This isn't the time to tune out. This is the time to tune in to hear what the Lord would have to say to you as well to encourage marriages within the church. And uh, if you're not married yet, uh to uh prepare yourself for what the Lord may have in store for you as well. So uh let's take a look at uh Matthew chapter 5, verses 31 and 32. It says it was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastee, Makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we I do pray that you'd uh open up our eyes, uh Father, that you'd uh allow us to uh to pay attention to uh what you would have to say uh to us. Uh Father, we pray that you would instruct us. And Father, that we would not just be those that hear your word, but that we would be those that faithfully practice what we hear as well. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. This section of the Sermon on the Mount deals with righteousness. It focuses on righteousness. And in verse 20, Jesus speaks of a righteousness that surpasses the scribes and the Pharisees, and throughout this section of the Sermon on the Mount, he describes what that kind of righteousness looks like. And uh what is interesting to note is that out of all the marks of righteousness that Jesus could have identified, commitment to marriage makes the list. Commitment to marriage makes the list of righteousness. Not just once, but actually twice. Twice in this section of the Sermon on the Mount, uh the marriage shows up in a Verse 28, if you look to verse 28, it says, But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart And then again in verse 32, but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except for the reason of unchastity makes her commit adultery and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And in the list of uh six antithesis uh an antithesis theses or uh six contrasting statements Two out of six deals specifically with marriage. Two out of six. And if we know our Bibles, that shouldn't surprise us because two out of ten commandments deal specifically with with marriage as well. Commandment number seven, thou shalt not commit adultery. And then a commandment number ten that says And then God specifically mentions this application, you shall not covet your neighbor's wife. Twice in the Ten Commandments, commitment to marriage shows up. And it's clear from both the law and from the the supreme interpreter of the law who is Jesus Christ that commitment on to marriage was was high on the list of God's priorities. And uh the simple observation that I want to make from from that is that Your commitment to your spouse is a matter of divine interest. And uh what you do or fail to do in your marriage is is not just a personal decision, uh, but it's a concern of heaven itself. It's a concern of heaven itself. And uh what Jesus does in the space of just two verses is he elevates the disciples' concept of marriage. Uh he corrects the current erroneous beliefs about divorce. He regulates the practice of remarriage. He reveals the intent of Moses ' teaching on divorce, and he exposes the sinful hearts of the religious leaders. All that in just Two verses. The Lord's amazing in the way that he's able to uh communicate, but it's going to take us an entire message just to unpack what he has to say here in two verses. And um Because of all the confusion that surrounds this issue of divorce and remarriage, it could easily have taken us uh more than one message. I mean, easily take us more than one uh uh uh message to cover this But in God's providence this topic shows up again in Matthew chapter nineteen, so what we don't cover here we'll get a chance to uh to cover uh there as well. And that's that's good for us because unraveling all of the uh complex issues uh that are tangled and stuck together and intertwined around this uh this issue of uh marriage and divorce is laborious and uh and it's not because Christ is unclear in his teaching, Christ is very clear in his teaching And it's not because God was unclear with his intentions when he established marriage. God is very clear about his intentions for marriage. It's because our our sin has kicked up all kinds of uh mud and debris Uh and we need to work our way through a path to to the clear flowing stream of the revelation of God. So it 's not the problem with the revelation, it's a problem with with us. We're the problem. And the the heart-wrenching reality that we're confronted with is exactly what the Lord says in Matthew 19 verse 8. He says, from the beginning it has not been this way. It hasn't been this way. Uh the the problems that we face with uh uh divorce and and remarriage, uh every tear that's shed uh over the broken relationship, every pain that's experienced. Um all the confusion that surrounds this issue is is ultimately a result of mankind's departure from God. That's where it all originates. And there's a Really no such thing as a no-fault divorce. There's no such thing as a no-fault divorce. In nineteen sixty-nine, California became the first state to enact a no-fault divorce according to this law of If one or both parties uh are dissatisfied with the marriage, they could obtain a divorce on that basis alone, just because I'm dissatisfied, you know, I can obtain a divorce. And uh following California's lead, one after another state's uh passed no divorce legislation, and a result was that in the 1970s and 80s, there was just this explosion of uh of divorce in our nation. But there's like I said, there's really no such thing as a as a no-fault uh divorce. It's either our sin or the other person's sin, but sin's involved somewhere, right? Sin's involved somewhere. There's no such thing as a no-fault divorce because sin is always involved. And I want to be clear that um I'm not saying that divorce in itself is sinful. And I'm not saying that if you are divorced, that you are at fault, but what I am saying is that there wouldn't be a need for us to sort through all of this uh confusion if it wasn't for mankind's sin. uh twisting things around in the first place, right? It's it's our uh fault. It's because of us. The fault lies with mankind, not with God, not with his intentions. not with his direction for us. And it's the many multiple layers of sin that really make things difficult to sort through, not the lack of clarity from the scriptures. Like Jesus said from the beginning, it hasn't been this way. And uh what Jesus is simply saying in this passage is that God's standard of righteousness, the kind of righteousness that He's developing in those that are His followers, and that's exhibited in our commitment uh to marriage As well. God's kind of standard is is what's exhibited in a commitment to uh to marriage. You can't place your commitment to God On one side, in a separate category, from your commitment to righteousness, from your commitment to following after him, your commitment to your spouse matters. And uh before we Get into the passage, let me remind you of the context because I think this will help us eliminate a lot of the confusion that people bring to this text often. Let's remind ourselves first of all about who is this sermon directed to? Who was the sermon directed to? Look at chapter 5, verses 1 and 2 again. It says when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach you them. Who is he talking to? His disciples. This is a message that was directed toward his disciples. Jesus specifically addresses them, his followers. So Jesus is not here addressing the marriages of unbelievers. He's not addressing the marriages of unbelievers. The Bible recognizes the marriages of unbelievers. In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 4 says, marriage is to be held in honor among all, and the marriage bed is to be undefiled, for fornicators and adulterers God will judge. It doesn't matter if you claim to be a believer or not. God has a say in what you do regarding marriage. And that would include the unbelievers. Even unbelievers will stand one day in judgment. for their commitment to their marriages. But unbelievers are not the primary audience of the Lord's address here in Matthew chapter 5. Jesus is also not specifically addressing the issue of mixed marriages, a believer married to an unbeliever uh where a believer is uh uh married to an unbeliever. And this makes sense out of what uh Paul says later on in uh uh first Corinthians chapter seven and uh why don't you flip over there? We're gonna uh kind of flip back and forth uh between Matthew 5 and 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Because I think it really helps bring some clarity to to what the Lord says here in Matthew chapter uh uh chapter 5 1 Corinthians chapter 7, if you look at verses 10 and 11, listen to what Paul says. He says, But to the married, I give instructions, not I, but the Lord. That the wife should not leave her husband, but if she does leave, she must remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband, and that the husband should not divorce his wife. And all God's people said, Amen, right? This is the word of the Lord. He says it right up front I say, not I, but the Lord. This is what the Lord's instruction is about marriage. But then we read this statement in verse 12. Look at what he says. But to the rest I say, not the Lord. That if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever and she consents to live with him, he must not divorce her. And a lot of people scratch their heads on that verse and say, you know, what's going on here? You know, in in verses ten and eleven, Paul says, you know, this is what the Lord has to say. And then in verse twelve, he says, uh, this is what I say, not the Lord. You know, what's what's what's to deal with that? Is Paul trying to insert himself an inspired scripture? You know, to insert his own uh opinion? You know, did he just kind of turn off the inspiration switch and say, hey Lord, I've got something I'd like to share too? And then all of a sudden, you know pen this verse and then okay, now you can you know inspire me again. I mean is that what the what uh Paul's going uh doing here? The answer is no. The Bible lets us know that all scripture is God breathe, right? All scriptures God breathed, inspired by God, profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, for training and righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate. Equipped for every good work. So there's no such thing as errant, non-authoritative, uninspired scripture. All of Scripture is God-breed. So how are we to understand what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7? What Paul is saying is that the issue of mixed marriages was not something that the Lord addressed while he was on earth. In Matthew chapter 5, the Lord is not addressing mixed marriages, believers married to unbelievers. Jesus did, however, Talk about believers who are married. And that's the proper way to understand 1 Corinthians chapter 7 when Paul says, not the Lord, but I say this. He's saying this is something that the Lord didn't address while he was on this earth, and it's important to make those distinctions up front because uh there are people who don't pay attention to the Lord's words and its context, and uh their conscience is troubled uh because of what they read in Matthew chapter five. They're troubled because of divorces that might have occurred in their past even prior to their salvation or divorce uh a divorce that uh occurred between uh them as a believer and an unbeliever, and uh their consciences are are troubled by by that as well But uh like I said, Jesus here in the Sermon on the Mount, he's addressing believers married to believers. And uh there's really three movements uh within this passage that uh that really help us understand what the Lord is saying to us here. First of all, you turn back to Matthew chapter 5 again. First of all, he talks about the way that those with hardened hearts excuse themselves from their commitment to marriage. Those with heart and hearts excuse themselves from their commitment to marriage. And verse 31 it says, It was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. And this talks about those with heart and hearts and the excuse that they made not to fulfill their commitment. In uh verse 32, uh he talks about the way that those who are sinfully divorced are are left unprotected or exposed. In verse 32, but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except for the reason of unchastity makes her commit adultery, exposing this wife. And then uh he wraps up his discussion here by demonstrating how even those who would uh later marry, those who are wrongfully divorced, were dragged into this into this sin and exploited in uh in the end of verse thirty-two, whoever marries a divorced woman uh commits adultery and it like I said again it's important to remember uh the context here. So uh the three uh points are the the tender the the hardened heart ex excused and thirty one Uh the broken heart exposed in verse 32, and the the tender heart exploited, or the soft heart exploited in uh in verse 32 as well. So those are the three kind of movements, the the hardened heart, the broken heart, and the tender heart, okay? First of all, let's look at the heart and heart in verse 31. It was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. And uh it's important to note that Jesus is not here correcting the law. Uh He quotes kind of loosely from uh Deuteronomy chapter 24, but what Jesus is doing is not saying, well, the Bible says this, but listen to what I'm going to say to you. Jesus is not trying to correct what the scriptures say. That would have been the sure sign of a false prophet, right? To say that, oh, the Bible says this, but don't worry about that. This is what I have to say to you. Jesus is not a false prophet. In verse 17 of chapter 5, he says, Do not think that I came to abolish the law and the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. So Jesus is not correcting the law, but what he is doing is he's correcting the common misunderstanding of the law of God. And a common belief was that all you really had to be concerned about divorce was really just the process. Just to be concerned about the process of divorce. We'll back to Deuteronomy chapter 24 Deuteronomy uh 24 and and really Deuteronomy as a whole it records the the speeches of of Moses from the in the final months of his life. The children of Israel, they're on the plains of Moab. They're about to enter into the promised land. And what Moses does is he kind of restates what uh the law said in Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers. To remind the Israelites of their faith in the one true God and the necessity to keep his commandments in order to conquer the promised land. So in Deuteronomy chapter 24, he he turns to the uh uh issue of marriage. Look what he says here. Deuteronomy 24. He says when a man takes a wife and marries her and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her. And he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out from his house, and she leaves his house and goes and becomes another man's wife. And if the latter husband turns against her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband who sent her away is not allowed to take her again to be his wife. Since she has been defiled, for that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin on the land which the Lord your God gives you as an inheritance. And uh Divorce was to be a formal, uh legal separation which terminated the covenant relationship. That's what uh Moses talks about here. Uh Jay Adams in his book on divorce and remarriage, he uh identifies at least three steps to this process of uh divorcing a wife. There was this uh written bill of divorce. It was uh written in a form that clearly stated what the purpose was, made it a legal matter, uh protected the one who received uh this bill of divorce from false accusations, people saying, Oh, hey, you're really not uh divorce, you know, you're still married. It gave them some kind of protection and uh eliminated any misunderstandings about you know what actually uh took place and and clearly set forth this person is an unmarried person. This person is unmarried. The bill also had to be uh personally uh served. Uh personally served. It was to be put in the hand of uh the person who was to be divorced, according to the Jewish Talmud, a third party. could serve the papers, but Moses actually directed that, you know, if you're divorcing, you serve the papers. You know, you go to the wife and say that you're divorcing this wife. It was required that there was to be some personal interaction between you and uh the person that you intended to divorce. And then third, the person who was divorced was to be sent from the home. Uh so there wasn't any opportunity for confusion about the status of uh the relationship, a divorce uh person was uh formally sent out from the home and and all privileges and responsibilities uh were terminated uh at that point. And uh it's been noted that In uh in other cultures, um, the the way that divorce often happens was, you know, three times the person would come and say, I divorce you, I divorce you, I divorce you, and it was over. This made it formal, it made it legal, it had some kind of representation that they could present to other people. It was uh really made it clear that this was a legal uh separation. And there's at least uh two reasons uh for for all of these steps that uh the Lord included here in uh uh Deuteronomy 24. Uh this was something that protected the rights of the divorced spouse protected the the rights of the divorced spouse. It was uh if it was unclear that the woman uh was uh married or not uh guess what she wouldn't be able to do again She wanna be able to get married to anybody else, right? Because it's it's unclear, you know, are you still married? Are you unmarried? I'm not touching it, right? I don't I don't know what you are Uh having this this bill of divorce that, you know, I I am officially divorced from my previous husband and the the consequences for taking another man's wife were pretty severe, right? In Leviticus chapter 20, verse 10, it says, If there is a man who commits adultery with another man's wife, one who commits adultery with his friend's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. Both parties were to die. So if anyone was interested in this lady, it had to be clear that she's not taken, right? So the certificate of divorce was was proof. And uh Moses assumes that the divorced woman would, you know, remarry again. You know, that's what follows the divorce. And there's uh examples of uh divorce bills in the the ancient Near East that kind of uh make that clear, uh talked about uh uh those that were divorced that you're now free to marry whoever you please. You know that was the intent of the the bill of of divorce. Uh but there's a another uh reason that uh this was made clear uh that uh not only were the rights of the divorced person in view uh but also in addition to that it forced the person who was giving to the divorce to really contemplate what he was doing. It wasn't just, you know, I divorce you, I divorce you, I divorce you, and you know it's over with. He actually had to sit down, write it out, hand it to her, send her out the home. It was this process. He really had to think through uh what he was about uh to do And in addition to that, in verse 4 it says, Then her former husband, who sent her away, is not allowed to take her again to be his wife Since she has been defiled, if she leaves the house, she marries somebody else, she can't come back. It's over. It was over And God was forbidding the children of Israel from being flippant in their decisions. You know, hey, I divorced you, okay, now I want you back. All right, now I divorce you, now I want you back. God says, no. If you're going to divorce, it's it's over. She marries somebody else, you're done. That's what God was trying to communicate. Moses wasn't trying to make divorce easy. What he was trying to do is to make divorce difficult. You had to think through it And uh the context of this verse that was being cited was actually ignored by the people of Jesus' day. Uh they they were looking at this command as, hey, this just makes divorce easy. All I have to do is write out the certificate, and I'm done. Jesus says, no, it was actually intended to make divorce more difficult, not to make it easy. According to the Babylonian Talmud, uh one rabbi said that you are allowed to divorce your wife If you find another woman more beautiful than she is, because the scripture says she's found no favor in your eyes, you find somebody else more beautiful, hey, you can just let her go. There was another rabbi by the name of Hillel who favored this kind of freer interpretation of the law, and he believed that you could divorce your wife for any reason whatsoever, even if she spoiled your food. You know, the the food that just wasn't right today, you know, it's time for you to leave. It was it was what people practice. People practice this And totally miss the context of what Moses was trying to communicate. Totally miss the context. Completely distorts the picture and the significance of marriage. And what Jesus points out is that in all this focus on the process of the divorce and the proceedings and how it was to be done, you know, providing a certificate of of divorce, the religious people of his day fail to ask two more Important questions. And the two more important questions are: why should I divorce? Not just how should I divorce? Why should I divorce? And the second question is: what are the consequences of my divorce? Those are the the two more important questions, and uh Jesus points out later in Matthew chapter nineteen that Moses never commanded that anyone divorce, it was rather a concession to the hardness of hearts, to the hard hearts of of men. That was the the the reason that that Moses uh permitted divorce, not commanded uh divorce. So Jesus is telling these guys that their their attitude towards their their wives said a lot more about them being hard hearted, not so much about their wives that you know might have lost their attractiveness or desirability. It was more about their their hardened hearts. Said that Moses allowed it because of the hardness of uh your hearts. And it's uh, you know, to search for some kind of loophole is uh is really uh uh an indictment against our own hearts. So how do we know marriage is supposed to be between one man and one woman for life? One of the reasons we know is because that's the way it was in the beginning, right? That's the way it was in the beginning. Without any termination of the relationship, because when God created Adam and Eve, guess what? There were no other people in existence. It's not like Adam had a choice. You know, it's like I can't divorce you and go anywhere. I mean where else am I going to go, right? There's nobody else, and that's the way that God wanted it. You know, when uh Adam told Eve, you know, you are the finest, most beautiful woman on the planet. He meant it, right? He meant it. You're it. And really, you know what? That's the way that God wants us to view our wives, right? If you're married, that's the way that God wants us to view them, as if they're the only woman on the planet. You are it You're it. You're the most beautiful woman in the world because that is the only one that your focus is to be on. You're to to to reserve her for yourself and no others, right? This it's your mind, and this is it. I'm not going anywhere, I'm not looking for anything else. And that's really the the teaching on divorce. And what Genesis teaches us is that once that union was was formed, Adam and Eve were no longer two, but they became one. Those two are now one. They're joined together. For this reason, in Genesis 2. 24 it says, a man shall leave his father and his mother, be joined to his wife. And they shall become one flesh. And that word joined means that that you're glued together. You know, that's that's the literal rendering of that word. You're glued, you're stuck together. You know, so you can tell your wife, hey, I'm I'm stuck with you, you're stuck with me too, right? We're we're stuck. We're glued. You can't rip just like uh two pieces of paper glued together, you can't rip it apart without doing damage to both. It's like we're we're stuck together and To rip us apart would do damage to both of us. That's the way we're the to view our marriages. And and really when you think about the the beginning, uh there 's so many issues that are cleared up when you look at the blueprint uh for marriage. Uh homosexuality is ruled out Because God didn't create Adam and Steve, as we've often said. Polygamy is ruled out because God didn't create Adam, Eve, Sarah, and you know, so on and so forth. It's just two Divorce is ruled out. Why? Because there's nobody else. And that's why Jesus says from the beginning, it wasn't this way. It wasn't ever intended to be like this. All of these things are excluded when we return to God's designed for for marriage. So what Jesus does is he confronts their failure to go beyond the question of, you know, simply how should I divorce my wife? To why are you divorcing your wives? Why would you divorce your wives? And without asking that question, you have no reason to go any further. And what uh Jesus does back in Matthew chapter 5, and hopefully you got your thinking caps on, because we're gonna explore this a little bit further, Matthew chapter 5. What Jesus does is he narrows down the exceptions for divorce to one. Narrows it down to one. Look what he says back in Matthew chapter five. He says, uh it was said, Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. Verse 32, but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastee, Makes her commit adultery. Narrows down the the exceptions for divorce to one. And uh it's that word that's translated as fornication Unchasteity, sexual immorality, to the Greek word uh pornea, uh from where we get our English word, pornography Some would contend that this word only speaks of sexual sins prior to marriage, but Jesus is referring to uh and and they would say that Jesus is simply referring to a period of betrothal, just the engagement period, and that's it. But Jesus specifically refers to a husband and wife in verse 31, so that doesn't uh make sense in the context. In addition to that, the word fornication was used for a broad variety of uh sexual uh sins. Uh it was used for adultery, fornication, homosexuality, all kinds of illicit sexual behavior. Uh and if it's and it's clear here that uh that the spouse was engaged in in this kind of activity, if if that was clear that your spouse was engaged in that kind of activity. the innocent spouse has justification to initiate the divorce if that person so chose to to do that. And uh that's the implication from uh Uh this passage as well as what we find in uh Deuteronomy twenty-four um that that spouse after divorce was allowed to to marry again. Because that was the purpose of the certificate of divorce, right? It was to to remarry. So uh what you find here is that it wasn't It was permitted. It wasn't demanded, right? It wasn't commanded that you you leave uh your spouse in uh uh the violation of the the sexual union between uh couples uh would be the one exception because it attacks at the most intimate and physical expression of of their their unity together. That that that part of their their union has been been attacked. And um because of the way that the God designed uh the sexual union between the husband and his wife, it sets it apart from all kinds of sins. Any other sin. It sets it apart from any other kind of sin. Uh I can I can choose to deceive and lie with somebody, but I'm not said because of that deception with that person to be one with them, right? I can uh choose to involve myself in anger with somebody else, but I because of participation in that sin, I'm not said to be one with that person. If I commit fornication with somebody, the scripture says it's different. It's different. 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 16 it says, Do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? For he says the two shall become one flesh. The same word used of a husband in his wife. So you violated the union between you and your wife. When you engage yourself in sexual sin, you violated that covenant that you've made the day that you committed yourself to your spouse and united yourself to somebody outside the the bounds of uh of your marriage. And it's for that reason that uh the wife would be permitted to free herself from the the marriage relationship because you've basically already broken the covenant. And that's that's the the truth of the matter and that's what Jesus points out. And it's uh It's a heavy, heavy statement, isn't it? It's uh it's a good check on uh on on us to uh to make sure that we're we're free from from that kind of uh sin in our lives. And like I said, what Jesus is really doing is he's he's elevating the the concept of marriage uh for his disciples, um helping them to understand uh uh that the uh divorce uh was something to be taken seriously and only under uh certain circumstances and anything less than that breaking of the the marriage uh uh bond uh wasn't to be considered an allowance uh for divorce And like I said, the people in uh Jesus' day they assumed uh far less for marriage. But let me quickly point out two more things in uh verse 32 It says, but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except for the reason of unchastity makes her commit adultery. Makes her commit adultery. And this is the second point, the broken heart exposed. Uh if a if a spouse has been divorced without a biblical justification, it leaves the spouse in a very difficult position. Okay? Leaves the spouse in a very difficult position. If it wasn't clear that we we have uh biblical grounds to divorce, it leaves that person in a difficult uh position. If they violated the the marriage covenant, that's one thing. They're the ones that are they're left out of the the the marriage relationship. They understand you know why I'm out of this marriage relationship. But if there is for any other reason it leaves them vul vulnerable, exposed, and this is where uh Jesus uh continues to take the crowd beneath just like this surface level of understanding of the law. And uh that's kind of what we've been uh getting after the uh throughout the the whole Sermon on the Mount, that uh Jesus is after more than just the letter of the law, but the spirit and the intent of it. Uh one of the major reasons that Moses required a bill of divorce was for the protection of the spouse. For the protection of the one that was sent away. It was to protect their their right to remarry again, to protect their reputation from unjust accusation. But what the person does who divorces his wife unbiblically, what he does is instead of protecting his spouse, he exposes his spouse. He exposes his spouse. And this is where 1 Corinthians chapter 7 comes in again. Flip over to 1 Corinthians 7. Look at 1 Corinthians 7. Look at um what Paul says here about the wife who's uh divorced. Unbiblically, look at uh first Corinthians seven, look at that verse verse ten. Actually talks about the uh the wife who the Who's left her her husband? 1 Corinthians 7, look at verse 10 again. He says, But to the married I give instruction, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave her husband. But if she does leave, she must remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband, and that the husband should not divorce his wife. According to this passage, the believing spouse who leaves their spouse With the exception of fornication, because that's what Jesus talked about. But for any other reason, a spouse who leaves their spouse, who leaves a believing spouse, is to remain what? Unmarried. You believe you leave a believing spouse, a believing spouse leaves a believing spouse. For any other reason besides fornication, it says you're to remain unmarried and to seek to be reconciled to your spouse That's what 1 Corinthians 7 says. And then he goes on to talk about uh uh uh next th those that uh Next he talks about those that uh um were married to unbelievers, but uh first he talks about those that are married to uh believing believing spouses. The the marriage was legally broken, you know, so he calls them unmarried. Uh but the unmarried person was to stay in that condition. Stay in that condition. So like I said, that married unmarried spouse now is left in a very difficult position because she can't go anywhere. It's not like she can go off and be married to somebody else. She's stuck. Because she still has this obligation to this former spouse. And the goal is that they would be reconciled. Remember what it talked about in Deuteronomy chapter 24 Uh you're supposed to um uh to think long and hard over this divorce because if that person left married somebody else, they could no longer be what Reconciled. So in 1 Corinthians 7 it says, let the believing spouse remain unmarried in order that they can be what? Reconciled. Because that's the purpose, to bring this believing spouse back. uh to that uh believing spouse that had uh you know divorced them. So that that was the the purpose that uh Paul talks about here. Um but he had a difficulty about these Spouses that were asked to leave because in uh Jewish society, ancient Jewish society, most women had domestic duties. Most women had domestic duties. They were either cared for by their fathers Cared for by their husbands or cared for by their children after they're you know older, you know, enough to take care of the children. In 1 Corinthians 7, uh Paul talks about the father who cares for his virgin daughters, those daughters that aren't married, in uh Mark chapter 7, verse eleven. Talks about the responsibility of of children to care for their parents, you know, after they got older. Uh talks about the the Pharisees how they uh transgressed the law of God in order to retain their uh traditions by not uh uh uh taking care of their parents So that's uh something else that uh uh children were to do for their parents is to take care of them. In uh John chapter uh nineteen in uh verse twenty-seven Jesus specifically gives the responsibility of the care of his mother over to the apostle John. Remember that In John chapter 19, 27 he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her into his own household. You know, the Apostle John cared for the mother of Christ because that would have been Jesus' responsibility. You know, Joseph is no longer here. It was Jesus' responsibility to take care of his mother. So now he passes that responsibility off because he knows that he can't do that uh any longer. And uh that's not to say that there aren't um Examples of single businesswoman in the Bible. You have Lydia in like Acts chapter uh 16 uh that that was very industrious and uh supported herself. But for the most part, women were prepared for domestic life and didn't really have a lot of means to gain an income outside of their husbands, their fathers, and their grown children. And that's why uh widows, those that you know had lost their husbands, according to first Timothy five, were to be taken care of by who? By the church. The church was to pick up the responsibility to care for these ladies because they knew that these ladies didn't have the means to take care of themselves. So uh and it talks about it even in first uh Timothy five again that the younger women are to do what? To get married To get married. Don't get on the list and have the church take care of you because if you get married, if uh if you have this desire to get married, uh you'll kind of forsake this commitment that you made. And uh you'll just kind of follow after your pleasures. So it's it kind of gives some stipulations about uh what kind of women were to be put on the list of the church uh to be cared for. Because it says that the younger would still have this desire to be married. So these ladies who are divorced from their husbands, sent away from their husbands, in a very uncomfortable situation. Or they they don't necessarily have a father they can go back to. They don't have children that might not necessarily be able to take care of them. They don't have a husband, they might not be able to take care of themselves. What are they looking to do? I'm looking to find another husband. I'm looking to I'm I still have this desire to be married. I'm still able to be married. Why do I have to stay in this position? It's all because of this spouse, this supposedly believing spouse, who's divorced his believing wife. It's the believing spouse 's fault. It's his it's it's it was his decision to put her into this uh position and she's now exposed. And it says that a a person who is in this uh position is often made in uh Matthew chapter five to commit adultery. Why does it say that she's made to commit adultery? Because in her heart, she knows that she's still supposed to be committed to this former spouse. But when she marries again, she goes against her conscience and marries and commits herself to somebody, somebody else, and disregards her, like 1 Timothy 5. 11 says, disregards her former commitment. You know, she made a commitment and now she disregards that in First Timothy five. It was a commitment she made to the church. In uh Matthew chapter uh five and first Corinthians seven, it was a commitment that she made to this this spouse that, you know, I'm gonna remain unre uh unmarried until we're reconcile. That was the commitment that she was to make. And uh left in this position, being exposed, uh sometimes these ladies would uh go against their consciences and be married to somebody else. Uh they're kind of pushed in one direction and pulled from another and they marry uh even against their their consciences. So you have the uh uh the the broken heart that's exposed and then finally the tender heart that's exploited. And this is uh uh where we kind of wrap it up here in uh Matthew chapter 5. Um the second spouse who's married. You know, after she leaves the first husband, she marries this uh second husband. And uh what does Jesus say about that relationship as well? Matthew chapter 5 and verse 32. It says that whoever marries a divorced woman, again, remember the context. You know, is a believer who's waiting to be reconciled, but now, you know, somebody else picks this lady up and marries them and says that the person who marries that person also commits adultery. Why? Because this lady was supposed to be committed to somebody else again. You have this this kind of compounding of of sin that's uh going on here. And uh like I said, it's uh Not a not this kind of blanket you know uh statement against you know divorce, absolutely. Uh there's a specific context that Jesus is speaking to. Whoever marries a believing woman who's waiting to be reconciled. commits adultery, and that person commits adultery. And uh maybe knowingly or unknowingly, so this, you know, whoever this poor guy is, it's hey, uh, you know, she's available, she's not married. you know, courts her, gets into a relationship, and maybe finds out later that hey, she was waiting for for this you know husband of hers to get his act together. And now he's found himself in this situation. You know, now he commits We have uh examples from the Old Testament where uh people were made to believe that uh the condition of a woman was different than what it actually was. If you remember uh in Genesis, you know, you have uh Abraham. You know, says, hey, you know, Sarah's my wife my uh sister instead of my wife. And uh you have different people that start to to court Sarah and you know want to get together with Sarah. And uh you have Genesis chapter 12, 18, Pharaoh said to Abraham, uh to Abram and said, What is this you have done to me? Why don't you tell me that she was your wife? You know, I would have left her alone. Just tell me that she's your wife. In uh Genesis chapter 20 you have a a similar story that goes on if you want to flip back there. Genesis chapter 20. Look at verses 1 down to 7. It says now Abraham journeyed from there. Here page is still flipping, so I'll give you a minute. People always tell me I I I I just go way too fast when I go to these different scriptures, so I'll give you a minute. Genesis chapter twenty So it says, Now Abraham journeyed from there toward the land of the Negev and settled between Kadesh and Shur. Then he journeyed in Gerar. Abraham said of Sarah his wife, and this is the second time here, She's my sister. So Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah. But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is married. Now Abimelech had not come near her and he said, Lord, will you slay a nation? Even though blameless? Did he not himself say to me she is my sister And she herself said, He is my brother, in the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this. Then God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also kept you from doing what? Sinning. Didn't even know, right? What does God still call it? It's still sin. Whether you know it or not, it was still considered sin. I kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. Now restore the man's wife, for he is a prophet, he will pray for you, and you will live, but if you do not restore her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours Later on Abimelech says, in verse 9, Abimelech called Abraham and says, what have you done to us? What in the world? What do you have against me? You know, that you put me in this kind of predicament, you know, that I'm about to to to uh marry marry a a woman who's already married So you and you also have uh Isaac is his son, and you know, Abraham and Isaac, you know, kind of two peas in a pot, and Isaac does the same thing. Does the same thing with his wife. And though the leaders here they they feel exploited, they feel used. Why didn't somebody warn me about this? And the same thing could have been true for these uh possible suitors in Matthew chapter 5, 1 Corinthians 7. You know, they're they're they're thinking this lady's available, and then come to find out later on, whoa, you know, she was a believer waiting for this, you know, believing husband of hers to get his act together and and now I've stepped into this this sin. Didn't even know about it. Now I've stepped into the sun and now I've been made to commit adultery. For those that were believers, they were to take care of their responsibilities. What the people in Jesus' day thought about marriage and divorce is that, you know, really all the gaths really concerned about is that we take care of the paperwork. It's not about why we get divorced. It's not about the circumstances of our divorce. It's not about the consequences of divorce. You know, all God is really concerned about is just, you know, just take care of the letter of the law, right? I got my certificate. I gave my certificate. God says that's that's not what I'm really concerned about. He's going deeper into the heart of man. What the people who divorced wrongly were responsible for was the adultery of their wife. They were responsible for the adultery of this future spouse of their wife, if the spouse got married. And they were also Responsible for their own adultery if they married. And uh Mark chapter 10, verse eleven, it said that whoever divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery against her. And again, it's in the same kind of context. You have this woman that you're supposed to reconcile with and you just let it go and marry somebody else, as a as a somebody who's supposed to be a follower of Christ. And like I said, what Christ has done is he's uh elevated the concept of marriage, corrected the erroneous beliefs about it, regulates the practice of remarriage, reveals the intent behind Moses ' law, and he exposes the sinful hearts of men. And uh the question for some of you maybe, and uh, you know, maybe people who might might think through this issue is You know, what if it's already too late, right? What if I'm already in this situation where I've married somebody who was waiting to be reconciled and now I've found myself in this situation What am I supposed to do? What am I supposed to do at this point? Flip over to 1 Corinthians 7 one more time In the same discussion about divorce and remarriage, look at what uh Paul says in verse 20. Each man must remain in that condition in which he was called. Further down, if you look down in verse 27, what does he say? Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. What is he saying? What whatever condition you are in when you're called to salvation, you just you just stay there Whatever condition you find yourself in now, you just stay there. You don't say, Hey, well, you know, I'm not really supposed to be married to you, so let me now divorce you and kind of compound the sin again Right? He says, just stay where you are. Just stay where you are. And what we uh understand uh from from this, and if the uh flip back to chapter 5 of uh 1 Corinthians again. Actually, yeah, 2 Corinthians, if you flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. This is what Christ says to us there through the pen of the apostle. This is a beautiful verse. Love this, right? Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature. The old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. As a believer, it's almost like God hits the reset button, right? In uh uh uh the book of uh Galatians and and other places it says, such were some of you, right? You used to be adulterers, fornicators, idolaters. That was your past life. Such were some of you. But now you've been redeemed, you've been called, you've been justified, you've been, and you will be glorified, right? So for those that are believers trusting in Jesus Christ, it's not to look back at the past and say, you know, what what am I going to do to correct all of and unravel what I've kind of entangled myself in. That's not the position for those that are uh in Jesus Christ. And I just want to close by uh a word from uh Jay Adams in his book on divorce and remarriage. Listen what he says. He says, God allowed the marriage of David and Bathsheba to stand, even though both of them had been guilty of adultery, and David of murder as well. No more sordid beginning to a marriage could be imagined. Yet God blessed that marriage in time because forgiveness was granted. The past was cleansed and the future was cleared for God's blessing. If this marriage, which at its inception was knee deep in sin Could be blessed by God to bring forth, listen to this, the Messiah. Why do we say that persons who are forgiven and cleansed before marrying cannot expect God to bless their marriage because of a sin in their past? What we understand by the grace of God is that God is able to clear and forgive the sins that we've committed in the past, and that God's grace is sufficient. uh for any sin. Amen? God's grace is sufficient and we uh believe in him, we trust in him, and uh we look to to him now uh in whatever condition we find ourselves in now and say Lord I want to by the grace of God, uh commit myself to to the principles that you've shown forth in your word about what true righteousness uh looks like. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, for uh the opportunity to uh look at a difficult passage, and there's so much more that that could be said, and uh Father that we'll uh we're grateful that we'll have an opportunity to Come back to this again. Father, we thank you that your word is clear and that as we compare Scripture with Scripture, that you make these things more clear to us. Uh Father, we uh I pray that uh you would help us, those of us who are married, uh that we would be committed uh to our spouses. My father, that uh we would understand that uh you uh take marriage seriously, and uh Father, that those of us that are married that It should be as if there is no other person on the planet. There is no other uh person to look to on the planet. Uh just as Adam and Eve were bound together without anybody to interfere with their relationship. Father, I pray for those of us uh that are married that uh that we would be devoted with that kind of uh uh uh intention towards our wives as well. Uh Father, I pray that Baltimore Bible Church would be a A church where the Word of God is lifted up high, Father, even in difficult portions of your word that we would not back down from the things that you communicate to us. And uh that our church would be known as a church where uh marriages are held intact, uh where they're encouraged and even by the singles uh that are here, uh that they would um uh if they're to be married, Lord, that they would wait on you for your timing and uh father that uh while they wait Lord that they would encourage the marriages that do exist here uh for your glory alone. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.