The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you would, turn with me in your Bibles to Philippians chapter 4. Philippians chapter 4. As I thought about what to share with you this morning in preparation for Thanksgiving, I was reminded of a passage and a message that I gave a number of years ago from Philippians chapter 4. It was back on uh November of 2014 when we were in the middle of Matthew chapter 10, uh. Just to give you a little bit of perspective on uh where we've been in Matthew. uh Matthew chapter 10 back in uh 2014. But uh in God's providence, uh it was a message uh that I gave right before we found out uh that we had to move from the school that we had been meeting in for about a year at that point. And uh here we are again at another uh turning point in our church and uh We have a building that we've been meeting in for almost two and a half years now here at FTS, and it's going up for sale in less than 90 days, and it's going to be exciting. uh to see how the Lord is going to work in this situation as well. So looking forward to seeing just the the faithfulness of of God in our lives. And uh as I look back It was encouraging to see the hand of God in all the ways that God has provided for us. I remember uh not too long after I arrived here in Baltimore. I was asked to share a testimony at the Masters Seminary Regional Banquet that was held here in this region. And this is a part of what I shared with the group that was gathered there. I said this. I said we have a a group of about 10 to 15 families. This is back in uh 2012. I have we have a group of about 10 to 15 families that are ready to see a new work started in Baltimore, and I love them already Uh they are hungry for the word. I'm preaching through the book of of Titus. We were going through the book of Titus uh back then on Friday nights. Preaching through the the book of Titus right now and they're loving it. Our people are excited about what the Lord is doing and they're ready to roll up their sleeves and get to work. God's kind providence has not only been evident in the people he has sent, but has also been clearly seen in other ways as well. God has seen fit to provide us with much of our startup equipment. Out of the ashes of a local church plant that folded, a 15-foot trailer was donated to us with everything in it, a fully functional sound system, mixing boards, speakers, etc. A portable stage, 75 chairs, 20 uh nursery equipment, including a paging system, a CD recorder, hymnals. We're still picking our mouths up off of the floor. We've also received a generous contribution from an anonymous donor that will provide for my salary for the next few months. God has been faithful to grant us what we have prayed for as well as what we didn't even think to pray for yet. What an awesome God we serve. That was back in uh in 2012, October 2012, and uh the God that we serve today is no different, right? He's no less worthy of our glory, no less worthy of our praise and our thanksgiving, and that's true regardless of the circumstances that we face. And that's the truth that we'll find uh and remind ourselves of again in Philippians chapter 4 verses 10 to 20. Why don't you follow with me as I read Philippians chapter 4 verses 10 to 20 Word of God says this, but I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at last you have revived your concern for me Indeed you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak from want, for I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. I know how to get along with humble means, and I know How to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance I have learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Nevertheless, you have done well to share with me in my affliction. You yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel After I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. For even in Thessalonica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. But I have received everything in full, and have an abundance And I am amply supplied, having received from Epaphroditus what you have sent, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God, and my God will supply all your needs. according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. And all God 's people said Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do come before you this morning. Father, we're grateful for your word. We're grateful for the way that your word instructs us. We're sanctified through your truth. Your word is truth. Father, we're thankful for the way that your word guides us, guides us out of falsehood, out of false teaching. out of that which is unhealthy and leads us into truth and health and productivity within the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now Father, we're grateful for this place. We're grateful for these people. And Father, I pray that this morning that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thanksgiving is the most universally celebrated holiday in America, and uh I know many of you are looking forward to it. Uh some of you are looking forward to it even more than others. Just this week, and I won't tell you who, but uh just this week uh one of our members sent me a picture with a sonogram, and it had the words underneath, coming soon. Can't wait. And I'm looking at this picture of a sonogram, I'm like, man, what in the world? What? Can't believe you guys are expecting. But when I looked at the date on the bottom of the sonogram, it said 11, 28, 2019, and I'm like, I don't I don't think she's due that quick. And then I looked closer at the picture of the sinogram, and there was a picture of a turkey in the middle of the sinagram So I replied, I see you have one in the oven. Some of us are looking forward to Thanksgiving more than others. Here in America, Thanksgiving is the most celebrated holiday. Close to 90% of us will be celebrating Thanksgiving somewhere. People travel more around the Thanksgiving holiday than any other season of the year. But unless the Lord changes the heart, Thanksgiving will have no real significance for many people. And the reason why is because they don't want to acknowledge the God who exists. There are many people who still desire to acknowledge that they should be thankful, while at the same time they refuse to acknowledge the one they should be thankful to. It's because of God's will that you exist and that you were created. Revelation 4 verse 11 says, Worthy are you, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and because of your will they existed and were created. But even though we as Christians know who we should give thanks to, we can be in danger of losing the full significance of what it means to give thanks. Because secretly in our hearts we desire more. We believe that we deserve better. We're discontent with what the Lord has done, and discontentment will rob you of true joy and rob you of true thanksgiving. And that's what Philippians 4 says 10 to 14 and really through 20 helps us out with. In Philippians 10 to 20, it's been called uh Paul's thank you note. Uh Paul shares the fullness of his joy with the Philippian church. And that's not the kind of response that you'd expect from somebody who's sitting on death row. Because that's essentially where Paul was at this time that he wrote this letter. Just to set the context for you, by the time Paul writes this letter, he's been in chains for four years in chains. Four years, yet to be convicted of a crime, four years without a conviction. Talk about injustice He's already spent two years in prison in Caesarea without a fair trial. You can read about that in Acts chapter 24 to 26. And now he's on in the latter half of a two-year arrest in Rome, and you can read about that in Acts chapter 28. He 's waiting for a trial before Nero, the Roman Caesar. He's literally in chains as he's writing this letter, and he mentions his imprisonment at least four times in the book of Philippians. And he's sure that this imprisonment is going to end in one of two ways. Either he's going to be set free, or he is going to die. He says in chapter 1 and verse 20, Christ will even now as always be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death. But then he turns around in chapter 2 and verse 17 and says this, but even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and share my joy with you all. So here he is, Paul, potentially his neck is on the chopping block. He's saying, hey, I want to write a letter and share my joy with you all. Sharing my joy 16 times in the space of just four chapters, Paul uses the word for joy. He encourages the church to be joyful all while his life is on the line. How does he do it? What does Paul know that we don't? What is the secret sauce, right? What's the recipe that he's using to make his chicken sandwiches with? Something's going on back in the kitchen, right? What is Paul doing? There's something that Paul knows that we need to learn. Look at what he says in verse 11. He says, I have learned. Verse 12, he says, I know how to get along. Verse 12 again he says, I know also how to live. And verse 12, I have learned the secret. There are at least three qualities of a truly joyful heart that we need to be committed to if we're going to live above our circumstances, regardless of what those circumstances are. Number one, we can greatly rejoice when our strength comes from the Lord. We can greatly rejoice when our strength comes from the Lord. Look again at verses 10 to 13. It says, for I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak from want, for I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in prosperity in any and every circumstance I've learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having an abundance and suffering need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. While Paul is waiting for his day in court, things would have been very difficult for him. According to Acts 28, he was allowed to have visitors as long as he remained chained at the wrist to one of Caesar's Praetorian guards. As you can imagine, there wouldn't be much that he could do from this position to earn any money. We know that Paul was at one time able to support himself through tent making according to Acts. 18 and thir and uh verse 3, but uh there's no indication that he was able to continue any of that during this time. So this is a very difficult time for the apostle And word reaches the Philippian church that their founder was in distress, so they sent a gift with one of their leaders, the Paphroditus, who Paul mentions in chapter 2 and verse 25, and again in chapter 4 and verse 18. And this gift came to Paul at a great sacrifice. First of all, the Philippian church was the poor church. 2 Corinthians 8, Paul mentions the gifts that came from Macedonia. which is where Philippi was located. If you want to flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Talks about this the gift that came from Macedonia To the Jerusalem saints who are experiencing a famine. And in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, look at verse 1. He says, Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia. That in a great ordeal of affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality. For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability they gave of their own accord, begging us with much urging for the favor of participation in the support of the saints So this church was a church that was impoverished. Deep poverty, the scripture says. They had small purses but large hearts. Not only were the Philippians a poor church, they were also a distant church. The trip from Philippi to Rome, where Paul was located, was about 700 miles from point to point. So this was a long and dangerous journey for Epaphroditus to make as he was carrying this gift from the Philippian church They're also a sacrificial church, as chapter 2 verse 27 lets us know that Epaphroditus became physically sick even to the point of death to bring this gift and complete the Philippians service to Paul. So you can just imagine as Paul gets this knock on the door, Epaphroditus shows up from 700 miles away, from this poor and impoverished church, and he's bearing a gift. I mean it's like you can just imagine the great joy that flooded Paul's heart and the as the tears flooded his eyes. I just can't imagine that you'd like why would you do this? You know, this poor church from so far away to think about me He was overcome with joy. The word for rejoice in verse 10 is a passive verb, so it could actually be translated, I was brought to joy. I was overcome by joy, overwhelmed with joy Like joy just rushed upon me and carried me away. His joy is great. He uses the word megalos. You can hear that that prefix mega, the English prefix mega in that word, to hear from this beloved church so far away, so dear to his heart, brought him a joy that was supersized. This is mega joy. But again What verse 10 says, if you look at verse 10 again, it lets us know that Paul recognized where this joy really came from Where did this joy really come from? Verse 10, but I rejoiced in the Lord greatly. Paul recognizes that even though this gift was delivered by Epaphroditus , And came from the Philippian church that the Lord is the ultimate source of any gift that he receives. And his joy is great in the Lord. To thank the Philippians was right. But it's if that's where his thanksgiving stopped, it would be like thanking the mailman who brought the package and never thanking the person who the package ultimately came from Yes, the Lord used the Philippian church, he used the Paphroditus. It's right to thank the people through whom the gift comes, but if you stop there, your thanksgiving isn't complete You have to thank the person who ultimately from where you get all that you receive. He thanks the Lord. He rejoices in the Lord. We can appreciate the mailman, but don't just send him the thank you letter. Make sure you send the people who sent you the gift the thank you letter, right? And while we should appreciate the means that God uses, all the people in our lives, we can't stop with just that. And Paul understood that it was the Lord who was bringing this provision. through the Philippian church. Our thanksgiving is never complete until it reaches the Lord. James chapter 1 verse 17 says, every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above. Right? Coming down from the Father of Whites, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. But he shares this joy with the Philippians. He rejoices that they've revived their concern Literally their concern has come into bloom, uses the Greek word anathallo, which describes flowers or trees that come into bloom after a winter season. And there's no way to be certain about the amount of time that's passed since he's heard from the Philippians. But some estimate that it's been ten years. And on the surface, it could look like Paul is saying, you know, well, well finally, you know, now at last, at long last, you finally come through. But that's that's not what Paul is saying. Paul's recognizing the sovereignty of God in all of this. He recognizes that it just wasn't their season. He says the Philippians lacked the opportunity It's been a long winter for a long time financially for the Philippian church. They just didn't have the means, even though they had the heart. Verse 10 says they were concerned before, and the tense of that verb says that there was a continuous concern. But they didn't have the opportunity to demonstrate their concern. So whether it was a lack of resources, difficulty finding the apostle, hearing about his difficulty. Paul rejoices that their initial concern and desire could finally be expressed in a tangible gift. But look at what verse 11 says. Verse 11 it says, not that I speak from want. Think about that. Not that I speak from want. Philippian church collected what they could out of their deep poverty Persevered in their search over 700 miles away, risked the life of one of their primary leaders within the church. And what's Paul's reaction to all this? Hey, you know, I rejoice, but I I didn't really want it. Not that I speak from want. What are you talking about, Paul? You know, here you are in this need, you're in change, you can't provide for yourself. You get this gift, and now you say you don't want it? Not that I speak from want. Is he too proud to admit that he has needs? Did he fail to appreciate all that they went through to get this gift to him? The reality is that this is the only answer that a truly content person can give. Because the Christian sufficiency and contentment is not found in the external circumstances. It's not found in what you have. And if the Philippians gift was necessary for Paul's contentment, he would have been discontent for the last ten years while he's waiting for the Philippians to come through. If there's an external circumstance that's necessary for your contentment, you will never be content. Because whatever Brings your contentment can either be withheld or taken away. Contentment has to be deeper than what you have I love what Jeremiah Burroughs said in his book, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. He says, many men think that when they're troubled and have not contentment, it is because they have a little in the world. And if they should have more, they should be content. He says that's just like a man if he's hungry trying to satisfy his stomach. He holds open his mouth to take in the wind. And then he should think that the reason that his stomach is not full is because he has not got enough of the wind. The reason is because the thing is not suitable to the craven stomach. But there's really the same madness in the world. The wind that a man takes in by holding up open his mouth will soon satisfy his craving stomach ready to starve, as all the comforts in the world can satisfy a soul The things of the world can't satisfy you. Things of the world can't satisfy you. It can't bring you contentment. Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verse 10. Solomon describes his pursuit of satisfaction in things. In verse 10 he says, All that my eyes desired, I did not refuse them. I did not withhold from my heart any pleasure. For my heart was pleased because of all my labor, and this was my reward for all my labor. For thus I considered all my activities which my hands had done, the labor which I had exerted. Behold, all was vanity Striving after the wind. There's no profit under the sun. Contentment can't be gained from what's outside of you. And beyond that, contentment has to be based on more than what you can produce inside of you as well. The Cillic philosophers taught that a man should be sufficient unto himself for all things. And have the power of his own will to resist the shock of circumstance. Basically what they were saying is that if you want to avoid pain and displeasure, just teach yourself not to care about anything. You know, you've heard the difference between uh ignorance and apathy, right? I don't know and I don't care. If if you don't care, if you can teach yourself not to care, then it's like, well, nothing matters. If I have it, it doesn't matter. If I get it, it doesn't matter. I just I just don't I don't care. I just don't care. But that's not what Paul taught people. He wasn't teaching people just don't care about anything. He was a person who was full of joy He he he was beyond apathy. He had a white hot joy. Paul's contentment was not dependent on his circumstances. It was not dependent on something inside of himself, forcing himself not to care. Rather, he found his contentment. in the strength of Christ. In the strength of Christ, which he makes clear in verse 13, he says, I can do all things through him who strengthens me, through Christ who strengthens me. Paul spends the rest of 11 to 13 just explaining how he could say I'm not in need of anything. I'm not speaking from want. I'm content. I'm satisfied. I have all that I need. Whatever was thrown his way, he was able to take it. Verse 12 reveals some of what he meant by that. Verse 12, he says, I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in prosperity, with or without prosperity. The word humble that he uses here means to be brought low, to be abase, literally for the leveling of the hill, bringing down the ground level what's high. And Paul says, financially, I have been there. I know what poverty is, and I've learned to be content even in that. You know, what happened to speaking it into existence, Paul? You know, why don't you just write your ticket with God? You know, fill out your blank check. And just pray the prayer of faith, and God will send it down, write it down, Lord. Paul says, I knew how to be content without anything. And it's not because Paul was a man of weak faith. It's because he he understood the sovereign plan of God in his life. Paul didn't consider it a lack of faith to be content with little. He also says back in Philippians 4 and verse 12 again, he says, I also know how to live in prosperity. So I've learned how to live in prosperity. And you might look at that and say, you know, what's so hard about learning that lesson? You know, Lord, teach me, please, to live in prosperity. Can you teach me, Lord? I'm so ignorant of that, Lord, please Teach me to live in prosperity. But if we're thinking that it's we're still not getting it, right? Because we believe that contentment is still connected to things. What we have and what we don't have Spurgeon remarked, there are a great many men who know a little how to be abase, to be low, that do not know at all how to abound. When they are put down in the pit with Joseph, they look up and see the starry promise and the hope for escape. But when they are put on the top of a pinnacle, their heads grow dizzy and they are ready to fall. He's saying a lot of people don't know how to have a lot. Because then they start to forget God and they're ready to fall. Having more is likely the greater temptation for discontentment. Because you're tempted to think, if I get just a little bit more, that'll do it. Right? I'll be shut. Just a little bit more. You know, what does the millionaire say? I just want to want another million Right? Just another million will do it. Just a little bit more, I'll secure my future. Future of my kids, my kids, kids, get that dream house But the more we have is the more we want. The more we have is the more we want. And until we're content with what we have, we'll never be content with what we want. And Paul could do both. But how about when your circumstances affect you physically? You know, what if you're suffering from hunger? Look again at verse 12. It says, I've learned the secret of being filled and going hungry. Paul knew what it was like to be hungry. According to 2 Corinthians 11, verse 27, it was a common experience for Paul to be hungry. Verse 27 of 2 Corinthians 11, it says, I've been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. I'm not sure if we really know what it's like to be hungry. Paul says I was often without food. There's a professor at uh the Masters University, Dr. Daniel Long. who suffered persecution in China, and he said his family of five would split one bowl of rice, and that would be all that he had to eat and his entire family for the whole day. And he says as a child he would often walk the streets looking for scraps of food that people would drop on the ground to try to fill the stomach. And then we have the the nerve to open up a fully stacked refrigerator and be like, I just nothing to eat in here. There's nothing to eat. You know, if it's not the the double double and Sunday, we're we're just not a double cheeseburger in here? Like come on Paul learned the secret of being content even when his stomach was empty. But he also knew how to be filled. That word for filled is a An interesting word is the word cortazzo. It means to be fattened like an animal that's fattened for the slaughter. Paul knew what it was like to lean back at his table and he say, That was great, and I don't want anything else or anything more, right? He knew what it was like to be filled. When your stomach is full with turkey this Thursday, there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with being filled. As long as your heart is filled with gratefulness. Is this okay to be full? The next phrase in verse 12 lets us know he was content, even without possessions, both of having abundance and suffering need. This refers to his physical possessions, what he had. In Luke 12, verse 15, Jesus told the multitudes, Beware, be on your guard against every form of greed, for not even when one has an abundance Not even when he has an abundance, same word used in Philippians. Not even when he has an abundance of possessions does his life consist of his possessions. Possessions do not add anything to our existence Because life is not about the stuff. There was a popular bumper sticker that said, whoever dies with the most toys wins. I wanted to make one that said, whoever dies with the most toys is dead. It doesn't add anything to you. It doesn't add anything. Paul was able to swing from one pendulum to the other. One side to the other without losing his stability. How did he do that? How could he endure such unfair treatment without complaint? Four years without a trial? Are you kidding me? That's abuse! That's injustice! No justice, no peace, right? But that's not what Paul did. How did he endure so many nights without food or drink while the Roman guard next to him might have been feasting? While his stomach is empty. How did he endure that? How did he deal with the attacks and the criticisms that came his way? How did he deal with those False teachers out there that were spreading lies about him. Oh, he's in jail because he deserves it. How did he deal with that? Paul says it's a secret And this is the secret of contentment and true joy that Paul learned. The word that he uses is the Greek word mue 'o Says I've I've learned this the secret in verse 12. I've learned the secret. What's the secret that you've learned, Paul? This word mue'a was uh used for being initiated into the mysteries. It was like An initiatory rite required of people who wanted to get into these secret mystery ancient religions like a secret society, a secret fraternity. You know, there's certain things you have to do to get on the inside like the Like even to today they have like the the Masons or whatever, like secret societies. You know, what do I have to do to get on the inside? Paul says, I'm on the inside. And what have I learned? What is the secret that I've learned? What have I been initiated to? He says it in verse 13. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Which is Christ. It's the most popular verse, one of the most popular verses in all of Scripture. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And it has been abused. And used for the very opposite purpose for which it was intended. Like this key that unlocks the door to contentment has been so twisted and bent out of shape that it doesn't open the door anymore This verse is not the Christian ticket to success and prosperity. He's not talking about winning your next game. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me He's not talking about landing your next job. You know, I can do all things through Christ. He strengthens me. What is he talking about? He's talking about what he just mentioned. I can do all things. What do you mean, Paul? I mean being humble. being without without resources, I mean being hungry, I mean being in poverty, I can do that I can do that through Christ who strengthens me. I can be filled or go hungry. I can have an abundance or have need. I can do that through Christ who strengthens me. What he's saying is that it doesn't matter what the circumstance is. Whatever is thrown my way, whatever is taken away, I can do that Through Christ who strengthens me. I can suffer any hardship. I can face any trial. I can do that through Christ who strengthens me. The word I can do is from the Greek word eskuo. It means to have strength, to have ability, to have resources. What he's saying is, I have all that I need in Christ. If all I have is Christ, I have all that I need. If all I have is Christ, that's all that I need. I have Christ. What we're talking about here is power. He's saying I've been given the strength, the power, the ability, the resources, and it's in Christ. The resources are found in union with him. The Christian is forever united to Christ. It's what theologians call the mystical union. In Philippians 3 verse 9, it lets us know that the believer is found in him, in Christ. And in this intimate union with Christ, we're declared righteous in the sight of God based on faith. But not only that, in our union with Christ, we are continually given strength from day to day. Day to day. Back in Philippians chapter 4, 13, the word strengthens, through Christ who strengthens me, through him who strengthens me. It's a present active participle, which means that he is continually strengthening me. To illustrate that, it's like the difference between a a battery and an electrical socket. You know, my my phone dies just about every day in the middle of the day. Just about every day. And I usually don't have my charger on me when it happens I'm usually talking to Pastor Mann and saying, hey, can I borrow some views from you? You know, can I get your cord and you know charge my phone up because I'm disconnected. My phone is dead. If you're in Christ, guess what? You're always connected. You're always connected. If you're in Christ, you're on a constant charge Christ doesn't give us a battery that depletes like halfway through the day and it's like, oh, I'm out. My bars, my bars are gone. You know, I can't make the call anymore. I'm disconnected. That's not you in Christ If you're in Christ, you are constantly hooked up. You got the hookup in Christ. Maybe you're under a great amount of pressure Maybe you're tempted to say, you know, I just can't. I can't. I can't do this anymore. I can't face this again. And as you see the next wave of a trial you know, some pressure in your life. It's about to hit you. You're just bracing yourself because you know I'm about to be swept away. This is it. I can't take it anymore. But if that's you and you're connected to Christ, as that wave crash is over, you can look around and say, you know what? I'm still here. Like how did that happen? Oh, here comes the next wave. This is it. This is the big one. I'm coming home, Elizabeth. I'm coming home, right? This is it. But after the next wave hits, it's like I'm still standing. Like how did that happen? I know I didn't have the strength to deal with that like five minutes ago But guess what? When you needed the strength, the strength was there. Why? Because I'm connected to the source. I'm connected to Christ So the circumstances don't matter. Why? Because we're connected to omnipotent power. We have all that we need in Christ. And this is what Paul learned over time. He faced deprivation, he faced loss, he faced persecution, and in each situation he learned the secret. I'm connected to Christ. And I have all that I need. I have the strength for every trial. Not before, not after, but right in the middle of it I'm supplied with this constant support from Christ, constant energy source from Christ. That's why I could say in 2 Corinthians 12 and verse 10, therefore I am well content with weaknesses. with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties, for Christ's sake, because when I am weak Then I am strong. What's the paradox there? I'm weak, but who's strong? It's Christ. It's Christ that gives me the strength. So it doesn't matter what happens. He says I'm content, whatever happens Because I know that in whatever situation, I know who's giving me the strength. I know who's giving me the power. He understood that he had the power, the resources for all things because he was united to Christ, who is constantly supporting him with the strength And that was his secret sauce. That's the connection. That's the secret. So the reason he could say I didn't need the gift is not because he was ungrateful. But because he recognized that even if it never came, Christ is always present. Right? I always have Christ. When I look back at uh The testimony that I gave at the uh the TMS uh regional banquet back in uh 2012, the Master Seminary Banquet, I was reminded of another testimony of God's grace that I had forgotten about, but I I'm glad I wrote it down. This is what I wrote Seminary taught me how to depend on God. I remember sitting down for my first job interview and being denied the job because of the time that I needed off for seminary. And in seminary I needed at least two days off during the week, Tuesdays and Thursdays And not a lot of uh employers wanted you to take at least two days off during the week. And the supervisor, you know, that I was interviewing with, he leaned over his table and he says, if you don't want to answer this, you don't have to, but What would make you uproot your family, travel clear across the country to California, and you don't even have a job yet? And I told him if God wants me here at the Master Seminary, I believe that He'll be faithful to provide And uh he said, I've never I've never heard anything like that before. And then he introduced me to the president of the company and he says, What tell him what you told me? So I had an opportunity to talk to the president and let him know that, you know, I'm here for seminary and just trusting that if the the Lord wants me here, that He's going to provide for my needs and The president looked at the supervisor and said, this guy shouldn't have a problem finding a job. And he personally picked up his phone and called several companies and gave me a list of people to follow up with. And he says, you know, check around with these guys and if you can't find anything, come back And the Lord found me a job like right after that meeting that I had with this uh uh this one you know uh supervisor, and God has continued to prove Himself over and over again. God is faithful. All my needs have been met. This is what I continue to write. My home church has supported me every month. This is a whole Bible church. I've received random checks in the mail. uh groceries from someone uh that I hardly uh knew, uh even bought me a laptop. I I I forgot that even happened during seminary. Somebody bought me a laptop that I hardly knew. Just purchase a laptop for me People gave groceries to us, donors made scholarships available to us. It's been truly overwhelming, and God is still amazing you. That's true. That's true. God is faithful. And God supplies you with what you need when you need it. Like I said, I forgot some of those testimonies, but it was it was encouraging to look back just to remind myself of God's sustaining grace In Baltimore Bible Church, until you learn to be content with what you have and where the Lord has placed you, you will be hopelessly in search for true joy. Hopelessly in search for true joy. Because what you receive will never be enough. You know, yes, Lord, I thank you, but if if I could have only had You know, Lord, I'm I'm so grateful, but what I I really wanted was, you know, like those kids who get a gift at Christmas time or on their birthday and they open up the wrapper they're so excited. Oh I can't wait! It's like oh it was this like I thought I thought it was something else, you know? Like uh appreciate it, mom, dad, but like, you know, what I really wanted Our thanksgiving to the Lord should be yes, Lord, I thank you, and I'm satisfied. I'm satisfied. I'm satisfied with what I have, I'm satisfied with who you are, and nothing could change my satisfaction. in you. But really quick, let's take a look at these next two points, just really quick. We can rejoice greatly when our strength comes from the Lord. Number two, we can rejoice when we seek the profit of others and not ourselves. Look at verses 14 to 17. So it's nevertheless you have done well to share with me in my affliction. You yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. But even in Thessalonica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. Not that I seek the gift, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. If if Paul stopped at verse 13 and he just says, hey, I didn't want it, you know, didn't need it, you know, I'm satisfied You know, the Philippians might have been tempted to say, you know, well what what do we waste our money for? Like what what here we made this financial sacrifice, sacrifice one of our leaders. You know, we should have just saved our money You know, saved the paphroditus some trouble. He almost died out there trying to get this to him. You know, the last time I'd do that. But that's not what Paul wants them to walk away with. He says, you've done well. He says what you did was good. Uses the Greek word Kallos. It could be translated as beautiful. This was a beautiful thing that you did. Whether Paul benefited from it or not was not the issue. The act itself is beautiful. Acts chapter 20 and verse 35. We're reminded of the words of the Lord Jesus that he himself said it is more blessed to give than to receive. And Paul recognized Christian giving as a grace enabled by God and blessed by God And there's no way humanly speaking that these Philippians would sacrifice to the extent they did if God was not at work in their lives. And every good act that's pleasing to God is enabled by God. Philippians 2. 13 says, it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. So Christian giving is a demonstration of the work of God in the believer's life. It's a glorious thing. It's a beautiful thing It also demonstrated their care and concern for those outside of themselves. They were concerned for the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter twelve, were to be devoted to one another in brotherly love, giving preference to one another in honor, not lagging behind in diligence. fervent in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, persevering in tribulation, devoted to prayer, contributing to the needs of the saints, practicing hospitality. We're to bless those who persecute, rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. And their concern for the Apostle Paul is an evidence that God was at work in their lives and that they were being devoted to one another in brotherly love. You're doing what you're supposed to do. When the Philippians gave, they entered into Paul's affliction with him. They were like weeping with him who wept. They were suffering alongside of him, helping him uplift his burdens, bearing his burdens with them. But not only were they bearing his burdens, they were also partners in his affliction. Partners with him in his affliction. And they also were partners in his rewards of ministry. Paul says that the Philippians were the only church who shared with them in the matter of giving and receiving. I'm not sure if I ever thought about this connection before now, but there are at least two churches that were planted in part Because of the contribution of the Philippian church. Just after Paul left Philippi, Acts chapter 17, verse 1 It says, now when they had traveled through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica where there was a synagogue of the Jews. So here they are in Thessalonica. Paul says that while in Thessalonica, the Philippian church sent him a gift more than once for his needs. Second Corinthians chapter 11, verse 8 and 9, he says this about the uh uh uh the the churches of Macedonia. He says, I robbed other churches by taking wages from them to serve you And I was present with you when I was in need. I was not a burden to anyone, for when the brethren came from Macedonia, we're talking about Philippians here, they fully supplied my need. And in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you and will continue to do so. So here we're talking about now the Corinthian church The Thessalonian church, Paul received the gift more than once for his needs. Paul's now in Corinth, he receives the gift from the brothers of Macedonia, who came to fully supply his needs. So in part, the Philippians' gifts were responsible for the planting of the church of Thessalonica and the planting of the church at Corinth We know that Paul was not allergic to work. 1 Corinthians 4 verse 12 says, we toil working with our own hands. When we're revolved, we blessed. We endure. Paul wasn't a verse to work. According to Acts 18. 3, he was a tent maker by trade, but every hour he spent Mending or making a tent was one less hour that he spent proclaiming and encouraging people in the truth. And which would you have the Apostle Paul doing? Which one would you rather have the Apostle Paul giving his time and energy to? Mending a tent, making a tent, or proclaiming and encouraging people in the gospel? The Philippian church understood the benefit of Paul ministering full-time and partner together with him in ministry to free him up for the work. Two churches planted in part because the Philippians gave. And Paul says, my greatest joy isn't that I receive the gift. He says not that I seek the gift, and again, it's just like he said earlier, not that I speak from want, and later on he says, not that I seek the gift, but my greatest joy is the profit that you receive. By partnering in this ministry, by being a part of this ministry. And this whole section is filled with words that would have easily been understood in a financial market, profit, account, giving, receiving. And what Paul is communicating is that the Philippians by giving that they're actually receiving into their account more than what they gave. What they invested in was souls Which have an infinitely greater value than what they gave. So think about this, this Baltimore Bible Church. We are existing right now as a church in part because of the sacrifices of other churches. Churches like Hope Bible Church that supported me while I was in seminary, released members and released resources from their church to help us get started. We're here in part because of the sacrifice. of another church. Our church was also supported by a a little church plant in North Little Rock called Urban Harvest Fellowship. Small church plant themselves just getting started. And when we were just getting off the ground, they donated $3,000 to help us with the work that we were just beginning. We're supported by other church. We're here in part because of their sacrifice. We're supported by numerous donors who I still don't know to this day who they are, who believed in the work that we're doing here in Baltimore and found it necessary. to free me up so I could have time to invest in the work. They donated of their resources to help this church get started. I don't know who those donors are, but we're here in part because of their sacrifice. And by God's grace today, there are churches that we're supporting in Argentina, Haiti, the Middle East, hopefully in Togo Africa, through our missionaries. And Lord willing, someday, even right here in Baltimore, there will be churches that will exist in part because you gave. Because you supported the work. This is way bigger than just you. This is way bigger than just us. We could be connected to generations to come because of what we do today. And Paul understood the kind of prophet that was coming to the Philippians because they supported the work. He rejoiced in the prophet in their account. The word prophet is from the word Carpas, it's the same word for fruit. Paul was excited about the fruit that was to come. I'm excited about the harvest that's to come. For your sake! You're storing up treasures that nobody can take away. There's treasures in heaven because of what you are giving. Matthew 6, 19 to 21. Do not store it for yourselves treasures on earth Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but store for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also So we can rejoice when our strength comes from the Lord. We can greatly rejoice when we seek the profit of others. And number three, we can greatly rejoice when we find satisfaction. In the glory given to our God. Look at verses 18 and 20. It says, But I've received everything in full and have an abundance. I'm amply supplied. Having received from Epaphroditus, which you sent, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. And my God will supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Now to God and Father, to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul could rejoice in what he received from the Philippians because he found satisfaction in the glory that was given to his God. The gifts that the Philippians gave to Paul were more than sufficient to meet his physical needs. That's what he communicates in the beginning of verse 18, in part these uh these gifts that the Philippians sent We're responsible for the ministry, but not only that, he received everything in full. He says, nothing's missing. I have an ample supply. I have everything. I have an abundance. You know, so Paul can look back at this time as one of those moments in his life that he had all that he needed. I don't have a need for anything. And he gloried in that. But listen to how he describes this gift that was given by the Philippians. He describes it as the fragrant aroma Paul here, he understands that the gift that was given to him was actually not ultimately given to him. It was ultimately given to the Lord. So just like he receives the gift from the Philippians and he says, well, well, the gift that I received, I actually received it not primarily from you, but primarily from God. Now he says that the gift that you gave, you primarily didn't give it to me, you primarily gave it to God. So this kind of completes the circle here. But he calls it a fragrant aroma, a word that was used in The Greek Old Testament to speak of the sacrifices given to God. After Noah disembarked from the ark, he offered up an offering, and it says that it was a soothing aroma to God. And it's like God is just like breathing it in, just like wafting in the smell of this offering. Like, this is pleasing. This is satisfactory. It was a fragrant aroma. Also calls it an acceptable sacrifice. Do you know that the Lord doesn't accept every sacrifice? Not every sacrifice was accepted by the Lord in the Old Testament. God rejected Cain's sacrifice because he offered the wrong thing with the wrong heart. God rejected the sacrifice of Nadab and Abihu because they offered a strange fire and were apparently drunk when they did it. God rejected the sacrifices of Israel because they weren't really pleased with God They gave things that they couldn't weren't even satisfied with themselves. And Malachi says, you give the blind, you give the lame, you give the sick. Is that not evil? You give the worst? God rejected the sacrifices of an unrepentant heart. He says, Bring your worthless offerings no more. I can't endure your assembly. I can't endure your feast. Take it away if your heart is not right towards me. But the sacrifices of the Philippians wasn't like this. It was an acceptable sacrifice because they first gave themselves to the Lord and then gave of their resources. 2 Corinthians 8. 5. They first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. Which means that their sacrifice came from a heart that was dedicated to God first. It was well pleasing to the Lord. This is how our sacrifices are to be a fragrant aroma, acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to the Lord, received by him because it's truly directed towards him. And who's the one who rewarded them for what they gave? Listen to verse 19. And my God will supply all your needs. according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Listen, one one one author he describes the the practice of ancient Greek and Rome, Greece and Rome. He says in the ancient world friends would often express their gratitude By engaging in a contest of benefits. Listen to this. The person on the receiving end of the gift would feel obligated to respond likely with a larger gift. Thereby placing the obligation back in the hands of the original benefactor. And the results would be a contest of trying to outdo one another with benefits. So this is the practice they had in ancient Greece and Rome that if they somebody received the gift, it's like, hey, I've got to give a gift that's even larger in return. And then there would be this contest of who can give the larger gift. A man by the name of Seneca, a Roman Stoics philosopher, said, he who does not repay a benefit sins. Now listen to this. Paul receives this gift. He's in prison. He is unable to return anything. But he transfers that obligation to return the favor to God. He says, I can't supply you with anything, but the one who will supply you with all your needs is God. I'm transferring that obligation to God, and you can't beat God giving. The contest is over with. I'm transferring it to God, and you can't beat God giving. The needs that Paul promises his God will supply included their physical needs. He used the same exact word for needs in verse 19 that he used for his own needs back in verse 16. He says, My God will supply all that you need, even your physical needs, God will supply those. It's the same thing that Jesus promised back in Matthew 6. 33, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. What's Jesus talking about when he says all these things? Let's explain in the context. Don't worry then about what you will eat, or what you will drink, or what you will wear for clothing. Why? Because all these things will be added to you. And God gives not out of his riches, but according to his riches. Agreeing with the riches that he has. He can't be God giving. And the glory goes to God. And Paul could have greatly rejoiced. In that because he found his satisfaction in the glory that was ultimately given to God. And this is where the passage ends. Look at verse 20 with me Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. This is Paul's secret recipe. It's a secret sauce. It's the the chicken sandwich that he's cooking up with the spicy mayo, right? His joy was supersaged Because he understood that his strength comes from the Lord. Because he sought the prophet that was given to others, not the prophet for himself, and because he found satisfaction in the glory given to his God. Is that where your heart is this morning? Is your heart filled with gratitude to God? Are you filled with a great joy because of who your God is? Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this time that we've had together. My Father, I pray that you would Use these words, Lord, during the season to fill our hearts with gratitude, with thanksgiving, with joy that's given to you, Father, I pray that you would receive all the glory and honor. Father, I pray that in the way that we steward our resources, Lord, that we would remember that the picture is much bigger than just us. A Father that even generations to come would be able to benefit. Churches could be planted, missionaries could be sent because of what our church does, even right here. Father, I pray that you would help us to see our connection to the grander picture and that we would find our strength in God and in God alone. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.