The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter six? This is our uh the second time returning to the teaching of Christ about anxiety, and it's uh obvious from the feedback I received last week that This is a temptation that's common to man. But as Paul reminds us in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13, that no temptation has overtaken you. But such as is common to man, and God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also. so that you will be able to endure it. And uh praise God that his word marks out a clear path to escape this temptation of worry and anxiety. And uh we're not prisoners of war and and this uh kind of war against worry. We're not prisoners of of war. Uh the the chains are loose, the door is open And uh instead of being attacked and defeated by you know the dark thoughts that uh come into our minds and you know the anxious thoughts that we have, uh we need to realize that we have an arsenal in God's word and uh we have enough firepower uh within the word of God to launch our own attack against worry and anxiety. We've got heavy Artillery in the in the Word of God. So let's take a look again at Matthew chapter 6. We'll start at verse 24, Matthew chapter 6. For either he will hate the one and love the other. Or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God in wealth. For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not worth much more than they? And who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow, they do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? Do not worry then saying, What will we eat? Or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity that we have to come before you once again and to look at your word Father, we know that your word is a mirror. It shows us who we are. And Father, I pray that we want to look at our ourselves and uh walk away uh disheveled and uh out of order. Uh but Father that we would uh change the things that we see that need to be corrected and uh father we know that uh where you point out uh those areas in our life that need to be corrected that You also give us the power in order to obey you. So Father, we thank you for the power of your Holy Spirit that's active in our lives, for the regeneration that's taken place to give us new desires, to give us a new heart. So Father, I pray that you would bless us, Lord, that you would allow this word to be a blessing to your people, and that you'd use me as a weak instrument in your hands. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen I'm not sure if you uh take advantage of the post script that uh Isaac Green and his team put together uh for us every week, but uh If you don't, you should. It's on our website. It's just a short summary of the messages that are taught from this pulpit and a great way to meditate on God's Word during the week. Uh I've heard that uh a few of you use that for family devotions, uh which is a great way to kind of review uh some of the truth that we've uh learned on Sunday. And uh I think that uh the post from this week, this past week was uh really uh well written. Now listen to what it what it says here. It says worry changes our perception of who we are in Christ and who God is for us. When we worry, we choose to believe that we are not cared for, that our lives are outside of God's control. and that we can somehow fix circumstances by dwelling on them in an anxious way. We trade what we know to be true about the character of God for a lie. A lie that seeks to persuade us that God is blind to our circumstances, unloving, uncaring, and not powerful enough to provide for us. Thus, worry, at its core, like so many other sins, is a trading of truth for a lie about who we are and who God is. And that's that's so true, isn't it? We fall into this temptation uh to worry, and what we're we're really doing is we're trading in what we know to be true about God for a lie. And living according to that lie instead of living according to the truth. And uh really it could be be called practical atheism. Practical atheism. You know, we may not believe that God doesn't exist, uh, but we can sure act like it, can't we? Act like he doesn't exist. One of my favorite stories about Martin Luther's wife, uh Catherine, uh Catherine von Bora, uh was a a time during uh a very difficult period of uh Martin Luther's life. Uh he was carrying many burdens and fighting many battles. You know, usually he was uh jolly, smiling, you know, he was kind of a jovial kind of guy. But uh for this period of time he was uh depressed, worried, and uh Catherine endured this for for uh days. And uh one day she she met him at the door wearing a black morning dress, you know, mourning M-O-U-R-N-I-N-G, you know, for for a funeral. She, you know, stood at the door with this this funeral dress on. And uh the professor said, you know, Luther said, you know, who died? And uh she said, God. And he said, You foolish thing. Luther said, Why this foolishness? She said, It's true. It's true. God must have died, Luther. Or you would not be so sorrowful. And since you act like God is dead, I wanted to join you in your mourning. Luther got the message and recovered. And I hope we get the message as as well. The same can be said of us when we're overwhelmed with sorrow, with worry. We're acting like the God that we know has died. Everything that we know to be true about God, you know, is no longer true anymore. And uh Jesus' message here is that if his disciples were to put on the character of the kingdom, uh put that on display and influence this world for the sake of of the kingdom. And to demonstrate that we're motivated by a heavenly reward and not some kind of earthly reward, we can't go around acting like God is in a coffin somewhere, right? We can't believe that the lies of of anxiety, and there's at least seven motivations that were given here for uh engaging in this battle against worry, uh worry is an indication that Maybe an indication that our loyalty is divided, that our thinking is disordered, that our faith is deficient, that our perception is distorted, that our identity is doubted, that our focus is distracted, and Number seven, that our present is destroyed. And we covered four of these last week and I'll just quickly review them for you again. Number one, worry can be an indication that your loyalty is divided. Over in a chapter uh six verse twenty-five. It says, for this reason or therefore, really pulling back uh the discussion of everything that Jesus had just said uh before this time and uh A worry can be an indication that we're trying to store up material wealth for ourselves, that our treasures are stored in uh on earth instead of in heaven. That our focus may be leading us down a wrong path and that we might be trying to serve the wrong master. We're serving money instead of God. And our our loyalty, as I said last week, is often given to the to the hand that we believe is feeding us. And for some of us, we believe that the hand that feeds us is money instead of the hand that feeds us is God. So we end up serving money instead of serving God where our loyalty should be. Number two, it can be an indication that our thinking is disordered. In 25B again, it says, is not life more than food in the body more than clothing? And the argument here is that if God has done the greater thing by creating life in a physical body, wouldn't he do the lesser thing by giving you food and to sustain you and the clothing to cover you? It's not like God created life and physical bodies and somehow forgot that we needed protection and provision. So we should think more of God than we do about ourselves. Even we know how to prepare. You know, for something that we really care for. You know, we know how to how to protect it. Doesn't God know how to do the same thing? When He's created us, He's created life? Number three, it can be an indication that our faith is deficient. In verse 26, it says, Your heavenly Father feeds them the birds. Are you not worth much more than they? And then in verse 30, if God so clothes the grass of the field, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? You know what kind of kind of parent would uh feed the birds and starve the kids? What kind of parent does that? We we wouldn't we would expect more from an earthly father than that, right? What kind of earthly father feeds the birds and starves the kids? Why shouldn't we expect the same thing of our Heavenly Father? That if God will do that for the birds, what will He do for us? And what kind of parent, you know, goes around and beautifully decorates their their home while their kids are walking around in rags? You know, no parent does that. And if we want to expect that from a natural physical parent, and the Bible lets us all know that our hearts are evil, if we want to expect that from a natural parent, a physical parent What we expect from God. And uh even though it's a simple argument, it's a powerful argument that Jesus gives here. Just so simple and straight to the point. Number four, it can be an indication that our perception is distorted. In verse 27, it says, and who of you, by being worried, can add a single hour to his life? And uh the ugly truth about worry is that it doesn't change anything. You know, worry uh never changed the outcome of anything in your life. It it can't create anything, it can't prevent anything. And uh Jesus adds this thought in Luke chapter twelve that if you cannot do even a very little thing, Why do you worry about other matters? You can't extend your life one second. You can't do small things. He says, why are you going to worry about anything else? And if uh that wasn't convicting enough, Jesus continues to blast away at anxiety with three more arguments. Like I said, this is heavy artillery here. Look at uh verse 31. Matthew chapter 6, verse 31. It says, Do not worry then, saying, What will we eat, or what will we drink, or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. The Gentiles, that that term, it's a synonym for pagan unbelieving sinners. That's what Gentiles refer to. Back in chapter 4, if you want to flip back there, chapter 4, verses uh 15 and 16, uh it was used as a synonym for those who sit in darkness. And who sit in the land of the shadow of death. It talks about uh in verse 15, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who were sitting in darkness, saw a great light, and those who were sitting in the land and shadow of death upon them a light dawns the Gentiles were described to those those who sit in darkness, those who have no light. Back in chapter five and verse forty-six and uh forty seven they were placed on the the same level as tax collectors, you know, people who are unclean. Defiled, you know, people that you didn't have any association with. The religious activity of Gentiles was considered worthless, and uh what they sacrificed was said to be sacrificed to demons in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 20. They were known for immorality, sensuality, lustful passions. They were known for, and also known for being without God. Gentiles were known for being without God. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 2 real quick. Ephesians chapter 2 They're excluded from the life of God. And listen to this description from the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 2, look at verse 12. It says, remember that ye Gentiles. No, speaking about the Gentiles here, you, you the Gentiles, were at that time separate from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world. That's how Gentiles are described. People without God. They don't have God. Not that God doesn't exist, not that God hasn't given them life, but they have no relationship to God. They have no connection to God. No , Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 18, it goes on and says this, that being darkened in their understanding, being excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their heart. And they haven't become callous, have given themselves over to all kinds of wickedness. So we we we learn here that the Gentiles are those without God, and and when Christians worry, when those who are part of God's kingdom worry, What Jesus says is that you're acting as if you don't have any knowledge of God. You're acting as if the knowledge of God has been darkened in your heart. Like I said, it's a practical atheism that ignores what we know to be true about God. What do we know to be true about God? We know that he's infinite in his knowledge, right? God is infinite in understanding. Isaiah chapter 46, verses 9 and 10, it says, Remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. This is who God is He accomplishes all of his good pleasure. He knows the end from the beginning. He knows everything. Every detail. There's not a detail that's missed by God. But but then when we run into difficulty we act as if God is just as surprised as we are that we're in the situation that we're in. Like like uh like this cut God off guard. And as if God didn't ordain and plan for it and and have good pleasure behind it. that God actually ordains his good pleasure through whatever situation you find yourself in. We act like the all-wise God is dead. We know that God is infinite in power, right? In Jeremiah 32, verse 17, it says, Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power and by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for you. Nothing is too difficult for God. But then we act, even though we know this to be true about God, we we act as if uh You know, God is really unable to hear our cries for for help. His arm is is short, like he can't really reach out to us and help us when we're in a time of need. We act like we serve a guy with short arms and who's hard of hearing. In uh Isaiah chapter 59 verse 1 it says, Behold, the Lord's hand is not so short. You know, you think he can't reach you from heaven? You think his arm is so short that he just can't make it down to earth? That it cannot save? It says his ear is not so dull that he can't hear. You think he needs a hearing aid? You know, huh? What was that? Somebody praying down there? I can't really make that out. Do you think that's the kind of God that you serve? We act like the Almighty God is dead, that he's been replaced by some kind of well-mean meaning deity, you know, but uh but he can't really get the job done And we know that God is full of compassion, right? Full of compassion. Isaiah 49, verse 15, it says, Can a woman forget her nursing child and have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, but I will not forget you. You know, he says a a mother is sooner to forget the child that's nursing than to forget, than for God to forget, forget us. But we act as if uh You know, God who had compassion is no longer in existence. He's no longer with us. You know, we now have a God that just enjoys watching us suffer for no reason at all. You know, he's untouched by by the distress that that we face. And what our worry amounts to is a practical atheism. And not only is it a practical atheism, It's also a practical abandonment. You know, we believe like God's abandoned us, you know, where he acts like like we're spiritual orphans who've been abandoned by by a father. And uh and this brings us back to the context of the Lord's model prayer for his disciples. Look what he Said back in uh chapter 6, in uh verse 8, you know, just a couple verses early, chapter 6, verse 8. Look what he says here. He says, so do not be like them. Who's the them here? The them is the Gentiles, if you look at the context. The them is the Gentiles. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask. He said that the Gentiles pray without confidence that they are actually heard by whatever God they're praying to. They pray without faith, pray without confidence. A lot of the gods that they prayed to, they they wondered if they even cared for him at all. They went to such extremes to get noticed by their gods because uh uh they they didn't have this kind of fatherly relationship, you know, a a child to a father, to their deities You know, Baal, we've looked at this before, Baal, uh the prophets of Baal cut themselves to get their God's attention. You know, if I can slash myself enough and enough blood gushes out, you know, maybe my God will pay attention to me. Molech was a god of Ammon, and part of the worship to Molech was child sacrifice. You know, maybe if I offer up my own flesh and blood, my child, maybe then our deity will hear us. And the Greek and Roman guys were largely unconcerned with their worshippers. They're basically like bigger versions of us. You know, they're selfish, they do their own thing. Have the same kind of lust and desires that we all have. It's like they're not care caring about us. So you have these these Gentiles who even though they pray, they're engaged in religious activity, they had no confidence that these gods cared, that they were concerned. That they heard their prayers, that they were even paying attention. But the the God that we have is not like it. And uh Philip Graham uh Riken says this. He says, when it comes right down to it Some Christians are not absolutely certain of God's fatherly care. Why do God's children still pray like orphans? Why do we still pray like orphans? And it's a fearful thing to pray as a Gentile because you never knew if anybody was at the other end of the line. You know, you're praying, you're asking, but you know, you don't have any relationship. You don't know if this God cares. And what we have is a father who already knows what we need even before we ask. Do you still believe in a God like that? Do you believe in a God of compassion, a God of power and knowledge? Do you trust in the Father's love for you? A God who knows and anticipates your needs and relates to you as a father to a child. That's the kind of God that we serve. You know, a kind of God that if we come before him for a fish, he's not going to give us a snake. You know, something to bite. You know, you come to him for uh for an egg, he's not going to give you a scorpion, something to sting. You know, this is this is a God that loves and and cares for his children. And uh maybe you're you're here today and you've never trusted in God as your father. And maybe you are somebody who's wondering and, you know, does does God even hear the prayers? that I that I pray to him, that you know, that I offer up to him. And if uh if that was you, uh the the Bible lets us know that there's one prayer that God always hears. And that's the prayer of repentance, right? In Psalm 51, verse 17, it says, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. O God, you will not despise. If we come before God broken, understanding our need, understanding our sin, understanding that He's the only uh one that we can go to to have our problem with sin answered. If we're we're like that, the Bible says that he will not despise us, that he will hear your prayers as well, and that there's uh nothing to worry about with the God who is a God of compassion. You can be a part of that kind of family. So worry can be an indication that our identity is doubted, that somehow we've forgotten that we're his children and that he takes care of all of his own. It can also be an indication that our focus is distracted. Look at verse 33. Verse 33, it says, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Christ's disciples understand that there's a great and glorious and a magnificent priority in their lives. And that great and magnificent priority is the next meal, right? Or making sure that I have clothes on. That is my great, glorious priority in life. You know, your priority is not where your next meal comes from or you know who's going to clothe you. That's not your priority. Those things are it's not that they're unimportant, but it's not the main thing in your life. The word first means foremost, most important, most prominent thing in your life. The most prominent aspect of your life is uh if is if it's food and clothing, you've missed the whole point, right? Missed the whole point. Uh that 's to place the earthly things over the the heavenly. to place temporal needs over the eternal, you know, uh uh uh joys that we have and inheritance, you know, to replace the kingdom of God with the kingdom of of men. Uh we're not pr preoccupied with those things because we don't we don't graze on this earth. That's that's not where we we we put off our all of our uh attention on. I remember uh I used to uh drive my son to his uh football practices and and we used to pass by this this field and and every time without fail Without fail, there's the these horses inside the field and they've always got their faces in the grass. Without fail, you know, you never see them running around, you know, just walking or anything. They're always face down. Face down in the in the grass and I started wondering it's like how much how much time do horses actually spend eating? You know? I I looked it up Listen to this. If given free access to pasture all day, horses will spend 60 to 70% of their time grazing So if a horse has 24-hour access to pasture, he'll spend up to 17 hours engaged in grazing activity. 17 hours of his day. Mature horses will only sleep up to two hours per day, broken into short 15 to 20 minute naps. They are awake most of the night, and most of the time they're eating. Seventeen hours a day eating. You know, two hours for a nap, it only leaves a couple hours left in the day. They spend all their time eating. Most of their life of a horse is spent eating or thinking about eating. That's life for a horse. Grazing on the earth. The life for a disciple is not to be like that. We're we're not to have all of our time and our energy focused on the things of this earth. You know, grazing around, where am I gonna eat? What am I gonna wear? You know, just grazing around, spending all of our time concerned about this life only Uh the life that we have is to be a life about the kingdom and thinking about the kingdom. That's where we graze. We graze on eternal things. We graze in heaven. We don't graze on the earth. Always concerned about our physical needs. The kingdom. Why don't you flip over to Matthew chapter 13? The kingdom is a prominent feature of the gospel of Matthew. The kingdom is mentioned some 55 times in the book of Matthew. It's a prominent feature of the gospel and it's uh in Matthew chapter uh thirteen uh we learn that to inherit the kingdom And to have the worth of the kingdom, the inheritance of the kingdom, was worth sacrificing everything in order to get it. Look at Matthew chapter 13. Verse uh 44. It says, The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field which a man found and hid again, and from joy over it, he goes and sells all that he has and buys that field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking to find pearls, and upon finding one pearl of great value, he went and sold all that he had and bought it. Everything else is like meaningless. I'll I'll gladly sell everything I have to make sure I inherit the kingdom. To to find reward and the kingdom was worth losing everything to gain it. Uh earlier in the Sermon on the Mount and uh Matthew chapter 5 and verses 10 to 12 it talks about even being willing to be persecuted for the kingdom. In uh verse 10 it says, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. For theirs is the sake uh for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad. Why? For your reward in heaven is great For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. The kingdom is worth sacrificing everything. If I can gain more inheritance in the kingdom from losing here on this side on earth, I'm willing to lose. I'm willing to give it up. The kingdom is worth it. The kingdom of God was that important. Uh we learn in uh as far back as Genesis that There was this anticipation of this coming kingdom. Abraham was promised that kings would come forth from him, that he would have an everlasting possession. Jacob was told that the scepter would not uh depart from Judah until Shiloh comes, who's uh it's a reference to the Messiah. David was promised in 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 16, that your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. And then throughout the the minor and the major prophets, that This kin coming kingdom, the coming king, is foretold in Isaiah chapter 9. We'll get there soon in our reading, but it says, for a child will be born to us A son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The Lord, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. The kingdom is guaranteed. And everything that we have, it's worth investing in that future kingdom. A kingdom where what we invest there is not going to be destroyed, it's not going to be robbed from us. Everything is safe there. We should invest our lives in the kingdom. And uh Psalm 72, it talks about this kingdom being eternal, righteous, global, and glorious. The entire universe is going to be transformed by this kingdom. And here we are as disciples, knowing that this glorious kingdom awaits us Knowing that everything that we invest in the kingdom is going to be there and God is going to reward us for all that we do. And then we're worried about what am I going to eat today? Knowing that this kingdom is what awaits us? This guarantee is what awaits us? We're sticking our face in the grass and spending all of our time wondering about, you know, where am I going to get my next meal? That's not how we're to live as people who are citizens of an eternal kingdom. Do you get that? We're citizens of heaven. We're not citizens of this earth. So how can you maintain your focus on the kingdom and still be worried about things like clothes and food at the same time. You can't. You can't do both. The focus is on one or or the other. We're to stay focused on his kingdom, his rule, his reign, his righteousness. Focus on his kingdom and his righteousness. And the righteousness that's already been described to us. It's the character that we find in the Beatitudes. The influence of being light and salt. It's the righteousness that's internal, not just external, being motivated by heavenly reward. This is the kind of righteousness that he says we're to put first. Put before everything else. And don't you think that if you're focused on God's priorities, that he'll take care of your temporary ones, if you're focused on his eternal priorities, that he'll take care of your temporary needs? And the truth here is that we shouldn't be sidetracked. You know, we need to stay kingdom focused and all these things will be added to you. All these things. What is he talking about? All these things. He's not talking about a $65 million jet, right? He's talking about all the things that you need, all the things that the Gentiles seek after, food and clothes, you know, the necess the necessities of life. He says, all these things will be added to you. Just focus on the kingdom. Keep your focus there. And in 1 Timothy 6. 8 it says, if we have food and covering with these, we shall be content. If I have food and clothes, I'm content with that. Everything else is just cake, you know, icing on the cake, right? If we're kingdom minded, it helps us focus on what matters most. There was a an English preacher who was uh robbed while traveling to a neighboring town. And uh this is what he wrote in his journal. He says, I was robbed today, yet I am thankful. I'm thankful first of all that although they took all that I had, I really didn't have much. I'm thankful that although they took my money, they didn't take my life. And lastly, I'm thankful that it was I who was robbed and not I who was doing the robbing. It's a different way to look at it, right? You know, that that I I was the one who was robbed. I wasn't the one out there doing the robbing. You know, because because that's having a kingdom mindset that I I'm not out here doing what I do just for me and what I can gain, sinning against the Lord, knowing that I have to pay for that eternally. He's like I I I wasn't the one who was after Robin. That my heart's been changed. It's a different perspective. And worry can you know be a an indication that Our focus is distracted from eternal things, that we're we're so attached uh to this life, and it's like God has to pry our fingers off of it. Where it can also be an indication, like I said, that our identity is doubted and and um The last one, it can be an indication that our our present, our present time, like right now, is being destroyed. Look at verse 34. Matthew chapter 6, verse 34. It says, so do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will take care of itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Every one of us has been created as finite beings. You know what that means? That means that we've all been created with limitations. Got limited knowledge, limited energy, limited resources, and that's that's all by God's design. He's the only one that's infinite He's infinite in knowledge, infinite in power. He's also infinite with respect to time as well. In Psalm chapter uh 90, uh Psalm 90 and verse 2. It says, before the mountains were born, or you gave birth to the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Eternity past, eternity future. You are God. Theologians actually speak of God as being atemporal, which means that he exists outside of time. Exists without relation to time. He's he's above it, he's outside of it. He can place his arms around it completely. You know, time, he's outside of that. It's been described uh uh just to to give us a picture like uh somebody watching a parade, like you know, with us we're finite beings. We kinda have to stay on the ground and we watch like, you know, one float go by another or you know, one group of you know, marching band or whatever, you know, go by. So it's like we have to wait until they pass our vision. And it's the difference between that and the helicopter that sees the whole parade at one time. You know, God is like above it and he can see all of time at the same time. You know, he doesn't have to wait for it to pass to figure out what's going on. He sees the end from the beginning. He sees the whole thing in one instant. You know, that's how God is. Outside of time, seeing all of it. organized all of it, ordained all of it. God is outside of it, above it, supreme over time. God has the whole view at once. All the joys, all the sorrows. All the victories, all the tragedies, all the pain, all the pleasures, instantaneously. We can't handle that. We weren't designed to, but we sure try to. We sure try to when we start worrying about the future that hasn't even come yet. Start worrying about stuff that doesn't even belong to us. It's like we try to live out tomorrow today. We we try to borrow from tomorrow's grace for today. You know, God has only given us the grace for today, not for every day beyond that. You know, if when the next day comes, he'll give you grace for that day. The next day comes, he'll give you grace for it that day. But he doesn't stockpile you with all the grace that you need at one moment for the rest of your life. Jesus reminds us that each day has enough trouble of its own. You've got enough to deal with today. Got enough to deal with today. And it's been measured out. You know, the trials, the difficulties, actually when it uh talks about um In verse 34, that um uh each day has enough trouble of its own that the word is actually uh it's the Greek word kaqia, it means evil, wickedness. There's enough evil today to deal with. Instead of worrying about the evil for every successive day after that. No, there's enough for today that demands our time and attention. And here's where we go astray. We demand all of tomorrow's bread today. From God. Flip over to Exodus chapter 16. You guys remember the story, but just to remind you of it. Remember when the children of Israel were fed with bread from heaven? They called it manna, which uh meant, you know, what is it? Uh they couldn't figure out, you know, what it was. You know, they're looking at it, it's you know, what is it? You know, I like to call it whatchamacallit, you know. That's what manna means. What is it? That's the literal rendering of manna. But do you remember the command of the Lord? Look at uh verse 19 Exodus chapter 16, look at verse 19. It says, Moses said to them, let no man leave any of it until morning. Verse 20, but they did not listen to Moses, and some left part of it until morning, and it bred worms and became foul, and Moses was angry with them They gathered it morning by morning, every man as much as he should eat, but when the sun grew hot, it would melt. And uh what you have here is that uh the Lord didn't allow the children of Israel to have tomorrow's bread today. You know, bread for today is all that you need. And they had to exercise their faith to keep trusting in God that He's going to supply me tomorrow. He's going to supply me the next day. They had to trust in God for that. God was teaching them to trust in Him for their daily bread. And what happens when we demand tomorrow's bread today is that it breeds the worms of worry and the stench of anxiety. That's what happens. And as I mentioned last week, I'm not talking about you know that we shouldn't plan for tomorrow. You know, it's it's wise to to have faithful planning. It's reasonable to set aside an emergency fund or set aside money for home or car repairs or your child's education or retirement. You know, it's it's wise to set that aside. All that's reasonable. But if for some reason you don't have all that you think you need now, you can't allow your anxiety to demand it now. Because sometimes God only gives us the manna that you need for the day. I love what Lamentations chapter 3, verse 22 and 23 says. His mercies never come to an end. Listen to this. They are what? New every morning. He gives you new mercies every morning because he knows you need it. New mercies every morning In uh Philippians chapter 4 verse 13, it says this. It says, I can do all things through him who strengthens me, right? The word strengthened, it's a present active participle Which means that the ability that the Lord gives us to endure is moment by moment. Moment by moment, He's continually giving you the strength that you need for that moment. It's not like he gives you a battery and says, hey, that's all that you need for the rest of your life, you know. Go go for it. No, he it's like you're plugged up into Christ and moment by moment, as you need it, it's there. As you need it, it's there But you're not not trying to draw all the energy that you need for the rest of your life today. That's not how it's designed to work. We're designed to depend on the Lord. It's part of the plan. He's designed it like that. So we can't demo demand tomorrow's strength today. We can't demand tomorrow's mercies today. And when it comes to our needs being met, there's times when tomorrow's bread has to wait until tomorrow. You know, I had what I needed for today, and tomorrow's gonna have to wait for tomorrow. There's an old Jewish saying that says this, it says, care not for tomorrow's cares, for you do not know what a day brings forth. Perhaps tomorrow you will not exist, and you will have cared for a world no longer yours. We might be caring for a a day that we're not even going to be there. You know, but here I am wasting all my time worried about it, anxious about it, fretting about it. You don't know what tomorrow's going to bring. So why worry about it? Today's cares for today. Let tomorrow worry about itself. You have no idea what what holds tomorrow, right? What's going to hold to uh what's gonna tomorrow's gonna hold, right? You have no idea. Allowing your mind to start to scatter to all the many possibilities. Well, this could happen and that could happen, this over there could happen. Let tomorrow worry about itself, because you don't know what's going to happen You don't know. The the word that's used in uh verse 34 back in in Matthew uh for care or worry, um it's the the same word. uh that's used. Uh a literal rendering can be uh don't be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. And uh that's not saying that it's okay to worry tomorrow. You know it's okay to be anxious tomorrow. Uh but what Jesus is doing is he's he's talking about tomorrow like it was a person. You know, he's kind of personifying tomorrow and saying, you know, tomorrow is kind of like a uh uh like a like a person, personality. One commentator said this. The future is imagined as a fretting, floor-pacing, hand-wringing, hyperventilating fellow on the brink of an anxiety attack who does more than enough worrying for everybody. To let tomorrow worry for itself. It's like, you know, I don't have to join tomorrow in its sin. Let tomorrow worry for itself. He does enough worrying for everybody else. So if you were worried about worrying, You know, you don't have to worry even about that because tomorrow's going to worry for itself, right? It's like there's nothing to worry about. That's what he's trying to say. Anxiety has been covered for you already. Tomorrow's worrying about that. So you don't have to worry about anything. What do you have to worry about? What are you really saying about God when you worry? What are you saying? Are you saying that he doesn't know? That he's not able? That he doesn't care? That he doesn't have a better plan for your life than you do? Have you forgotten who you are, that you're a child of God and that God takes care of his children? Have you forgotten what your your focus is? that you're here for for much more than to stick your face in the grass, you know, just trying to suck up every bit of, you know, energy and resources that you can because, you know, I don't know if it's going to be here tomorrow. You think that's what what you're here for? Instead of here for a heavenly purpose? Have you forgotten who holds tomorrow and that you were only given today's grace today? Not tomorrow's grace today, not tomorrow's mercies today, not tomorrow's resources and bread today. It's daily bread that we ask God for, right? Because we know that He's going to supply what we need for that day. There's no need to worry and Jesus here uh eliminates all the causes for it. There's a song that says, uh, I don't know about tomorrow. I just live from day to day. And I don't borrow from tomorrow's sunshine, for its skies may turn to gray. And I don't worry about my future, for I know what Jesus said, and today he walks beside me, for he knows what lies ahead. Many things about tomorrow I don't seem to understand, but I know who holds tomorrow and I know who holds my hand. That's the the truth that we can rely on. We know who holds our hand. We know who walks beside us. We know who holds tomorrow, even though we don't know what tomorrow holds. We trust in our Lord who cares for us and eliminates the need and the cause for worry in our lives. Let tomorrow worry about itself. And uh let's let's just make sure that that we're concerned with the the things that uh concern the Lord, amen? His priorities. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this opportunity to uh to think about this subject uh again. Father, we thank you for your care for us and that through the words of Christ that you give us all that we need. In Christ we are complete. In Christ we have all of our sufficiency. There's nothing that's left outside of this word that we need for life and for godliness. Everything that we need is here. So Father, I pray that when we do run into situations where we're tempted, uh to worry. Uh when we're tempted to uh to pile on to today, uh tomorrow's concerns, uh Father, I pray that um uh that we would uh turn back to the scriptures, that we would remind ourselves uh about who our God is and uh remind ourselves about who we are. We're finite, we're limited. Uh but you're the one who's infinite. You're the one who can handle all of time in a single instant. Father, you're the one that we depend on because you know the beginning from the end. You know the plans that you have for us, uh plans for uh future and hope. And uh Father, I just pray that uh we would trust in your sovereign hand. In our lives, God, because we've given our lives to you. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files