The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we take our Bibles and open up to the book of Matthew? We're in the book of Matthew again this morning in chapter 13. And uh we've just had had an amazing time working through the uh the parables of our Lord together, and I'm I'm kind of sad to see it go. But uh I've just learned so much as we've been uh working our way through the parables of our Lord. Uh for for me kind of the the first time uh kind of working through uh the parables in any depth. uh in the way that we've uh been able to do so. Um and there's so much more here than what you'd originally think, right? You know, these these simple stories that that Jesus gave, but there's just such a depth to what he communicated and really some of the most difficult and hardest truth uh that Jesus taught uh came through the stories that he told Uh the stories were familiar. They had these familiar pictures and illustrations that would have been immediately accessible to the people of his day. They all knew about sowing and reaping and about fishing. I mean that was just their life. All of that was second nature to them, but there was nothing easy and familiar about the interpretation of those stories Well, the interpretation of those stories would have been uh completely hidden uh to those who were not given the understanding of it. And uh as we've already noted, The understanding was granted to his disciples to know the mysteries of the kingdom. The parables of the kingdom were intended for the sons of the kingdom. There were stories for God's children, stories that helped make sense out of what they experienced. uh during their day, but it's uh just been eye-opening uh to see the connection between the stories that Jesus gave and uh how they connected to the experience of the disciples. uh themselves just to realize how valuable this teaching uh would have been for these disciples. Uh it would have helped them uh make sense of the the kingdom that they couldn't see A kingdom that they couldn't touch or experience in any kind of uh tangible way. Uh the kingdom that Jesus was establishing uh didn't look anything like any kingdom they had ever observed before. uh uh and and really beyond any kind of expectation uh that they would have had. Uh but for example, the the Roman kingdom, the the kingdom that they existed in They knew about that kingdom, and when that kingdom uh came into the nation of Israel, it was obvious to everybody that the kingdom had showed up. That the the Roman kingdom showed up. When Israel fell under the Roman domination in uh sixty-three BC, it was obvious to everybody that a new kingdom had arrived. According to history, uh the Roman general Pompeii invaded Jerusalem and entered into the temple itself and actually went into the the Holy of Holies, entered into the Holy of Holies and desecrated the place. When Pompeii showed up, it was immediately obvious to everybody that that somebody's new here. There's a new kingdom that's here. It was a kingdom they couldn't reject. They couldn't resist, they couldn't avoid it, even though they longed to be free from it, there was nothing that they could do about it. So Israel had a pretty good idea of what a kingdom looked like. But here comes Jesus, who was born to be a king, king of the Jews. And it wasn't apparent to anybody that he was a king. It wasn't apparent to the Romans. It wasn't apparent to the Jews. And it really wasn't all that apparent to the disciples either. So here here's this guy who says that he's the king, he's born to be king, but this looks like nothing that we've ever seen before. And there's at least five aspects of Jesus' kingdom that the parables start to explain and give us answers for. Number one, and this is just an introduction here, number one, the rejection of Jesus' kingdom is explained. In chapter 13, verses 1 and 23, the parable of the sower, and it lets us know that the kingdom will be rejected. But the message and the messenger are not the problem. Even though Jesus' kingdom was rejected, it wasn't about the message or the messenger. The problem is with the one who was receiving the message. And it's the condition of the soil, not the lack of power that's in the seed. So we trust in the seed to do its work, and where the seed finds good soil, it produces a rich harvest. The second aspect of Jesus' kingdom that was explained in the use of the parables is the resistance to Jesus' kingdom. And the parable of the terror sown among the wheat in verses 24 to 30, and also the explanation in 36 to 43, this is where Jesus explained why he didn't wipe out the opposition to his reign. Even though he had the power to do it, he had the power to control the winds and the waves, right? He had the power to stop any kind of opposition to his kingdom at any time. But he's not going to separate the wicked from the righteous until he's ready to complete his judgment. And until that time the tares and the wheat will grow up together, and it's his mercy that withholds his judgment. The third aspect of the kingdom that we learned about was the size and the influence of Jesus' kingdom in chapter 13, verses 31 to 35. It's explained in the parables of the mustard seed and the leaven. No doubt the disciples would have looked around at this small band of brothers and wondered, like, is this it? Is this the kind of kingdom that we're waiting to see? I mean the numbers just didn't add up. And how is this little following supposed to take over the world? But Jesus let them know that big endings can come from small beginnings. And it's in time that the power and the influence of the kingdom would spread out far and sink down deep. Number four, the fourth aspect of the kingdom that we learned about was the value of Jesus' kingdom in verses 44 to 46. In verses 4046, there's the two short parables. about the treasure in the field and the pearl of great price and the concern here had to do with whether or not the kingdom of God was really worth it Because they had never seen a kingdom that was so despised, so disregarded as Jesus' was, and even though the Jewish people longed to be free from Roman rule, it was becoming clear that they would even prefer Rome over Jesus. As incredible as that was to the disciples, they would have actually preferred to be ruled by Rome instead of to be ruled by the rightful king. In John chapter 19, when Jesus stood before Pilate, the people cried out, these are the Jewish people crying out. John chapter 19, verse 15. Away with him, away with him, crucify him. So here comes the king, the rightful owner, and these people are crying for his blood. Away with him, away with him. And when Powell said to them, Shall I crucify your king? Listen to what the chief priest answered. We have no king but Caesar Basically, they're saying we would prefer to be under the Roman domination rather than to be under this king. We have nothing to do with this king. It's just a sad, sad reality. And we need to be reminded that even though the world rejects the king, that being a part of this kingdom is totally worth it. Even though the world doesn't recognize the value of this king, that being a part of his kingdom is worth whatever sacrifice we have to make in order to enter into it. And we need to that same reminder today, don't we? The kingdom is immeasurably great. And uh it's worth every sacrifice and every every uh consequence that we have as a result of being a part of of this kingdom. And there's the fifth aspect of Jesus' kingdom that the disciples had to learn, and it was the inescapable nature. of the kingdom, the inescapable nature of the kingdom. This is what we're going to take a look at today, Matthew chapter uh 13, starting at verse uh 47, and it's the parable of the the dragnet. And uh even though it might appear on the surface that the only people who are affected by this kingdom are the people who volunteer to be affected by the kingdom, you know, it's just a small band of followers, that's far from the reality. Everybody will be will be affected, and everybody will come underneath of this one kingdom. And this is what we learn in Matthew chapter 13. Look at verse 47. It says again, the kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet, cast out into the sea, and gathering fish of every kind. And when it was filled, they drew it up on the beach, and they sat down and gathered the good fish into containers, but the bad they threw away. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous, and will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes. And Jesus said to them, Therefore, every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a head of a household who brings out of his treasure things new and old Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, this uh morning, Lord, and we thank you for the power and the sufficiency of your word. Father, we thank you for the clarity of it, Lord, and that we today, Lord, thousands of years removed, Lord, can still understand this truth. Father, we thank you for your revelation and that you've preserved it for us. And Father, I pray that this morning that you'd uh help us to understand and apply what we learn, and that you would help me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So how many of you have uh ever had this kind of experience after you've shared the gospel? You explained the good news of salvation, what it means to follow after Jesus Christ, and the consequences of rejecting the Savior, and then the person that you're talking to will say, you know, hey, well that's that's a gift for you. That's good for you. Or even I'm I'm happy for you. I'm happy that you found you know some kind of hope and you know something to live for. You know, I'm I'm happy for you. That's good for you, but that's not for me. It's good for you, but it's it's not for me. As if they they live in some kind of alternate universe where the the Lord of heaven doesn't rule over them. You know, they say, hey, that's good for you, but that's that's not for me. Or sometimes you explain the gospel to someone and they might even take the time to listen. They might even acknowledge that what you're saying makes sense, but they put off the decision to follow Jesus until another time. As if putting off the decision takes care of the decision, right? If I can just kind of put it off until later on, like like I've actually made a decision about that, but you know, I haven't really made any decision that's affecting my life right now, you know I I'd just rather put that off and that's my decision. I'll think about that later. And then there's people who somehow believe that in the end You know, everything will just be okay. I'll be able to stand before God, you know, give my excuse for why I didn't trust in him, why I didn't believe in him, why I didn't follow him. And love will just win out in the end. After I give my explanation to God, everything will be okay. And uh really there's no real consequence of rejecting him during this life because we can all just kind of make it up in the end. You know, there's people that that would believe that as well. But this parable stands in sharp and painful contrast to any of those ideas. And it's a reminder that none of us will escape the pull from this divine net. And there's going to be a great catch There's going to be a great separation, and the explanation of this parable lets us know that the destination for some will not be into God's love or just kind of going out of existence. That the destination of some will be the weeping and gnashing of teeth. This is serious. Like I said, the parables are some of the most difficult and hardest statements that Jesus ever made. And here he talks about the weeping and gnashing of teeth. You can't opt out of this. You can't maneuver your way around this one. Everyone in the path of this net is getting dragged in to catch, and the audience that Jesus spoke to would have had a clear understanding of exactly what he was talking about. At least half of the disciples were fishermen. The crowd that Jesus spoke to would have been personally familiar with fishing. Actually, if you look back to verse 1 and 2 of chapter 13, if you flip back there really quick, the first few verses, look what it says. Look at look at that look at where Jesus gave these parables. That day, Jesus went out of the house and was sitting by The sea. And large crowds gathered to him so that so he got into a boat and sat down, and the whole crowd was standing on the beach. What kind of boat do you think Jesus was sitting in? It was a fishing boat. And here he is on the Sea of Galilee, where fishing was probably going on at the same time as he's giving these parables. They would have had the reminder right in front of them. The picture was right in front of them as he's talking about this great catch. This great catch that happens. And in all likelihood, they might have been looking at a dragnet as he was giving this same parable to him. It would have been a vivid illustration. And out of all the methods of of fishing, the dragnet was probably the most effective for a great catch. There's a couple different ways to to catch fish. There's a couple different methods. One way was using using a hook, a line and a hook. Over in Matthew chapter 17, if you remember, Peter was bothered about paying what was known as the two drachma tax. It was a tax that was paid for the upkeep. of the temple uh which was rejected, uh which rejected Jesus, this temple that rejected Jesus is still asking for the tax from Jesus and from the disciples. And his servants would have had to pay this tax, the servants of Jesus. And Peter's bothered by this. And Jesus acknowledged that, you know, hey, we don't really have to pay this tax. We're really exempt from it. But according to verse 27 in that chapter and chapter 17 of Matthew, he says, However, so that we do not offend them, go to the sea, throw in a hook, and take the first fish that comes up. And when you open its mouth, you'll find a shekel. Take that and give it to them for you and me. And here Peter, you know, goes to the to the sea and he throws in a line and a hook and he snatches out a fish. That was one way of fishing. Another method of catching fish was circular uh fishing nets that were cast from the shore. Uh skilled fishermen would walk along the shore of the Sea of Galilee, they'd cast a fishing fishing net into the shallow waters. It was a net that was about uh fifteen feet. wide in diameter and the the edges would be loaded down with these lead weights and uh what the uh the fisherman would do is he'd have like a a line that was you know held in one hand and the net that was in the other hand and he'd kind of throw the net out you know, it would kind of spiral out into a circle, the lead weights would sink it to the bottom, and whatever fish was, you know, kind of floating around there would get trapped underneath this this this net that he cast out. And then he'd be able to pull the line back in and uh there's the fish. So this is actually what the disciples were doing, Peter and Andrew, in Matthew chapter 4 and verse 19. They were along the Sea of Galilee, throwing out these nets, casting in their nets along the shore. Matthew chapter 4, verse 19, he said to them, Follow me, and I'll make you what? Fishers of men. You know, just what you're doing out here, kind of casting out your net, you're going to be able to do the same thing with men, drawing men into the kingdom. So that was another way of of fishing, you know, throwing out this circular net and catching the fish that way. Another method of catching fish was by casting a larger net alongside of the boat. Or between two boats, you know, do you cast a a larger net and you know the boats would kind of pull the the net along, you know, again along the shallow water. Uh this was the the method that Peter was using when Uh the Lord turned to him and said, cast your net on the other side of the boat, remember that? After he had been out all night long, you know, hey Lord, uh I know you mean well. You know, uh but you know, you do carpentry and I do fishing, right? You know, we've we've been out all night long. There's there's no fish out here, you know. And he but since you say so, you know, since you're the Lord, you know, after all Right. Oh, I'll cast it on the other side. Cast on the other side, and he had such a great catch that that his nets began to break, and he had to call another boat in. to come and help to to load up the fish. There's so many fish that they piled into this net. But this was the a smaller net, you know, a net that that was larger than the the circular net, but it was a larger net, but it was a net that actually could be hauled onto the boat. Okay? It was a different net That's not the kind of net that's being talked about here. The the net that's that's being discussed in uh Matthew chapter 13 In verse 47 is what's called a dragnet. Dragnet. These were the nets that could be as large as half a mile in area. A half mile large net. Can can you even imagine that? Half a mile in diamond in uh in area According to one commentator, they were so large and they sank so deep that they just dragged kind of like sweeping along the bottom of the of the sea. They'd have floats that would uh rust on the top. lead weights or you know rock weights or whatever that would kind of drag along the bottom and everything in the path of this net was going to be dragged along into the shore. Everything along the path. And what a boat would often do is it would attach one end of this net to the shore, and then with the other end of the net they'd kind of like, you know, go out into the to the waters and then start making a circle. back around into the shore and just scooping up everything that was in the in the path. It was an effective way to catch fish, but it wasn't as efficient because you just caught everything. You know, it's not like you're just you know looking for a school of fish that you wanted to keep. This is like everything's coming in. Doesn't matter what it is, it's all coming back to the shore And I've been told that there's uh twenty varieties of fish in the Sea of Galilee. There's some that you can eat, there's some that you can't eat, but the net doesn't make a a difference, right? Nut doesn't make the distinction. It's just dragging in everything. Doesn't make a difference. I remember a um uh uh uh A couple years ago I I for one of the the few times I went fishing, took Mike out fishing in uh California, and uh I remember I was out there with the line and you know, started feeling a tug and I'm like, man, this is It's all right, you know. Like a you know, kinda first time fishing, I'm already catching something. So I'm like reeling the thing back in. When I pulled it up it was uh one of those tie down scraps that you'd use for the back of a truck. You know, I ended up keeping it anyway just so I can say I caught something, but um But with this dragnet, I mean everything's coming in. It doesn't matter what it is, if it's trash down there, seaweed, you know, dead fish floating around, I mean everything's coming back in. You know, I caught something with just one line. Can you imagine what a dragnet's gonna pull back in? Everything in the path is coming in. And that's what would happen as the net was pulled into shore, they pulled back onto the beach, and now they have to make the great separation. Look at verse 48. Says and when it was filled, they drew it up on the beach, and they sat down and gathered the good fish into containers, but the bad they threw away After the great catch, there's this great separation. It was a slow and a tedious process. Wasn't a big rush because at this point the fish aren't going anywhere. The fish are all there on the beach. It's not like we have to rush to pick them all up. So the fishermen would sit down, which is actually what it says. They sat down on the beach and started working their way slowly through this net Pulling out the the the fish that are bad, throwing them into a pile, throwing out the trash into a pile, just create a big pile on the side of the beach and all the good fish they pick up and put into the the containers, the clean and edible fish. would be collected in containers, vessels with water, but the bad fish was refuse, simply tossed into the trash heap. Like I said, they they weren't really interested in saving the fish that they didn't eat. Uh, you know, they're not out there to catch and release, you know, what they catch and they don't want. They just toss it on the side. You know, there's there's no need to go back out to the sea to throw it back in. You know, we're after the good fish. You know, we're not gonna waste time, you know, trying to, you know, save the bad fish. You know, we're just after the good fish. So they throw everything into a pile. Just tossed it into the pile. And at this point, the only place of safety for the fish was to make it into the container. Right? And back in verse 30, we're given a similar kind of picture in the parable of the wheat and the tares. The workers had the same work of separation in the end. In uh in verse 30, it talks about this. It says, allow both to grow together, the wheat and the tares, until the harvest. And in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, First gather up the tares, bind them in bundles, and burn them up. That's the trash heap. But gather the wheat into my bar barn. That's the place of safety. And those the same kind of picture So you have this this this great catch, this great separation, and then in verse 49 you have the great analogy. Look at verse 49. It says, so it will be at the end of the age. So it will be at the end of the age. This earth is like the great sea that's being swept along by a silent net onto the shore of eternity, and nobody's going to escape No, nobody's getting out of this one. Men can roam around the earth freely, but they have little to no clue that this net is being tied tighter and closer together. They're being cinched down into this net. Even though they think they have freedom, they can roam around like I can do what I want to do. I'm the master of my own fate. Captain of my own ship. I can determine my own destiny. And here they are, just kind of roaming around the earth, not knowing that the whole while they're being pulled in steadily and slowly. Back into the shore. To rest onto the shore of eternity. John MacArthur describes the vividness of this imagery in these words. He says, the kingdom of heaven is like a net. That moves through the world, that is invisible to those who can't see it. And if perchance it touches the back of a fish, the fish simply flits a little further ahead and enjoys the freedom that he thinks is his permanently Men may not perceive the kingdom, they may not see God moving in the world, but he's moving. And men very often, when touched by the gospel of Jesus Christ or threatened with the threat of judgment, dart into the freedom they think is ahead of them But sooner or later they run right back into the same net because there's no freedom there. And they're inexorably moving toward inevitable judgment. All men are gathered in the net. The kingdom will ultimately engulf them all. It doesn't matter if you don't think the gospel or religion is for you. That doesn't matter. Because the net's still moving. It doesn't matter if you want to put off the decision for Christ until a later time. You know why? Because the net's still moving. It doesn't matter if you think judgment is just an idea that ancient people came up with to control the masses. Yeah, you have that kind of idea that's floating around that, you know, people just made up hell because they wanted to control people, control people by fear. So they made up this idea of an eternal punishment just to keep everybody in check. It doesn't matter if you you think hell's not real, because the net's still moving. And there's plenty of fish flopping around on the beach who thought the same thing. We're all bringing dragged up onto the shore. All being dragged. The good, the bad, the righteous, the wicked, the just, the unjust, the young, the old, the black, the white, the rich, the poor, religious, irreligious, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter whether or not you believe in the net. The net doesn't care. The net doesn't care whether or not you believe in the net. You're still getting dragged. It doesn't make any difference at all. And one day you'll find out that you can't breathe anymore because you've been pulled onto the shore, you've been pulled out of your environment, and the kingdom will ultimately engulf everybody. Everybody. And when we talk about the kingdom of heaven, we're talking about God's reign, God's rule, and no one will escape accountability before their creator. And there's going to be a great separation that's going to take place. Look at verse 49 again. It says, so it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come forth and take out the wicked from among the righteous. And this analogy, the angels are the fishermen. I've heard some interpreters who who attempt to make the the fishermen the disciples, but but that doesn't fit the context here. There's other places where, you know, we have the fishes of men and like uh Matthew chapter four. But here the great catch is the responsibility of the angels. And the great separation is given to the angels. It's not our job to try to separate everybody out. This is the angel's job. In Matthew chapter 13 and verse 41, it talks about the same thing when it says the Son of Man. Will send forth his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all stumbling blacks and those who commit lawlessness. And uh maybe that's the the bright light people are seeing when they they talk about being near death. You ever hear people talk about that all the time? You know, I was had this near-death experience and I saw a bright light. You know, who knows what that light is? You know, the Bible says that the angels come to take the stumbling blocks and those who commit lawlessness away. Who knows what that bright light is? Revelation chapter 21, verse 27. It says, Nothing unclean and no one who practices abomination and lying shall ever come into it. But only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Nobody who doesn't belong in the kingdom will show up there. And the trash pile of eternity is the furnace of fire. And that's not an analogy. That's not a metaphor. That's not a word picture. That's the reality that this parable is illustrating. The reality this parable illustrates is the furnace of fire. There's a destination. Look at verse 50. And will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. There's a couple things that we learn about this place, this furnace of fire. Number one, it's a real place. It's a real place. Jesus says, in that place. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's a statement that he makes frequently throughout the Gospels. I'll give you a couple, you can just jot these down. Matthew chapter 13, verse 42. And will throw them into the furnace of fire. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Matthew chapter 22, verse 13. Then the king said to the servants, Bind him hand in foot, throw him into outer darkness. In that place, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Matthew 24, verse 51. We'll cut him into pieces and assign him a place with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Matthew 25, verse 30, throw out the worthless slave into the outer darkness. In that place, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And then over in Acts chapter 1 verse 25, when Judas died, if you remember when Judas died in Acts chapter 1, it says Judas turned aside to go to his own place. His own place. Hell is a real place. It's a location. It's a real location. Just as real as we're sitting here in Baltimore. Hell is a real place where people will reside. It is a location. It's a place. And it's permanent. It's permanent. Permanent place. Number two, it's it's a real fire. Talks about this this furnace of fire. Flip over to Matthew chapter 25. Matthew chapter 25. Jesus speaks of the separation that will occur in the future. It's a separation that takes place before the entrance into the kingdom. And look what he says in Matthew chapter 25, starting at verse 31. It says, but when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne And all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate. Separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, and he will put the sheep on his right, and the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Then flip down to verse 41. Look what he says there. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, accursed ones, into the eternal fire which has been prepared for the devil and his angels. Eternal fire Eternal fire. Luke chapter 16, verse 24, it describes the agonies of hell when Jesus quoted the words of the rich man who cried out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I'm in agony in this flame. Spurgeon said, Don't begin telling me that there's a metaphorical fire. Who cares for that? If a man were to threaten to give me metaphorical blows to the head, I should care very little about it. I'd welcome them. Give me as many as you please. And what say the wicked? We do not care about metaphorical fires, but they are real, sir. But they are real, sir. Yes, just as real as yourself. There is a real fire and a real hell, as truly as you now have a real body, a fire exactly like that which we have on earth, in everything except this, that it will not consume you, though it will torture you. There's a real fire. Number three, there's a real torment. Matthew chapter 13, verse 50, it says, again, it says that in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Weeping and gnashing of teeth. The word for weeping is only used in the New Testament for extreme grief. For example, it's used in Matthew chapter 2 and verse 18 where it says a voice was heard in Rama. Weeping in great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children and she refused to be comforted because they were no more. That that that grief that a mother feels when when when her child has been lost? It's that kind of grief that we're talking about, that kind of weeping. And we understand something about that kind of weeping if we've ever been in a situation where we lost a close loved one. I remember, I mean, the the the first time I experienced like extreme grief like this was the time that I lost my father. Back in 2000. And it's just like there's I mean there's nothing that you can really do to like, hey, it's gonna be alright. It's just like you just gotta get that out, right? Just this weeping, this grief that you can't hold back. Losing my father was like that for me. But this idea of gnashing of teeth, I mean we understand something about the weeping, but this idea of gnashing of teeth is a little bit more difficult to describe. Our muscles tighten involuntarily when we're in extreme pain. or stress just tighten involuntarily. This is why sometimes people clench their teeth like if they're really angry. They just kind of clench their jaws. When they're in pain, they kind of clench their mouth together to uh uh really in just kind of like this reaction to the pain. And that's the kind of pain that's uh depicted in hell. There was an article in the LA Times that described how the body responds to severe burns, and it stated this. It says after about an hour or two, the body has a wonderful way to protect itself. It kind of walls off the pain. It's basically adrenaline. Your body goes into a certain amount of shock. Once the body, once the burn becomes so severe, it's burned down to the nerve so that you don't initially have any sensation in those burned areas. Then the adrenaline kicks in. It's our mind's way to protect us from the tragedy that we went through. You know, sometimes I hear about you know the mart martyrs you know, are burned at the stake for the faith and they're still there preaching. You know, like at a certain point, like the the pain just like like you don't feel it really anymore, right? You know, it just gets to a certain point where your mind just shuts down and like blocks it out. But in hell, there's no way to turn off the pain. In hell, there is no no wall to block you from the pain. Your your mind doesn't shut down to say that's enough. Like I've had enough. Let's shut it down. Hour, two hours, like, like just shut it down. In hell, that does not occur. It's an eternal fire, and it's eternal pain that's associated with it. John Piper said, I know of no one who has overstated the terror of hell. One writer said, There's no way to describe Baal. Nothing on earth can compare with it. No living person has any real idea of it. No madman in wildest flights of insanity ever beheld its horror. No man in delirium ever pictured a place so utterly terrible as this No nightmare racing across the fevered mind ever produce a terror to match the mildest hell? Let the most gifted writer exhaust his skill in describing this roaring cavern of unending flame, and he would not even brush and fancy the nearest edge of hell. It's it's indescribable. Indescribable. And it's forever. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And there will continue to be weeping and gnashing of teeth because the fire never goes out. In Proverbs 26 verse 20 it says, For the lack of wood, the fire goes out. You know, sometimes when there's a wildfire that's kind of burning out of control, you know, the firemen will get ahead of it and they kind of burn an area so that there's no more fuel for the flame. Because if there's no more fuel, the fire dies, right? But in hell there's always more fuel. There's always more fuel, and the occupants are that fuel. The occupants of hell are that fuel. And just like the redeemed are fitted for a body for heaven, a glorified body for heaven. The damned will be fitted with a contemptible body for hell, a body that will experience pain forever and continue to provide the flame with more fuel for it. Revelation 14, 11 says, the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day or night. John Bunyan wrote this. He says, If after ten thousand years an end should come, there would be comfort. But here is thy misery, here thou must stay forever. When thou hast been in hell so many thousand years as there are stars in the firmament, or drops in the sea, or sands on the seashore, yet thou hast to lie there forever. Oh, this one word ever! How will it torment thy soul? Forever. Without rest, day or night. You know, sometimes when when people are in extreme pain, they just like wish for sleep, right? I just can't I can't wait to get to sleep. Like for some relief, some kind of relief. Just get me to sleep. No rest day or night. Forever. And if we're going to preach like Christ, and if we're going to minister like Christ, and if we're going to be like Christ, there is no way that we can avoid talking about hell. There's no way you can avoid it and be like Christ. Because Jesus talked about it. I hear ministers all the time who say, you know, I want to be more like Christ But they avoid talking about hell, or they write books to try to reason people out of hell. There's nothing Christian about that. There's nothing like Jesus about that. Annihilation is not Christ-like. We don't go out of existence. Universalism is not Christ-like. We don't all make an end. Any kind of reincarnation is not Christ-like. We don't come back for a second chance. In Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27, as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes the judgment. There's judgment coming after death. And everybody's caught in this great catch. Great separation. And there's a terrifying judgment for some. And there's many that are in the net that are moving towards the furnace of fire. And Jesus asked his disciples back in Matthew chapter 13, after he spoke these words in verse 51, he says, Have you understood all these things? Have you understood these things? When the disciples said yes. And when he says, have you understood these things? He says, have you understood all these things? And really what he's doing here is he's summarizing all of the all the parables together. Have you understood all these things? All these things that I've been teaching you. Do you understand these things? Do you understand that my kingdom is going to be rejected by men? But that the word of the kingdom is the seed that will produce a rich harvest? Do you understand that? Do you understand that my kingdom is going to be resisted? In this age, but the judgment will come after mercy has run its course? Do you understand that you will be a small and seemingly uninfluential group of people? But that great things come from small beginnings. Do you understand that? Do you understand that the kingdom is more valuable than anything you've put into it and any sacrifice you've given for it? Do you understand that? Do you recognize the value of the kingdom like a man who struck gold in a field? And number five, do you realize that my kingdom is inescapable? And even though it seems like you have have to agree to be impacted by this kingdom or volunteer to be a part of this kingdom, everybody is being pulled back to the shore. Everybody's being affected by this kingdom. The great dragnet is plowing through humanity and everybody's getting pulled in. Do you understand that? Have you understood all these things? And the answer that the disciples gave was yes. Then you have a great responsibility. Look at verse 52. And Jesus said to them, Therefore, every scribe who has become a disciple of the kingdom of heaven is like a head of a household who brings out of his treasure things new and old. He says, if you understand these things, then you've got a responsibility with these things that you've been taught. He says now you're like the head of the household Who can bring out of his treasure old things and new things? And the picture that we're to bring to mind is not, you know, a head of a household that has some kind of vast treasure that he pulls out to kind of show off to his friends and then he puts it back away. You know, look at all the look at all the jewels I have. And then he puts it back away like, you know, Hezekiah, you know, back in 2 Kings 20, you know, showed showed the the the the the the uh showed off his riches, his wealth, you know, uh to the other nations. The picture that we need to bring to mind is the the head of the home who understands it's his great responsibility to care for the family, right? And he he uses all these treasures to provide for his household. In first Timothy chapter five verse eight, it says if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. The head of the household had the responsibility to provide, right? That's the the head of the household responsibility And these disciples were to understand that the glorious truth that they were given was not given so that they could bury it somewhere. Or so they could show it off and then put it back away. You know, the truth that they were given was in order to share it with others, to provide for others. Because there's the only way that they're going to be provided for is going to be through the truth. Matthew chapter 9, verse 36, Jesus said he saw the people, he felt compassion for them because they were what? Distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd. You know, here is here's these people. They they need the truth. People need the truth. And he says to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Who's going to come out here to pull in the harvest before it's too late? Who's going to go out and feed the sheep that are dispirited and distressed? Who's going to bind them up? Who's going to care for them? And now he's saying to his disciples, you're the shepherds. You're the harvesters. You're the heads of the home who've been given a treasure to care for these people. Now you need to use it. You need to get out there and proclaim it. And he compared his disciples to the scribes. The scribes were also known as lawyers or experts, doctors, you know, teachers of the of the law. They had the responsibility of copying the law, studying the law, interpreting the law, teaching the law, deciding on questions regarding the law. They're professional students of the Word of God. And now he tells his disciples, he says, You're the scribes. You're the ones who are supposed to teach. You're the ones who are supposed to study. You're the ones who are supposed to make decisions. His disciples were the ones who are supposed disseminate the truth. And where did they get their training from? They got it from Christ. I'm the one who's taught you. I'm the one who's discipled you. In fact, Jesus uh already pointed out in in Matthew that uh uh if they were to have uh uh if people were to enter the kingdom of heaven, they had to have More righteousness than the scribes and the Pharisees, right? You need something different than what the scribes and the Pharisees have if you're going to enter into the kingdom of heaven. And the disciples had it. He gave that over to his disciples. He was teaching them as one who had authority, not like the scribes. And according to the Sermon on the Mount, the scribes and Pharisees, they missed the heart of the Old Testament scriptures. Remember that? Back in the Sermon on the Mount, they assumed things like hating isn't murder But Jesus taught them that murder can be performed in the heart, right? They assumed that lust wasn't committing adultery, but Jesus taught about adultery in the heart. They assume that they fulfilled their marriage obligations as long as they gave a certificate of divorce to their spouse. But Jesus talked about faithfulness in the heart. And they assumed they could love their neighbors in what? Hate their enemies. But Jesus taught them to love from the heart, even their enemies. So Jesus gave them the correct understanding of the Old Testament law. So he says, now you have things that are old. Now you correctly understand the Old Testament scriptures. And now I'm also giving you things that are new. The parables, the teaching of Christ was new teaching. And Matthew chapter 13, verse 11, Jesus answered them and said, To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. You've been given new news, new revelation. The word mystery speaks about information that was previously hidden but's now been revealed. You've been given the new information. Now you've got things old and things new, and what you're supposed to do with it? You're supposed to go out and share it You're supposed to go out and disseminate the truth. You're supposed to go out and teach the truth. That's the responsibility of the disciples. And that's the responsibility that's given to us as well. What are we supposed to do with the truth? Supposed to get it out. Supposed to proclaim it. If you understand these things, you have an obligation with what you understand. They had all that they needed to take care of that responsibility And we have all that we need to take care of that responsibility. And uh Jesus said that what I tell you in darkness in Matthew chapter 10, verse 27, what I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light, what you hear whispered in your ear, proclaim upon the housetops. That was their responsibility. And not even the parables remain hidden forever, otherwise we wouldn't be reading them in our Bibles today, right? You know, Jesus gave the parables, he also gave the explanation, and the disciples revealed it so that we could have it today. They revealed the truth that they had heard in their ears They have the responsibility to disseminate the things that were old and the things that were were new. And if we truly understand the truth, we'll want to share it with others. We won't want to be silent about it. We want to share the whole truth, right? Nothing but the truth to the people that we we find. So help us God, right? John MacArthur shared a story with his congregation about a letter. that he received from a Christian broadcasting organization. He said a Christian broadcasting organization sent us their policy for programming. This is what it said. Such and such a broadcasting network wants to be a good neighbor to the variety of listeners. Then it lists all the different kinds of people that they they're trying to serve. And then it said this, therefore, when you are preparing your program for these stations, please avoid using the following. Criticism of other religions. Conversion. Missionaries. Believers. Unbelievers. Old Covenant. New covenant Church, the cross, crucifixion, Calvary, Christ, the blood of Christ, salvation through Christ, redemption through Christ, the Son of God, Jehovah, or the Christian life These people listening are hungering for the words of comfort. We ask you to adhere to these restrictions so that God's word can continue to go forth. Please help us maintain our position of bringing comfort to these suffering people. And you just want to like take the rudder and rip it up, right? Like what in the world are you talking about? There is no comfort outside of these truths There is absolutely no comfort if we're not proclaiming Jesus Christ. If we're not proclaiming his salvation, his blood, his righteousness. If we're not also proclaiming the destination that you're headed to if you don't turn to Christ, there is no comfort outside of the truth. No comfort outside of the truth. That's not comfort, that's damnation. False comfort damns people. And we have the truth And what do we do with it? We share it with people. We broadcast it. You know, find another network, right? Which uh is what he did. Find another network so you can broke proclaim the truth. It's our responsibility to give the truth, and God has given us a wonderful responsibility. Do you understand these things? If you do, you have a great responsibility. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh this, your word. Uh Father, we thank you for the truthfulness of it. Uh Father, we thank you for the severity of it. Uh Father, we know that uh this word is uh It's what pushes us into the kingdom. Father, it opens our eyes to the truth. You unstopped our ears. You gave us sight. You gave us hearts to believe because of your word. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing from the word of Christ, the word of God. So Father, we thank you that you've given us new life, that you've regenerated us through the power of your spirit and through the power of your word. And Father, we pray that we would use the same word to proclaim your truth to others, that we wouldn't be ashamed of the gospel. Because it is the power of God to all who believe, to the Jews first and also to the Greeks. And Father, it's this word, Lord, that saves people from hell. A real place with real fire. With real torture that lasts forever. This is a place, a real place that people need to escape, to flee from the wrath to come. So Father, I pray that you'd help us, Lord, as your people, that we wouldn't be ashamed, that we wouldn't be afraid to proclaim your truth, and that we would see some come to the Savior, Lord, by your grace. Now, Father, draw men and women to yourself, God. Only as you can, Lord. We can't do that work. Only you can do that work in the heart. So Father, we pray that you would do that for your own glory. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. . Please visit us online . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.