The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the Book of Matthew, Book of Matthew, chapter 5? We're continuing our study through the Sermon on the Mount, and we're considering what kind of righteousness characterizes citizens of the kingdom of heaven. That's the question that we're considering in this section in the Sermon on the Mount, and there are many people today who Would like to entertain the idea that you can give your life to Jesus Christ and that he changes absolutely nothing. It's uh The idea that uh you come as you are and you stay as you are. Uh your life might be under new management, but the the food and the service are all the same. You know, uh It's clearly not the kind of life that Jesus Christ is advocating for here. The people who inherit the kingdom of heaven are changed people. In the words of Christ, the people who inherit the kingdom of heaven are poor in spirit. They mourn over sin, they 're gentle, they hunger for righteousness, they're merciful, pure in heart, peacemakers, and as a result of that, they're persecuted. for righteousness' sake. And uh what was so clarifying about those Beatitudes is that this is not what he said kingdom people should be. He says this is what kingdom people are. Those people that are considered blessed. are these things. And uh we're changed from the inside out. That's what we understand through the doctrine of regeneration. Uh the idea that when we trust in the gospel that we become new people. Second Corinthians five seventeen says, Therefore if anyone Is in Christ. He is a new creature or a new creation. In Galatians chapter 6, verse 15, it says, we are a new creation. 1 John chapter 3, 14 says that we have new life. It says that we have passed out of death into life. In Colossians chapter 3, 9-10, it says that we have put on the new self. It says, Do not lie to one another since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices, and have put on the new self, who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. In Ephesians chapter four, verse twenty-four it says, and that we've put on the new self. which is uh in the likeness of God and has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. In 2 Peter 1:4 it informs us that we have a new nature A new nature, actually a divine nature, in the sense that it's been given to us from God. Second Peter 1 4. It says, For by these he has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, so that by them ye may become partakers of the divine nature. Having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust, we are changed people. Changed people. And it's important to note that we are nowhere said in the Bible to be saved by our righteousness. We're not saved by our righteousness. Our righteousness cannot save us. But what Jesus is saying is that uh righteousness will be the indication or demonstration that you are going to heaven. We don't earn heaven by our righteousness, but righteousness is an indication that we are heading towards heaven. This is the evidence that we're going. The gospel is that we repent, believe in Jesus Christ, repent from our sins, trust in Jesus Christ alone for our salvation. But the evidence that we've believed in the gospel is that we have a changed life, and your righteousness will surpass that of the scribes and Pharisees. This is what Jesus is talking about in Matthew chapter 5, verse 20. He says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. And then beginning in verse twenty one, Jesus begins to describe for us exactly what that kind of righteousness looks like. What does the righteousness? that indicates your heading to heaven look like. Let's check it out in Matthew chapter 5, starting in verse 21. Says, You have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not commit murder, and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. And whoever says, You fool, shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell. Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar and there, remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering Make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with him on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last cent. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh I just thank you, God, uh, once again, for being able to approach your holy word. Father, we pray that you would speak to us, that you would instruct us, that you would convict us where we need to be convicted, that you would bring comfort where the comfort applies. And Father, we pray that we would understand your words, Lord And that we would leave uh being changed by what we read. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. And his uh commentary on the gospel of Matthew MacArthur says this He says, From the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount Jesus focuses on the internal, on what men are like in their minds and hearts. That is the primary thrust of Matthew 5, 21 to 48. As the Lord re-emphasizes the divine standards for living in his kingdom, the divine standards already given in the law of the Old Testament in contrast to Jewish tradition. Contrary to the external, superficial, and hypocritical righteousness that typified the scribes and the Pharisees, the righteousness of God requires is first of all internal. If it does not exist in the heart, it does not exist at all. Righteousness must exist in the heart. And this is the kind of standard that we encounter in the first six contrasts that uh Jesus gives here in the um in this this section of the Sermon on the Mount. Uh the Pharisees believed that as long as they did not commit an external act of of murder That they were innocent of violating the commands of God, you know, we're innocent of disobeying the sixth commandment, you know, thou shalt not murder, as long as we don't physically reach out to kill somebody, to murder somebody, you know, we're free. We're innocent. And when Christ recited five of the ten commandments a little later on in Mark chapter ten, verse twenty, uh the rich young ruler that he spoke to in uh uh Mark chapter ten said this, he says, Teacher, I've kept all these things from my youth up. What was he looking at? He's looking at the surface. What's on the outside, the external. And every scribe and Pharisee would have said the same thing. We've kept all these things from our youth up. We're innocent. There's nothing that we have to confess. But what Christ does is he takes them much deeper than the surface level of the law. They might have kept the letter of the law. as far as uh you know just the the the words themselves, but they were in violation of the spirit and intent of the law and are just as guilty before God of of breaking it. And Jesus let his disciples know that if they are going to obey the spirit of this law, not only must they not murder, but they must not seek retaliation against anyone. They must seek reconciliation with their brothers, and they must seek resolution with their enemies. If we're to put the heart of murder to death. If we're to put the heart of murder to death, we must first of all not seek retaliation against anyone. Look at verses twenty-one and twenty-two again. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And the last time that we looked at this, we saw that anger is that which seeks uh uh uh revenge on another person. Uh the word for anger that's used here is the word or gizzo. It's uh more than just a minor frustration or irritation, but this intense fury, a seething rage that seeks revenge or seeking to get back. It's somebody who's done you wrong. Uh when the ancient writers uh spoke about this word, they said that it means a uh a longing for revenge a desire to injure the one who was thought to cause you harm. Physical murder is the ultimate expression of that But there are a whole lot of stops on the way to that destination. Right? There's a whole lot of stops on the way to that destination. The Pharisees would argue that as long as you get off the train before it reaches its final destination, you're free. You're innocent. What Jesus says is that if you've purchased your ticket and you've boarded that train, you're guilty. You're guilty. You're on the murder train. You might have got off a stop early, but you're still on the murder train. You're on the same track. And backs it up all the way to the thoughts and the intentions of the heart the thoughts and intentions of the heart. If there's this desire for revenge to harm someone who's wronged you, you have violated the intent of the sixth command. You have violated the intent of it. If you've spoken words intended to hurt a person who has wronged you, you have violated this command. That's what Jesus is saying. And Jesus doesn't even get to the other countless ways that you could seek revenge. There's a whole lot of stops short of murder, like I said. But even if you have these vengeful thoughts and words, you've already bought your your ticket. And uh Jesus gives some examples of the words that they used during that time to attack, to demean, uh, to tear down other people, but the the words themselves aren't the main point. Because there's a a lot of ways that you could uh you know do the same thing with different words, right? I mean, when's the last time somebody's called you racka, right? You know, the word that was used for empty head. You know, nobody uses that term today, but there's a whole lot of substitutes for it today, aren't there? Right? Whole lot of substitutes. Many other words that we use today that have the same intent. You can violate the spirit of this command with a different vocabulary And uh sometimes people say, you know, where does the Bible say I can't cuss? You know, the Bible doesn't say you can't use this word or that word. Well, here it is. Here it is. If the words you are using are spoken in anger, With the intent to seek revenge, you are violating the intent of this command. You're violating it. In addition to that, flip over to Ephesians chapter 4. I'll show you another verse to back that up, Ephesians chapter 4. Look at verse 29. This is another context that places our words and our attitude in close proximity to one another. Says, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth But only such a word as is good for edification, according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ has forgiven you. That word that he uses for unwholesome speech, it's the Greek word sapros. Sapros. It was a word that the Greeks used for spoiled food. Spoiled food. It referred to what was decayed, rotten, worthless. And there are uh certain words in our vocabulary that are past the due date, right? They're spoiled, they're rotten, serve no good purpose, and they're usually spoken when we're angry, right? Usually spoken when we're angry. Which is why Paul places in the context of Ephesians chapter four the words that we use with the attitudes of our heart, you know, the anger that and malice that we might have in our hearts. It's in the same context. The citizens of Christ's kingdom are convicted even of their thoughts and their words against other people way before they pull out a knife or a gun, right? Way before that. We're convicted by even our thoughts and words that point us in that direction. If we're to put the heart of murder to death, we must not seek retaliation against anyone. Number two, we must seek reconciliation with our brothers. We must seek reconciliation with our brothers. Look at verses 23 and 24. Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. One of the the principles that the Sermon on the Mount teaches us is that the law is positive as well as negative. It's not just the negative prohibition, it's also the positive uh command uh that's also given. We're not only to put off That which is evil, but we also must put on what is good and beautiful in its place, right? Uh Michael Horton had a helpful word on this in his book, uh, The Law of Perfect Freedom, which kind of goes over the Ten Commandments. Listen to what he says. It says negatively, the sixth commandment insists that we not kill another person by thought, word, gesture, or speech, much less in action. But we must not think that just because we have not murdered someone, we have obeyed this commandment. After all, positively, the commandment requires us to do everything in our power to see the health and well welfare of our neighbor. The Heidelberg Catechism asks, Is it enough then if we do not kill our neighbor in any of these ways? No. For when God condemns envy, hatred, and anger, he requires us to love our neighbor as ourselves to show patience, gentleness, mercy, and friendliness toward him, to prevent injury to him as much as we can, and also to do good to our enemies. It's not only negative, it's positive. And this is also contained in the commandment, thou shalt not murder. And if we don't understand this principle of the law being positive as well as negative, we won't be able to make much sense out of the illustrations that Christ gives. Christ takes his command, thou shalt not kill, so much further than just the bare surface level. He takes it so much further. Because there are people who might not lay a hand that we might not lay a hand on. But it wouldn't bother us a bit if we never had anything to do with them again, right? It wouldn't bother us a bit if I never had to talk to you again for the rest of my life. I'd be totally fine with that. As far as we're concerned, they might as well be dead. Right? Want nothing to do with you. If there's someone that we're content to be at odds with, to carry on like life is all good, we violated the heart of this commandment. We are commanded here. to seek reconciliation. Not to be fine with, you know, hey, I just have nothing to do with you. And the the word that's used here for reconciliation in verse 24, it's an interesting word. I didn't know this before, but it's not the normal word for reconciliation in the New Testament. The normal word for reconciliation is the word uh catalasso. uh which means to to be brought from enmity to friendship. Uh but in Catalasso, one party can be completely innocent. One party can be completely innocent. It's used for an innocent friend, an innocent spouse, an innocent country, or God who's always innocent. He reconciles us to himself. You know, that's the word that it uses for us being reconciled to God. But it but it and inside that word one of the parties can be innocent. The word that's used here in Matthew 5. 24, it's the only time it's used in uh in all the New Testament actually. The word that's used in Matthew 5. 24 is the word dialasa. Similar word, but it's a different word. And this assumes that both parties are wrong. Both parties have something that they could repent of. One lexicon says it this way. The word denotes mutual concession after mutual hostility, an idea that's absent from the previous word, from Kotilasa. So the idea is that you're at odds with somebody, but you had some part to play in it. Had something to do with it. Even if it was only your attitude that you had uh towards him. He has something to do with it. And Christ calls you to seek reconciliation. with those that you are at odds with. And to heighten the level of importance he places on this command, he gives the the illustration of sacrifice at the altar. The altar that's uh spoken of here was a raised platform upon which uh offerings were made to God, both the Hebrew word and the the Greek word uh we're used for for altar point to the sacrifice of animals. Uh the Hebrew word for altar is the actually comes from the same root as slaughter. You know, so it talks about the the slaughtering of an of an animal in the the Greek. Uh the word came from uh the sacrificer, the victim, you know what's the word that was used for the altar. There were many altars that were erected in the uh the Old Testament. Uh you had uh altars erected by Noah, Abraham, Isaac, uh Jacob, Moses, you know, altars erected by different people. Uh but by the time the the nation of Israel was gathered at Mount Sinai, it was made clear that Just as Israel had only one God, Israel only had one altar, one altar of sacrifice. Edershan, the Jewish historian, says it this way. He says Wherever a Roman, a Greek, or an Asiatic might wander, he could take his gods with him or find rites of his own. If he was far otherwise, it was far otherwise with the Jew He had only one temple, that in Jerusalem, only one God, him who had once enthroned there, between the cherubim who was still king of Zion That temple was the only place where a God-appointed pure priesthood could offer acceptable sacrifices, whether for forgiveness of sin or for fellowship with God. There's only one altar Jerusalem It was assumed that if uh another altar was set up, it was done to a false deity. Uh if you remember during the conquests of uh uh the land of uh Canaan, that the sons of Reuben, the sons of Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, they erected their own altar And uh the the children of Israel were ready to go to war over it. You know, you don't set up another altar. And uh Joshua 22, verse 12, it says, when the sons of Israel heard it. The whole congregation of the sons of Israel gathered themselves at Shiloh to go up against them in war. You don't set up another altar besides the one true one. Joshua 22, 16, it says, uh Thus says the whole congregation of the Lord, What is this unfaithful act which you have committed against the God of Israel, turning away from following the Lord this day by building yourselves an altar to rebel against the Lord this day. And by the time of David, the only acceptable place of sacrifice was in Jerusalem, which would have been about 60 miles away from Galilee, where Jesus is giving this sermon on the mount. 60 miles away, okay? In Jesus' day, a massive temple was being constructed at Jerusalem under construction by Herod. Tens of thousands of Jewish people would arrive in Jerusalem for annual festivals three times a year. In addition to that, there would be worshippers who would make special trips for various offerings. Idisham pictures a visit to the temple. He says, as the pilgrim ascended the mount Crusted by that symmetrically proportioned building which could hold within its gigantic girdle not fewer than two hundred and ten thousand persons, his wonder might well increase at every step. The mounts itself seemed like an island, abruptly rising out of the deep valley, surrounded by a sea of walls, palaces, and streets, and crowned by a mass of snowy marble and glittering gold, rising terrace upon terrace. And uh once you entered uh the Temple Mount, you would pass through the court of the Gentiles or the outer court. Uh this was the outer boundary uh that uh would be the closest a Gentile or unclean person could get uh to the temple. It's actually this area around here. That would be the the outer court, the court of the the Gentiles there. That's the the the place where maybe the the buying and selling of animals probably took place right there that Jesus cleared out this and it's it's a massive place. that Jesus cleared out when he was clearing these people out who were uh uh selling animals for for sacrifice in uh John chapter two. After a worshiper passed through this Gentile court, he'd go up the steps and he'd reach the the court of the the woman. Which would be this court right in here. This that's the next kind of level, uh, the court of the uh the women. This is as close as the women could get to the temple. Uh they were able to climb the fifteen uh steps to the uh Nikanar gate uh which some people believe is the beautiful gate, this gate right right up here. That's the closest that the the women uh could get uh to the temple and uh kind of get a peek Kind of a glimpse of the the the inner court, the the court of the Israelites, which would have been just behind uh that gate that separated from the uh and was separated from the the priest court, which was uh a little further in Israelite men were able to pass through the Nakanor gate to the inner court, and just beyond this court was the court of the priests, where the altar was located. According to Josephus, this uh altar was uh a square. The sides of the square were 50 cubits each, roughly 75 to 85 feet square with a height of fifteen cubits, roughly twenty-one to twenty-five feet high, had corners like horns, and the passage up to it was by a gradual rise from the south. The Israelite man would uh be able to come to the wall that separated the inner court from the court of the priests, and from here he could see the altar itself and the steps leading up to the sanctuary. He would take his animal offering. Place his hand on the head of the sacrifice and transfer it over to the priest who would take this animal to slaughter. And this was the absolute apex of worship. For an Israelite. Absolute apex of worship. There was no moment that could be more sacred. What could possibly interrupt a solemn occasion like this? Nobody's going to beg his pardon at this moment when he's transferring this offering to the priest. Nobody's going to beg his pardon and say, Hey, you know, I've got something, excuse me. Nobody's going to do that. But if at that very moment he were to remember That somebody has something against me. What is he to do? Drop the sacrifice right there and go and find his brother Do you understand what that means? I mean, can you imagine how dramatic that would have been? Jesus constantly said things that would have put people in utter shock. I mean, you mean to tell me that at the very pinnacle of my worship experience, if I remember that me and Brother Solomon haven't been on speaking terms lately, I'm supposed to stop Postpone this experience? I need to work my way back through this crowd of tens of thousands of people, get back on a road for 60 miles or more to travel back to Galilee. To find somebody to say, hey, let's get things right before I can go back 60 miles in the other direction, go through all these tens of thousands of people again to get back to the altar? And God says, yes, it would be worth it for you, if you haven't reconciled with the brother, to drop everything. Drop everything. And it's not because God thinks so little of your worship experience, it's because he thinks so much of it. He thinks so much of your worship experience that this would put a hindrance in between me and you. There's a block here. You haven't reconciled with your brother. Scribes and Pharisees would never have dropped their sacrifice to make amends to anybody. Let Brother Solomon come to me. If he's got something against me, let him come to me. And furthermore, they wouldn't think that they had anything wrong to really confess anyway. Luke chapter 18, Jesus describes the worship experience of a Pharisee who went to the temple to pray. Remember that? Luke chapter 18, verse 10. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. Pharisee said and was praying this to himself, God, I thank you that I am not like other people. That's not the way to start a prayer, okay? Not the way to start a prayer God, I thank you that I am not like other people, swindlers, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector. What Jesus is saying here is that citizens of his kingdom do better than that. Citizens of his kingdom do better than that. Our righteousness goes beneath the surface. We're not content to go through the motions while we know that one of our brothers has a legitimate complaint against us. And what Jesus is referring to here is legitimate complaints. Like I said, uh the word for reconciliation assumes that both parties are are wrong. If you know that you are somehow at fault, that you bear some guilt for this grievance, you dropp your worship and you go. You drop your worship and go. It's not just anybody who has something against you. It's somebody who has something against you, but you know that that you're also at fault. You're at fault I love what MacArthur said about this. He said, sometimes people say, how can we increase our worship? How can we have a more worshipful time? Maybe if we had a certain kind of music. Maybe we had some more aesthetics, you know, instead of uh popcorn pictures behind us, right? Maybe if we had better hymns, better special music Maybe if we clap our hands some more, you know what I mean? Maybe maybe we get more into it. Maybe if we had better sermons, you know, get get George o out of there. Get somebody else up there. Better sermons. Better worship experience. Whatever it is. Listen, if you want to enhance worship Everybody who's got something against another brother, leave. You want to have a better worship experience? You have some something against somebody else? You need to get up and go. That's that's the that's the intent here, right? You get up, you go, and you come back when it's when it's right. Get up, go, and come back when it's right. If you're not ready to speak to one another Why do you think God would want to hear from you, right? You don't want to speak to one another, but then you want God to listen to you Don't go through the motions like everything's fine when you know that it's not. Psalm 666, 18, if I regard wickedness in my heart, the Lord will not hear Proverbs 28 verse 9, he who turns away his ear from listening to the law, even his prayer is an abomination. 1 Peter 3 verse 7 talks to husbands. Husbands are instructed to dwell with their wives in an understanding way. Why? So that your prayers will not be hindered. You've broken the connection, right? No service. Relationship with each other means so much to God that your worship of Him should be postponed. And uh like I said, it's not because he thinks so low of worship, but because he thinks so highly of it. Flip over to Isaiah chapter 1 real quick. Isaiah chapter 1. It's another illustration of uh the same principle here. Isaiah chapter one, the nation of Israel got so bad that uh God refers to them as Sodom and Gomorrah. Look at chapter 1, starting at verse 10. It says, Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the instruction of our God, you people of Gomorrah. Look at verse eleven. What are your multiplied sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I've had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed cattle, and I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats. When you come to appear before me, who requires of you this trampling of my courts? Bring your worthless offerings no longer. Incense is an abomination to me New moon and Sabbath, the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure iniquity and the solemn assembly. I hate your new moon festivals and your appointed feasts. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. So when you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood. What does that mean? Your hands are covered with blood. What he's saying is you're guilty. You are guilty. And specifically their guilt related to the way they treated one another. Start treating one another right, and then I'll be ready to listen to you. Then I'll be ready. God refuses to receive worship from those who refuse to receive one another. That's the kind of depth thou shalt not kill has, according to Jesus. Your hands are not innocent of blood just because you never put anyone to death physically. We 're killing each other with our angry thoughts and words all the time. All the time. And when we refuse to seek reconciliation with our brothers, like I said, it's almost as if we wish they were dead. Just get out of my life You're cut off, right? Just lose my number. That's the last time I speak to him or her, right? Kind of thoughts that we have. We're killing people. Killing people. And the passage in Isaiah takes it further. It says that if we fail to seek the good and welfare of others, we have blood on our hands. And I used to read that and think that he's only referring to like people murdering one another. That you have blood on your hands, but take a look look further what he says. Start at verse 15. When you spread out your hands in prayer, I'll hide my eyes from you. Yes, even though you multiply prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are covered with blood. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from my sight, cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan orphan, plead for the widow. What's he saying? He's saying you're not just guilty because you're not actively participating in evil, but also for your failure to do good and offer help where you can. You're guilty. That's what he's saying. It's the positive side of the command. It's not just the act of murder. It's also refusing to do good when you have opportunity. He was saying that the Israelites were guilty. Again, it's more than just the absence of evil. This is all contained in the sixth command. It's more than just preventing murder. It's about promoting life Promoting life. Listen to what Martin Luther had to say about thou shalt not kill. The German reformer explained the sixth commandment in the following manner. This commandment is violated not only when a person actually does evil, but also when he fails to do good to his neighbor, or though he has the opportunity, fails to prevent, protect, and save him from suffering bodily harm or injury. If you send a person away naked when you could clothe them, you've let them freeze to death. If you see anyone suffer hunger and do not feed them, you've let them starve Likewise, if you see anyone condemned to death or in similar peril, and do not save him, although you know ways and means to do so, you have killed him. It will do you no good to plead that you did not contribute to his death. by word or deed, for you have withheld your love from him and robbed him of the service by which his life might have been saved. Therefore God rightly calls all persons murderers, who do not offer counsel and aid to men in need and in peril of body and life. You will pass a most terrible sentence upon them in the day of judgment, as Christ himself declared, I was hungry and thirsty, and you gave me no food or drink I was a stranger and you did not welcome me. I was naked and you did not clothe me. I was sick and in prison and you did not visit me. It's about more than just putting an end to murder. It's about the promotion of life. This is somewhat of a tangent, but I think it's worth asking the the question here. How pro-life are we really as Christians? How pro-life are we? Christians have historically lined up on the pro-life side of the debate. And that's right. It's not a political issue, it's a moral issue. We believe God is the author of and creator of life, no matter how undeveloped it might be, whether it's wanted or unwanted, whether it's inside or outside of the womb. It's never made sense to me that someone could argue that a a baby outside of the stomach is murder, but a baby inside the stomach is a choice. When did location determine life, right? Today there's people who will argue that if a baby survives an abortion and is born alive that he or she should still be terminated because this baby was unwanted, like it justifies it. But the scriptures clearly recognize life in the womb in Jeremiah 1. 5. God says, before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. And before you were born, I consecrated you. I've appointed you a prophet to the nation. Speaking of Jeremiah. Psalm 139, verse 16, it says, Your eyes have seen my unformed substance, and in your book were all written the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them. Then, if we look to the person of Christ from the time that Mary conceived, Jesus was called a child. From the time he was conceived, he was called a child, and he was given a name. And he was considered holy from conception. Life begins at concep conception, but uh since Roe v. Wade in nineteen seventy-three It's believed that by January of 2014, there have been over 56 million abortions in America. 56 million. Across the world since that time, it's well over a billion. And Christians are right to oppose abortion. Every child whose life has been terminated bears the image of the Creator. And God knew them. He formed their inward parts and wove them together. In their mother's womb. But opposing abortion is not the same as being pro-life. Opposing abortion isn't the same as being pro-life. Do we really care about the well-being of the mother? Do we? Would we care about the well-being of the child if she was to deliver the baby? Would we really care about the child? I remember while I was still in high school, there was a girl in my church who became pregnant. She was uh pretty distressed about it, and there was a group of us that she told about. I don't think she even told her parents at this point. Uh she just told a couple of her friends in the in the church and uh she said, you know, I'm thinking about having an an abortion. And I I don't remember everything that I said, but I I do remember telling her that, you know, whatever stage that baby's in, you know, this baby's alive. And um to terminate your pregnancy would be to to murder, to kill this baby. And before the conversation was over, she decided to to keep the baby. And after the the baby was born she even asked me if if I would be the godfather. This is in high school. You know, what do I know about being a godfather? You know? It's offer you can't refuse, right? You know? What do I know about being a godfather? But I convinced her to keep the baby, so she asked if I'd be the be the godfather, right? But over the years I I mean really never kept up. Eventually lost touch with her completely. And I think about that sometimes because while I'm happy that the conversation that I had with her, you know, prevented her from aborting the the child. I regret that I haven't been there to support the baby's life. I was anti-abortion. I wasn't really pro-life. Wasn't really pro-life. Christians are pro-life. It's not enough to keep our hands free from shedding blood. We also promote life. We seek the well-being of others. And as much as lies within us We try to live at peace with all men. We try to be reconciled with all men, right? Romans 12, 18, if possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Hebrews 12, 14, pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. That's an application of thou shalt not kill. Live at peace with people. Be reconciled to people. If we're to put the heart of murder to death, we must not seek retaliation against anyone. We must seek reconciliation with our brothers. We must seek resolution with our enemies. Look at verses 25 to 26 back in Matthew chapter 5. It says, make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with him on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge and the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last cent. And the next illustration that Christ gives is a judicial one. This is uh another illustration that assumes some kind of guilt on the part of the the one who's addressed, and there are a couple of observations that let us know that the person that he's talking to is guilty. First of all, he anticipates a guilty verdict before the judge And there's no indication that was an unjust trial. You know, this person is going, you know, before law to the judge. He assumes that this person is guilty. Uh second, he's responsible for paying back the last cent. Uh the Greek word uh is Codrante, it's uh our English word quadrant actually comes from uh from that word. Uh uh a codrante was uh one quarter of the smallest Roman coin. In your uh King James Bible you'll actually find the the word farthing It's actually the um comes from the it's actually f fourthing, you know, farthing is a fourthing, you know, one quarter of uh of a penny in uh you know the kind of English denominations there. Most of our modern versions just translate it as penny or cent because that's the smallest currency that we have. The smallest denomination for the Greek was the codrantes. And this person is that you you're owing this to is not considered a brother, but he's considered an an adversary. And uh this is another illustration of our relationship to other men. There have been uh ancient commentators who attempted to turn this into an allegory of our debt that we owe God, but that's not the point that's being made here. Uh John Calvin refers to a certain Roman Catholic uh commentators who attempted to defend the the doctrine of purgatory from this passage. How you can get purgatory out of here, I don't know. But they're uh allegorical interpretation they they uh said that the adversary was Satan, that God is the judge, and paying the last cent is like paying all you owe in purgatory, you know, paying your sins in purgatory. And uh that you won't come out of purgatory until you've paid up the last cent. But I I love what Calvin says. He says, uh, they do not deserve a lengthened refutation. It's like I don't even need to really waste my time trying to argue against the Roman Catholics. But he says, I shall only point out in a single word their shameful ignorance. The adversary is supposed to by them to be the devil. But Christ enjoins those who believe in him to be agreed with the adversary. Therefore, in order that the Papists may find their purgatory here, they must first seek to become the friends and brethren of the devil. You know, so he just kind of says, it does it doesn't even take take time to try to argue against this, you know. I'll just point out one thing and that'll be it be enough. But this is not an allegorical, kind of metaphorical uh type of uh illustration that Jesus is giving here. He's talking about two men who are opposing one another. Two men that are opposing one another. They've become enemies. And Jesus says they're to seek to resolve their differences, not to allow animosity to escalate to the point where adjudication needs to happen, where you need to come before a judge. And we'll cover this point in more detail later on in our study on the Sermon on the Mount, but the scribes and Pharisees taught that if we are to love our neighbor, that must mean we are also to do what? Hate our enemies. Love your neighbor, hate your enemies. Right? Matthew chapter 5, 43, 44. If you want to look down there, you have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you. There are even times when we should allow ourselves to be wronged by our enemies. According to Jesus. And uh there's there's wisdom that the rest of the scripture applies uh to this, but but listen to what Jesus uh says here in uh verse 38 of chapter 5. Since you've heard it, there was said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. But whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other also. If anyone wants to see you and take your shirt, let them have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile with him, go with them too. Give to him who asks of you and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow. What Jesus does is he sets a new standard for righteousness As followers of Christ, we're not to drag every dispute out to its very bitter end, trying to save as much as we can. We're not looking to make people suffer as all all that they can for as long as they can. We're not the ultimate judge God is We're not trying to take revenge because we know that that vengeance belongs to God. Flip over to Romans chapter chapter 12 where it uh quotes this uh uh saying from uh the book of Deuteronomy. Romans chapter 12, look at verse 19. Paul says, never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing he will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with Good. We don't hold out on what we owe people. We don't try to take vengeance on people because they're our enemies What we do is we we release them over to the Lord. And do you know what you actually do when you try to take vengeance for yourself? Basically what you're doing is saying, God, step aside. I've got this one. I've got this one, God. I'll take care of this one myself. I can't wait for you to take care of it. It needs to be none now. So I'm gonna take vengeance, it's mine. I will repay. That's what we say. God, step aside, I've got it from here. But what Christ says is that we don't Treat people that we're at odds with, the people that we owe as problems, as uh uh ways to seek revenge on people. We treat them as people, right? Not problems, they're people. As quickly as possible we try to make friends. The word is uh you noeo, uh literally uh good thoughts. Uh you means good. Noe'o talks about the mind, the thinking, literally to think good of them, to think favorably towards them. We're not murdering them in our minds, but we're rather seeking what's best for them. And in doing so we avoid the earthly consequences. In that day prison was not the punishment in itself. Uh one encyclopedia states that the modern penitentiary system has no parallel in scripture for other mechanisms were relied on to determ to deter crime. Uh you didn't go to prison to uh you know watch TV and work out and be cared for by the system. That's not what prison was. Uh when you went to prison it was to determine what would be done with you next. That's what prison was. Determine what would be done with you next and to to work off whatever debt you owed. You went to prison to work. You and your entire family could also be sold off into slavery. Because of debts that you might owe. In the parable of the unforgiving servant in Matthew 18, we're told that uh when this king went to settle accounts It says in verse twenty four that that when he had begun to settle with them one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children, and all that he had and repayment to be made. This is the kind of thing that could happen in prison. Kind of punishment that could happen during that time. And Jesus is saying, if if you can avoid the consequences by humbling yourself. By not trying to hold out to the very end, do it. Do it. Humble yourself. Avoid the earthly judge if you can avoid it But also avoid the divine judge as well, because this is God's command, right? There's a God who sits in heaven and he sees everything that's done. There's a God who is just in Psalm 89 verse 14, it says righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth go before you We can't hope for justice for ourselves when we're wrong while withholding justice from others when we've wronged them. If you've wronged somebody, you pay back what you owe. And this is the kind of righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and the the Pharisees. This is the kind of righteousness that Christ is after. So the the question that I want to leave you with today is uh is there somebody that you have to talk to? Is there somebody that you've been happy to be at odds with? Content to just let it go? I'm not I don't care if I ever speak to them again. The Bible says you need to go if there's something that you know that you've done wrong. The Bible instructs us to go. Is there something that you need to pay back? Are you trying to hold out in revenge, retaliation against an enemy? The Bible says to make it right, make friends. Think well of them. To think favorably toward them. We must not seek retaliation against anyone. We must seek reconciliation with our brothers, and we must seek resolution with our enemies. Again, J. C. Rawls says, let us beware of supposing that the gospel has lowered the standard of personal holiness. And that the Christian is not intended to be as strict and careful about his daily life as the Jew, this is an immense mistake. So far from this being the case, the sanctification of the New Testament saint ought to exceed that of the person who has nothing but the Old Testament for a guide. The more light we have, the more we ought to love God. The more clearly we see our complete, full forgiveness in Christ, the more heartily ought we to work for his glory. We know what it costs to redeem us far better than the Old Testament saints did. We have read what happened in Gethsemane and on Calvary. They only saw it dimly and indistinctly as a thing yet to come. May we never forget our obligations. What does following Christ teach you about the way that you treat one another? What does following Christ teach you about that? And uh praise God for his forgiveness and his grace because we know we don't follow this completely, right? We know we don't. But it doesn't change the standard. Christ doesn't lower a standard just because we don't meet it. Says this is still what we're aiming for. This is the kind of holiness that he's requiring of those that are kingdom saints, kingdom citizens. And this is the kind of uh righteousness that should characterize us as people of God. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we were able to spend in your word. Father, I pray that you would continue to instruct us. Teach us. Father, convict us. Father, it's been uh convicting to me to think over these things. And um Father, I pray that That we in here are are not just uh uh anti uh death and anti uh uh murder, but that we're truly pro-life. That we're truly pro-life, that we seek uh the the best for others, that we think well of others, that we seek to be reconciled to others, that we seek resolution with our enemies, that we don't retaliate against anyone. Father, that's what it means to be pro-life. That's what it means not to murder. Father, I pray that we wouldn't be assassins in here, but that we would trust in you and that we would truly promote the life that you've given. In Jesus' name, praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.