The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Let's open our Bibles to the Gospel of Matthew. Gospel of Matthew. We're continuing our study through this great gospel. As we've mentioned before, uh Matthew's primarily written to uh a Jewish audience, and uh the great aim of his gospel is to proclaim and to defend the truth that Jesus is the long-anticipated Messiah. Let's look at uh Matthew chapter two and we'll start at verse one. So now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, Magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. When Herod the king saw this, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him. Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born. They said to him in Bethlehem of Judea, for this is what has been written by the prophet, and you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the leaders of Judah, for out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel Then Herod secretly called the mad guy and determined from them the exact time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the child, and when you have found him, report to me so that I too may come and worship him. After hearing the king, they went their way, and the star which they had seen in the east went on before them until it came and stood over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. After coming into the house, they saw the child with Mary 's mother, and they fell to the ground and worshipped him. And opening their treasures, they presented to him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And having been warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, the Magi left for their own country by another way. Now, when they had gone, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Get up, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him. So Joseph got up and took the child and his mother while it was still night and left for Egypt, and we'll stop there. Like I said Matthew is primarily written to a Jewish audience, and uh the great aim of his gospel is to proclaim and to defend the truth that Jesus is the long-anticipated uh anticipated Messiah. But one of the first pictures that Matthew is going to paint in this gospel for us is a deliverer who is on the run. A deliverer who's on the run. Here's the great Messiah, the deliverer, the defender of Israel. And by chapter 2, he's on the run for his life. From the a usurper to the throne, a madman by the name of Herod, who isn't even Jewish by birth, but somebody who still claims to be king of the Jews. And many of the Jews would want to know, what's up with this? What's up with this, Matthew? I mean, what did you want to know? You know, here's the great Messiah, the deliverer, and he's on the run. If he's really the king, what is he doing living as a fugitive? How do you explain his flight into Egypt? I mean, this is not exactly the kind of royal treatment that you'd expect for the king. And when Jesus does return, he doesn't even return to Bethlehem, the city of David. He doesn't return to Bethlehem. He doesn't even return to Jerusalem, which would have been the city of the great king. Jesus isn't known as a Bethlehemite or a Jerusalemite Jesus is known as a Nazarene or a Galilean. He doesn't even return to the city where he came from. I mean, there's nothing significant about Galilee and Nazareth. Doesn't seem like the the places that would be associated with the with the king. Why why this? And there's going to come a time in the the future we we understand that Messiah will rule the nations with the rod of iron, he'll rule from Zion, but during his first appearance, uh it wasn't it He fulfilled scriptures that predicted exactly what the Messiah was to be in in other ways. And uh this is what Matthew uses chapter two to to really explain to us that Jesus fulfilled uh the scriptures that related to him as Messiah, even though it wasn't what with royalty. And we look at that in uh in uh verses uh six down to down to twelve which I I just read. You have uh Herod who's secretly calling the the Magi to determine Uh from there them the exact time that the Tsar appeared. But in verse six, look what it says again. It says, And you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the leaders of Judah, for out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people The place of of Jesus' birth was uh was was pretty clear, pretty clear in the the Old Testament, this uh uh prophecy about uh the the birth of uh uh the Messiah. Uh we looked at this uh last time uh and we dealt with uh you know just some of the particulars that are going on here. Uh but the place of of Jesus' uh birth was a a small village, okay? It was a small, insignificant village It's right that we sing Oh Little Town of Bethlehem because Bethlehem was known as little. It was uh the town of Bethlehem would have been populated from anywhere uh from about 300 to uh 1,000 people I mean it's not not a big place, okay? Uh to give you some perspective, in uh 2012 Baltimore City was registered at over 621,000. This place doesn't even crack a thousand, you know, Bethlehem. I mean we're talking about a small uh city. I mean I had I had more than two thousand people in my high school You know, and Bethlehem doesn't even have a a thousand uh people. When the the prophet Micah uh wrote about Bethlehem in Micah 5. 2, he says, uh Bethlehem, you're you're too little to be among the clans of Judah. Too little. Uh the word clans could also be translated as as thousands, which is uh uh maybe another way to say that you you didn't even break a thousand. You know, oh little town of Bethlehem, you're you're too little to be among the the clans of of Judah. Uh there was nothing significant about the the town itself. nothing that would have attracted attention to it. It was basically a farming community. The word Bethlehem means house of bread. House of bread. It was a breadtown. The Hebrew word Ephraim means fruitfulness. It was a place where there was a farming that was going on. It was a farming community. And the only thing that was really significant about Bethlehem was that it was the birthplace of David the King. King David was born in Bethlehem and it would also be selected as the birthplace of Jesus, because Jesus was going to be associated with royalty. Don't miss that. Jesus would be associated with royalty. The place of his birth would be associated with Israel's greatest king. And people would have automatically associated Bethlehem with David. I mean it's it's just automatic. Uh when they uh when the angels came to tell the the shepherds about the birth of Jesus, they didn't say, Go to uh Bethlehem All she said was go to the city of David. It was automatic. They knew that the city of David was Bethlehem, because that's all that was it was known for. So when God seeks a birthplace for Messiah, he purposefully selects Bethlehem to be that that place. And uh this is indicated uh in the in the text itself. And the ad adoration of the magi also show that uh he's associated with uh royalty, with the the gifts that they bring. Uh gold would have uh uh been a a representation of of royalty itself. Um uh a lot of people try to look at uh meaning or symbolism in some of the gifts that the the magi gave Uh gold to represent royalty, frankincense, uh to represent deity, uh myrrh to represent Calvary, and uh it preaches well, but I'm not sure if all of that was in the mind of the Magi when they were given the gifts What we do know is that they believed that they were before the Supreme King when the Magi came to offer these gifts. They were offering Jesus their very best. They understood that they were before royalty, they understood that they were before uh deity. And uh gold would have been the most precious of all metals. Frankincense came from uh also uh frankincense and also myrrh. They came from uh some special trees in in Arabia where they kind of harvest the sap. of these uh different trees and uh uh they'd make uh perfumes and uh uh uh different kinds of uh uh medicine, even uh spices would come from uh frankincense and and myrrh. Myrrh was also used for embalming uh to actually preserve uh dead bodies. Uh but it was the Eastern custom never to visit a superior without presenting a gift. So here you have the magi, they understand exactly who who Jesus is, and they present these gifts. And somehow, as I mentioned last time, these Gentile priests were able to perceive what uh Jerusalem didn't. They they came to adore him. They understood exactly who Jesus Christ was. And in uh verse 8 Herod puts on this great show. Secretly calls in the Magi, verse 7, determines from them the exact time the star appeared. Verse 8, and he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go search carefully for the child, and when you found him, report to me so that I too may come and worship him. I want to worship the king. I'm all about about uh this this new Messiah. Uh but you have in uh in verse 12 that the magi are warned uh that this guy isn't telling the truth. This guy's a a crook Verse 12 it says they were warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, and the Magi left for their own country. They probably would have been been shocked to uh figure out that uh this guy Herod has been lying to them the whole time. Uh that this guy really isn't interested in uh adoring the king. Actually, this guy is more interested in killing the king. More interested in killing the king. And uh the person on Herod's most wanted list wasn't some military leader. Uh wasn't some known assassin. He's looking for a baby. A baby. Two years old or under. And uh All of that because of his connection to to royalty. Um like I say, the Magi they didn't ask who will one day be king of the Jews. That would have been to talk about the future. They didn't ask, you know, uh who is presently considered the king of the Jews, that would have been Herod They said, Where is the one who's been born the king of the Jews? We understand that this guy is royalty. We understand that this king has been born with the right to rule, the legitimate heir to the throne. So what you have is that the Magi disobey Herod's command To come back and report to him. And uh what we find is the principle that that's found in uh Acts chapter 5 and verse 29 that we must obey God rather than men. It didn't matter what they told Herod that we're coming back. God says we're we're changing plans. And it was that was totally fine. Jesus is associated with royalty and uh God says we're we're gonna change things up here uh there's a greater king that you need to follow. There's a greater king that you need to obey. And so here you have the the magi that uh disobey their uh commands, their orders from Herod, and they protect the king. So Jesus is associated with uh royalty. That's uh number one. But number two And this is where it gets interesting. The Messiah is also associated with the slavery of Israel. Not just the royalty of Israel. He's also associated with the slavery of Israel. Look at verses 13 to 15. It says, Now when they had gone, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, and said, Get up, take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you. For Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him. So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother while it was still night, and left for Egypt. He remained there until the death of Herod, this was to fulfill what had been spoken by the Lord through the prophet, out of Egypt I have called my son Out of Egypt I have called my son. And and uh chapter two is really loaded with uh Old Testament references and uh this is gonna kind of be where you have to put put your thinking caps on, okay? It's gonna be be more of a lesson than it might be a be a sermon, but uh uh here you have the Messiah who's associated with the slavery of Israel. Uh Joseph and and Mary would have been uh surprised. uh by this uh uh rapid turn of events they might have likely uh thought that you know the magi are coming here to recognize the king. Maybe they're just the first of many who are going to come and recognize Jesus for for who he really is, the Messiah, the the coming Redeemer, the deliverer of of Israel. But here they're warned that the next visit they're going to get is to take the life of their child. Nobody else is coming to recognize them. Nobody else is coming to bring any gifts. The next person who comes through the doors is going to be somebody who wants to take his life. This is imminent danger. And uh it didn't take Herod long to figure out that the magi aren't coming back. And uh as soon as he knew that, that he was uh made a fool of, he became dangerous. Dangerous. This guy is a maniac. Joseph, who's uh recognized as the head and the protector of his home, is alerted to the danger. Uh guy doesn't come to marry, he comes to Joseph as the head of the home to protect his family. He 's alerted to the danger and his job as the man is to protect his family, but in this case, he's not asked to fight. He's asked to flee. Run. The word flee is uh the Greek word fugo where we get our our English word fugitive The the Messiah becomes a fugitive in his own kingdom. They're going to be a family on the run. And like I said, Joseph and Mary might have Thought that the arrival of the Magi was the first sign of widespread recognition, but Jesus is made a fugitive in his own kingdom. Egypt was uh safely outside of Herod's domain, as territory, is a place that was known as a refuge even in the Old Testament to uh to Israelites. Uh the border of Egypt was about 75 miles away from uh Judah. where they were located and uh Alexandria, which is a place that uh was actually had had a large population of Jewish people, would have been like another hundred miles, a hundred and seventy five miles they were gonna travel and they left that night. You know, as soon as uh the angel alerted them They were they were gone that night in the in the dream. And uh during this time there uh like I said, there would have been a large population of uh Jewish people in Egypt. Um uh Philo actually uh uh speaks of uh over a million Jews that were were in uh uh in Egypt at this time. Uh the Jewish temple was also there. This is also where um if you're familiar with the uh Greek translation of the Old Testament, the LXX It was actually written from Egypt, so uh there would have been a large Jewish population here. And uh what we find here is that uh God protects the king, but there's this remarkable hand of providence as well. And and what you're you're going to see through throughout this uh chapter is that you have the protection of the king, but also this this divine providence of the king. You can see the hand of God that's that's working in in every detail. Uh the uh the word providence it's uh You can understand it as the orchestrating of God's will to perfectly, you know, the orchestrating of all events to perfectly accomplish God's will. That's providence. Uh one author of Divine Providence is this the divine providence is the means by and through which God governs all things in the universe. The doctrine of divine providence asserts that God is in complete control of all things. includes the universe as a whole, the physical world, uh human birth, the affairs of nations, destinies, human successes, failures, the protection of his people, all things fall underneath the sovereign hand of God. And this doctrine stands in opposition to people that believe things that just happen by chance. There is no chance in a world that's ordered by God, right? There is no such thing as as chance or life. This is divine accomplishment. All of God's will is going to be accomplished. We don't have to worry about that. But what we find is that in many cases God 's divine will is accomplished through natural means. Just just normal, ordinary means. We don't need to look for a miracle under every rock, right? God usually operates just through normal means. This is how he accomplishes Just to give you an illustration of this, I found this interesting. Flip over to uh Acts chapter 27. Acts chapter uh uh 27 Just to give you an illustration, you have uh Paul is on a ship, he's headed for Rome because he's acts to appear before Caesar Um as a Roman citizen, if you thought that you weren't uh being dealt justice, you could actually appeal uh to Caesar and say, Hey, I want to go to somebody higher than than your authority uh because I don't think you're gonna give me justice. And uh Paul is being sent uh to Rome to actually stand before the the Roman Caesar. And uh the ship that he's on runs into some trouble as it's on its way to way to Rome. And uh look at this in uh Acts chapter twenty-seven, look at verse I'll start at verse 21 here. It says, when they had gone a long time without food, then Paul stood up in the midst and said, Men, you ought to have followed my advice. You know, listen listen to the to the preacher here, right? Follow my advice And not to have set sail from Crete and incurred this damage and loss. We had warned them before, you shouldn't go this way. They didn't want to listen to the man of God and they they they incurred the loss of uh of their ship. He says, But yet now I urge you to keep up your courage, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. For this very night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood before me. Saying, Do not be afraid, Paul, you must stand before Caesar, and behold God has granted you all those who are sailing with you. Therefore keep up your courage, men, for I believe God, that it will turn out exactly as I have been told. So here you have Paul, he receives this encouragement, this promise from God. Nobody's going to lose their life Everybody's going to be saved. I believe in the promise of God. So here you have he believes in God's promise. God promised that there would be no loss of life. But look at what happens a little later on. Flip down to verse 30 here Talks about some uh sailors that started becoming fearful. Uh they're running against the rocks, wishing for daybreak, verse 30. But as the sailors were trying to escape from the ship, And had let down the ship's boat. So here's like this rescue, you know, boat that's attached to the side of the ship, and they're secretly trying to let down this rescue boat because they're going to try to, you know, bail. It says uh they and they had let down the ship's boat into the sea on the pretense of intending to lay out anchors from the bows, like hey guys, we're just going to throw out some anchors to steady the ship, and they're letting the boat out so they can get get free. Paul said to the centurion to the soldiers, Unless these men remain in the ship, you yourselves cannot be saved. Think about that. He had Jeff said previously, nobody's going to lose their life, everybody's going to be saved. And then he says to the centurion, unless these men stay on the ship, we're going to die. Like what gives with that? Right? Didn't you just say he believed in God's promises? I have all confidence in the promises of God. If these guys don't stay on, we're gonna die. What you have here is a God has promised, but yet the way that he's going to work out that promise is through Natural, ordinary means, right? He's going to work out his divine will through natural ordinary means. And what we find here is that uh uh there's there's no contradiction between divine sovereignty and human responsibility No contradiction between divine sovereignty and human responsibility. And Paul reiterates the same prophecy that he said before, verse 34. Therefore I encourage you to take some food, for this is uh for your preservation. You gotta eat too, right? For not a hair from the head of any of you will perish. And when we look at the life of Christ, you can flip back to uh to Matthew, when we look at the life of Christ of Christ. We see divine protection, the sovereign hand of God working through these ordinary means. He's telling Joseph and the family, you need to flee for your life. You need to get out of here. Go to Egypt. So when you look at the early life of Jesus Christ, you see the hand of God, and you can trust that same hand of providence in your own life. Not sure sure what what you're you're going through, but it's a comfort to know that God's in absolute control. God 's in absolute control. And uh we can see some of the evidences of God's hand in in this story. Uh first of all, uh Joseph and Mary were poor, okay Joseph and Mary were poor. How do I know that? In uh Luke chapter two, verse twenty four. It says when Mary appeared to Jerusalem uh to give the sacrifice for her purification, it says that she offered a pair of turtle doves. Or two young pigeons. According to Leviticus 12, verse 7, the proper sacrifice following a birth would have been a lamb. But if you couldn't afford a lamb, you were allowed to bring two turtle doves. Leviticus 12. 8, it says, but if she cannot afford a lamb, it's Leviticus 12. 8 If she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtled doves or two young pigeons, the one for a burnt offering, the other for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she will be clean. Joseph and Mary couldn't even afford a lamb. They were that poor. So how are they going to afford a trip to Egypt? What did they just receive? The Magi showed up, gold, frankincense, myrrh, God provided for them, absolutely everything that they needed for this fight to Egypt. God miraculously provided for them and then they were going to work through ordinary means. Okay? God, God provides. So we see the hand of God Every step here. You see God fulfilling scripture as well because this flight into Egypt had another connection. And uh this is what uh Matthew points out. Just as Bethlehem would have been known as the city of the king, what would Egypt be known for? It's it's it's known for the Exodus, right? It's known for the place where the the children of of Israel stayed for four hundred years. Uh and what God is doing here through uh uh Jesus' stay in in Egypt is he's he's drawing out a further connection Between Jesus Christ and the people that he came to save. Okay? A further connection between Christ and the people uh that he came to save. And when we talk about Sometimes we have this kind of flat, one-dimensional view of uh of fulfillment, uh, our approach to it. Uh, but Jesus is the fulfillment not only of the predictions of the Old Testament, but he's also a fulfillment of the pictures. of the Old Testament. Okay? Not only the fulfillment of the predictions, but also of the pictures. And uh this is something that the book of of Hebrews uh points out so well. Flip over to Hebrews chapter seven. Uh Hebrews is a is a book that Just constantly over and over again talks about how Jesus Christ is better. You're not going to find anything better than Jesus Christ. That's what uh Hebrews, if you want to just remember one phrase, Jesus Christ is better. That's what the book of Hebrews is all about. What we find here is uh I'll start out in uh chapter seven. Look at chapter seven. Verse uh twenty-three It says that the former priests, on the one hand, existed in greater numbers because they were prevented by death from continuing, but Jesus, on the other hand, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently. Therefore he is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. For it was fitting for us to have such a high priest, holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens, who does not need daily like those high priests to offer up sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people, because this he did once for all when he offered up himself. That the Old Testament priesthood was a shadow of the real priesthood. The Old Testament priesthood was a shadow of the real priest. Why? Because the Old Testament priests had their own sins to deal with. An Old Testament priest couldn't couldn't be there forever because he was going to die. The priest that the Old Testament pointed forward to was the great high priest Jesus Christ, the one who lives forever. Another thing, the sacrifices. Old Testament sacrifices were just a shadow of the real sacrifice. Just a shadow of the real sacrifice. Why? Because those sacrifices could never make the offerer perfect. Look at chapter 10. Chapter 10 in uh in Hebrews, starting at verse 1. It says, For the law, since it hath only a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very form of things, can never by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered? Because the worshippers having once been cleansed would no longer have had the consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins. year by year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Therefore, when he comes into the world, who 's that talking about? Jesus. He says, sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. What he's saying is that all the Old Testament sacrifices that you had before, they were just pictures of the reality. Jesus Christ is the real and true sacrifice. And in the same way, if you flip back to uh Matthew, when it talks about calling my son out of Egypt , What what what Matthew is saying is that there is a true son that's come. Israel was just a picture, a type. of the true son that was to come. Jesus Christ is the reality. If you're uh familiar with uh the book of Hosea, which is where uh Matthew gets this uh quote from out of Egypt I've called my son. If you're familiar with the the book of of Hosea, Hosea is a book that just documents the unfaithfulness of of Israel. I mean Israel throughout this book is depicted as a harlot, an unfaithful spouse to God, a nation that's full of wickedness and idolatry. This was an imperfect and shadowy picture of the true Son of God, Jesus Christ, because the only begotten Son is the one who always does the will of the Father. Not like Israel. This begotten son, this true son, is the one who always does the will of the Father. And uh Israel was pictured as uh God's firstborn in uh Exodus chapter 4, verse 22. You have uh Moses that appears before Pharaoh, and he says, Let my firstborn son go. Talking about Israel, but later on in Hebrews chapter 1, it says this, for to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I've begotten you? And again I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. What the Old Testament looked forward to was the true Son of God who was going to show up. The true Son of God who is Jesus Christ. The Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of all the predictions and the pictures of the Old Testament. In Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 and 18, it says, Do you not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets? I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill, for truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Jesus Christ is the ultimate fulfillment of Old Testament uh prophecy, Old Testament scripture is all summed up in Jesus Christ. So while the Old Testament prophets kind of kind of looked uh at these pictures of a a sinful, uh temporary priest, uh uh an imperfect sacrifice, disobedient, unfaithful sons. Their hope was in the one who was to come. And this is what Matthew points out. So you have Jesus Christ, who's the only begotten Son. of God, the true Son, who he calls out of Egypt. So he makes this connection between Israel and Jesus Christ and uh between Israel's uh slavery, which is what it was talking about in uh Hosea chapter eleven, that I out of Egypt I've called my son from slavery. And uh he's making this connection between Jesus Christ as the true son who's come out of of Israel. He's the the true uh deliverer. So you have uh the Messiah who's associated with Israel's rolting, you have the Messiah who's associated with Israel's slavering, and then you have uh the Messiah who's associated with Israel's tragedy. Israel's tragedy. Look at verses uh 16 to 18 in Matthew. Says then Herod saw that he had been tricked by the Magi , became very enraged, and sent and slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem and all its vicinity. From two years old and under, according to the time which he had determined from the Magi. Then what had been spoken through Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled. A voice was heard in Rama Weeping in great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and she refused to be comforted because they were no more. Again you have uh Herod, the actions of a maniac. So so bent on retaining the throne that he's willing to murder babies in order to keep it. Uh the actual number of uh babies would have probably been no more than twenty. uh because Bethlehem was so small, because it's a small village, uh both Bethlehem and the surrounding area would have wouldn't have been that great. Uh there wouldn't have been that many uh babies under uh two, you know, male children under two, uh, for Herod to to come and kill Uh so it doesn't uh appear in in histories outside of the Bible because um it's it's not considered a a major event in the life of one who was a madman and killed, you know, uh hundreds of people. Uh but there's nothing that's uh more heinous than than what Herod does here. Kill killing killing babies. You know, I can't can't imagine anything worse than uh you know a mother having her her baby ripped from her arms and slaughtered you know, before our eyes by by some Roman Roman soldiers. I mean y you can't imagine anything worse than this. Can't imagine anything anything worse. I mean this is vile and demonic And it's uh important to notice here that uh Herod doesn't go after the magi. He's enraged, but he doesn't go after the magi. Who's he really angry with? He's angry with God. He's angry with God. God outwitted me. How dare he? And then he goes and tries to see if he can find the Lord's anointed His true rage is directed against the Lord and the Lord's anointed. And reminded again of Psalm two, where it says, Why are the nations in an uproar and the peoples devising a vain thing? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. So here you have God made a fool out of Herod, and Herod says, I'm going to give back. I'm gonna get back. I'm gonna look for your anointed. I'm gonna look for your Messiah. I'm gonna put him to death. And he thought he was able to cast his net wide enough that he'd actually capture the Messiah in it. But uh so he didn't just target Bethlehem, he targeted the Aries around it You know, I'm I'm gonna make sure I try to get this this Messiah. And uh uh uh commentators would uh also point out that uh the the Magi probably didn't even tell them two years. They probably might have told him something less than two years, they probably told him one Since they saw the scar in the east, and he probably says, I'm gonna bring it out to two. Make sure we get the Messiah. We're gonna make sure that we we catch the Messiah in this. So you have Herod uh going to the whole vicinity and uh wiping out every male child uh two years and and younger. And uh you have this massacre in in Bethlehem. Martin Luther calls it the uh the the first martyrs of the faith. You know, these these young uh uh children that were were killed, and uh we'd believe with many interpreters that uh these little infants went straight into the presence of the Lord. And in his mysterious providence, he ordained that this would take place. But uh you find in Matthew chapter 19, verse 14, that Jesus said, Let the little children alone. Do not hinder them from coming to me, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these. And uh you would have had these uh little uh little infants uh ushered into the the presence of of God. Uh but the for the families that were affected by this, I mean there would have been no quick recovery, right? There's no quick recovery from this one. And here are the Messiah's entrances associated with tragedy. Tragedy. Have this voice that was heard in Rama weeping, great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they were no more. And here are Matthew quotes from Jeremiah 31, and it would be helpful to turn back there. Like I said, you've got to put your thinking caps on for for today. So turn back to Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter 31 is where we'll end up but uh let me just point out a little bit of the the context for you. Uh Jeremiah ministered uh both before and during the Babylonian exile from about 627 to uh 570 BC And uh Jeremiah has this sorrowful responsibility to tell the nation that its days are numbered. Uh the nation, the the southern uh nation of uh Judah is about to be wiped out. He sees the southern kingdom gasp, you know, its last uh breath for for air as its uh the final hour of the nation. I mean, this is it's an unbearably sad book. You know, Jeremiah's called the the weeping prophet for a reason. He's a weeping prophet. You know, the the book of Lamentations uh was written after this to mourn the the fall of Jerusalem. In uh Jeremiah chapter nine verse one he says this he says, Oh that my my head were waters And my eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people, weeping for Jerusalem. In Lamentations 2. 11, he says, My eyes fail because of tears. My spirit is greatly troubled, my heart is poured out on the earth because of the destruction of the daughter of my people, when little ones and infants faint in the streets of the city. Like I said, he's called the the weeping prophets for for good reason, and he had the sad ministry of letting Jerusalem know that uh that it was about to fall, but it was like Fire in his bones. He couldn't keep himself from telling him about it, you know, even though he he didn't want to. Uh and in chapters uh thirty-four to thirty-five, uh excuse me, forty-five You have uh Jeremiah prophesying the fall of Jerusalem in chapter thirty-four and verse two. He says, The Lord says, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, go and speak to Zedekiah, king of Judah, and say to him, Thus says the Lord, behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the King of Babylon, and he will burn it with fire. You will not escape from his hand, for you will surely be captured and delivered into his hand, and you will see the king of Babylon eye to eye, and he will speak to you face to face, and you will go to Babylon. So you have this destruction and fall of Jerusalem that's predicted. But what's interesting is where Matthew actually pulls this quote from is uh from chapter 31, which is in a a section of Jeremiah that actually speaks about the coming restoration of Jerusalem. Speaks about the coming restoration. This is really fascinating. In Jeremiah chapter 30, look at verses 1 to 3. It says, The word which came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel, write all the words which I have spoken to you in a book. For behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will restore the fortunes of my people Israel and Judah, the Lord says. I will also bring them back to the land that I gave to their forefathers, and they shall possess it So you have this restoring of fortunes. Look at verses 8 and 9, chapter 30 again. It says, It shall come about on that day, declares the Lord of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off their neck and will tear off their bonds and Strangers will no longer make them their slaves, but they shall serve the Lord their God and the and David their king reference to the Messiah here, David their king whom I will raise up for them Speaks about raising up their king, but he also speaks about restoring his relationship to them. Verse uh chapter 31, look at verse one. I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people. So he speaks about this restoration of a relationship. But in the midst of all this talk about restoration, bringing the people back uh giving them a king to reign over them. Uh you have this verse 15 in uh chapter 31, which is like the the one dark spot in the midst of all this this kind of brightness, you know, in these chapters. In chapter fift uh uh verse fifteen of chapter thirty-one, he says, Thus says the Lord, a voice is heard in Rama, lamentation and bitter weeping. Rachel's weeping for her children. She refuses to be comforted for her children because they are no more. Uh Rama would have been located about six miles north of uh Jerusalem uh during the exile Babylon, uh the exile to Babylon. Uh Rama would have been the first city that uh the the exiles would have reached as they're leaving from Jerusalem, leaving from their home, uh in the Babylonian captivity, being stripped away from their homes and taken to a foreign land. The first city that they would have reached outside of Jerusalem would have been Rama. And uh this is a uh a city that actually uh lies on the border of the northern and southern kingdom. So when when people wept there, you could actually hear the weeping from both north and south, you know, from this place. The wailing of mothers would have been heard for those that were losing their sons to captivity as they traveled to Babylon in the historical context here. And by the time Jeremiah wrote this, he talks here about Rachel weeping for her children. Rachel's been dead for 700 years. What he's talking about here is it's figurative language. You know, it would have been obvious to the to the people that read this, but this is figurative language. Rachel was the beloved wife of Jacob. And I was considered the beloved mother of Israel. So when the nation wept, it was like Rachel is weeping. Rachel is weeping for her children. And there was no weeping that would have been more profound than uh What we find here and uh what we find in Matthew actually uh weeping for the loss of a of a child in the in the case of Jeremiah Um when he says that Rachel's weeping for her children, uh he's looking at these uh mothers weeping for their children that are going off into captivity. You know, they're they're still alive. They're they're in a bad situation, but they're still alive, and here's Rachel weeping. Matthew picks up the same language and he says, uh Rachel is weeping for her children because they are no more, because they don't even exist anymore. Would it would have even been a more profound sense of loss that she would have had in Matthew? So here you have this connection that Matthew makes with Jeremiah, the Jews of Jeremiah's day. Who would have uh been weeping over their their their children that have been taken off into uh slavery. Matthew says that what we have in uh uh in the New Testament is actually a fuller expression of that that same kind of grief And uh there's this connection between uh uh Matthew's day and uh and the the day of of Jeremiah because and and this is where where I really think the the connection is is made, because like I said, uh Matthew is written to a uh a Jewish audience that's That's that's uh struggling with you know this Messiah. You know, how is this the Messiah when all these bad things are happening in the world? How how how is the messiah associated with this grief? You know, I thought the Messiah was supposed to bring in this glad time, this joy, this praise, this exaltation. And here you have the Messiah showing up and children are slaughtered. How does this make sense? And what what Matthew does is he reminds them that even in the prophecy of the Old Testament, related to the New Covenant, and all this joy and gladness. that in the middle of this section, 30 to 33, tucked in this section, is uh one of the gloomiest dark spots in all of Jeremiah. So he's saying don't don't don't get it get it uh mistaken. Don't forget that this Messiah is also associated with the tragedies of Israel, not just the joy of Israel. Don't think that uh that because uh the messiah shows up and and children are actually slaughtered, that this means that this isn't the Messiah. Because you have in uh in the old testament context that uh Even within Jeremiah in this context of the new covenant and uh the joy that would uh uh come to Israel, you still have this uh uh it was preceded uh by one of the darkest times in Israel's history. And that's really what I believe that uh uh m Matthew is doing. He's he's making this connection uh for the Jewish people between the Messiah and uh what you had uh going on within the uh Old Testament. So he says Jeremiah is pointing them uh uh in here to it to this hope. This hope of of the new covenant. Actually, if you look in Jeremiah chapter 31 and verse 17, he says, There is a hope for your future. You know, so there 's hope. There's this bright light of hope, but uh but it was still preceded by by tragedy And what he lets us know, what Matthew's letting us know, is that the Messiah is not going to be absent from tragedy. Even Moses, the Israel's greatest deliverer, was preceded by tragedy. Uh you have the the slaughter of uh uh you know the babies being thrown into the to the Nile drown. But at the same time what's happening You know, you have Israel's greatest deliverer that's that's being preserved uh through this whole time. So there's this connection made between uh Jesus and even the deliverance. uh from from Egypt. And uh he uses this uh this section in uh in Jeremiah to point us uh to that fact that uh Jesus is uh the one who's come as a deliverer, even though it's associated with this uh tragedy that happens in in Israel And uh just as a point of application, I think it's encouraging to know that uh uh even during our tragedies, that that Jesus is present. It's not like Jesus waits until after the tragedy is gone and then he shows up. Jesus is actually here at the time of the tragedy in in Israel. And I really believe it's the same way for for us as well in 1 Peter 4. And 14 in a context of suffering, being revolved. I like what Peter says in uh chapter four and verse fourteen. It says, If you're revolved for the name of Christ, you're blessed. Why? Because the spirit of glory and of God rests on you. It's not like God waits until you're you're done with your grief and then he shows up. It says like I'm I'm right there with you during the the time of it. And in this time of great tragedy in Israel, it's not like the Messiah waited until the tragedy's gone and then he comes up, you know, shows up He was right there the whole time. He's actually present. So you have uh the Messiah he's associated with Israel's royalty, Israel's slavery, Israel's tragedy. And then finally, the Messiahs associated with Israel's mockery, back in chapter 2, verses 19 to 23. It says, but when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt and said, Get up, take the child and his mother. And go into the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life were dead. So Joseph got up, took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel. But when he had heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Then after being warned by God in a dream, he left for the regions of Galilee and came and lived in a city called Nazareth. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophets, he shall be called a Nazarene. So finally have uh Jesus called out of Egypt after Herod dies, and uh Herod's judgment began even prior to death. You know, Herod died as a judgment, but uh His judgment even started before he died. Even those that uh attended him during the time of his death uh saw what he was going through is actually a judgment of God. Uh listen to his final days according to Josephus Says the distemper seized upon his whole body and greatly disordered all its parts with various symptoms, for there was a gentle fever upon him and an intolerable itching all over the surface of his body and continual pains in his colon and dropsical tumors about his feet and inflammation of his abdomen and a putrefrication of his privi member that produce worms Besides which he had a difficulty of breathing upon him and could not breathe but when he sat upright and had a convulsion of all his members. This is how Herod died. He would go to these kind of warm baths and try to put oil on and everything else. Nothing helped Herod. And actually the people that attended him said that this must be the judgment of God. Judgment of God. And that might I think is very likely true. And they they believed that was because he uh uh killed some rabbis. I believe it was also because he tried to murder the Messiah. That he died in this way. So the immediate threat on the Messiah's life was gone. That didn't mean that all danger was gone. Herod had three sons that survived his insanity. Remember, he killed, he strangled at least two of his sons Had his wife murdered, mother-in-law murdered, brother-in-law murdered. But he had three sons that survived his insanity, actually uh ruled in Israel. He had a Herod Antipas. who ruled over Galilee. This is uh the the Herod that uh John the Baptist and Jesus would have dealt with uh later on, uh Herod's son, Herod Antipas. You have uh Herod Philip who ruled over a place known as uh Idariah And uh you also had this uh Archelaus, who is considered the the worst of Herod's sons, who's uh ruling here in uh in uh in Judea. One of the first things that Archelaus did uh after he assumed the position uh over Judea is he uh he had three thousand Jews slaughtered at Passover uh because uh he thought they were too happy that his father died. Had 3,000 uh Jews slaughtered at Passover. Uh so this this is uh this is the guy that uh Joseph hears about is ruling. When he's headed back to Judah. This guy, Archelaus. So Joseph is uh is fearful to return. He heard that Archelaus was reigning over G Judea in the place of his father Herod. He was afraid to go there, but then after being warned by God in a dream, he left for the regions of Galilee. And uh Galilee uh would have been uh the the region that Herod Antipas was uh uh overseeing. And uh this wasn't Joseph's first choice of a place to live. Uh he wanted to go back to Bethlehem, uh. Likely because that's the last place that he and Mary left. uh when they went to to Egypt. Uh it was also considered the city of the king, David. Uh so we probably thought that, you know, hey, this is the Messiah, he needs to be raised up in the city of uh of the king. Uh but he he can't go back there and he's even warned in a dream not to go back there. Uh so instead of going south he goes north. Uh north would have been uh uh Galilee and specifically he goes to Nazareth, uh which would have been about sixty miles north of uh Bethlehem. Like I said, it wasn't Joseph's first choice, but in the sovereign plan of God, this was God's choice. God's choice of where Jesus would be raised. Like I said, Joseph surely thought that Jesus should have been raised in Bethlehem. Maybe Jesus should have been raised in Jerusalem. It was said that if a person wants to be rich, let him go north. If he wants to be wise, let him come south. Come down to Jerusalem, come down to Judea. This is where the wisdom is. But uh he goes north to uh to Galilee. And specifically to Nazareth, and this was God's design. And uh just to give you an idea of Galilee, that the Galileans were considered a joke, okay? Galileans were considered a joke among those at Jerusalem when they visited Jerusalem at uh festival seasons. Their manners, dress, accent were a jest to the citizens of uh Jerusalem. Uh the moment they opened their mouths, their nationality was known. It was discovered because they spoke with a heavy accent. If you remember Peter tried to blend in with the crowd outside in the courtyard where Jesus was being tried, and he was instantly recognized. Why don't you flip over there real quick? Matthew chapter 26. Yeah, in verse uh twenty-six starting at verse sixty-nine. Kind of interesting how how it talks about this here. Matthew uh twenty-six, sixty-nine. It says, now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard and a servant girl came to him and said, You two were with Jesus the Galilean. Notice how Jesus is called the Galilean. But he denied it before them all, saying, I do not know what you are talking about. When he had gone out to the gateway another servant girl saw him and said to those who were there, This man was with Jesus of Nazareth. So here it associates him both with Galilee and now Nazareth And again he denied it with an oath, I do not know the man. A little later the bystanders came up and said to Peter, Surely you too are one of them, for even the way you talk gives you away. You can't hide that accent from us. We know that you're not from here. Try to blend in with the crowd. He says, we know where you're from. Galileans were despised. By the Judeans. Judea was the home of orthodoxy. This is where uh the temple was. This is where the rabbis were. Rabbinic circles actually accused Galileans of neglecting the traditions of the fathers. It also said, No prophets come from Galilee. Nobody significant comes from Galilee. In John chapter 7, verses 40 down to 43 it says some of the people therefore When they heard these words, they're listening to Jesus, they heard the words of Jesus and he said, This certainly is the prophet. Others were saying, this is the Christ. So others were saying, surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee, is he? It's nothing significant about Galilee. Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem? Yeah, uh later on in the same chapter, Nicodemus is making his feeble attempt to get Jesus a hearing. You know, listen to Jesus. Maybe he is who he says he is, right? Look at how the Pharisees respond to uh Nicodemus. Uh Nicodemus in uh chapter seven of uh John. Nicodemus who came to him before being one of them said to them, Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? They answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? You're joining up with him? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. They thought they knew what they were they were talking about. Galilee was wasn't known for anything. Nobody significant that they knew of came out of Galilee. And Galilee was also known as Galilee of the Gentiles. Galilee of the Gentiles. People would have had a hard time believing that the Messiah could be raised in a place like Galilee. And of all the cities in Galilee to be from, Jesus comes from Nazareth. It's probably considered the worst city in Galilee. Even the people who lived in Galilee looked down on Nazareth. Nathaniel, who was from Cana of Galilee, according to John 21, 2 He heard about Jesus being from Nazareth. Look at look and you remember how he responded. John chapter 1, 44 to 46. Now Philip was from the Seda of the city of Andrew and Peter. Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We found him. Of whom Moses and the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph. Nathaniel said to him, Can anything come out good come out of Nazareth? Nothing good comes out of that place. Nothing good comes out of Nazareth. And Phila said to him, come and see. Nazareth was a hick town. Sorry, Danny. Nazareth was a hick town. Archaeological evidence shows that uh its population wasn't more than 500 people. Was it more than 500 people? To say somebody was from Nazareth was like saying they were from the backwoods. Hickville was known as a violent place. Lawless characters dwelt in Nazareth. If you remember in Nazareth, Jesus was surprised at the level of unbelief. Like I'm surprised at how how unbelieving this place is It was also in Nazareth that they attempted to throw throw Jesus off a cliff. This is the kind of city that it was. It wasn't a place with a good reputation. So when people really wanted to put you down, they'd call you a Nazarene. Something beautiful is coming here in Nazarene. Just hold on, all right. When people really wanted to wanted to put you down, they call you Nazarene. When uh the Pharisees accuse Paul And spoke of Jesus. They said in Acts chapter 6. They put forward these false witnesses. They said that he speaks against the holy place, against the law. And we've heard from him That this Nazarene Jesus will destroy this place and alter the customs which Moses handed down. They're trying to try to kind of put a jab in there. They say that Jesus is a Nazarene It's like the Messiah. Later on, uh, Christians were called the sect of the Nazarenes. Called uh uh Peter, uh Paul the ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes Like I said, it's another put-down. The church fathers actually documented that Jewish prayers cursed the Nazarenes. Because of Christ, its association with Jesus Christ, the Talmud speaks derogatively of Jesus calling him Yeshu Hanatserai. It was a put-down. Jesus the Nazarene. It was a put-down. But the amazing thing is that Jesus doesn't resist disassociation. In fact, throughout the scripture, the place most associated with Jesus is Nazareth. Most associated with Jesus. Even post-resurrection. Jesus identifies himself as Jesus of Nazareth. In Acts chapter 22, in verse 8, you have uh Paul, who is recounting the story of when he was knocked off of his donkey, and uh he actually has this vision of Christ, hears his voice, and he says, Who are you, Lord? And he said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting. Jesus doesn't mind being associated with Nazareth. And what Matthew sees in this is that uh in Jesus coming from Nazareth is a fulfillment of what the prophet said would be true about him. There's no single verse in the Old Testament that calls Jesus a Nazarene. In the Old Testament. There's no Old Testament verse that predicts that Jesus will come from Nazareth. You'll search your concordance in vain for that Old Testament reference. But what Matthew does is he picks up all the prophecies that predicted that Jesus would be despised by his people. Like Psalm 22 verse 6 where he says, But I am a man and not a I'm a worm and not a man, a reproach of men and despised by the people Jesus speaking about himself being despised, this is a prophecy about Christ, or the prophecies like Isaiah 53 that talks about Messiah being rejected, Isaiah 53 verse 1. Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. So what Matthew does is he pulls together prophecies like this with the word Nazarene. Because it would have automatically represented rejection of no account being despised. And Matthew uses the obscurity of Nazareth as sees this as the fulfillment of the Old Testament indications that Jesus would be rejected. Jesus would be despised. He fits the Old Testament pattern. And this is who Jesus was pleased to associate himself with. Jesus was going to be a different kind of king So Jesus was royalty associated with Bethlehem, that's clear, but Jesus was also associated with the slavery of Israel, being the son that comes out of Egypt. He was associated with the tragedy of Israel, weeping heard in Ramah. He was associated with the mockery of Israel, being called Jesus the Nazarene, Jesus of Nazareth. He grew up with this kind of of reputation. And uh what we find is that uh that this Lord, this Lord that we we worship is uh Is a marvelous Lord because of who he chooses to associate himself with. A marvelous Lord because of who he chooses to associate himself with. You won't find Jesus turning those that are considered of no reputation away. Jesus won't turn away those that are of no account. Jesus won't turn away those with a poor reputation. Jesus is one that's willing to associate himself with these kinds of people. So when we sing that that song, uh, I stand amazed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene , We should have a totally different understanding of what that means. That Jesus was one who was despised, he was forsaken, he was rejected And he did that for us. The hymn writer says, Man of sorrows, what a name. For the Son of God who came, ruined sinners to reclaim. Hallelujah, what a savior. Bearing shame and scoffing rude, in my place condemned he stood, sealed my pardon with his blood. Hallelujah. What a savior. This is the kind of savior that we have. How marvelous, how wonderful. Is my Savior's love for me. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh the opportunity that you've uh given us to to look at our our Christ, our Savior, uh the one who wasn't ashamed to call us brethren, uh the one who wasn't ashamed to associate himself with uh those that are low, uh those that are uh humble, those that are of no account. Father, we thank you for uh for our Savior Jesus Christ, and that this was exactly what was predicted about him and uh for the Jews that uh would have been uh thrown off by uh some of what they they saw in Jesus' life, that they could have checked their Old Testament's Lord and see that that this is exactly what was predicted of of their Messiah. That the Messiah didn't uh distance himself from uh pain and tragedy. Uh, he didn't distance himself from uh uh those that uh were low and despised. that he didn't distance himself even from the uh the slavery and and running uh away being a fugitive, uh that he partook in all of that. Was the ultimate son who came, the ultimate deliverer who came. He's associated with our grief as well as with our rejoicing and our triumph. And Father, we thank you for who he's declared himself to be. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.