The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. This morning we return to our study of the Gospel of Matthew, but just by way of introduction, why don't we turn to the book of John, John chapter 17? John chapter 17. As believers, we we really live between two worlds. We live between two worlds. We live in this world. As citizens of it, we're born here, we live here, we die here. This world is really the only home that we know, but the reality that Scripture points out is that we 're not home yet. We're really not of this world. In John 17, Jesus prays for his disciples in verse 15 and 16. Look at what he says. He says, I do not ask you to take them out of the world, but to keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. We're not of this world. We also live as citizens of uh this nation and and that comes with various uh responsibilities and and privileges. We protect our country, we uh vote for our leaders, we pay our taxes, but scripture informs us that our true citizenship is not in any country that we could get a ticket and fly to. We can't travel to this country. Our true citizenship is in heaven. In Philippians chapter three verse twenty it says, For our citizenship is in heaven from which we also eagerly wait for Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we all belong to a physical kingdom. We're obligated to obey and submit to governing authorities that exist in 1 Peter 2, verse 17, and exhorts us. Uh to honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king, but our true allegiance is to a kingdom that does not belong to this realm at all. When uh standing before Pilate in John eighteen, if you want to flip over there in John eighteen In verses 36 and 37, Jesus answered Pilate, and he says this, he says, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting, so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Therefore, Pilate said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, Ye say correctly that I am a king. For this I have been born and For this I have come into the world to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. And that's a powerful statement. Jesus acknowledges that he is the king. He was born to rule. He says to Pilate, You have said correctly that I am a king for to this I've been born. I've been born for this. And there will come a time when the The kingdom of this world will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, like it says in Revelation eleven, verse fifteen. Jesus will one day reign visibly and physically over this earth, but that time has not yet come. He's not presently reigning over the kingdoms of the earth, but that does not mean that Jesus is not reigning presently. Jesus is presently reigning over everyone who is of the truth. Everyone who is of the truth. Listen to what he says. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. What does that mean? That means that even though the reign of Christ is not yet visible, and physical, it's still real and it's present. And he rules over every believing heart as king, and he demands loyalty. He expects his voice to be heard and to be obeyed by his followers. And until the visible and physical kingdoms become his All of us right now, those of us who are followers of Jesus Christ, we have this dual citizenship. We've got a dual citizenship. We live between these two worlds, two countries, two kingdoms. And the question is, how are we to live between these two worlds? And that's really what Jesus addresses in the Sermon on the Mount. He's primarily addressing his followers. He's giving them instructions for how they're to live as citizens of the kingdom of heaven while they're still citizens of the kingdom of earth. He's preparing his disciples to live. in a world that's present world that's unkind, uncaring, unreceptive to the rule and to the authority of Jesus Christ. So the Serpent on the Mount, they're not words That are the key to unlock successful living in the here and now. That's not what the Sermon on the Mount is about. Rather, these words are for pilgrims that are just passing through. We haven't yet reached our final destination, and Jesus is giving us instructions for how we're to live in the here and now, knowing that we're true citizens of the kingdom that is to come. And that's how you have to understand the Sermon on the Mount. Flip back to Matthew chapter 5. And none of what Jesus says will make sense if you're only thinking about how to get ahead in this present kingdom. All the conventional and expected wisdom of the world is turned on its head All the ordinary signposts are are flipped around in the opposite direction. So all of the world is the world is uh busy clawing its way up the ladder of success. Uh The success and security and satisfaction in this life, you know, what all the world seeks after. Jesus is busy leading his followers backwards down the ladder. Down the ladder. We're being stepped on and shoved out of the way in the process, but if the kingdom is here and now, this instruction doesn't make sense. You know, why would I be going down the ladder that everybody else is racing up? But if we're true citizens of the kingdom, it makes sense because we're following after our leader. We're following after our King, Jesus Christ, and everyone who is of the truth hears his voice. Amen? Everyone who's of the truth hears his voice Matthew chapter 5, look at verses uh 38 uh to 42 as we'll look at this for uh for a final time. It says you've heard it said that You heard it said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let them have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with them too. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. And uh last time we were here, we identified three sections of this passage. Jesus instructed his followers to avoid the unjustified perversion of the law in verse 38, the right. and biblical principle of an eye for an eye was being perverted and twisted in Jesus' day instead of people leaving vengeance up to the Lord and trusting And the the proper authority to deal with wrongdoing. as if what was really important was uh their own personal anger being appeased rather than God's law being upheld, and it became for them this this right for revenge. The law of retaliation, commonly known as the Lexalionis, which literally means the law of the talon or the law of the claw. It was uh meant to be a guide to the courts not to set individuals loose to kind of you know carry out justice however they saw fit Second, in verse 39, Jesus exhorted his followers to affirm the unfamiliar principle of the law. In 39 , the first part of verse 39, it says, But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. And again, by this, Jesus did not mean that we're not to resist evil in general, because that would contradict what the scriptures say. We're clearly taught in 1 Peter. uh chapter five and in verse nine, uh that we're to resist the evil one, to stand firm in our faith, to resist him, resist Satan. And Jesus also could not mean not to resist uh you know evil people in all circumstances uh because the scriptures recognize the proper authority at home, work, society and the the church to deal with evil people as ministers of of God. Martin Luther uh described, you know, the crazy saints who'd let insects nibble at them because, you know, I can't I can't resist evil. You know, just let it happen. Uh he says, you know, these are crazy saints. They don't understand the scriptures in their their context. As far back as the uh uh the Pentateuch The first five books of the Old Testament, the Jewish law, stated the same principle, you shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but ye shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. But this became an unfamiliar principle by Jesus' time because people basically let it go and and looked at this this principle of uh eye for an eye as this personal opportunity to take vengeance out on my enemies. This wasn't a new principle in the scriptures. But it was unfamiliar in Jesus' time because uh it had fallen into disuse. It was familiar and common to the scriptures, but it wasn't familiar and common in the practice of the people. And then finally Jesus encourages the disciples to accept the unnatural practice of the law. Accept the unnatural practice of the law. It says, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to see you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with them too. Give to him who asks you. Do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. It wasn't enough for Jesus to merely have the disciples nod their heads in agreement. Yeah, that's right, Jesus, you know, turn the other cheek, you know, that's right, you know, don't resist evil. Jesus wants them to put these principles into practice. Put the principles into practice. And there were four basic rites that Jesus asked his disciples to be willing to part with. MacArthur called these dignity, security, liberty, and property. Dignity, security, liberty, and and property. Uh striking the the other cheek, suing for a shirt, requiring service, or requesting the belongings of the people, it it kind of attacked those kind of basic rights. The basic right for dignity, the basic right for security, basic right for liberty, to go where I want when I want. Basic right to the property that I, you know, what I have is my own. And Jesus says, no And to to give up these rights to an enemy would be perceived as humiliating an ad admission of defeat But not if you're part of Christ's kingdom. Not if you're part of Christ's kingdom. The kingdom of Christ is pictured in Daniel as the kingdom that will never be destroyed. A kingdom that will not be left to another people because it will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms. The kingdom of Christ is the kingdom that goes on for eternity. So even though it may seem to us like a sign of defeat to give these things over to people who would be considered enemies, it's actually the greatest signal of victory. Because it's an indication that we belong to an eternal kingdom. My kingdom is not of this temporary realm. My kingdom is eternal. The things that I have in the kingdom can't be taken from me. It doesn't matter what you take from me temporarily. It doesn't matter what you take from me now. We don't have to cling to every right and privilege in this temporary kingdom. We have an inheritance at 1 Peter 1, verse 4, it says it's imperishable, undefiled, it will not fade away. It's reserved in heaven for us. And when we're willing to let go of these temporary privileges and rights, we're saying that my true home and my citizenship is in heaven. And what I have up there, no man can take from me. No man can rob that from me. But that doesn't necessarily make it easy to give up our rights. But it does place our rights in the proper perspective, doesn't it? Places them in the proper perspective. And uh this week we'll spend some time exploring this unnatural practice of the the law and particularly uh the slap on the cheek. And I've I've come back to this again because there's there's still uh still a few questions kind of left hanging. Like uh does Jesus expect this command to be taken literally? How do we know that this is just insult and not assault? How does Jesus model this command for us? When is it right to exercise our rights and when is it right to surrender our rights? And what are some practical ways that we can begin to implement this in our own day? These are some of the questions that we'll try to cover because I'm convinced that if we can lay down our defenses in this area And accept with humility what Jesus says here, that it would, we would see dramatic changes in our marriages, in our families, in our relationships at church. And relationships with those outside in the world at work, I mean you'd see dramatic change if you were willing to just say, I'm I'm I'm willing to let it go I I don't have to fight for for everything that I believe is mine. We see dramatic changes. The self-denial that Jesus requires of all of his followers is really demonstrated here. It's put on display. The self-denial is put on display. It's put into practice. And it's important that we understand what it is and what it is not. First of all, and some of this might be reviewed, but to turn the other cheek is personal, not institutional. Personal, not institutional. Each of the examples that our Lord gives deals with personal interactions. He uses singular personal pronouns. In each case, whoever slaps you, whoever sues you, whoever forces you, whoever asks you, personal pronouns, singular pronouns. These are all personal interactions that we have, giving up personal rights And uh this is what Christ asks his followers to be willing to give up. Nothing here would indicate that a nation is to give up its right, or a society is to give up its right, or employers are to give up. their rights in the workplace. It would be wrong to try to apply this principle just kind of everywhere. It's wrong to say that a that a nation can't defend itself it's if it's being attacked. or a victim of a crime uh can't take a person to court or an employer can't enforce his standards on the the workplace, that would be a wrong application of this principle. And it's uh it's really easy to to kind of push the application off to other people, right? Off to institutions. You know, we push it off to the, you know, this is what the nation is to do. You know, this is what uh society is to do. This is what you know the employers are supposed to do. Uh it's really hard to focus the attention back where it belongs on ourselves. You know, this is what I am to do, to focus the lens there. What am I willing to give up for the sake of the kingdom? You know, it's a personal question to entrust the Lord with every one of your personal interactions. It's personal, not institutional. Second thing, turning the other cheek is it's not Assault, but it's insult. It's insult, not assault. Uh the slap on the cheek, as I mentioned uh last time, was not only painful, but insulting. As uh one source points out, since most first century Jews were right-handed and thus would strike with their right hand, a slap on the right cheek, would was a back-handed slap. A back-handed slap was more painful and injurious than being slapped with the open palm. This type of slap was particularly insulting to the victim's honor, and rabbis taught that it deserved a fine that was double the normal amount. There was actually a fine for slapping somebody. According to one rabbinic writing, a person could be fined 200 zuz for his dishonor. 200 zuz is uh approximately $750. $750 US dollars for a slap, right? But if he struck him with the back of the hand, he had to pay him 400 Z , roughly $1,500. You know, go ahead and slap me, right? Backhand of slap, $1,500 And uh the rabbis recognized that the the backslap was worse than the foreslap. Both were painful, but the foreslap was done with the palm of the hand, whereas the backslap was done with the knuckles. Done with the knuckles. And it's uh interesting to note that uh this word for slap, right, pizzo, uh comes from the Greek word rapis, which means the rod. It actually meant to strike with the rod. Only later did it come to mean to strike with the hand, and the New Testament use of this verb consistently means to strike with an empty hand, but it's clear that uh either way that this uh this was painful. It was painful So how do we know that this slat was intended as just an insult and not assault? That this wasn't a an attack, a violent attack on a person. How do we know that this is supposed to be understood in that way? It's one thing to say that, you know, uh the slap was commonly viewed of the people during that time as an insult, but how are you to know that from the context? How were you to know it's just an insult from the context Well, the text itself gives us an indication that we're talking about something less than a violent attack that would call for self defense. And it's interesting to note that verse 38, if you look at verse 38, he says, For you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, right? An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But it's interesting to note that when Jesus goes into talking about the application of this principle, he doesn't say uh, you know, whoever knocks out your right tooth off from the left. Whoever gouges out your right eye, you know, off from the left eye, that's not what he says. It says whoever slaps you. It's purposeful for Jesus to bring it down. Jesus is changing the illustration on purpose. Because his intent is not to deal with this violent physical assault. It's to deal with an insult, and that's how we should view it. In our culture, uh we don't communicate insult by striking someone with the the backside of our hands, at least I hope not, you know, that we're not out here insulting people with the the backside of our hands. That That for me would communicate something totally different. You know, you strike them with the back of your hand, it's like, you know, we're ready to throw down, right? It's not it's not, you know, hey, I just, you know, I don't like your tie or something, you know what I mean? It's like This is violent. Something else is being communicated here. But there's a whole lot of ways that we still communicate insult today, right? Whole lot of ways. Like facial expressions. Like hand gestures, like sarcasm, or even spitting, name-calling Harsh words of criticism, put-downs, or even ignoring somebody altogether, like you just you just don't exist. You don't exist. And how many uh how many spouses are guilty of that, right? I'm just gonna give you the silent treatment, you know. I'm not even gonna talk to you. For some of us a a slap on the cheek would be be less painful and a lot quicker to heal, right? Than some of the words that we share with with people. You know, some of the the the harsh criticism, the put downs, the the name calling, ignoring people altogether, you know, for us is uh a lot more difficult to to get over than just a a slap on the on the cheek in in most cases. But Jesus' instruction here is that when you receive those insults, that you're not to seek personal revenge for it. You don't have the authority to do that. You don't have the authority to say, I'll pay back. Vengeance is mine, I'll repay. You don't have the authority to do that. It's not just this passive resignation. But it's also an act of entrusting to God, the one who judges righteously, you know, Lord, you deal with it. I'm not going to deal with this myself, Lord, you deal with it. Flip over to 2 Samuel real quick. Uh 2 Samuel. Uh we have an illustration of this when um David was temporarily ousted. By his own son Absalom as uh the king of Israel. You might remember that as he fled uh from Jerusalem there He left with his him and his men, the loyal followers, 2 Samuel 16. He left with his loyal followers. And as they were fleeing, they were followed by a man named Shimei. Shimei. Shimei was a relative of Saul, probably assumed that David stole the throne from his family line instead of inheriting the throne righteously, receiving it as a gift from God. But look at how he insulted the the king of Israel. 2 Samuel 16, start at verse 5. It says, When King David came to Bahurim, behold there came out from there a man of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei. the son of Gerah. He came out cursing continually as he came, he threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David, and all the people and all the mighty men were at his right hand and at his left Thus Shimai said when he cursed, Get out, get out you man of bloodshed, you worthless fellow. The Lord has returned upon you all the bloodshed of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned, and the Lord has given the kingdom into the hand of your son, Absalom. And behold, you are taken in your own evil, for you are a man of bloodshed. Then Abishai, the son of Zariah, said to the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over now and cut off his head. But the king said, What have I to do with you, O sons of Zariah? If he curses, and if the Lord has told him, curse David, then who shall say, Why have you done so? Then David said to Abishai to all the servants, Behold, my son who came out from me seeks my life. How much more now this Benjamite? Let him alone. Let him curse, for the Lord has told them. Perhaps the Lord will look on my affliction and return good to me instead of his cursing this day. So David and his men went on the way, and Shimei went along on the hillside parallel with them And as he went, he cursed and cast stones and threw dust at him. David received this as a personal attack. Received it as a personal attack. Insult. And while he was temporarily dethroned as king of Israel, he wouldn't respond to this abuse. He just accepted the personal attack. He trusted the Lord to avenge him. Let the Lord deal with it. Let the Lord deal with it. If the Lord told him to say it, just let him say it. I'm not going to handle it. Just let the Lord take care of this. What you might not remember is uh the Lord did take care of it. The Lord did take care of it. Uh he was avenged by his son Solomon. Before David died, he had a word with Solomon in First Kings chapter 2 and verses 8 and 9. He says, Behold, there is with you Shimei The son of Gera, the Benjamite of Bahurim, now it was he who cursed me with the violent curse on the day I went to Mahanaim. But when he came down to me at the Jordan I swore to him by the Lord, saying I will not put ye to death with the sword Now therefore, do not let him go unpunished, for you are a wise man, and you will know what you ought to do to him, and you will bring his gray hair down to Sheol with blood. And Solomon finally as the proper authority representing God's vengeance saw that Shimei couldn't be trusted. And in 2 Kings chapter 2 Verses 44 down to 46, it says, The king also said to Shimei, You know all the evil which you acknowledge in your heart, which you did to my father David, therefore the Lord shall return your evil on your own head. But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the Lord forever. So the king commanded Beniah the son of Jehoida, and he went out and fell upon him, so that he died. Thus the kingdom was established in the hands of Solomon. That there was the proper authority. At the time when David was dethroned, he says, I'm just not going to deal with it. Let the Lord take care of it. He allowed the proper authority to take care of it, who just happened to be a son in this case, and Solomon acknowledges that this is the vengeance of the Lord. This is the vengeance of the Lord. This isn't a personal retaliation. This is the vengeance of God. When God says vengeance is his, he often allows his appointed servants to carry out that work, and this was just and right. But David wasn't going to carry this out himself. He says, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna answer him for for every insult. David didn't respond personally. So when we think about turning the other cheek, it's not personal. It's personal, I mean, not institutional. It's insult, not assault. And it's also uh particular, not universal. Uh so it's uh it's important to understand also that this principle is not this kind of one-size-fits-all uh kind of principle. The Bible allows for more than one response towards hostility, and it's important to see this In situations where physical harm was expected, you have different responses, and in one response is that godly men avoided hostile situations. Godly men avoided hostile situations. They didn't just walk into a situation and say, hey, slap me silly, right? They actually avoided hostile situations you have over in uh Nehemiah chapter 6 Uh you might remember this, but in uh Nehemiah chapter six, uh Nehemiah was engaged in constructing the walls around Jerusalem. He already had the permission of uh King Artaxerxes to uh uh rebuild the the walls. There were a number of local rulers. Um local rulers who didn't want to see the completion of this project. And Nehemiah chapter 6 and uh starting at verse 1, look at what it says Or just listen, it says Now when it was reported to San Balat to Biah to Geshem and to the Arab and to the rest of our enemies that I had rebuilt the wall and that no breach remained in it. Although at that time I had not set up the doors and the gates, then San Balat and Geshem sent a message to me saying Come, let us meet together in Shephereim in the plain of Ono. But they were planning to harm me. You know, oh no, I'm not coming down there, right? They're in the this plane of Ono, but they were planning to harm me. So I sent messengers to them saying, I'm doing a great work. I cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and come down to you? They sent messages to me four times in this manner, and I answered them in the same way. What's he doing? I'm avoiding conflict here. I'm avoiding the hostility. I know what you're up to. Got a lot of work going on over here. There's no harm in that. This isn't cowardice. This is avoiding a confrontation. Why do I need to step into this mess if I don't have to? I got work to do. Paul, you might remember, he made a number of narrow escapes. In Acts chapter 9, there's a plot for his life. The disciples lowered him in a large basket through an opening on the wall. You remember that? Acts chapter 20, there was another plot for his life, so he changed his travel plans. You know, instead of going the way where I know my enemies are, I'll go around another way. In Acts chapter 20 and verse 3, it says he was about to set sail for Syria. He decided to return to Macedonia. It's like no worries. I'll go a different way. Then in Acts chapter 23, one of my favorite narratives, there is a plot by more than forty Jewish men who bound themselves by oath that they would not eat or drink until they killed Paul. 40 over 40 men, 40 plus men bound themselves by oath, we're not going to taste a drop until we see Paul dead. Unfortunately for them, Paul's nephew overheard this plot to take his uncle's life and uh warned Paul and the people that were guarding him before they had a chance to execute their plan. More than forty of Paul's enemies died by their own mouth, condemned by their own mouths. God is an avenger. God is an avenger. And if that's not convincing enough, You see that our Lord Jesus also avoided hostile situations. In uh Luke chapter 4, when the crowds were filled with rage, intending to throw them down over a cliff, somehow we passed through their midst. I would have loved to see that How in the world did he just get through this crowd without without a scratch, without a touch? Then in John chapter 7, and uh we read it this morning when the when the ministry was starting to escalate, things were escalating around the ministry of Jesus Christ. Jesus knew that the Jews were looking for an opportunity to kill him, and that if he presented himself at the time with uh the rest of the Jews for this feast, that uh this was going to be an opportune time for them. And uh Jesus In verse 1 of chapter 7, it says, He was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. His brothers were trying to encourage him to go, hey Jesus, why don't you go? You know, nobody keeps themselves secret. He says, you know, you go up the feast yourselves You go up because it's not my time yet. Jesus understood what his timetable was. He avoided hostile situations, and that's one response to hostility. There's a also another response to hostility. Godly men also exercised their rights during hostile situations. In hostile situations. They exercised their rights. There was a number of times When uh Paul used his rights as a Roman citizen to the furtherance of the gospel and the protection of his own life. In Acts chapter uh sixteen, uh Paul was beaten and thrown into prison for a night. Remember that? Philippi. And on the next day the jailer reported the words to Paul, and he says, The chief magistrates have sent to release you, therefore come out now and go in peace. But what did Paul say? Paul said, They've beaten us in public without a trial. Men who are Romans and have thrown us into prison and now they are sending us away secretly? No indeed, but let them come themselves and bring us out. What's Paul doing there? He's exercising his rights. I'm a Roman citizen. You're not just going to get away with beating me up, throwing me in a jail without a trial. And what Paul is actually doing is he's providing some kind of protection for the church. To let people know this this Christianity, it's not just you know these kind of fly by night kind of people. This is a Roman citizen here. He's providing a level of protection for the church at Philippi. That the people in Philippi wouldn't just uh try to take advantage of the church any way that they they wished. This is a Roman citizen who was backing up Christianity, and Paul wanted to make that clear. Acts chapter 22, again, he pulled his Roman citizenship card when he was being beaten in Jerusalem. He says, is it lawful you to scourge a man who is a Roman and uncondemned? And then in Acts chapter 25, when Paul feared that he wouldn't be given a fair trial before Festus, he pulled the ultimate card. That a Roman could pull, and that was to ask to appear before Caesar, the ultimate ruler in Rome, the ultimate ruler in the kingdom. Send me before Caesar. You guys aren't going to give me a fair trial. Send me before Caesar I'll take my chances with him. And what Paul showed here, and uh just by the way, there are a number of things that Romans couldn't be subjected to. Uh they couldn't be subjected to uh beatings without trial. Uh they they had the right to appeal to Caesar, and another thing they had a right to was uh in their execution they couldn't be crucified. Uh if you remember in church history, Paul was uh martyred not by uh crucifixion but by Beheading, right? It was one of his rights as a Roman citizen that that he didn't suffer crucifixion. But here he uses his his Roman citizenship card and he says, hey, uh Put me before Caesar, I'll take my chances before him. It's not wrong to protest wrong actions. It's not wrong. Even Jesus, when he was struck in the Jewish court, he didn't remain silent before the Jewish court. He didn't just turn the other cheek in that case. He actually answered in John chapter 18 and verse 23. It says, If I have spoken wrongly, testify of the wrong. What have I done wrong? You tell me. But if rightly, why do you strike me? If I've only done what's right, why are you hitting me? Why do you hit me? If anyone knows how to interpret the words of Christ, it would be Christ. It would be Christ. Turning the other cheek doesn't just mean in every situation. We actually had Christ that uh uh didn't turn the other cheek but actually protested and talked about his his rights. But we find another response to surrendering, which is surrendering your rights in hostile situations. Some godly men avoided hostile situations. Some godly men exercised their rights in hostile situations, and some godly men surrendered their rights in hostile situations. Surrendered their rights. And everywhere that you go in our society today, we hear about what our rights are, right? We have entire industries that exist because we're willing to fight for our rights. You can't download a simple app without pages of legal language to try to protect the company just in case you want to assume, right? You can't even download a load an app in case you're unhappy for some reason. We actually have the the reputation in America for being the most litigious society. Even one article that tried to argue against that still had to admit that this is the country where you can spill a hot coffee on yourself and sue the company that sold it to you for millions, and worse still, you can win. There's actually a case where uh you know a lady spilled a hot cup of coffee on herself and sued McDonald's and won. Everyone's concerned about their rights. Everybody's scared. You know, I'm going to get sued because somebody's going to try to defend their rights. But there's one right that we don't hear about much. And that's that you have the right to give up your rights. You have the right to give up your rights. And this is no attempt to to give you an exhaustive list, but let me at least get you thinking about when it's right to give up your rights, okay? When it's right to give up your rights. Number one, when you know you're wrong. Give up your rights when you know you're wrong. Uh Paul said in Acts chapter 25, verse 11, when he appealed to Caesar, he says If then I am a wrongdoer and I have committed anything worthy of death, I do not refuse to die. If I've done something wrong, go ahead and convict me. If I've done something wrong, you just I'm not gonna fight. I'm not gonna fight it. First Peter 2 verse 20 says, What credit is there if when you sin and are harshly treated, you endure it with patience? If you've done something wrong and you're receiving the penalty for that wrong, you just accept it Give up whatever your your rights you think that there are. If you've done wrong, you just accept it. Just let it go. Maybe you're being insulted. Maybe not because of uh your bold stand for Christ, but maybe it's because you're obnoxious. Maybe it's because you're a lawbreaker. Maybe it's because you're stealing time at work. Maybe that's why you're being persecuted Instead of always talking it up of, hey, you know, persecution for Christ's sake. You know, just suffering for the Lord. Suffering for the Lord. You know, I took that extended two-hour lunch break so I could witness for the Lord. And now I'm getting persecuted Don't object to it when uh when your boss lays you off. Just take it, right? Just take it. I find it interesting that in um each of these examples over in uh Matthew chapter five that Christ gave that there was actually a legitimate reason for the enemy to ask what he asked for. Interesting. And the the case of food or some other goods that were asked for in verse 42 There was a legitimate request, a legitimate request from this enemy to ask for food. It was a legitimate request. And he could be given what he asked for, and maybe even a little bit more. In the other case of a soldier compelling a person, a citizen of the country to go a mile, it was a legitimate request for this, you know, occupying um force to to require you know people that they were occupying to to take their their goods for one mile soldiers could uh have somebody carry their equipment for a mile. It was a legitimate request. They had the right to do that. So you gave them what they asked for, and you can even give a little bit more. In the case of a person being sued, there was a legitimate request for your uh shirt. It was a legitimate request because they were suing you for it. And they could give this shirt and uh even give a little bit more, give the coat that they didn't ask for. You know, give what they asked for and give a little bit more. And then the question comes, it's like, when would it ever be right to be struck on the cheek? When is that ever a legitimate request? Uh two times we find uh persons being struck and it was actually ordered as a punishment. Ordered as a punishment. If you're being insulted or receiving a legitimate punishment for wrong done, I believe the right response according to this passage is to receive what's due to you and even offer a little bit more. If there's a legitimate reason why you're receiving a punishment or an insult, take what's deserved and even offer one more. Another place where it's right to give up our rights, when it would actually dishonor God, a God given authority. When it would dishonor a God given authority. Flip over to Acts chapter 23. Acts chapter 23. In Israel, the chief priest was not only considered a religious authority, but he was also considered a political authority as well. And this really explains why Paul responded in the way that he did when he stood before the council in Acts chapter 23. Paul was not recognizing the chief priest as a religious authority. He was recognizing the chief priest as a political authority in this case. Look at Acts chapter 23, starting at verse 1. It says, Paul, looking intently at the council, said, Brethren, I have lived my life with a perfectly good conscience before God up to this day. The high priest Ananias commanded those standing beside him to strike him in his mouth. Then Paul said to him, God is going to strike you, you whitewash wall. Do you sit to try to accuse me according to the law and in violation of the law order me to be struck? But the bystander says, Do you revile God's high priest? And Paul said, I was not aware, brethren, that he was high priest, for it is written, You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people. Was Paul recognizing Ananias is a religious authority in this case? The answer is no. He's recognized him as a political authority. He's a political authority. And he understood that he was not to speak evil of a ruler of The people. He he understood that. And he understood that it would dishonor God in this case to try to assert his rights, knowing that there was a political authority that he was standing before. And this really makes sense out of another much abused passage in the scriptures in 1 Samuel chapter 24 and verse 10. Remember when David had the opportunity to avenge himself with Saul? Saul, his enemy, the one who wanted him dead, the one who threw a spear towards his head. He had an opportunity to avenge himself. In 1 Samuel 24, verse 10, it says, Behold, this day your eyes have seen that the Lord had given you today into my hand in the cave. Remember, he sliced off a little piece of his robe Says the Lord gave you into my hand. Some said to kill you, but my eye had pity on you, and I said, I will not stretch out my hand against my Lord, for he is the Lord's anointed. Was David recognizing Saul as some kind of religious authority in this case? No. He's the political authority. He was the Lord's anointed in this case. David had already been promised the kingdom, but instead of seizing the kingdom for himself in his own way, he says, I'm going to allow the Lord to do that in his own timing. And I'm going to recognize the God given authority at this time. And people abuse that passage all the time, don't they? Touch not the Lord's anointed. Don't touch the Lord's anointed. People abuse that all the time. Like a minister gets this kind of get out of jail free card Like a a a pastor is above criticism and scandal. So when uh Crufflow Dollar acts for $65 million because he needs a new jet, you know, because uh American Airlines isn't good enough. When he asked for $65 million for a new jet, people said, you know, well, hey, I you know I I can't comment on that because he's the Lord's anointing. You can't touch the Lord's anointed. Say what? What do you mean don't touch the Lord's anointed? No man sits above this word, right? No man sits above the word. And if a man is clearly disqualified, you sit him down. You sit him down. And besides that, it's using the verse out of context because Crufflow has not been appointed the head of any state. What do you mean, touch not the Lord's anointed? She's out of context. Out of context. The point of the illustration is that if asserting my rights would dishonor a God-given authority The right response is to have pity and to relinquish my rights if it's a God-given authority. And in this case, it's talking about political authority. Another case when we give up our rights, when it's for the sake of righteousness. There should be causes that the Christian is willing to go to the stake for. You understand me? There should be some causes that the Christian is willing to go to the stake for And I've uh actually uh told my my children this, you need to instruct your children on this because they might be called to make a sacrifice for the sake of the truth. You need to remind yourself this, because you might be called to make a sacrifice for the sake of the truth If I'm persecuted for the stand I take on marriage or purity or false religions or some other principle of the word, I don't have the option to back down. I don't have the option to change my mind to avoid persecution. You know, I don't want to be persecuted. I don't want anybody to to to to try to you know pull my tax exemption status. You know, what kind of nonsense is that? You don't belong to the state, you belong to God, right? You don't back down from his word in 1 Peter 3:14. But even if you should suffer for the sake of righteousness, you are blessed and do not fear their intimidation and do not be troubled. Matthew chapter 5, verse 10. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. We take a stand on the word of God and we don't back down for anything. For anything. We also let our rites go when it's for the sake of the church. When it's for the sake of the church. As a shepherd, it's my responsibility to protect the flock of God. That's the responsibility that the Lord's given me. And a connection that I've I've never made in First Peter before is this, the connection between chapter 4 and chapter 5. In chapter 4, verse 19, it says, Therefore, those also who suffer according to the will of God shall entrust their souls to a faithful Creator in doing what's right. Right after that is chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker also of the glory that is to be revealed, shepherd the flock of God among you. What's the connection? What's the connection here? Suffer according to the will of God, even in shepherding the flock of God. If it calls you to take a fall for shepherding the flock of God, you take the fall for it. You protect the sheep. Protect the sheep. A shepherd needs to be willing to take insult, injury for the flack that's under his care. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 24, Paul says, Now I rejoice. In my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh I do my share on behalf of his body, which is the church, and filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. He says, I rejoice in suffering for you. I'll suffer for you. It's the example that Christ gave in John chapter 10. He says, The thief comes only to steal, to kill, and to destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd does what? Lays down his life for the sheep. He was a hired hand and not a shepherd, who is not owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep to save his own hide. Leaves the sheep, flees, and the wolf snatches them and scatters them That's not a faithful shepherd. A faithful shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. When else is it right to endure suffering when it's for the sake of the gospel? Are you ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Are you ashamed of the truth of Jesus Christ? Second Timothy 1, verse 8 says, Therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord or of me as prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel, according to the power of God. Next chapter twenty, Paul says, But I do not consider my life of any account as dear to myself, so that I may finish my course and the ministry which I receive from the Lord, Jesus to testify solemnly of the gospel of the grace of God. When people warned Paul that he was going to be persecuted, that he was going to be put in shackles, what did he say in Acts chapter 21? Paul answers and says, What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I'm ready not only to be bound, but even to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. I'm willing to die for this gospel. That's the way that we're to be, for the sake of the gospel. Then finally, when it's for the sake of Jesus Christ. When it's for the sake of Jesus Christ. In Romans 8, chapter 36, Paul says, just as it is written, for your sake we are being put to death all day long. We're right on the verge of death every day. Why? Because we're considered a sheep to be slaughtered. For your sake. For your sake, we're being put to death. Acts chapter 5, when the uh apostles were were beaten, they considered they considered it a an honor To suffer shame for the name. To suffer shame for the name. Don't fear turning the other cheek when you know you're wrong, when you would dishonor a God-given authority. When it's for the sake of righteousness, when it's for the sake of the church, when it's for the sake of the gospel, and when it's for the sake of Christ. And uh just real quickly, just to wrap this up. Jesus is really the uh the ultimate example of the principle that he taught. Turning the other cheek is determined by Christ, not by the culture. Jesus is our example. Jesus suffered the loss of dignity. Matthew chapter 27. You can flip over there. We'll end over here. Matthew chapter 27. Listen to the indignity that Jesus suffered. Says then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole Roman cohort around him. They stripped him And put a scarlet robe on him. And after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand, and they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, Hail King of the Jews. They spat on him and took the reed and began to beat him on the head. And after they mocked him, they took the scarlet robe off him and put his own garments back on him, and they led him away to be crucified Jesus suffered indignity. Jesus suffered the loss of property. If you look further in the same Chapter and verse 35, it says, And when they had crucified him, they divided up his garments among themselves by casting lots. The Son of Man didn't have a place to lay his head, but he had the clothes on his back, and they took that from him, suffered the loss of his property Suffered the loss of his liberty as he was pressed to carry the cross and just suffering under the weight of that. In verse 32, they they forced another man by the name of Cyrene. Mm named uh uh by the by a sirene named Simon, they pressed into service to bear the cross. He suffered the loss of liberty. And then also Christ extended charity. And uh we know that one of his final words on the cross as he suffered all this abuse, he turned around and still said, Father what? Forgive them. Forgive them, for they don't know what they do. And this was the king. This was the king. He was born to rule. Jesus said, You say correctly that I am a king, for this I have been born. And there will come a time when the kingdom of this world will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. Jesus is presently reigning over everyone who is of the truth, and everyone who is of the truth hears his voice. And this is the voice of our King. This is the voice of our King. And expects his voice to be heard and obeyed by his followers. And the question is, how are you living between these two worlds? Living on the kingdom of earth while your true citizenship is in the kingdom of heaven. Are you fighting for your rights? As if this kingdom is all that life has to offer? Are you willing to relinquish your rights because you're looking for a better kingdom? serving a better king and you have better rights. Because those of us who have trusted in Jesus Christ, we have the right to eternal life, a right to the tree of life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity to uh look at this passage once again. And uh Father, we pray that As we've talked about the implications of this and how we can apply it to our own lives, Lord, that it's been helpful. Father, I pray that we would be a people who would be ready to give up our rights. Not to try to attack when we're insulted. Father, I pray that we would put this into practice in our own homes, first of all, with our spouses, with our children. Father, that we put this into practice. Father, I pray that we would put this into practice with our loved ones, with our friends, with those that we come into contact with at work. Father, I pray that it would be evident When they see the way that we live our lives, that we belong to a better kingdom, that we have better rights, that we have a better home, and we have an inheritance that cannot be taken away from us. An inheritance that's reserved in heaven for us. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawton Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files