The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? Book of Matthew, we're continuing our study through the book of Matthew when we finally reach chapter 4. Chapter 4, and uh Matthew continues his uh proclamation in defense of Jesus as the long anticipated Messiah in a section of scripture that's Very familiar to us. It's been said that as familiar as we have grown with this simple narrative, it presents us with one of the most wonderful, mysterious, and awful scenes of all of world history. In uh chapter four you have the uh the one who's just been identified as the rightful heir uh to the throne, the one who's been affirmed by the voice of the Father, identified by the descent of the Spirit. Marked out by the the Holy Spirit himself that this one is now going to have that claim put to the test. You know, that that this is my beloved son, and now that claim is going to be uh put to the test. The kind of test that uh Jesus is going to undergo in uh Matthew chapter four is greater than any person has ever been able to withstand. In all of human history. It's more intense than anything faced by Adam, by Moses, by Elijah, or even by Job, as great as Job's trial was, Job was never offered the kingdoms of the world. Job was never offered the kingdoms of the world. If he gave in and cursed God, the best that he could get was death. That's what was uh what Job's wife suggested, you know, curse God and die Uh but he was never approached personally and directly by Satan and offered anything. Uh we have nothing in all of history that's as sinister as what we find here. No one has ever been subjected to this kind of uh concentrated attack. And uh what makes this even more surprising is that it was the Holy Spirit that led Jesus into this uh kind of uh attack. He volunteered Jesus uh for this. He's personally and directly uh behind this and uh uh directed Jesus to meet the enemy uh face to face. And uh this is what we find in uh Matthew chapter four. Let's read uh one down to eleven together. It says, Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he then became hungry, and the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, Command that these stones become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. Then the devil took him into the holy city and had him stand on the pinnacle of the temple and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written. He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, so that you will not strike your foot against the stone. Jesus said to him, On the other hand, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Go, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and began to minister to him. Jesus is presented here as the heavenly and proclaimed king, the one and uh the one of the the first things that uh uh kings did after being declared or proclaimed as as king is that they would often subjugate any competitors to the throne. And uh why why don't we flip back to uh first Kings just to give us an example of that. First Kings uh first Kings uh chapter one if you remember In First Kings, when uh David was approaching death, there was some question over who was going to be king after David was gone. And uh it was promised that Solomon would be the king, but David is nearing the end of his life, and he still hasn't made it official. Uh one of uh his elder sons, uh Adonijah, actually took advantage of his father's silence and uh hesitation and decided that he was going to declare himself king instead of Solomon. And uh he thought he could persuade his Father father to kind of take on this uh this new arrangement since uh the people would have already recognized him as as king at at this point. But when David found out that Adonijah planned to declare himself as king and actually did Look at what he says in 1 Kings chapter 1 and verse 28. It says, then King David said, Call Bathsheba to me. And she came into the king's presence and stood before the king. The king vowed and said, As the Lord lives who has redeemed my life from all distress, surely as I vow to you by the Lord the God of Israel, saying your son Solomon shall be king after me And he shall sit on my throne in my place, I will indeed do so this day. Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground and prostrated herself before the king and said, May my Lord King David live forever. And uh Adonijah found out about this as well as his uh dinner guests because he had you know this whole party that was gathered together uh to proclaim as king. And uh look at what happened uh a little bit later on. Look at uh verse forty-nine. It says, Then all the guests of Adonijah were terrified. And they arose, and each went on his way, and Adonijah was afraid of Solomon, and he arose and went and took hold of the horns of the altar. Now it was told Solomon saying, Behold, Adonai is afraid of King Solomon, for behold he has taken hold of the horns of the altar, saying, Let King Solomon swear to me today that he will not put his servant to death with the sword. The newly proclaimed king was expected to subjugate any competitors to his throne, eliminate the competition. And Satan is a competitor, and Satan is a challenger, and he is a usurper of the throne that belongs to Jesus Christ. Earlier we saw that Herod was a usurper of the throne that belonged to Israel. He wasn't the rightful king of Israel, but he proclaimed himself as the king of Israel. And uh here we see that uh uh Satan has uh actually been put in place as the uh the king of of the the kingdoms of this this world. Uh the throne doesn't legally belong to Satan. But he acts as the king of this world. Uh in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 4, if you remember, he's called the God of this world. The God of this world. Unbelievers are called children of the wicked one. In Matthew chapter 13, verse 38. Until people are rescued, redeemed by Jesus Christ, they're in the domain of darkness, in the kingdom of darkness. And they're transferred into the kingdom of his beloved son in Colossians 1 13. Those that are under the dominion of Satan are also under the uh called to be under the dominion of the prince of the power of the air. These are all titles that are given to Satan. Satan's this competitor. He's set up his kingdom. He's proclaimed as the God of this world. Satan's the challenger to the throne of Jesus. And uh now Jesus is thrust into the wilderness to face his opponent. And uh don't uh underestimate what's going on here. This is uh a cosmic battle that's been brought down And it's important for us to consider the the context of uh this episode in the life of Christ back in uh Matthew chapter four. Just to set the stage for you a little bit. What we find here follows immediately on the baptism of Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 1, verse 12 makes it clear that there was no time gap in between the baptism of Christ and the temptation of Christ. He was thrown out into the wilderness in Mark chapter 1, verse 12 it says, Immediately the Spirit impelled him to go out into the wilderness. The word impelled is literally to be cast out. He's cast out into the wilderness, and uh there's this kind of abruptness to the word itself, and it's made even more forceful by the word immediately. Immediately he was cast out or thrust out into the wilderness. But when we think about what preceded this As I mentioned last week, that there was uh a lot of uh expectation surrounding the arrival of the king. Everybody's looking for this king to appear. Uh the crowds were eagerly anticipating The arrival of the Messiah in Luke chapter 3, verse 15, it says the people were in a state of expectation. John the Baptist was anticipating the arrival of the Messiah. It was prophesied even from uh John the Baptist's birth that he would be a forerunner of this king. Jesus has been living in obscurity for about 30 years. 30 years Jesus has been preparing to be proclaimed as the king. And here you have this baptism, where this is his first public appearance, first public presentation. It was like the king had finally emerged out of hiding to be placed before the people, and it was glorious. We looked at that the heavens were opened. The spirit descended as a dove. The voice thundered from the heavens that this is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. But there was no time for Christ to bask in that heavenly glory. He doesn't even have a chance to dry off from the water of the Jordan before he's thrown out into the wilderness. Cast out. Spirit led him into the wilderness. The spirit who anointed him now immediately gives him his first assignment. He's immediately led out into the wilderness. And uh we'll look at this in three stages. You have the king's examination. Is spirit directed in verses one and two. The king's examination is satanically devised, verses three down to ten, and the king's examination is supernaturally decided in verse eleven. And if you think I won't get to all of that today, you're right. But we'll see how far we can get. Verses 1 and 2. The king's examination is spirit directed. Look at verses 1 and 2 again. Since then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, and after he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he then became hungry. We're not sure how this was communicated to Jesus, but it was clear to him that he was being directed out into the wilderness. And this would have been a harsh environment for Jesus to travel in. The context would seem to indicate that this is the same wilderness that uh John came from, the wilderness of Judea, uh would have been a barren area located just west of the Dead Sea. about uh thirty-five miles long, fifteen miles wide. Uh one writer described it as an area of yellow sand and crumbling limestone. It is an area of contorted strata where the ridges run in all directions as if they were warped and twisted. The hills are like dust heaps, the limestone is blistered and peeling, the rocks are bare and jagged, and often the ground sounds hollow. This isn't the kind of red carpet treatment that you'd expect for one who's just been proclaimed as king. This is a harsh, harsh reception And there's also this absolute isolation that's found here as well. Beyond the harsh environment, Jesus is completely alone. Completely alone out here in the wilderness. He's completely alone. Mark chapter 1, verse 13 brings out this idea of this kind of desolate environment when it says he was with the wild beasts. You know, nobody's out here to keep Jesus company but the wild beast. Jesus goes from the obscurity of this kind of small town, Nazareth to the absolute isolation of the the wilderness. There wasn't going to be one human soul around to comfort them, to encourage him, to support him. Jesus was going to be alone in this fight. This is a fight that he's going to take alone and by himself. There is no army for this king. He would have also had to face this test in a physically weakened condition. Look at what it says again in verse 2. It says, after he had fasted forty days and 40 nights. There's some commentators that try to ease the impact of that. You know, fasting for forty days and forty nights, they say that uh maybe he only fasted from certain foods, or uh maybe he only fasted for certain hours of the day, but the the plain reading of the passage As well as other instances of the word fast in scripture support the idea that this was total abstinence from food. The verse clearly indicates that the absence of food was what's indicated because it says then he became hungry. Why? Because he didn't have anything to eat. It's not like he's looking for a snack in between meals. He's he's had nothing. And I've heard people say, you know, I'm gonna go on a fast from junk food or you know, fast from TV or the internet or Facebook or my cell phone going to go on a fast from my my Facebook. If you want to refrain from junk food or TV or your Facebook, you know, that's great. But call it what it is. It's self-control. It's not a fast. It's not a fast. It's not a biblical fast. It's practicing self-control, but when you find uh the word fast in scripture, it's talking about abstaining from food, from all food. And that's simply what the word means. And uh we're gonna have a lot more to say specifically about fasting when we get to Matthew chapter six, uh, where Jesus deals with that. But uh let me just say here that this is not a fast that's expected for all believers. Now this is a specific fast. This is abnormal. This is a special kind of fast that Jesus only did and he only did it once. It's not like it's even the normal occurrence of in the life of Jesus. And uh we only have a 40-day fast mentioned three times in all of Scripture. Three times. Uh you have uh the first uh occurrence was when Moses received the law on the top of Mount Sinai in Exodus chapter 34 verse 28. It says, So he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights. He did not eat bread or drink water, and he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments. So uh you have Moses on the top of Mount Sinai, and he supernaturally sustained uh by God and his power and it was visibly evident when he came down from the mountain because his face lit up. You know, people couldn't even look at his face. Uh the second is uh with Elijah, you have Elijah who's He's fleeing from Jezebel, fleeing from Mount Carmel, and he's going to Mount Horeb to meet with God. He's preparing himself to go and meet with God in 1 Kings 19, 7-8, it says the angel of the Lord came again a second time. Touched them and said, Arise, eat because the journey is too great for you. So he arose, ate, and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mountain of God. Second time we have a forty-day fast. And the third time is what Jesus did. A 40-day spirit-compelled, divinely revealed period of examination. So this is not a normal fast and it's not something that we should look to say uh should be normal in the life of a of a believer. Uh this was uh like I said again it's a harsh environment. He's socially isolated, he's physically weak, and the enemy that he's about to face is the most extreme opponent. The instrument for this divine examination is Satan himself. Satan himself. Jesus was led up in the Spirit, led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Uh he's called the devil in verse one, diablas, which uh means slanderer or a malicious gossip from the word that we get our our English word devil from. Diablas uh translates into uh to devil in the English He's called the tempter in verse 3. Uh uh Peyrazan, uh one who entices to evil And then in verse 10, he's called Satan, Satana, which means the adversary. He is the sworn enemy of God, who opposes God and opposes the people of God. And there's a striking parallel in the Greek as well as in the English that's found in verse 1. Look at this. It says Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. By the Spirit, by the devil. Does that strike anybody else as strange? He's led up by the Spirit to be tempted by the devil. It's almost as as if the Holy Spirit and Satan are working on the same team. What's going on here? Why would the Holy Spirit set this up? Why would he deliver Jesus into the hands of Satan to be tempted? How could the Holy Spirit be behind all of this? And uh it's clearly what the text indicates that the Son, this beloved Son. This beloved son, in whom the father was well pleased, is purposefully being led into the wilderness to be tempted. The word 2 in verse 1 is used to indicate purpose. This leads us to our next point, that the king's examination is satanically devised. satanically devised. And we could really be disturbed by this, you know, troubled over this discovering if we don't also keep in mind that God and Satan have two different purposes in mind for what Jesus faces. Two different purposes. Same trial, two different purposes. God and Satan have two purposes in mind. The word tempted that we find in verse 1, the Greek word uh peyrazo, uh it's used for both testing and temptation. Testing and temptation. Flip over to James chapter 1. James chapter 1. You find a use of this word over here in a familiar passage. James chapter 1, I'll start at verse 12. It says, Blessed is the man who perseveres under trial, for once he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to those who love him. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone God does not tempt anyone. Uses the Greek word peyrazo. Flip over to Hebrews. Hebrews. Next book over. Hebrews chapter 11. One book back. Hebrews chapter 11. Look at verse 17. Says by faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son. Here it uses Abraham, talks about this illustration of Abraham. It says when he was tested, when was he tested? This is after God told him to offer his son up as a sacrifice. Use the same word. God tested Abraham. Using the same word. Peyrazo. Flip over to Matthew chapter 22. Matthew chapter 22. You have Jesus rebuking the Pharisees for testing him. Look at uh Matthew chapter 22 and verse 17. Actually I'll read 17 and 18. You have the uh that's all started with verse 15. Why not? Verse 15. Then the Pharisees went and plotted together how they might trap him and what he said. They sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are truthful and teach the way of God and truth and defer to no one, for you are not partial to any. Tell us then, what do you think? Is it lawful to give a poll tax to Caesar or not? But Jesus perceived their malice and he says, Why are you testing me, you hypocrites? Don't test me, you hypocrites. But then later on in John chapter 6, and you don't have to turn here. You can if you want. John chapter 6. Look at verses 5 and 6. You have Jesus This instance where the uh the multitudes were gathered together to Jesus in verses five and six says, Therefore Jesus lifting up his eyes and seeing that a large crowd was coming to him, said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these may eat? This he was saying to test him. Uses the same word, Ferrazo. This is what he was saying to test him, for he himself knew what he was intending to do. What's the difference? The same word. But it's used in two different ways. The word peirazo means to try, to put to the test, to discover what kind of person someone is, but God's desire is always to see that person succeed. Satan's desire is always to see that person fail. God is always encouraging the person to obedience. Satan always encourages the person towards Disobedience. Same word, two different intents, same set of circumstances can be used for both. Let me give you an example. In the Garden of Eden, God placed The tree in the middle of the garden. This is God's design, right? Tree in the middle of the garden. Good and evil, right? God's the one that created the tree. He's the one that stuck it in the middle of the garden. It 's God's design, but God's desire was that Adam and Eve succeed, and he says, Don't eat, do not eat of this tree. Satan's desire was to see him fail. He says, Has God really said you can't eat of everything here? Same tree. Two different intents. God said don't. Satan says do. It would have been a test from God. It was a temptation from Satan. Trial of Job God granted Satan permission to touch everything Job had. Any way you slice that, if you read through the the book of Job, any way you slice it, Job's calamity is ordained by God. You can't get around that Job's calamity is ordained by God. In Job chapter 1 and 11 and 2 verse 5, it says his affliction was actually from the hand of God. Job chapter 1, 11 says, But put forth, this is Satan talking to God, but put forth your hand now and touch all that he has. He will surely curse you to your face. Job chapter 2 verse 5. However, put forth your hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse you to your face. God's desire was to see Job succeed. Satan's desire was to see Job fail. And here we have in the temptation of Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit leads him out into the wilderness. Holy Spirit's desire is to see Christ succeed and triumph. And it was Satan's desire to see Jesus fail this test. And we need to keep that in mind because uh God and Satan have two different purposes in uh what they do, and isn't that what uh Joseph learned in Egypt. Remember that? Genesis chapter 50, verse 20. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good. Same set of circumstances. You meant it for evil, God meant the same set of circumstances for good, and that's why we can count it all joy when we fall into various trials, right? James chapter 1. It says uh verse 2, James chapter 1. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect results, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Sometimes we can get discouraged by a situation that we've been placed in, and uh we can believe that Satan's just having his way with me. Satan is just having his way. And the honest truth is he might be. He might be. But that doesn't mean that God is not in sovereign control over it and that God does not intend good by your circumstances. And uh in addition to that, there's uh no reason to doubt God's love in the midst of your trial. Uh listen to this, God Designated Christ as the beloved Son. Called him the Beloved Son right before he sent him out into the wilderness. This is the beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. And immediately He's cast out into the wilderness. God supernaturally affirmed his love for the Son immediately before sending him out, and there's no contradiction in the two. No contradiction in the two. The wilderness was not God revoking his love for the sun. It was God revealing his love for the sun. But The love for the Son is exactly what Satan was trying to get Jesus to disbelieve, and it's the same trick that he pulled on Eve. You know, has God said to you, you can't eat of all the trees? Oh, you think that's love, really? I think God's holding back on you. I think God's holding back. Same idea that he's uh about to try to pull on Jesus. Has God really told you that you're his beloved son? Seriously? This doesn't look like love to me. Aren't you tired of being the submissive one? I think the father's holding out on you. Father's holding out. And it's the same tactic that he'll use on you as well. Do you really believe that you're blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ? Really believe you have this great position in Christ? It doesn't look like a blessed situation to me. Why does it seem like everybody else gets what they want? I think God's holding out on you. Same kind of temptation. In uh 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 11 it says that we shouldn't let Satan take advantage of us because we're not ignorant of his schemes. We're not ignorant of his devices. And uh there's three ways that Satan Attempts to get Jesus to doubt his father's love for him. I try to get him to doubt the provision of the Father, the protection of the Father, and the promotion of the Father. Let's take a look at the first one. He tries to get Jesus to doubt the provision of the Father. Look at verses uh three and four. It says, Then the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God N now now remember again he's he's just been out here for forty days, right? Forty days and nights in the the wilderness. To survive forty days without food, that's remarkable in and of itself, okay? In a nineteen ninety-seven article in the British Medical journal, a senior medical examiner, uh cites this well-documented study reporting the survival of hunger strikes for uh 28 days, 36 days, 38 days, and 40 days It says uh most other reports of long-term survival of total starvation, however, have been poorly substantiated. That means uh they don't have a lot of documentation for fast over forty days. They don't have a lot of documentation for that. And uh that's just to say there's not a lot of cases of uh survival after forty days. To survive a forty day fast alone would be remarkable, but to do that kind of fast in the arid bleak wilderness That's uh incredible. And uh just like any other human being, uh Jesus hungered afterwards. And if we assume the normal processes of the body occurred, he would have experienced a loss of fat and muscle mass. Other tissues would have been lost and broken down for energy. His body would have been weakened and fatigued. His muscles might have been in pain and his skin possibly dry and cracked. And even focusing mentally would have been difficult in a situation like this. And it's at this time that Satan arrives with his assault. If you are the Son of God, This is what's called a first class condition in the Greek, meaning let's just assume for the sake of argument that you are the son of God. Let's just assume that that's true. If you are the son of God, what are you doing out here hungry? After 40 days. Isn't this long enough? I mean, surely God won't mind you making bread out of a couple stones if you're the son of God The beloved one? It would seem reasonable that if uh the children of Israel could be provided for miraculously, why not the Son of God? You're about to die out here from starvation. Who's going to miss the couple of rocks anyway? Who's going to miss a couple of rocks? They even look like bread. Look at them. What's the big deal? Provide for yourself This is uh what Satan's attack was, and here was Satan's attempt to get Jesus to doubt the Father's provision for him. He tried to convince him that the father could not be trusted to provide. And uh that hunger was unworthy of Jesus as the Son of God. Unnecessary for him as the Son of God. And it all might have seemed really reasonable. I mean it seems like a small thing, doesn't it? Just a little bit of food. After all, he's hungry, but uh this temptation went way deeper than just feeding himself. Way deeper than that Because what Satan was trying to get Jesus to do was to act independently of the Trinity. Act independently of the Trinity. Instead of working in perfect harmony with the Father and the Spirit. Satan wanted Jesus just this once. Justice once. Act independently. Do it on your own. Exercise your own independent will apart from the other persons of the Godhead. This would have been absolute treachery if Jesus succumbed to this. Instead of Jesus being able to say, my food is to do the will of him who sent me. Instead of Jesus being able to say, For I've come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Instead of Jesus being able to say, He who sent me is with me. He is not Left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. Instead of Jesus being able to say, Yet not as I will, but as you will, Jesus would have acted on his own will. He would have done what pleased himself. He would have ignored the will of the one who sent him, and his food would not be to do the will of the Father, but to be to feed himself. What he could do to produce to feed himself. And if you remember the whole human race was catapulted into this mess that we're living in over fruit. Fruit It was that serious. That serious. Like Esau who gave up the promise for just the immediate gratification. Gave up the promises. Satan became the God of this world over a piece of fruit. Can you imagine that? This would be no small concession to the devil. This would be a total victory for the devil. And he's seeking to isolate the Son of God from the Father and incite rebellion within the Trinity, if you can imagine such a thing. Incite rebellion within the Trinity, just as uh Eve was approached while she was alone. Separated from Adam, he approaches the single member of the Trinity. Just let me get the second person by himself Let me get the second person by himself. And he tries to get Jesus to act independently of the other members. And in John 5. 30 Jesus said this. He says, I can do nothing on my own initiative, as I hear I judge, my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will but the will of him who sent me And Satan is trying to get Jesus to say, why? Why won't you act on your own initiative? Why won't you do something on your own? Aren't you tired of playing the submissive role? Aren't you tired of being number two? Why not go for number one? Why not do it for yourself? This is the same thing that got Satan throwing out of heaven, isn't it? I'm tired of playing second fiddle to the Trinity. Why should they get all the credit? Why should they get all the glory? I want some of that for myself Now he's trying to get the Son of God to do the same thing. Why do you have to be number two? Why not be number one? Why not feed yourself? Provide for yourself, act independently of the Trinity. Why don't you do something just for you? And uh if you remember, I mean, and we're gonna get to this, but there are all all kinds of miracles that Jesus is gonna do. All kinds of miracles. It's gonna heal the sick, raise the dead, feed the multitudes. We're about to jump into all kinds of miracles in a few weeks. But of all those miracles, guess how many were done for Jesus Christ? None of them. He didn't do miracles for himself. And Satan in this instance is not so much about doubting that he's the son of God, as much as he's questioning, you know, what's what's it really profited you by being the son of God? What what have you really gotten out of that deal? You're declared the son of God and your bigger reward is to be out here in the wilderness starving half to death? That's your reward for being this beloved son? How's that working out for you? You voluntarily laid aside your rights for this? Take your rights back, provide for yourself. But how does Jesus respond? Listen to this. It is written. I love this. I love this. It is written. Because Jesus doesn't have to quote Scripture Whatever he said would have been scripture, just because he said it. But what Jesus does is he defeats Satan as the Son of Man. He could have used his divine prerogative to banish Satan. But instead, he uses the very same resources that we have at our disposal. The very same thing. He uses the word of God. He didn't have to he didn't have time here to Google a verse. He had to know it. This is just part of who he was. He had to pull one pull this one out of the memory banks. And he knew what David knew, right? In Psalm 119, verse 11, Your word I have treasured in my heart that I might not what? But I might not sin against you. I've got to treasure this thing in my heart. And we have modeled here for us this wonderful example of how to meet the enemy with the most powerful weapon you own. The most powerful weapon you own is the the scriptures. Human reasoning, psychology, man-made gimmicks have no power in this arena. No power at all. Jesus picks up the sword of the Spirit, which is the the Word of God, and he quotes from Deuteronomy eight, verse three. Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. And uh why don't we turn back here, uh back to Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter eight. The book of Deuteronomy records Moses ' final words. It was written just prior to Israel's entrance into the Promised Land. So children at this time they're camped uh on the plains of Moab according to Numbers 36. And uh they had spent just forty years wandering in the wilderness. They had just spent those forty years. Wandering in the the wilderness and uh by the way, all the passages that Jesus is going to quote come from the book of Deuteronomy, and uh they all have the the wandering in the wilderness as the the backdrop uh to it and uh the context uh that Jesus is speaking from it's it's really purposeful. This is this is purposeful that he takes all of his uh uh all of his attacks from uh the book of of Deuteronomy because what Jesus is doing is he's making a connection between his experience And Israel's experience. So while it's true that Jesus is the new Adam, and where Adam failed, Jesus succeeded, there's this connection that's made between the the temptation of uh Israel and the temptation of uh Jesus Christ. Jesus is pictured as the the new Israel. Israel was called God's son In uh Exodus chapter 4, uh verse 22, it's called Israel's called God's firstborn, but here uh Jesus is the reality of that firstborn son. Israel is just a picture. of it, an an adequate picture of it. And uh what God's doing here is he's placing Jesus in the same testing ground as he placed his son Israel The 40 days in the in the the uh the wilderness was to represent the 40 years that Israel spent wandering in the wilderness. And just like Israel was allowed to go hungry in the wilderness. Jesus is now allowed to suffer hunger in the wilderness. Look at Deuteronomy chapter 8. Starting at first one. So it's all the commandments that I am commanding you today, you shall be careful to do that you may live and multiply and go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to give to your forefathers. You shall remember all the way which the Lord your God has led you in the wilderness these forty years, that he might humble you, testing you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not He humbles you and let you be what? He let you be hungry. Let you be hungry. And fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you understand that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of the Lord. Listen to this. Even though Israel was God's son, God let Israel go hungry on purpose. Purpose! That's what verse 3, he lets you be hungry. Why? That he might make you understand that man does not live by bread alone. God withheld food from Israel to teach them how to be dependent on him. It's purposeful. I'll let you be hungry on purpose. These 40 years I've been testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep my commandments or not. It's purposeful. I'm going to let you go hungry on purpose. Israel couldn't get food any other way, and that's exactly how God wanted it. They were forced to depend on God for their life and for their provision. The Israelites didn't have the option of turning rocks into bread. They couldn't do that. And if Jesus was going to succeed in this temptation, he couldn't take the easy way out and make bread for himself. He would have to wait on the Lord just like the Israelites had to wait on the Lord. He had to trust God and that even more necessary than his physical life And sustaining his physical life was uh trusting in the Lord. And the lesson that the Israelites had to learn was that bread didn't keep them alive. God did. That's what the Israelites had to learn. Bread doesn't keep you alive. God does. God does. And that's the same lesson that Christ experienced as well. The lie that Satan offers us. is that there's something that you need, something that we need outside of the will of God for your life. That's the lie that Satan tries to give you There's something that you need outside of the will of God that's necessary for your life. And if you don't get it, that's evidence of God's lack of care for you. That's evidence of God's lack of love for you. And how many times are we tempted in the same way? Deceived into believing that there's something essential to our lives outside of God's will that God's not delivering for us. And we'll we'll stop here, but uh what is it that you think you can't live without? Think about that. What is it that you think you can't live without? How has Satan tempted you to think that there is something essential to your life outside of the will of God? Maybe it's a certain type of job. Maybe it's security. Maybe it's health. Maybe it's a relationship. Maybe it's sex Maybe it's sleep. Maybe it's a certain kind of food. Maybe it's some other kind of comfort. Maybe it's stability in life. You think that I can't live without this? Fill in the blank. We have all kinds of appetites in this life. But uh Russell Moore states this. He says to lose control of your appetites is to lose sight of the gospel itself. The truth that God knows what you need to survive. God knows what you need. And I'm not sure what that might be in your life, but you need to be reminded that none of those things sustain your life. It's God that sustains your life. Too often we think that uh you know I need to be married by this age. I need to get a job by this date. I need to get a new place by this month. But God wants us to focus our attention on his will. What does Jesus say? I'll just read this in close in Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6 Verse 31. It says, Do not worry then, saying, what will we eat? Or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but do what? Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. You know what God is saying, I know what you need. I know what you need. I'm the one that sustains your life. You don't need anything outside of doing my will. Seek first my kingdom. Seek first my righteousness, and I'll worry about the rest. That's where we are. That's where we should be. And uh here we have our king. After the first onslaught by the enemy, he deals his first blow, and the king is triumphant. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we I thank you God so much for this opportunity that we have to look at our triumphant king As he entered into the arena with the adversary of our souls, and he taught us, he taught us how to be victorious. He taught us how to pick up our Bibles, how to use our Bibles against the lies of Satan, that we could combat it with the truth. Father, I pray that you would make us very familiar with the sword of the Spirit, that we'd be able to pick it up. And defend ourselves against the same lies that the enemy tries to give us today. Father, I pray that you would teach us That we're not dependent on the things outside of us. We're not dependent on our circumstances for our life. That we're dependent on you. Help us to trust you. Help us to trust your care for us. Your love for us and our relationship and position inside Jesus Christ. May you be honored and glorified. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.