The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. We'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. And it's a pleasure to welcome uh Kyle Denham to our pulpit this morning. Let's uh warmly welcome him to uh Baltimore Bible Church Thanks. All right. Well, thank you for that warm welcome. I uh have felt welcome already, and so I'm very privileged and grateful to be with you this morning, and I look forward to our time together in the Word. If you have uh your scriptures with you, please turn to Psalm one. Psalm one and we'll be looking together at the first Psalm in the book of Psalms. As Pastor George mentioned, one of my passions is the Old Testament. And uh furthermore, getting God's people to have a love and a familiarity with the Old Testament and its richness and its theological diversity and its uh trajectory toward the Messiah Jesus Christ. And so we want to with enthusiasm approach the Old Testament this morning and look at the book of Psalms. So follow along, please. I'll read through the psalm, and then we will study it together. A psalmist says this: Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. Nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked shall perish. In the aftermath of World War II, uh the world changed fairly dramatically in many areas of the world. And one area in particular where much of the war had been raged was Southeast Asia, the Pacific Theater, and particularly the nation of China. China fell under communism soon after World War II, and there were many missionaries that had come to China and were serving there that as a result of that were forced to leave the country. There were two missionaries, however, who for various reasons stayed longer than others. In fact, they were eventually the last ones to leave, and their name was Arthur and Wilda Matthews. And they stayed for several years in China under great hardship and difficulty. For example, the government cut off all of their funding except for a small trickle of funds. The only heat that they had for their house was one little stove that they would boil once a day for the rice that they would have for dinner. In fact, they were so poor that in order to fuel the fire, uh the the father Arthur had to go through the streets to collect animal refuse in order to burn for fuel for their family. Their daughter was with them and they lived in a one-room small apartment until finally they were able to leave the country. They couldn't contact their Christian friends for fear of government reprisal, and so they were forced to uh together live on what the Lord provided. When they eventually made it out of the country, they wrote a book about their experiences, and it's interesting that they decided to title the book this Green Leaf in Drought Time. Green leaf and drought time. In other words, their testimony was that was a productive, flourishing time in our lives. From the world's standpoint, they would have had every right to question what is God doing? Why are we suffering this way? Why are we being afflicted? We're here serving the Lord in China. But instead, they realized that the source of inner vitality, the source of spiritual life, was to dwell on, to relish God's word and God's presence as mediated through his word. They understood that the true flourishing, the springtime blossoming of a believer is through the presence of God as mediated through the Word of God. So when Pastor George says that you seek here to be a word -centered ministry, that resonates because that is our source of vitality. That's our source of spiritual life. And so as we look this morning at Psalm 1, I trust that it's an encouragement to us that we too would be green leaves in times of drought. When the world around us is experiencing a famine of hearing the word of the Lord, when the world around us is dry spiritually, there's no life there, it's a desert. We want to flourish by rejoicing and focusing our attention on the Word of God. And the psalmist brings this out here in Psalm 1 in a very beautiful way. And so we want to work through the psalm this morning and see how the psalmist presents God's word as the focal point, the source of nutrition and vitality for the believer. But before we do that, I want to take just a moment to zoom out and understand a little bit about the book of Psalms before we dive in. The book of Psalms might seem to be a bit of a mystery to you. After all, if we were to pick up a hymnal that was 2,000 years old. and read it, we might think this is a strange thing to do. Isn't this really the hymn book of ancient Israel? Aren't we separated by millennia from that time period? What does the Psalms have to teach us as modern day believers. But I think we would miss the rich heritage of the Old Testament if we failed to do that. In fact it's interesting that The one book that the New Testament authors most frequently quote from is in fact the Psalter, the Book of Psalms. So for the early church, the book of Psalms was a rich repository of nourishment, of spiritual vitality. And they saw it not just as a collection of different songs that ancient Israel would sing, but they really understood that the psalms tell us a story that leads ultimately to the Messiah. In fact, many studies of the Psalms recently within the last few decades have begun to look at the structure of the book. in order to gain clues for what's it what it's about. In fact, uh you may not readily notice this as if you've read through the Psalms before, but if you look in your Bible at uh the beginning of Psalm 1, most of you will have something that says uh book 1 at the heading. Now maybe you've uh realized this as you've read through, but the book of Psalms is actually divided into five smaller books. And those books together cumulatively tell a story that points in the direction of Christ And in fact, this is a teaser. If you're able to stay for the second hour, we'll go into more detail about how that is the case, how the Psalms point toward the Lord Jesus Christ and tell us a story about Israel's worship. But what's interesting is if this is Book 1 of the Psalter, of the five books of the Psalter, then Psalm 1 has a very important place because it's an introduction to the book of Psalms. So if Psalm 1 is an introduction to Psalms, then perhaps it sets a note for us that will sound through the rest of the Psalter. And in fact, I want to develop that thought this morning that Psalm 1 is in fact an introduction to the book of Psalms, and it sets a trajectory. So as we read Psalm 1 and we learn about how the righteous, wise person meditates on the law, we see that this is a trajectory throughout the rest of the book of Psalms. The one who meditates on God's word is the one who is spiritually alive. But more than that, what's also interesting is if you look at Psalm 1, You'll notice in most of your versions there's a heading, book one, but there's no superscription. You know what I mean by when I say superscription, many psalms have in italics or in small print a heading at the top of the Psalm that describes something of the historical background. For instance, if you look down at Psalm three, you'll notice it says there a Psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. We don't have that, however, for Psalm 1. There's no superscription there, and in Psalm 2, there's no superscription either. So what does this tell us? Psalms 1 and 2 were thought of in ancient tradition really as one psalm that introduced the book of Psalms. Why this is important is if we understand what Psalms 1 and 2 are telling us about who is the type of reader who should come to the book of Psalms. It helps us as modern-day readers who are 2,000 years removed when we come to the book of Psalms. What should we see here in the book? What is Scripture telling us in the book of Psalms? In fact, there's some very interesting things to point out that Make this connection. For instance, if you look at how Psalm 1 begins, it says, Blessed is the man. If you look at the end of Psalm 2, how does it end? Blessed are all who take refuge in him. The blessing is at the beginning and at the end. In verse 2, in Psalm 1, it says, In his law he meditates day and night. That same word is used in Psalm 2. 1 when it says the peoples plot in vain. Literally it's they meditate, they mutter in vain. In fact, there are at least seven connections which seem to put these two psalms together. There's a contrast between the way of the righteous and the way of the wicked. The word perish is used in both. both lack a superscription. And as I said, both in ancient Jewish tradition and in Christian tradition they were seen cumulatively as one psalm. In fact, this is what the rabbis used to say about Psalm 1 and 2. One rabbi said, every chapter that was particularly dear to David, he began with happy or blessed, and ended with happy or blessed. He began with happy, as he says, how happy is the man, and he ends with happy, as he says, how happy are all those who take refuge in him. So they saw Psalm 1 and Psalm 2 together as one Psalm. Ancient Christian tradition also saw them together as one psalm. In fact The writer Luke in the book of Acts 13 makes reference to a quotation from Psalm 2. In many of the earliest manuscripts, he calls it the first Psalm. So it seems that there was a tradition that put Psalms 1 and 2 together. If we were to read ancient medieval manuscripts, most manuscripts of the Psalter would put Psalm 1 in red ink as a as an introduction to the Psalter. So throughout history in Christian tradition and Jewish tradition, it's been recognized as an introduction to the Psalms. So if that's the case, we we ought to pay attention to what Psalm 1 is saying, because if if the rest of the book of Psalms really is interpreted in light of Psalm 1, then Psalm 1 is a key introduction. If we're picking up a book and we just Skip the first chapter and expect to understand what's going on. Or if we tune in late to a movie and we miss the first half hour, we're going to miss a lot if we Continue with it. So we want to pay careful attention. What is Psalm 1 and Psalm 2 telling us? What type of psalm is Psalm 1? Well you'll notice it begins here with this idea of blessing. Blessed is the man. This psalm is best recognized to be what is called a wisdom Psalm, a wisdom psalm. I particularly appreciate the song we sang this morning. We choose the fear of the Lord. Wisdom is rooted in the fear of the Lord. So Psalm 1 is a wisdom psalm. It points to how can the righteous person live a way that is pleasing to God and achieves a successful outcome? When we think of wisdom we probably most often immediately go to the book of Proverbs. We know throughout Proverbs that we have these sayings and these uh wisdom nuggets that help us to choose the right path. We have an emphasis on the two paths, the path of righteousness and the path that leads to destruction, the path of folly. And so if this is a wisdom psalm, and if it's to be seen with Psalm 2 as the introduction to the Psalter , Then this tells us a very important thing. Number one, the book of Psalms is seen as a book that has wisdom. We often approach Psalms And we appreciate the the different theological richness of it. We appreciate the fact that these are songs that the people of Israel would sing, but we also have to think that A lot of wisdom is incorporated in the book of Psalms. It's a source of wisdom for us. And not only that, but it was a source of wisdom primarily directed toward the Davidic king. And this is really clear in Psalm 2. Psalm 2 talks about the Davidic King. In verse 7, it says, The Lord said to me, You are my son, today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. This was directed to the Davidic king, the king who was coming in the line of David, who was going to lead Israel and be the mediator between God and his people. In fact, a scripture passage that really helps us understand what the role of the king was is back in Deuteronomy. If you turn with me to the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 17. In Deuteronomy 17, the king was given instructions when they came into the land of how he was to conduct himself with reference to the law of God. So in Deuteronomy 17, 14, Moses says this When you come to the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it, and then say, I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me You may indeed set a king over you whom the Lord will choose. One from among your brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you who is not your brother. Only he must not acquire many horses for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses, since the Lord has said to you, You shall never return that way again. And here's uh the key parts. Uh verse 18, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law approved by the Levitical priests. And it shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them. So if we turn back to Psalm 1, understanding that Psalm 1 is about the man who meditates on the law, the man whose mind is filled with the law, and Psalm 2 tells us that this man is also Uh the Davidic king who's installed by the Lord in Zion. We begin to understand that as an introduction to the Psalms Psalms wanted to tell us about this righteous person who lives out God's law and who is a king. Who would this be? Who is the psalmist talking about in Psalm 1 and 2? This king who meditates on the law, this king who is installed by God in Zion. Who could it possibly be? Would it be David? He meditated on the law, but he fell short. He fell into sin. He uh committed immorality. Could it be Solomon? Solomon was a very wise man. In fact, we're told he was the wisest Of the men of his day. He asked the Lord for wisdom and he was given great wisdom. But what do we know about the end of Solomon's life? He too followed his wives into idolatry. Could it be Hezekiah? Maybe he was wise. Hezekiah was one of the ones who collected much of the book of Proverbs, his scribes. Well, we know also that Hezekiah toward the end of his life did a very foolish thing. He allowed the kings and the representatives of Babylon to come in and to see the treasure houses of of Israel, of Judah. And so we know he showed a lot of foolishness and folly toward the end of his life. So who could it be? Let me suggest that it's pointing toward Jesus Christ. Psalm one and two point toward the righteous Davidic king who meditates on the law who lives out the law fully and obediently, and who brings all the nations to submission to his lordship. So if that is the trajectory of the Psalm, and we'll develop this as we go forward, we read this humbly and submissively on our knees. Because we read it knowing that ultimately we're being pointed toward the greater one who's coming from David's perspective, the Messiah. But we also know that we as the followers of that Messiah, as Christians, we too are to read and meditate on the law. We too are to have Scripture filling our minds and our hearts. We too are to be green leaves in time of drought. So I hope that as we work through the text this morning, it will encourage us to see not only this foreshadowing of Jesus Christ, but also the fact that we too are to meditate and to live in the Word of God. So Psalm 1 is really divided into three sections, three sections that are each two verses We see first the blessing and conduct of the righteous, wise person. What does the wise and righteous person do? Verses 1 and 2 will tell us. Then we'll see the stability of the righteous and the transience of the wicked. The righteous are stable. They are planted. They take root. They prosper and flourish in the ways of the Lord. But the wicked, as we'll see, are pictured as as chaff that the wind blows away. And thirdly, we'll see the outcome of the righteous and the wicked. In verses 5 and 6, the outcome of the wicked and the righteous as they go their separate ways and follow these different paths. So let's begin here in verse 1, looking at the blessing and conduct of the righteous, wise person. The blessing and conduct of the righteous wise person. The psalmist begins here, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat or the assembly of scoffers. He begins here with this blessing formula, how blessed. We could translate it this way: how happy, how fortunate is the man? Who does this? So he begins here with a word of blessing. And this word blessing really comes from the context of wisdom in the Old Testament. So, for example, the book of Proverbs mentions this blessing many times. In Proverbs 3. 13, blessed is the one who finds wisdom, the one who gets understanding. Throughout the book of Proverbs, we see this figure of Lady Wisdom appearing. And Lady Wisdom cries out in the streets in chapter 8. She's calling to the simple ones, come in and get the blessing of knowing my instruction. She says this in Proverbs 8:32 to 35. My sons, listen to me. Blessed are those who keep my ways. Hear instruction and be wise and do not neglect it. Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors. For whoever finds me finds life. And obtains favor from the Lord. So here the psalmist begins by this meditation of blessing. How blessed is the man. We might expect him then to immediately go into what this blessed man does. But it's interesting, he first begins by contrasting what the blessed man does not do. The blessed man does not walk, stand, or sit. So let's talk about this. What does the psalmist mean by this? Now, if you're like me, you've maybe heard a sermon or a lesson on this in the past. And you've heard it said that here we have a progression. It begins by uh walking in a certain way, and then they stand, and then finally they're seated, and they're fully absorbing the wickedness of those around them. Well, I want to suggest that that may be part of what's going on, but I think there's more than that I think the psalmist here is not only saying that there is a progression, but he's saying everything about that person's life is not characterized by an orientation toward the wicked. In other words, whether that person is walking, standing, or sitting, that person is not intimately acquainted with the way of the wicked In other words, his whole focus or direction is away from that and towards something else. So he begins here by contrasting what he is not. And I think he's picking up here on the imagery of Deuteronomy 6. If you're familiar with Deuteronomy 6, when the law was given, Moses gave specific instructions to how Fathers and mothers were to teach the law to their children. And in Deuteronomy 6, 6 and 7, it says this: These words that I command you today shall be on your heart. Okay, that how does it get on your heart? Well, you have to learn it, you have to memorize it, you have to master it. It'll be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. And shall talk of them. Listen, when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, and when you lie down and when you rise. In other words, in every situation you find yourself in a domestic setting in the family You're mastering and being mastered by the Word of God. And I think the psalmist is drawing on that imagery to say The true blessed person is the one who is absorbed with God's word. He's not standing and sitting and walking with the wicked. He's not listening to the advice of those who hate God. His mind, her mind is focused on the word of God. dominated by scripture. It's the decisive, pervasive influence in his or her life. It doesn't come from cable television. Or from the movies, or from the music of the world, it's dominated by God's word But what's interesting is not only does he give us a contrast, he describes three categories, if you will, of evildoers. What are these categories? He says, the wicked, sinners, and scoffers. Well what does he mean by these? Are these simply synonyms or is there something more being communicated? Which suggests that again these are pervasive words that talk about people at different stages or in different categories of rebellion. against God. And so he begins here with the wicked, those who are wicked. And if we look through a a word study of this term Throughout the Old Testament, we would see that this most often describes someone who uh fails to follow the law. In other words, they're committing infractions, they disobey the law. It may be inadvertent or it may be more premeditated, but they are lawbreakers. When we come to the wick to the sinners, the second category This seems to be an even stronger term, and it denotes those who willfully transgress the law, those who know to do better and still choose to sin. In fact, this word is used frequently to describe the first generation of those who came out of Egypt. That first generation who wandered for forty years in the wilderness. And in Numbers 32, they are described as sinners using the same term. And the Lord there describes his punishment of them because they willfully rebelled against the Lord. They failed to believe. It is characterized as a high-handed sin. And then the psalmist uses the term scoffer. What is a scoffer? A scoffer, this is another wisdom term, and it's those who have gone really past the stage of just breaking the law. even past the stage of willfully breaking the law, they not only willfully break the law, they cast scorn on anyone who does obey the law. They're not only those who break the law and do it on purpose, they mock anyone who would follow the true God, anyone who would seek to do the Lord's will. Isaiah 29, 20 says, The ruthless shall come to nothing and the scoffer cease. All who watch to do evil shall be cut off. Romans 1 talks about these types of people, those who suppress the truth in unrighteousness, who not only do these things, but what do they do? They take pleasure in those who do such things. We live in an age that is full of the wicked sinners and scoffers Those who have nothing but scorn and utter disdain for the true God The blessed person is the one who's not sitting under the counsel of these types of people. The Blessed One is not finding the meaning of life, the value of who they are, the way of how to structure and orient their life. It's not coming from those who hate God. So what are they? If they're not doing this, then what are they doing? Verse 2 gives us the contrast. But his delight is in what? The law of the Lord. Now this term law is an interesting one. It can mean simply instruction. It can mean instruction that a priest would give. As the people of Israel came to the temple or to the tabernacle, the priest would instruct them in the Word of God. But it can also mean the law in the sense that we think of in the law of the Old Testament. We think of it in the first five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch, we called it. What's interesting, I think, is the book of Psalms, as I mentioned earlier, has five miniature books within it So it's interesting that really the first psalm here in verse 2 is making reference to the law, which is codified in those five books at the beginning of the Old Testament. And the book of Psalms also has five books within it. And I think perhaps there's an immediate allusion there. But the point is this: the law was the theological center for ancient Israel. We know this, for instance, uh Psalm 19 is one of those psalms that's strategically placed in the Psalter and it describes the law. Psalm 19, beginning at verse 7, the law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. And then he gives other synonyms for the law. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. We spent some time last night if you're able to be there looking at Hebrew poetry and we understand this is a progression where in each line the author there is Amplifying what the law is. It's a testimony, it's precepts, it's commandments, it's fear, it's the rules of the Lord. And all these things cause those who dwell upon it to be blessed. So in Psalm 1, verse 2, the blessed, righteous, wise person is not following the counsel of those who hate God in his ways. Rather, he is delighting in God's word. His delight is in the law of the Lord. It's in Scripture. And secondly, on his law, what does he do? He meditates day and night. Now, I think unfortunately the word meditation for us in the West has been hijacked to an extent. When we think of meditation, we probably think of someone who's sitting on a yoga mat, perhaps, practicing some sort of transcendental thought experiment. But that's not what the Hebrew term for meditate means. I remember when I was younger, I used to take karate lessons, and we would sit, and our instructor would tell us to empty our minds and to meditate. And I was always baffled by that because I thought to myself, if I empty my mind, what am I supposed to think about? Usually it was about dinner. Well that's not what the Hebrew word means. It means here it has the idea of always something that is vocalized. The word meditation is not just an intellectual mental word. It literally means to murmur, to groan, or to utter. We know in the New Testament, the Book of Romans tells us that the Spirit helps us really with words that can't even be uttered. That's the idea. It's a groaning or a murmuring. It's something that's vocalized. In English, meditation almost always means something silent that we do quietly to ourselves in our minds, but in Hebrew it always means something that's spoken, something that's uttered aloud, and something that is done with passion and with feeling. I remember in June this past summer, my wife and I had the opportunity to go to Israel. And we stood at the wailing wall and we watched the Jewish men, many of them rabbis, who would pray in front of this wall. And all of them would rock back and forth as they see an application of Isaiah 66, too, that the man of God must fear and tremble at the word, and they would pray these prayers out loud. And they were doing this. They were, in their minds, they were meditating on the law. Well, what does this mean for us? It means w it's something that is vocalized with passion and feeling, something that wells up inside you. And let me suggest some ways that we can meditate that we might not think of normally in terms of how we understand the term meditation. If I were to take it as I normally would understand, I might think I'm just supposed to focus my mind on this But really what it's saying is we recite Scripture. We say it out loud. We read it out loud. We murmur it through quiet prayer. We even sing it out loud. So the idea is the one who meditates on the law is not simply a passive person who is emptying his mind of anything and just trying to think warm, fuzzy thoughts about God. That's not what this is about. The meditator is one who rehearses, one who knows the word and recites it from memory, one who prays the word vocally and passionate feeling toward God. One who sings the word as the emotions for God well up in vocalized worship. So are we meditators on the law? Are we meditators on scripture? Does it well up from within us? In other words, it's so part of our fabric of who we are that we can barely go partly through our day without Scripture just welling up from inside us. That's the person who is meditating day and night on the word. And that's the person who, the psalmist says, is blessed. So we begin here in this first section, what is the the conduct and the blessing of the righteous person? And then the psalmist transitions here in verse three and he talks about this contrast between the stability of the righteous and person and the transience, that is the short liveness of the wicked. And this is what he says in verse 3. How does he picture the righteous person? He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. So the psalmist here gives us line after line, amplifying for us or heightening for us by each line what this person is like. A tree. What sort of tree? A tree that is planted by streams of water. Well what does that tell us? It's being nourished. Well why is it nourished? So that it yields its fruit in season. Well, it has fruit, that's good, but is it good fruit or bad fruit? Its leaf does not wither. It's a green tree in time of drought. It's a flourishing tree. I remember several months back, my wife and I decided we wanted to plant some trees at the front of our house. And we would admit both of us that we're not exactly green thumb type of people. If anything, I have a black thumb. But we were able to plant some things, and one thing in particular was a dogwood tree And we were very fond of this dogwood tree, and as we planted it, we were very hopeful that it would blossom and give us these beautiful flowering blossoms at a certain time of year. We were very much looking forward to that. But soon after we planted it, we realized as the months went by that this tree was not looking very good. It was beginning to brown and curl at the edges. We we thought we'd give it a little more time, but as the months went by it became obvious that this tree was dead. So eventually we had no choice but to uproot the tree, put it on the curb, and wait for the men who come by in trucks to take it away. On the flip side, I mentioned last summer we were in Israel, and what amazed me in Israel is anywhere there is water, they can grow almost anything. Israel is a very dry climate. It reminds me of Southern California if you've been out to California. But they are very good at irrigation. and that agriculture, anywhere that they can take water, they can grow any sort of fruit and vegetables. The idea here of the psalmist who is writing this from the perspective of ancient Israel is this If the tree is irrigated, and if the tree is nourished and cared for, it will yield fruit. We know from the book of John in the New Testament that Jesus tells us, the branch that is in me will what? Bear fruit. So the one who's meditating on the law is like a tree, stable, permanent. Nourished, alive, blossoming, fruitful, has vitality. This is the righteous person, the one who is nourished by Scripture. Now it's interesting in verse four after giving us all these lines to describe the righteous The psalmist is very abbreviated in speaking of the wicked. He simply says, literally, not so the wicked. Not so the wicked. What are the wicked? They are like the chaff that the wind drives away. Well, what does he mean by this? This is a a custom in ancient Israel of winnowing grain. So many Threshing floors were placed on a hill where they would catch the breezes, either coming off the ocean or coming from the east And so in order to separate the kernel of wheat, the good part from the bad part, they would throw it into the air and the the wind, the breeze would take away the chaff and blow it away. It was of no value. It was discarded. It was blown away. It was scattered in the wind. And so the psalmist is saying, the righteous person is like a tree fruitful, green, bearing fruit, but the wicked is a lightweight. He or she is blown away. All of these these uh people described in verse one that think that they are The greatest that the world has to offer, the wicked, the sinners, the scoffers, what does the psalmist say? They'll be blown away. They're like the chaff. They'll be blown away. So the psalmist has told us the blessing and conduct of the righteous, the contrast between the righteous and the wicked. And then he further specifies this, lastly, in verses five and six. with the contrast of the righteous and the wicked, the contrast of the righteous and the wicked. He says this in verse 5, therefore The wicked will not stand or arise in judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. This is an allusion really back to verse 1. Verse 1 is talking about the counsel of the wicked, the way or the path of the sinners, and the assembly or the seat of the scoffers. Here he talks about standing in judgment and the congregation. It's a different word, but the same type of meaning, the congregation of the righteous. Sinners are excluded. Now you may have wondered, what does this mean that the wicked will not stand in the judgment? What is exactly this talking about? I think this is an allusion to an Old Testament passage that perhaps not many have read recently and may not immediately come to mind, but if you turn back to Deuteronomy one more time, to Deuteronomy 25. 1 and 2, I think we have a clue to what this is talking about. According to the ancient law If someone transgressed the law, they were to be punished by the judge. And Deuteronomy 25, 1 and 2 tells us how this was to go down. Deuteronomy twenty-five, if there is a dispute between men, and they come into court, and the judges decide between them, acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty. It's the same word used here for as wicked. Then, if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, so he's transgressed the law, he deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down. and be beaten in his presence with a number of stripes in proportion to his offense. So the idea is if the wicked was proved to be wicked By the judge. When justice was administered, the evildoer, the sinner, would be forced to lie on the ground and would be beaten according to the measure of his offense. So Psalm 1, I think, is alluding back to this. In other words, what it's saying is, when the righteous man or woman dwells on God's law, rehearses God's law meditates on scripture. He or she will be like a tree planted by the streams of water, fruitful, nourished, and bearing its fruit. But the wicked, they will be proved to be evildoers. In other words, this is a token that the wicked will be proved to be what they really are. They will not stand in judgment. They will be proved to be guilty. So the wicked will not stand in judgment. They will be punished, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. But the psalmist doesn't end there. He ends by refocusing our attention. to the way of the righteous. And this is a fitting way to end this portion by alluding back to that blessed man of verse 1. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. There are really only two paths, right? Two paths in life. You are either on the path of the righteous, you're meditating, rehearsing, dwelling on God's word. It wells up within you because it's so part of your fabric of life. You're like a tree. You're planted by streams. You're nourished. You're alive. You're blossoming. You're bearing fruit. The Lord knows you. The Lord knows your path, and the Lord will bless your path as you seek to follow Him. But the second option is the contrast, the way of the wicked. The way of the wicked will perish. They listen to the advice of other wicked people. They linger in the path of sinners who willfully transgress. They make their dwelling, they sit and fellowship with those who have nothing but disdain for God and His Word. They are like chaff. They're so light the wind will drive them away. And ultimately, verse 6 tells us their path will perish. Their path will perish. So where do you fit in all of this? As you look at your life this morning Are you the sort of person who has so internalized God's word, whose life is so dominated by God's word that it wells up within you? That you are a fruitful, stable tree full of life, full of fruit. Or are you like the wicked? Are you listening to that whisper of the world? Who's drawing you and enticing you away from God, away from Scripture, and to a life full of self, to a life full of pleasure, to a life full of living for the now, for the immediate. Which one are you? That may seem like the right way. Proverbs tells us there is a way that seems right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. I began by showing how Psalms 1 and 2 point ultimately to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to end with a reminder that as we look at the book of Psalms and as we look at Psalm 1, Ultimately, Jesus Christ is the one who perfectly fulfills this. He is the one who meditated on the law, who knew it so well he could teach the rabbis when he was twelve in the temple. He did not listen to the advice of evildoers, but he focused his attention on God's word He was like a tree. He was fruitful, and he is accomplished redemption in bringing a people together. He is the one who the Lord blessed and knows and preserved and rose from the dead and even now is seated on the right hand of God. And Paul tells us in the book of Corinthians, because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God. Interesting. Wisdom. Psalm 1 is about wisdom. Jesus is the true sage, the true wise man. Wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that it is as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord So let's do that. Let's pray and thank the Lord for this reminder this morning from His Word, from the text of Scripture, how we can be blessed as we seek to follow in the steps of our Savior Jesus Christ. Our Savior who perfectly fulfilled Every aspect of obedience to the law. He fulfilled all righteousness for us, and he is our righteousness, our wisdom, our sanctification and redemption. Let's pray. Father, we are grateful for your word. It is powerful. It is living. It is active. Your Spirit uses it to quicken our hearts, to make us alive. We thank you this morning that we can rejoice in the power of your word, in its efficacy, in its effectiveness. And Lord, we pray that we would be transformed as we think about this. As we contemplate, meditate, rehearse, recite your word, may we internalize it, may we be dominated by it in such a way that we're transformed. That we are blessed following the true path of righteousness and wisdom. That we are leading others to the knowledge of Jesus Christ. That we are exemplifying the true wisdom that comes from your word. We are grateful people. We've been saved from our sins. We have every good gift from you, everything for which to be thankful. And we are thankful. We humble ourselves. We acknowledge your supremacy. We bless your name. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.