The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and open up to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 1, and we'll continue in our study through the book of Romans. Romans chapter 1, we'll uh read verses 16 and 17, but our focus this day will be uh verse 17. Romans chapter 1, verses 16 and 17 If you need a Bible, you can find one in the pew either behind you or in front of you. You can turn to page 939, I believe, and follow along with us or follow along with the person next to you, Romans chapter 1. Verses 16 and 17. The Word of God says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith As it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today as we do every Lord today. Asking you for your help. Asking you that you would speak to us. Father, we thank you for your word, a word that is clear, a word that is powerful. A word that's convicting and a word that's also comforting. Also, Father, I pray that you would use your word today to speak to your people. And for those who do not know you, Lord, I pray that they would run to your Son, Jesus Christ. That they would find in him the life. The gospel is life. It's the message of life. And Father, I pray that they would find that life today. And that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I said the last time that we were in Romans chapter 1 that we need more than emotional, comforting, sentimental words to get us through a week like what we've just been through. We've experienced a lot of loss in our congregation, and we need more than just sentimental words. We need words that prepare us for death, and words that prepare us for the judgment to come. And those are the words that we have in the gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Gives us powerful words, the words that we need for life beyond this life. We need more than emotional, comforting, sentimental words. We need words that are objective, powerful, and filled with truth. And those are the words that we have in the gospel. We need words that are more comforting than someone's thoughts being with us. We need to know that God is with us. We need words that are more powerful than somebody saying, hey, well, we're strong together. We need to find the words of the Almighty God Himself. The God who has all power in his hands. We need words that are promising us more than, you know, hey, we'll get through this. We need words that will tell us we will overcome. It's not just getting through. I can overcome. 1 John 5 and verse 5 says, Who is the one who overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. We have a word that is a conquering word, a word that is a powerful word, a word that is an overcoming word. And if you've turned from your sins and you've trusted in Jesus Christ alone, you have all the support and all the help and all the power that you need. It's been provided for you in the gospel. A power that will never go out. You have a strength that will never fail. You have more than just comforting words. You have powerful words of eternal life. As 1 Peter 1, 3 to 4 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. That's what you need. You need something that is death-proof. You need words that are death-proof , imperishable, undefiled, unfading, reserved in heaven for you. Our inheritance is there for us. And the inheritance is there for Damica, for Eliza Willow, for those that have passed on, that have trusted in Christ. These are the words that we have in the Gospel. In verse 16, again it says, I am not ashamed of the gospel. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. And many interpreters would consider these two verses in Romans to be the two most important verses in the entire book. Because this is where Paul introduces the theme that ties the entire epistle together, the gospel of God and the righteousness of God. And the rest of the book could really be considered an explanation of these two verses. So we turn from the introduction to the book to the main section of the book. And you can see the change of subject as you scan down from verses 8 down to 16. In verse 8, you know, he says, First I thank my God. In verse 9, he says, I serve in my spirit. In verse 11, he says, I long to see you. Verse 13, I do not want you to be aware. Verse 14, I'm under obligation. Verse 15, I'm eager to preach. Verse 16, I'm not ashamed. The subject has been Paul, and he's telling you about his personal desire to be with the Romans. Hey, I I long to see you. I want to be with you. I'm eager to preach to you. But then in verse 16, he switches the subject, and now instead of saying I, he says it. Let me stop talking about me and my desire to preach, and let me tell you about the message that I've come to preach. I want to talk to you about this message, because this message is the power of God, and in it the righteousness of God is revealed So Paul's turning the corner from talking about the messenger to talking about the message. And basically, what Paul is saying is: I'm not ashamed of it. I'm not ashamed of this gospel because of what it is. And what is it? It is the power of God. And I'm not ashamed of this gospel because of what it does. And what does it do? It brings salvation for everyone, for everyone who believes this gospel brings salvation. And what Paul is doing here is he's speaking about his eagerness from the perspective of the message itself. It's the message that fires him up. And there's two reasons that Paul gives us for not being ashamed of the gospel in the first one is we should not be ashamed of the gospel because of its power. Its power. And number two, we should not be ashamed of the gospel because of its perfection, that it's the righteousness of God, that in it the righteousness of God has been revealed. And the last time we were together in the book of Romans, we talked about the gospel being the power of God that saves. The word for salvation is the word for deliverance, for rescue, for preservation. It assumes that there's a danger that you're in that you need to escape. You're in a danger that you need to escape. There's a terror that you need to avoid. There's an overwhelming fear that you are powerless to free yourself from. And what is that danger? The danger that we need to avoid is the punishment of God for our sins. That's the danger that we need to avoid. Romans chapter 5, verse 9 describes it as the wrath of God. In chapter 2 and verse 5, Paul says, But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath For yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. In other words God would have been righteous to judge us. It would be right for God to judge us. Because God is holy. God is three times holy. God is absolutely righteous. No sin in God at all. And some people like to remove that idea of fear from the Lord as if we we shouldn't fear the Lord. But Luke chapter 12 and verse 5 says, I will warn you whom to fear. Fear the one who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. We need to be fearful of the Lord. Because we're destined for wrath, children of wrath, the Bible says, even as the rest. Ephesians 2 3 says, Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. We pointed this out last time, but I'll just review this for you. The Bible lets us know that we were stuck in our sins. Sinking, sinking down in our sins. That's how the Bible described us. Romans chapter 3 verse 11, it says, There's none who seeks for God. We don't even want God. We have no appetite for the things of God. No appetite for it. This week my mom was talking about uh, you know, she was in her uh retirement community and she started asking people, are you interested in a Bible study? Has anybody ever tried to do a Bible study? You know like yeah, I'm sure somebody might have tried to do that, but um Yeah. Somebody tried to give me a you know religious book right one time, literally what she said, and I threw it in the trash Somebody said, I threw it in the trash. I received a book about God and I think I just tossed it in the trash can. What does that say? I have no appetite for the things of God. People talk about God in one ear, out the other. Yeah, I've heard that before. I'll deal with that later on Been there, done that, whatever it might be. No fear of God, no fear of the end. When you know that the end is coming and you have no fear of the end, you don't want to prepare for it You know, people prepare more for their vacations than they do to prepare for eternity. But we're stuck in our sins, sinking in our sins. We have no desire for the Lord. And we're slaves to it. 2 Timothy 2. 26 says, we were in the snare of the devil, having been held captive by him to do his will. We were trapped in it. We're sinking in it and we're trapped. Held captive by Satan to do his will. Sometimes you, you know, even if you have a habit that you want to give up, it's like, why can't I just kick this thing? I know it's killing me, but you're still doing it. What does that say? I'm trapped. I'm a slave. I'm not in control here Slaves to sin. Sick in our sins. We're not spiritually healthy. Sometimes people think they're vibrant and spiritually healthy. The Bible says, no, you're sick. I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin my mother conceived me. Jesus said it's not the those who are well who need a physician, but those who are what? Those who are sick. We're separated by our sins. Colossians 1. 21, you were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. You were separated from God You are sentenced because of your sins, there is a judgment to come, and that judgment is eternal death And we succumbed to our sins, meaning that we were already gone. We passed away, dead in our trespasses and sins, the Bible says, Ephesians 2. 1. You were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which ye formally walked according to the course of this world According to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. That's your greatest problem right there. That is your greatest problem. You know, people think you know my greatest problem is my health. That's not your greatest problem. People think my greatest problem is, you know, that I just need a little bit more to get me through. A little more prosperity, a little more wealth. Get me through. That's not your greatest problem. Your greatest need isn't for justice. At least not the justice that we talk about. That's not your greatest problem. Your greatest need isn't even physical life. Because we're all going to die. Your greatest need is for eternal life. That's the greatest need that we have. And how are we born again? What is the agency? What's the power of God into salvation? It's this message, the message of the gospel. In summary, that there is a God who is holy and who demands perfect obedience to his law, that all of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, every one of us. Not one of us can say that we've always lived righteous, we've always lived perfectly before the Lord. And because of our sins we deserve eternal judgment. But God, because He's a merciful God and loving, He sent His Son Jesus Christ, who lived the life that we could not live, the perfect life that God demanded. Jesus Christ was the only one who was able to live that life. And when he died on the cross, he did not die for his own sins. He took our sins upon himself and said, I will take your sins, and you can take my righteousness. He's willing to make that exchange. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 21 says, He who knew no sin became sin on our behalf. So that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. He takes our sin, He gives us His righteousness. And that's what we need before the Lord. We need righteousness. God says, I'm willing to make this exchange with you if you will turn to me, if you will turn from your sins and trust in my son. I will give you the gift of eternal life, righteousness on your account, so when you stand before me after you die You're not standing there in the filth of your sins. You're standing there in the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's what you need to stand before God. And you're not worried about that? I'm not ashamed of this message. It's the message that brings eternal life. Why should I be ashamed of this? Why should I be ashamed of omnipotent power? I should be ashamed of the little power that I have. I'm too weak to save. I should be ashamed of my false religion, because that can't save me. I should be ashamed of my good works because even my best works are like filthy rags, the Bible says. I should be ashamed of that. I can't earn my way to heaven. You know, I heard the song, you know, uh Lord I'm trying to make one hundred because ninety-nine and a half won't do As if you're at ninety-nine and a half, right? I mean, give me a break. You're not righteous enough to present yourself before God The Bible says that if you commit even one transgression, it's like you've broken it all. If I took a rack and threw it through the window over here, how much of the window would I have to replace? All of it? When I've broken God's law, how much do I have to make up for? All of it. And which one in here is going to say they've done all of God's law 100% all the time with the right motives? 99 and a half. Come on, you're in the negative. We're in the negative. We shouldn't be ashamed of the gospel because this is how I'm gonna get saved. This is this is how I get in. This is the power of God unto salvation. The Spirit gave us life and opened up God's word to us. And Paul is saying that this word has the divine supernatural ability to give you life. And these are the words that we desperately need to hear more than any other words. To be able to tell the the Thorntons that you'll see Damica again. I mean that's that's life-giving, isn't it? I will see her again. To tell the rickets that you will see your daughter, Eliza Will again. You will see her again. And that's comforting. And not only that, we can say that our loved ones, in another sense, have never died. They're alive right now in the presence of God, in the fullness of joy. That's a hope that only the gospel can give. While I was in the bereavement room this week in the hospital, I I glanced through a few of the books on the shelf to see, you know, what kind of comfort Do they provide for those that have lost their their children? You know, this is in the the labor and delivery. section of the hospital. They have a bereavement room and I said, you know, what what do they have on the shelf? You know, how do they they comfort parents who've just lost their little ones? It's so shallow. I picked up the books. One of the books was I'll Always Love You. Another book said, My Love Will Find You. Another book said, Love is the greatest gift. And it was talking about their love. But the greatest gift of love is not ours to give. It's God's to give. God is the one who so loved us that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. God's love is the greatest to give, and it's his love that will find us. When I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peaceful shore, it's God's love that came down and lifted us up, right? It's God's love. That's the love that we need. His love will find a way. He is the one who will always love us. He loves us eternally. And that's the hope that belongs to us as Christians, and we can comfort one another with these words. Because these words are the power of God. We should not be ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God. Number two, we should not be ashamed of the gospel because of its perfection. Should not be ashamed because of its power. We should not be ashamed because of its perfection. Look at verse 17. For in it the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. And we'll consider this perfection, this righteousness, in three relationships, because that's what we have here in the text. There's a relationship between the righteousness of God to the gospel, for in it, that's the gospel, in the gospel the righteousness of God is revealed. So there's a relationship between the gospel and this righteousness that's being revealed. There's also a relationship between the righteousness of God and faith, because it says the righteousness of God is revealed how? From faith to faith. So there's a relationship between the righteousness of God and faith. And there's also some kind of relationship between the righteousness of God and life. Because it says, as it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. The righteous man shall live. So there's a connection between the righteousness of God and life. There's a connection between the righteousness of God and the gospel, the righteousness of God in faith, and the righteousness of God and life. First of all, what is the relationship between the righteousness of God and the gospel? Again, it says, in it, the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed. And this is actually where, if you're familiar with Martin Luther, not Martin Luther King, but the other Martin Luther Precisely where Martin Luther, a Catholic monk, struggled in the 16th century because he understood the righteousness of God as an attribute of God's character. He understood the righteousness of God to refer to God's moral holiness. And we do understand that as the righteousness of God, right? It's who He is. It describes who He is. He's morally upright, holy, righteous. Habak Habakkuk 113, your eyes are too pure to approve of evil. You cannot look on wickedness with favor. God, you're utterly righteous. Job 34, verse 10. Therefore, listen to me, you men of understanding. Far be it from God to do wickedness. Far be it from him to do wickedness and for the Almighty to do wrong. First John 1 5, this is the message we have heard from him and announced to you that God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. God is absolutely holy and perfect. Righteous. And Luther understood God's righteousness as that which declares him to be absolutely perfect and holy. And also the way that he governs his creation is in righteousness. He acts righteously. He applies righteousness to everything that he created. He maintains himself against every violation of his standard. So his justice is manifested in giving man what he's due. He's a just God. He doesn't just sweep your sins under the rug. Pretend like they didn't happen. No, if he's righteous, if he's a holy judge, he has to pay you for every sin. That's how he understood the righteousness of God, that God promises reward for the obedient And punishment for the disobedient. And here's the problem: if God promises punishment for the disobedient, on which side do I fall? Obedient or disobedient? I'm disobedient. I've transgressed. I'm a sinner. And if God is righteous, what does that mean about God? He has to punish me. So how is that good news? That in it the righteousness of God is revealed. How is this good news for me that God is utterly righteous and that He will not allow you to get away with even the smallest bit of unrighteousness? How is that good news for me? Martin Luther is quoted as saying, nothing is easier than sinning. He says human nature is like a drunk peasant. Lift him up on one side of the saddle and he topples over on the other side. Referring to Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, he says, This word is too high, too hard, that anyone should fulfill it. He confessed the sins daily, often for as long as six hours in a single occasion. Luther would repeat confessions to be sure that he included everything he'd review his entire life until the confessors grew weary of listening to him. Erwin Lutzer observed that during these struggles Luther became aware that his problem was even more serious than he thought. It's not just that man commits sins, but he himself is inwardly defiled. It's not just what I do, it's who I am. To use a modern illustration, Luther's dilemma, Erwin Luther says, is like a man trying to mop up the floor while the faucet is running. You're trying to clean it up, but the faucet just continues to pour, continues to pour. Everything that you put on is like a band-aid. So you could never have any assurance with God. I'm always in sin There's always something wrong. I need to repent of my repentance. And he did all that he could do to try to satisfy the righteousness of God. Whatever good works a man could do. Luther was resolved to perform it, perform it. He fasted three days on end without a crumb. Seasons of fasting were more consoling to him than eating. He laid upon himself all night prayers and Put upon himself rules he'd sleep on cold slabs just to try to atone for sins. He said I was the good monk and if I kept the rule of my order so strictly, I may say that if ever a monk got to heaven by his monkery, it was I He says, all my brothers in the monastery who knew me will bear me out. If I had kept any longer, I should have killed myself with prayers, readings, and other works. And at times he was proud of how holy he had become. And then doubts would arise again. He says, Have you fasted enough? Are you poor enough? Have you confessed enough? Constantly plagued. Some of you don't even understand what I'm talking about. He was constantly plagued because he knew that God was righteous. God, I'm going to have to stand before you in my filthy rags, and I'm not ready. What can I possibly do to present myself before the holy omnipotent God, who sees everything, who knows everything? You can't get away from God. How am I going to present myself before the Lord? And then one day, while he's studying the book of Romans, around the year 1519, he reads that the gospel, a word that means good news, is connected to righteousness. And he might have expected verse 17 to say, For in it the gospel the mercy of God is revealed. Or in it the grace of God is revealed. Or in the gospel the forgiveness of God is revealed. And all those things are true. But verse 17 says, in it the righteousness of God is revealed. And what comfort is that for a troubled soul who's already struggling with the righteousness of God? How is that going to bring me comfort? That's like telling a student who's not prepared for a test, I've got good news for you. The teacher is here and he's going to mark everything wrong. That's not good news Or in this case, telling the sinner that God will catch every sin, every transgression, every thought, word, deed. He's not going to relax his standard at all. And that's how Luther read Romans 1. 17, and it terrified him. Where's the good news in this? In Luther's own words, he says, I had been indeed captivated with an extraordinary devotion for understanding Paul. But up until then it was a single word in verse 17, in it the righteousness of God is revealed that stood in my way. For I hated the word righteousness of God, which according to the use and custom of all the teachers I had been taught to understand God is righteous and punishes the unrighteous sinner Though I lived as a monk without reproach, I felt that I was a sinner before God with an extremely disturbed conscience. I did not love. Yes, I hated the righteous God who punishes sinners. And secretly, if not blasphemously, I was angry with God and said, as if indeed it is not enough that miserable sinners eternally lost are crushed by every kind of calamity without having God add pain to pain by the gospel that threatens us with his righteousness. And thus I raged with a fierce, troubled conscience. Nevertheless, I beat persistently upon Paul at that place, desiring to know what Paul wanted. Paul, what do you want from me? There's a number of key observations that Luther made that turn this passage from the greatest terror to the greatest comfort he would ever experience. The first observation is that the righteousness of God is not only an attribute of God's character. or the application of God's righteousness over his creation, but it can also be accepted as a gift. Righteousness can be accepted as a gift. And this is where the chains fell off for Luther. God's righteousness can be accepted as a gift. And if you follow the phrase righteousness of God throughout Romans, it becomes clear that righteousness is something that God not only possesses in Himself, but it's something that can be transferred to others. Look at chapter three. Chapter three, look at verse twenty-one. Look at what Paul says here. He says, but now apart from the law, apart from what I do, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction. You see that? The righteousness of God for who? For those who believe. Not those who work for it, not those who obey the law for it. It's to those who believe Chapter 3, verse 24, look at verse 24. It says, being justified or declared righteous as a what? As a gift. It can be accepted, received as a gift. By his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Flip over to Romans chapter 10. Look at verse 3 Actually, I'll start at verse one. Brethren, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for them talking about Israel is for their salvation. For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not in accordance with knowledge. For not knowing about God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own They did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. So the righteousness of your own is contrasted with the righteousness of God. Something that He does versus something that you do. Verse 4, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. And Paul here is speaking about those who are trying to offer God their righteousness. It's not that they don't believe that there's a God. You know, they're here trying to busily serve God and please God. But they have to give up trying to do it on their own righteousness, and they have to accept God's righteousness as the gift. God's righteousness stands opposed to our own. And just one more passage, flip over to Philippians chapter 3. At least one more for now. Philippians chapter 3. Take a look at verse 7. And this is Paul's own personal testimony of how the righteousness of God applied to his life. Philippians chapter 3, look at verse 7. It says, But whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as loss for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. For whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish. All the good works that I could ever amass are rubbish. They're trash. Pile them in the heap Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling, so that I may gain Christ, and may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, derived from the law. But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. Not a righteousness that comes from my works, my efforts, my achievements. It's a righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith. And in his commentary, Luther writes, God's righteousness is that by which we are accounted righteous before him. This righteousness, however, is not that according to which God Himself is righteous as God, but that by which we are justified by Him through faith in the gospel. It is the righteousness of God in Contradistinction to man's righteousness which comes from works. And it was at this understanding that Luther said the gates of paradise swung open. Like finally there's relief. He says, At last, by the mercy of God, meditating day and night, I gave heed to the context of the words, namely in it, righteousness of God is revealed as it is written, He who through faith is righteous shall live. began to understand that the righteousness of God is that which by which the righteous lives by a gift of God, namely by faith. And he says, And I extolled my sweetest word with a love as great as the hatred which I had before hated the word righteousness of God. Thus that place in Paul was for me truth the gate to paradise. And that's what this is. This is the gospel. So what's the relationship between the gospel of God and righteousness? How is righteousness of God good news for us? Here it is. God's righteousness can be given to you as a free gift. God doesn't demand our righteousness. He gives his righteousness in our place. The biblical word is imputation. He places it on our account. And that's good news. And that's the good news that we need to hear. The good news that the righteousness that we need to be presented before God is a righteousness that God Himself gives. That's the righteousness that God gives. And the fact that God is righteous and pours out his wrath upon sinners is something that you need not be fearful of, because he's already poured his wrath out on his son. Amen? He's poured his wrath out on his son. Number two, there's a relationship between the righteousness of God and faith. The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. And what does that mean? We lay hold of this gift, we accept this gift by faith and by faith alone. Nothing else is needed. It's not by works, it's by faith and by faith alone. Again, Romans chapter 3. 21 says, but now apart from the law The righteousness of God has been manifested, made visible, made clear, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. It's through faith that we accept this gift, and it's for all who believe. And this is what verse 22 says. Even the righteousness of God, through faith in Jesus, for all who believe. Through faith for all who believe. What why why repeat it twice? You know, through faith in all who believe. Because he's saying that anyone who believes Receives this gift of righteousness. It's not just some who believe. Anyone who believes receives this. There's no distinction. It's through faith that you receive this gift, and anyone who would believe can receive this gift. Later on in chapter 3 and verse 28, he says, For we maintain that a man is justified, declared righteous by faith apart from the works of the law. It's apart from works. Chapter 4, verse 9. He says, Is this blessing then on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? Was this just for the Jews? No, it's for everybody. Faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. Verse 10, chapter 4. How then was it credited while he was circumcised or uncircumcised? Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. He's proving here that this righteousness is for everybody. You don't need to be born in a certain family. You don't need to have a certain heritage. You don't need to have a certain background, upbringing to benefit from this salvation. Anyone who believes can swing the gates of paradise open by trusting in Jesus Christ by faith. It's not by our works, it's not by what we do, we lay hold of Him by faith. This is a righteousness that we receive by faith. And Paul goes further to say that it's a righteousness that's revealed from faith to faith. And what does that mean? One translation puts it this way: by faith from first to last. By faith from first to last, meaning that it is all of faith and only by faith, from the beginning to the end. It's only faith. It starts by faith, it ends by faith. It's all of faith. In the book of Galatians, the Apostle Paul was grieved for the Galatians because they weren't convinced that faith was not enough. And he grieves over them in chapter 3 of Galatians. He says, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified? This is the only thing I want to find out from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? How did you receive the Spirit? Was it by working for it or did you believe for it? Are you so foolish having begun by the Spirit? Are you now being perfected by the flesh? In other words, he's saying if you started with faith, why are you now over in works? Thinking that there's something that you can do to gain it. If you started with faith, end with faith. Having begun by the Spirit, are you now perfected by your flesh? And that's one of the key differences between biblical Christianity and every other world religion. R. C. Sproull explains the good news of Roman Catholic faith in his book, Justified by Faith Alone. He says the gospel according to Rome is the good news that a sinner may be justified. If he or she receives the sacraments, has faith, cooperates with grace to the point of becoming righteous, that justification is effective as long as that believer refrains from a mortal sin. If the person loses justification, he may be restored by the sacrament of penance. If the person dies in a mortal sin, but with impurities, he or she can get to heaven after being cleansed in purgatory. Good news, right? This is the distinction between Christianity and everything else. It's Jesus plus nothing We trust in Jesus Christ plus nothing else. We're not adding our works in purgatory and sacraments and all kinds of other you know means that we can somehow appease God. We're not doing any of that. We trust in Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. It's not good news to know that I have to work for my salvation. I like what one preacher said. He says, if I had to work for my salvation, I'd lose it every day. If I had to keep it, I'd lose it every day. We can't keep it. If righteousness is going to be good news for me, it has to be a gift to me. If it's going to be good news, it has to be a gift And we receive that gift by faith and by faith alone. And actually in the construction in the Greek literature When it talks about one to another, it's talking about the movement between two things that are of the same nature. So like uh it speaks about you know moving from shore to shore. From town to town, from strength to strength. You know, we talk about from sea to shining sea. It's all the same. I'm moving from one degree of faith to another degree of faith. It's all by faith. There's nothing else that I'm trying to add to it. It's by faith, and it's unto faith. Find a similar statement in 2 Corinthians 3. 18 that we behold as in a mirror the glory of the Lord. And we're being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, from one degree of glory to the next. In the same way, our faith moves from one degree of glory to the next. We don't graduate from faith. We just grow deeper in it, stronger in it, more resolute in it. And isn't it a blessing to see those believers who grow stronger in faith over time? I know uh in in my years of knowing Damica, you know, when I first met her, you know, she's kind of more distant. You know, we'd have Bible study at the Thornton's home and she'd come in, she'd say hi. She was always polite. She'd come in, she'd wave, and then she'd kind of go upstairs to her room. And then she'd start to linger around a little bit more and start to ask some questions. And then there came a point where she said, you know what? I need to make a break from some of the sins that I've been in. I need to make a break. I need to make some changes. And then you just started seeing her grow over the years, just grow closer to the Lord, desire for scripture, got involved in ministry, and just became such an example. She grew. It was from faith to faith to faith to faith. She just grew in her faith. And that's a blessing because that is an evidence that she truly believed. That she was growing in her faith, she was maturing in her faith. There was a difference that the Lord made in her life. Why was there a difference in Domeka's life? Because the Lord made that difference, the Lord transformed her heart. And she grew from faith to faith. And that's what we should desire as believers, that we just progress in our faith, from one degree of faith to the next, from one degree of glory to the next. And finally, there's a relationship between the righteousness of God and life. This is the last one. Because at the end of verse 17, back in Romans chapter 1, it says, As it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. The words it is written. It's a common designation for the scriptures. Paul backs up his teaching here by the Old Testament. He wants to make sure we understand that this isn't something new that he's teaching us. He's teaching something that's consistent with the Old Testament record. And here he quotes from the book of Habakkuk, and I'll give you some time to go ahead and find it. So start flipping back from Romans. Pass Matthew, keep going back. Zechariah, Zephaniah, and you'll finally find the book of Habakkuk. So go ahead and find it. But here he quotes from the book of Habakkuk, where God says that the righteous shall live by faith. And it would be helpful to see this in its context in the book of Habakkuk. And just to remind you, the context of Habakkuk is Habakkuk is a prophet. He's ministering to Judah, which is the southern kingdom of Israel, during the reign of a wicked king by the name of Jehoiakim. And it bothered Habakkuk that wicked men seem to be getting away with their wickedness. Look at back at chapter 1, look at verse 2. He says, How long, O Lord, will I call for help and you will not hear? I cry out to you, violence! Yet you do not save. Why do you make me see iniquity and cause me to look on wickedness? Yes, destruction and violence are before me, strife exists, and contention arises, therefore the law is ignored, and justice is never upheld. You ever feel like that? The right thing just never happens. Every time you look for justice, it's it's just ignored, bypassed Trampled on. Justice is never upheld, for the wicked surround the righteous, therefore justice comes out perverted. And the Lord lets Habakkuk know that, you know what, Habakkuk, I'm listening. I do hear you. I will act. I know that those in your land are doing wickedly, and I'm telling you, I'm going to bring a judgment against them. A judgment against Judah. But he's going to act in a way that Habakkuk wasn't expecting. Look at verse 5. He says, Look among the nations, observe, be astonished, wonder, because I'm doing something in your days you would not believe if you were told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that fierce and impetuous people who march throughout the earth to seize dwelling places which are not theirs. The Chaldeans were a community that rose to power and joined the Babylonians and became the Babylonian Empire. So what the Lord is talking about here is the Babylonian exile from Judah. Judah would be punished by being exiled from their land by a wicked nation. And now Habakkuk has a greater problem. You know, before he's like, Lord, when are you gonna bring justice, violence all around me? Don't you see this Lord? And how God says, Well I do see, and I'm gonna bring in a wicked nation to come in and spank Judah. And he's like, Hold on, Lord, hold on now How can you use a nation more wicked than we are to punish us? I was expecting this to go a little bit differently, Lord. You know, when I envisioned it, you know, I named it and claimed it and it just it just didn't happen like I thought it would, right? He says, God, how can you do this? How can you bring in a wicked nation to come in and punish Judah? Verse 13, chapter 1: Your eyes are too pure to approve evil. You cannot look on wickedness with favor. Why do you look with favor on those who deal treacherously? Why would you bless the Babylonians to come in to punish us? Why do you look with favor on those who deal treacherously? Why are you silent when the wicked swallow up those who are more righteous than they? Then Habakkuk says, and I'm going to wait for an answer. I've given my complaint, now I'll wait for an answer. Chapter Two, look at verse one. He says, I will stand on my guardpost and station myself on the rampart, and I will keep watch to see what he will speak to me. And how I may reply when I am reproved. Lord, I know I'm wrong. You're always right, Lord. Whatever you do is right. You're the righteous God. But Lord, I don't understand how you could use this wicked nation. God, I know that what you do is right. You're always right. Lord, correct me, but I can't understand this. How does the Lord correct them? Chapter 2, verse 4. He says, Behold, as for the proud one, his soul is not right within him, but the righteous will live by his faith. And how is this an answer? How is that an answer? Behold, as for the proud one, his soul is not right within him, but the righteous will live by his faith. How is this an answer? Basically what God is saying to Habakkuk is, Habakkuk, you don't need to worry I'm a just judge, and for those proud Chaldeans whose souls are not right within them, I'm going to judge them. Don't worry about that. And the implication from this verse is that they will die, because it's contrasted with the righteous who will live. Don't worry about the unrighteous. I'll take care of them. They're going to die. I will bring judgment upon them. But he says, but the souls of the righteous, the righteous will live. And if the righteous will live, like I said, it's the wicked who will die, and there's going to be a judgment for the wicked. But here's the aspect that Paul wants to draw out of this verse: because the righteous do not live because of what they do. The righteous live because of what they believe. Did you catch that? They live because of what they believe. But the righteous will live by his faith. It's by faith that you live. And in fact, they're only considered righteous because of what they believe. That's how they became righteous Because they trusted in God. Their works are not mentioned here at all. What they do is not mentioned here. It's what they believe that's mentioned. The righteous will live by their faith, not by their works, it's by their faith, by what they believe. And what's more, and this is fascinating when you look at Habakkuk. Is that Habakkuk is ultimately longing for something that won't even happen in his lifetime. Think about that. This justice that Habakkuk is longing for, he's not going to even be alive to see it happen. The Babylonian captivity was 70 years long. Habakkuk wasn't around to see the end of this So how how is this helpful for Habakkuk? Look at chapter 3. Look at chapter 3. Look at verse 16. Chapter 3 verse 16 he says, I heard and my inward parts trembled. At the sound my lips quivered Decay enters my bones, and in my place I tremble, because I must wait quietly for the day of distress, for the people to arise who will invade us. So he says, I know that this judgment is coming, and I'm trembling at it, my my lips are quivering. My bones are decaying, though the fig tree should not blossom, verse 17. And there be no fruit on the vines. Though the yield of the olive tree should fail and the fields produce no food, though the flocks should be cut off from the fold and there be no cattle in the stalls, yet I will exult in the Lord I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. God, you are going to save me. That's what he's saying. God, you are going to save me. But how did God save Habakkuk? Because he actually experienced the judgment and died under the judgment So, Habakkuk, how are you going to be saved? What kind of salvation are you talking about? The Babylonians are about to ransack Jerusalem, burn the temple to the ground, the people of Judah are going to be taken away as exiles. But Habakkuk knows that the oppression will not last. Look at chapter two. Chapter two, look at verse twelve. He says, Woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed and founds a town with violence. Is it not indeed from the Lord of hosts that peoples toil for fire and nations grow weary for nothing? For, listen to this, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Do you know what Habakkuk is longing for? He's longing for the coming kingdom of God. Lord, I know that this nation is going to come in, they're going to ransack us, they're going to destroy us, but Lord, I'm longing for the kingdom to come. There's coming a time when the the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord, the glory of the Lord will fill the earth and the as the waters cover the sea. He's looking forward to the future day of the Lord. God, I know you're going to show up one of these days. And I will be a part of that kingdom. He's longing for something that's beyond him. He's having a trust in what's beyond the judgment. Lord, I believe that you will come and that you will right what's wrong. I might not live to see it. I might not live on this side to see the outcome of your justice coming upon the Babylonians, but I know that I will be around for that day when the Lord shows up. When Jesus Christ comes back, and that's what he might not have known who he was, but that's who he was longing for, when Jesus Christ shows up. That's what I'm longing for. He's looking for that future day of the Lord. Look at chapter 3. Chapter 3. Look at what he says here He says God comes from Taman and the Holy One from Mount Peran. His splendor covers the heavens and the earth is full of his praise. His radiance is like the sunlight. He has rays flashing from his hand. And there is n the hiding of his power before him goes pestilence and plague comes after him. He stood and surveyed the earth. He looked and startled the nations. Yes, the perpetual mountains were shattered, the ancient hills collapsed, his ways are everlastings. I saw the tents of Kishan under distress the tents Curtains of the land of Midian were trembling. Did the Lord rage against the rivers? Or was your anger against the rivers? Or was your wrath against the sea that you rode on your horses, on your chariots of salvation Your bow was made bare, the rods of chastisement were sworn, you cleaved the earth with rivers, the mountains you saw and quaked, the downpour of water swept by, the deep uttered forth its voice, it lifted its hand high its hand, sun and moon Stood in their places, and they went away at the light of your arrows, at the radiance of your gleaming spear. In indignation you marched through the earth, in anger you trampled the nations, you went forth for the salvation of your people For the salvation of your anointed. You struck the head of the house of the evil to lay him open from side and neck. You pierced with his own spears the head of his Throngs, they stormed and to scatter us. Their exultation was like those who devoured the oppressed in secret. You trampled on the sea with your horses on the surge of many waters. What is he saying? God, you're going to show up. God, you're going to take over. And God, you're going to show forth, shine forth your radiance. And I'm going to be a part of that day. And that's the truth that the book of Romans constantly speaks about, that there is salvation that's coming for those who trust in their God, for those who trust in God, the salvation is coming. Do you have hope in God? Do you trust in his salvation that's to come? Do you believe that it's by faith that that future kingdom will belong to you? Romans chapter 5, 21, it lets us know that we will have life. It says that grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. We're going to have life. Romans 6. 22, but now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, the outcome, eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is what? Eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans 811. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. Through his spirit who dwells in you, it's through faith that we receive eternal life. And we can look beyond this life. This life that's filled with so many dangers, toils, and snares, so much affliction that we receive in this life, the injustice that we receive in this life. All the sorrows that we receive in this life, we can look beyond that to know that you know what? I have an eternal life. And beyond all of this, when all of this is said and done, that I will be in his presence, in his kingdom forever. And I'm in that kingdom not because of what I do, but because of who I believe in. The righteous shall live by faith. And we're those who trust in God by faith. Have you received eternal life? The old hymn says, Rock of Ages cleft for me. Let me hide myself in thee. Let the water and the blood from thy wounded side which flowed, be of sin the double cure, save from wrath, and make me pure. Not the labors of my hand can fulfill the law's demands. Could my zeal, no respite, no, untiring Untiring work? Could my zeal no respite no? Could my tears forever flow, just always weeping, as Luther did for his sins? Could my tears forever flow? All for sin it could not atone Thou must save and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Foul! That's me, I'm foul. Fell into the fountain I fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die. While I draw this fleeting breath When mine eyes shall close in death, when I soar to worlds unknown, see thee on thy judgment throne, Rock of Ages cleft from me. Let me hide myself in thee. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, for the rock of ages that was cleft for us. We thank you that we can find in Him our righteousness, our salvation. We thank you that this gospel is life for us , not just life on this side of eternity, but life for all of eternity. Father, that you've given us a life that can never be destroyed. And that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Father, we thank you for that. We thank you that for those that have passed on before us, Lord, that Those who die in Christ are never really dead, but they're alive right now in your presence. And one day Jesus Christ will return and raise back to life all those who have trusted in him. And there's going to be a great getting up morning where we'll all be united together before the Lord. And Father, we long for that day, even quickly. Come, Lord Jesus. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.