The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and uh open up to Matthew chapter 27 Matthew chapter 27 for uh what's going to be our final anticipation of the cross and uh uh just uh wonderful words there near the cross, near the cross, be my glory ever And I pray that that's true for all of us, that in the cross that that we would glory. There's been an anticipation of the of the cross. from the very first chapter of the book of Matthew, in Matthew chapter 1, and verse 21, the angel says, You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And how would Jesus save his people from their sins? It would be by dying for them on the cross There was an anticipation of the cross and the the many predictions that Christ made throughout Matthew's gospel back in Matthew chapter 20, verses 18 and 19, Jesus warned his disciples Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him Jesus predicted his own crucifixion. Jesus wasn't surprised by the details surrounding his death, and he bore that burden alone Because his disciples denied that it would even be a possibility of happening. From the very beginning, back in Matthew chapter 16, Peter even rebuked the Lord for suggesting that he would be delivered to death. Matthew 16, verse 22, Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Forbid it, Lord, this shall never happen to you. But Jesus predicted it all with precise Detail, he carried that burden alone because his disciples refused to believe him. And then finally the cross of Christ is anticipated by all of the events leading up to the cross. Crucifixion. was the death of choice by the religious leadership of Israel. There was no other death sentence that would satisfy their thirst for blood. besides the crucifixion. And as they gathered themselves together around Pilate, the cry isn't just execute him, execute him. The cry is crucify him, crucify him. What they desired was more than an execution. They desired the most painful, the most public, and the most shameful and humiliating death that was known in the ancient world. They wanted a crucifixion. Crucifixion was much more than an execution. According to one record, the cross was the most disgraceful and one of the cruelest instruments of death ever invented. Crucifixion was of Phoenician origin, although Rome adopted and improved upon it. The Romans would not allow a Roman citizen to be crucified, but reserve crucifixion for slaves and foreigners. The Jews customarily used stoning, never crucifixion. It was not only the death of greatest ignomy, but of the most extreme anguish and suffering. The Jewish people found crucifixion abhorrent, repulsive. They would never stoop so low as to carry it out themselves, but yet this is the very execution that they demanded that the Romans perform in their place. They wanted the Romans to fill in as their substitute. We want you to do what we would never do ourselves. We would never touch a cross. Because it's too repulsive. But if if you can do the work for us, you can put it on our tab. Which is exactly what they agreed to do. Matthew 27, verse 25 says, And all the people said, His blood shall be on us. and on our children. So again, the cross is anticipated in all the events leading up to the cross because nothing else was going to do for this bloodthirsty mob. It was crucifixion that they desired. And in verse 26 of Matthew 27, Jesus is finally handed over to be crucified, but not until he is beaten, and not until he is belittled by men who weren't even worthy to untie the laces of his sandals. And I'll begin in verse 22 just for the sake of context. Matthew chapter 27, starting at verse 22. So as Pilate said to them, Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said, Crucify him. And he said, Why? What evil has he done? But they kept shouting all the more, saying, Crucify him. When Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. See to that yourselves. And all the people said, his blood shall be on us and on our children. Then he released Barabbas for them, but after having Jesus scourged, he handed him over to be crucified. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium, gathered the whole Roman cohort around him, they stripped him. And put a scarlet robe on him, and after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand, and they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! They spat on him and took the reed and began to beat him on the head. After they had mocked him, they took the scarlet robe off him. And put his own garments back on him, and they led him away to crucify him. As they were coming out, they found a man of Cyrene named Simon, whom they pressed into service to bear his cross. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before uh this text, Lord, just such a sobering text to think about. Just the disgrace and the shame that our Lord endured, being mocked by men that He created. Men that weren't even worthy to touch his sandals. But here they spit in his face and beat him in his head and mock him as the king They laugh and scorn. But Father, we know that you have the last laugh. And Father, we pray that you would help us as we Look at these words, Father, that you would open up to us our understanding of these things. And uh Father, that uh you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The first point, and I know I don't have an outline up for you, but the first point is Jesus is handed over for crucifixion. Jesus is handed over to his crucifixion, verse 26, second Part of verse 26. It says, But after having Jesus scourged, he handed him over to be crucified. And one of the one of the aspects of this passage that you might overlook at first is that the physical torture of Christ is passed over so lightly. In verse 26, it simply says, having Jesus scourged, He handed him over to be crucified. And even later on in verse 35, when Jesus is on the cross, and you would expect more details to be given about the torture of the cross. Matthew simply says in verse 35, and when they had crucified them, you know, it just kind of lightly passes over it. And then he moves on to talk about how they divided up the his garments among themselves by casting lots, and it's like he gives more attention to dividing his garments than he does to the actual crucifixion. What's going on on the cross? And it's like, whoa, Matthew, what's going on here? You know, there's all this buildup to the cross, and then we finally get here, and you want to talk about what they did with Jesus' clothes? I mean, what's up with that? Where where's the description about the scourging? Where where are the details about the crucifixion on the cross? You know, if this was our story and we were the ones being crucified, we want to make sure that that all the details would have been included, right? We might even want a full-length movie just focusing on the agony of the cross itself and the suffering. Some of us can't even imagine giving a gift without letting people know all that we went through to get the gift, right? You know, uh oh, I'm sorry, did I leave the price tag on that? I mean, you know, I I I must have forgot about taking off the price tag when I was driving clear across country to pick that gift up for you. I just I I just have no idea why I left that on. It's like we want to make sure people know all that I did to get this gift to you. But Matthew passes lightly over the physical sacrifices of Jesus Christ. But it's not because the sacrifices of Christ were light. Have you ever considered what Jesus endured before he even got to the cross? Think about this. Late on Thursday night, just before midnight, Jesus began to pour sweat like great drops of blood in prayer in Luke chapter 22. A very rare medical condition called hematidrosis or blood sweat, where the capillary blood vessels that feed the sweat glands rupture under extreme pressure. So Jesus was already bleeding in prayer. Already losing blood. When Jesus was brought before Annas, the father-in-law of the high priest, he was struck in his face, John 18, verse 22. Then Jesus was brought before Caiaphas, the high priest, and after he was condemned by the council, he was beat with their fists, slapped in the face, and spit upon Matthew chapter 26, verse 67. All of this happening right around 3 a. m. So this is an all-night trial that Jesus is enduring. All this before the cockroach Then just after 5 a. m. as soon as morning came, according to Matthew 27, Jesus is pulled before another early morning trial, and then he's hauled off before Pilate, so he he hasn't slept. He's been beaten all the way through 3 a. m. and 5 a. m. they're dragging him back out. Then Jesus sends is uh is sent off to Herod where Jesus is roughly handled Treated with contempt, mocked, dressed in a robe to be made fun of in Luke 23. And then after all of that, after multiple beatings through a sleepless night, he appears again before Pilate. And now he's subjected to the scourging. And like I mentioned, Matthew passes over this lightly, but there is nothing light about the scourge. As one author describes it, it took place, it would appear on the platform where the trial had been held, and in the eyes of all, the victim was stripped stretched out against a pillar or bent low over a post, his hands being tied so that he had no means of defending himself The instrument of torture was a sort of cat of nine-tails, with bits of iron or bone attached to the ends of the leather strips, so that it would dig in and rip out with every stroke. Not only did the blows cut the skin and draw blood, but not infrequently the victim died in the midst of the scourging. According to Deuteronomy 25 and verse 2, a criminal who deserved to be beaten could only receive 40 lashes. Nothing more than 40 lashes. But the Romans didn't have any such restrictions. They could beat a criminal for as long as they wanted to with whatever they wanted to. Matthew simply passes over the words slightly. After being scourged, after having Jesus scourged, what Matthew focuses on. And the verses that follow isn't the physical affliction. If Matthew wanted to do that, focus on the physical affliction, he would have given us all the details about the scourging and the crucifixion. That's not what Matthew focuses on. What Matthew focuses our attention on is the mockery and the ridicule against the one who was born to be the king. It's his glory that's offended. Look again at verses 27 to 31. So then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium Gathered the whole Roman cohort around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it in his head. on his head and a reed in his right hand, and they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, Hell, king of the Jews! They spat on him and took the reed and began to beat him on the head, and after they had mocked him, they took the scarlet robe off him and put his own garments back on him and led him away to crucify him. And this is our second point. Jesus is humiliated before his crucifixion. Jesus is humiliated. That's the overwhelming emphasis of the of the passage, that Jesus is humiliated. He's handed over for his crucifixion in 26 Then he's humiliated before his crucifixion starting in verse twenty-seven. The soldiers gather around him, robe him, crown him, place the symbol of authority in his hand, and bow before him all so that they can sit on him as they stand up. Remove his symbol of authority, the wreath from his hand, beat him on his crowned head and strip him and lead him to his crucifixion to die alone. Every symbol of glory that they give to him, they remove it. Because to them Jesus is nothing more than a clown king. He's a joke. They make a mockery of his claim to be the king. So first they gathered around him. Verse 27. The soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the praetorium and gathered the whole Roman cohort around him. If if there was anybody who was ignorant about the significance of what they were doing on this day, it was these guys The Roman cohort traveled with Pilate, and Pilate usually resided in a place known as Caesarea Maritime on the Mediterranean coast outside of Galilee, away from Jerusalem. And the soldiers were largely made up of Syrians, so if there's any group to whom the words could apply, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they are doing, it's these guys. It would have been these soldiers And at least one of the soldiers, after he saw the way that the Lord died, was forgiven because he turned in Mark chapter 15 and verse 39 and says, truly, this man was the Son of God. But there's no excuse for what these soldiers do. What they do is still wicked, but they're ignorantly wicked. And following the scourging of Jesus, which they were ordered to do by Pilate, the scourging was ordered. But now they do what they were not ordered to do, which was to mock the prisoner. But first they want to gather the crowd around. Let's get an audience for this A cohort was a tenth of a legion, which meant that a cohort was made up of 600 soldiers at full strength. And our text says that they gathered the whole Roman cohort or the whole battalion together. 600 people. Hey, let's get everybody together for this one, guys. Hey, gather around, we got a show over here. Why do they gather everybody? Because they don't want anybody to miss the festivities. Jesus is going to be the entertainment for the morning, guys. He's going to be our entertainment. He's the main attraction. But it's for all the wrong reasons. Jesus is not your entertainment. Jesus is not here to amuse you. It's not some kind of amusement, some kind of hobby to pass your time with. And these buffoons didn't even think twice about who was really in front of them It was all fun and games for them. If they could use Jesus to draw a crowd, to get some laughs, hey, they do that. They could care less about who Jesus said he was. They were more concerned about getting a couple laughs off of this one Pastor Matt reminded me of an interaction that Charles Spurgeon had that illustrates this point. Listen to this. At one time Mr. P. T. Barnum, head of the great Barnum and Bailey Circus, invited Charles Haddon Spurgeon of London to speak in the large tent at his traveling circus. He made every concession to make the offer attractive to Spurgeon. Barnum would provide the musical talent unless Spurgeon wished to provide his own. He would provide any equipment or manpower Spurgeon desired. Spurden could speak as long or as short as he wished. There was only one basic stipulation. Barnum Circus Association would take the gate receipts And pay Spurgeon $1,000 per lecture. This was a generous offer in Spurgeon's day. Many would doubtless have said, what a wonderful opportunity to reach people with the gospel, but not Spurgeon. Knowing it would be wrong to join hands with the world, he sent a reply to Mr. Barnum. Dear Mr. Barnum, thank you for your kind invitation to lecture in your circus. Tense in America, you will find my answer in Acts 13, verse 10. Very sincerely yours, Charles Fergin. I'm not sure if Mr. Barnum ever looked up Acts 13 verse 10, but if he had, this is what he would have found. You who are full of all deceit and fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to make crooked the straight ways of the Lord? All Mr. Barnum was interested in was filling his seats and filling his packets. He he wasn't interested in the message that Spurgeon wanted to give. It was all entertainment for him. Hey, this is show business. Whoever's gonna draw the crowd, I mean we'll partner with them. Get the biggest crowd around. This is all for a show. Jesus is our entertainment for tonight. Ladies and gentlemen, next on stage we have Jesus Christ. I mean, that's the way that these people are looking at Jesus. He's nothing more than a spectacle. Over in Acts chapter 8, there was a man who was known for drawing crowds named Simon the Sorcerer. You can flip over there real quick, Acts chapter 8. There was a man who is known for drawing crowds. In Acts chapter 8 and verse 9, it says that he was astonishing the people of Samaria, claiming to be someone great. And he offered to buy the power of the Holy Spirit in order to draw a greater crowd and greater attention to himself. But listen to what Peter says to him in Acts chapter 8 in verse 20. Look at verse 20. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you. Because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. The Spirit of God is not going to be used for your amusement. It's not going to be used for your entertainment to draw a greater crowd to yourself for some personal profit. But here the crowds were drawn together for the show. And don't think that because some celebrity comes to Christ, it's like, oh, that's what we need. We need we need you need the the bigger audience, the bigger platform. That is not The way that Christ talks about himself and that the gospel is spread. But listen to what listen to what happens here. Here the crowds are drawn together. All this is done in the presence of Pilate, if you want to flip back over to Matthew chapter 27. Pilate is already personally interacted with Jesus, who told Pilate that he was a king. His wife warned him, have nothing to do with this righteous man. For I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. Pilate knows that Jesus is innocent, but he still orders the scourge. And then he stands by idly and watches the circus go down in his own house. Because all of this is happening in the praetorium. Which was the governor's headquarters in Jerusalem. He allowed Jesus to be used for a soldier's amusement, even though he knows better. He knew that Jesus was innocent. to gather around Jesus, but this king is going to have the last laugh, isn't he? Because one day the nations will be gathered together to stand before him as judge. Matthew 25, verse 32 says, All the nations will be gathered before him. Oh, these these soldiers are going to gather again. These soldiers are going to gather again. But it's not going to be for the laugh this time. They're going to gather together again for the judgment. Matthew 25, 32, all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. Revelation 20, verse 12 says, And I saw the dead, the great, and the small standing before the throne. Even though the the king is mocked now, the king will not be mocked on that day. He has the last laugh. Not only did they gather around him, but they also robed him. They robed him. Look at verse 28 Since they stripped him and put a scarlet robe around him. If you remember, uh Jesus would have been scourged just before this mocking took place. And before they they scourged him, they would have stripped him, stretched him out , beat him with the scourge, and after his scourging his own garments would have been placed back on him. But only minutes after his garments would have settled into the gaping wounds and the lacerated flesh. His robe is ripped off of him, which would have sent shacks down his entire body. All of this so they could throw a scarlet robe around him, because after all, you know, the king has to be dressed for the occasion. Scarlet cloak was probably one of the short red cloaks that was worn by a Roman military officer. Apparently it was an old faded cloak. Might have even appeared a shade of purple according to Mark 15, verse 17, that says they dressed him in purple. So the purple was the the color of the the emperor and of the king, so this kind of faded red cloak looked like a purple. So they say, hey, this looks like a kingly robe fit for the king. Let's throw this on him. This is the same kind of game that Herod played with Jesus over in Luke chapter 23 in verse 11, where it says Herod with the soldiers, after treating him with contempt and mocking him, dressed him in a gorgeous robe and sent him back to Pilate. Dressed them up in some kind of kingly garment, some kind of dazzling display. It uses the word lamprise to describe the garment in Luke chapter 23. And in both cases, it was meant to mock Jesus. It's like, hey, you call yourself a king, you're not dressed like a king. Let's dress you up, make you more fitting for the occasion here, your majesty. Where's your royal attire? Where's the poppin' circumstance? There's no need to take you seriously based on your appearance. You look nothing like a king Isaiah 53 in verse 2 says, He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. I mean, think about his herald, John the Baptist, right? Wore camel's hair, lived off of locusts and wild honey, was beheaded at the end of his life. You know, so so the the forerunner is the guy who stands out in the wilderness and eats bugs? Like that like that's the one who's uh proclaiming the king, the bug eater, out there in the wilderness, dressed in the camel hair Your disciples, your your entourage, fishermen, tax collectors, zealots. He told the people, he told the people who followed him, the foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay his head. What kind of king are you? And then he shows up with just regular Garments. Where's the royal garments? What reason do you give for me to follow you? And believers, if the the message that you're giving to people It's to follow Christ, to live your best life now. That's false advertising and a false message. It's a false gospel. Jesus didn't attract people because he lived a lavish lifestyle. Because he had a designer wardrobe. He was mocked because of what he wore. The blessings of Christianity are not health, wealth, and success. Jesus has no appearance that we should be attracted to him. Following Christ is costly. It's always been costly. But when Jesus comes back, every eye is going to see him and recognize him for who he truly is, right? 1 John 3 2, we will see him just as he is. Matthew 24, 30, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. Jesus is going to come back and he's going to be dazzling, right? It's the same blinding glory that Jesus revealed himself in the transfiguration in Matthew 17, where it says that his face shone like the sun and his garments became as white as light. How's that for kingly appearance, right? He's going to come back and blind everybody with what he wears. Revelation 113 says he'll come clothed in a robe, reaching to the feet, girded across his chest with the golden sash, and his robe won't be stained by his own blood this time. It's going to be dipped in the blood of his enemies. Revelation 19, verse 15 says, He treads the winepress of the fierce wrath of God the Almighty. He's not going to be mocked when he comes back. And he's not going to be stripped of his robe when he comes back. Just think about the indignity of stripping the Son of God. Gathered around him, disrobed him just so they could make a mockery of him. Next they crown him, verse 29. It says, after twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head. If you've ever seen the picture of uh Roman emperors or Caesars, they they 're commonly depicted wearing a wreath of some kind A laurel wreath in particular was a symbol of victory, and uh for emperors it represented their authority. It had a broad evergreen leaf and gave off a pleasant aroma But the wreath that was crafted for Jesus was a painful mockery of the laurel wreath. We don't know exactly what kind of thorns were used, but there are trees that grow in the warmer part of the climate in Palestine and Jerusalem. That would have been well suited for this purpose that have flexible branches and thorns up to two inches in length. That would have been numerous sharp and would have easily driven themselves into a scalp as they were pressed down. We already know that Jesus would become a curse for us, right? Galatians 3. 13 says, Curse, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on the tree. So we know that Jesus was going to be a curse. And it's not a far stretch to see a picture of that curse in the thorns that Jesus bore on his head even now because what was the symbol of the curse in Genesis? Genesis 3. Genesis 3. 17 says, Cursed is the ground because of you, and toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you. These thorns wouldn't even exist if it wasn't for the curse of sin. And that symbol of the curse was pressed down on his very head. These soldiers have no idea who they're mocking. Here's the one who's come to take away the curse and they scorn him with the symbol of the curse. And it's all a big joke. Oh, he looks like a king now, doesn't he? Get a crown on him. Crown him with many crowns. But that sacred head will wear many crowns, won't he? Revelation 14, 14 says, Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud. And sitting on the cloud was one like a son of man having a golden crown on his head. Revelation 19, 12 says, His eyes are a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, many kingly crowns. And to him belongs the victory over every nation for all time, right? Revelation 11:15, the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever And what appeared to these soldiers as a big joke was really the most sober reality, because Jesus is the king. And Jesus will wear his crown. And Jesus will have the last laugh. They also put a wooden reed in Jesus' right hand, verse 29 again. It says, uh, and a reed in his right hand And it's purposeful that they chose to place it in Jesus' right hand because the right hand was considered the place of power and privilege. The right side was considered the strong side. And the scepter of the king was the symbol of his strength and his power to rule. If you remember back in Esther chapter 4. 11, if you entered into the presence of the king and he did not extend his scepter to you, your life was over with. Like this the scepter was a symbol of his power over your very life. A king could demand your life by the movement of a scepter And if Jesus was going to play the king, he needed his own scepter. He needs to wield some authority. So they find a reed which would have been nothing more than a staff or a stick. Placed it in his hand to complete the picture, and you can just imagine the laughter that would have broke out at this point. Here he is, he looks like a king now, doesn't he? Oh, your majesty may enter your presence Look ridiculous. Nothing to fear here. What was there to be afraid of before this mute and docile Jesus? None of these soldiers would have been able to imagine that Jesus would be anything to be afraid of, right? But the scriptures let us know that this same Jesus would one day carry a very different kind of scepter. The nations will be turned over to him, and he will rule over them with what? What kind of instrument is he going to rule over the nations with? It's going to be a rod of iron. Revelation 19, 15 says, From his mouth comes a sharp sword, so that with it he may strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. Revelation 2. 27, and he shall rule them with the rod of iron as the vessels of the potter are broken to pieces. It's a quotation from Psalm 2 verse 9. You shall break them with a rod of iron. You shall shatter them like earthenware. It's like taking a baseball bat to your China cabinet. The nations will shatter to pieces before this king. All the nations of the earth won't be able to stand before the king, and now here's a couple hundred soldiers who think they really have the upper hand on Jesus. They haven't got a clue. And they bow before him to mock him with a sign of respect. Look at verse 29 again. A read in his right hand, and they and they knelt down before him and mocked him, saying, Hell, king of the Jews. Bowing was a sign of respect given to a superior, particularly a king, but they had no idea that one day they will bow again. They bowed now, but they're going to one day bow again, right? And on that day they just won't call him king. Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is what? Lord. Philippians 2, 9 through 11, for this reason also, God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus Every knee will bow of those who are in the heaven and on the earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's a quotation from Isaiah 45 in a passage that makes it unmistakably clear that there's only one God, right? Put back to Isaiah 45 real quick. Isaiah 45. It's a passage that makes it clear that there's only one God. In Isaiah 45 and verse 18, he's called the only Creator. In verse 21, he's called the only omniscient God. In verse 22, he's called the only Savior. Then listen to what God says in verse 23, Isaiah 45, look at verse 23. He says, I have sworn by myself. The word has gone forth from my mouth in righteousness and will not turn back. That to me every knee will bow. Every tongue will swear allegiance. They will say of me, Only in the Lord are righteousness and strength. Men will come to him, and all who were angry at him will be put to shame. There's people who are going to be ashamed on that day, but it won't be the Lord. Jesus Christ is Lord. Yahweh in the Old Testament. Jesus Christ is God, fully God. And Jesus won't be put to shame. He has the last word. This time, as these soldiers bow before Jesus, he appears like the fool. He doesn't even seek to protect himself from their insults. He just takes it. I mean just think about that. He just stands there and lets it happen. Let's him put the crown of thorns on his head. He doesn't resist. They throw the reed in his hand, he takes the reed. Strip him of his clothes. They put on the robe. Jesus doesn't resist any of this. Isaiah 53 verse 7 says he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shearer, so he did not open his mouth. Isaiah 50, verse 6 says, I gave my back to those who strike me, and my cheeks to those who pluck out the beard. I did not cover my face from humiliation and spitting. It's painful even to imagine what that might have looked like. Back in Matthew 27, verses 30 and 31, just take us right back through all the steps that got us here. Shows how all the degrading, every aspect of this mockery was really used just to keep on Jesus' scorn. The one they bowed before held as king. They bowed before him only so they could rise and spit in his face. They bowed down in a sign of respect and then they rise to spit in his face. They spat on him, verse 30. The reed that they placed in his right hand was ripped from his hand so they could beat him on his head with it. They took the reed and began to beat him on the head, right into the crown of thorns. The text never mentions removing the crown of thorns because it was probably beaten right into his scalp by this point. And the word for beat is actually in the imperfect tense, which means that they continually beat him. They kept beating him repeatedly. What kind of authority do you have? I'll take your authority from you and I'll beat you with it. How are you like that, Jesus? How are you like that, King? And it's not hard to imagine the entire line of soldiers all getting in on the act, passing Jesus around, all taking their shots at Jesus. Hey, here's the entertainment for the guys. You don't want to miss this one. I'm not sure if you've ever seen the movie Unbroken , but it's the true story about a man named Louis Zamparini, who was a prisoner of war. During uh World War II in a northern uh Japanese uh prison camp is held captive and tormented By one of the forty most wanted war criminals in Japan who was nicknamed the Bird. In the book about Zamporini's life by the same title and broken, it describes the punishment that he once received in the war camp with a a few chosen men. The the bird, this uh war criminal, announced that each enlisted man would punch him in the face as hard as possible. There were some 100 men. Any man who refused to carry out the order, the bird said, would meet the same fate as the officers. He told the guards to club any men who didn't strike the men, the chosen men, with maximum force. The men enlisted had no choice. At first they tried to hit softly, but the bird studied each blow. When a man didn't punch hard enough, the bird would begin shrieking and clubbing him, joined by the other guards. Then the errant man would be forced to hit the victim repeatedly until the bird was satisfied. Louis began whispering to each man to get it over with. Hit hard. For the very few first punches, Louis stayed on his feet, but his legs soon began to waver, and he collapsed. He pulled himself upright, but fell again with the next punch, and then the next. Eventually he blacked out. When he came to, the bird forced the men to resume punching him, screaming, next! Next! Next! In Louis's whirling mind, the voice began to sound like the tramping of feet. The sun sank. The beating went on for some two hours. When every enlisted man had done his punching, the bird ordered the clubs. The guards to club each one twice in the head with the kendo stick. The victims had to be carried to the barracks. Louis's face was so swollen that for several days he could barely open his mouth. By one estimate, each man had been punched in the face some 220 times. Jesus had 600 men that gathered around him. All wanting to take their chance at Jesus, to mock, to spit, to repeatedly beat him in the head until he was an unrecognized mass. And Matthew doesn't fill in the detail, but I want you to see what happened at this point. Flip over to John chapter 19. John 19 Takes us to this very same scene in the life of Christ and fills in a little bit of the details for the story. Look at uh John 19 starting at verse 1. Verse 1 says, Pilate then took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and put a purple robe on him. And they began to come up to him and say, Hail King of the Jews, and to give him slaps in the face. Pilate came out again and said to them, Behold, I am bringing him out to you, so that you may know that I find no guilt in him. What do you mean you find no guilt in him? After he's gone through this abuse, now I'm going to take him out and say, hey guys, I just want to let you know I find no guilt in this man Then this should have never happened in the first place. Why order the scourge? Why stand by idly as this happens right within your house, as you're watching it all take place? And then you bring them out to say, I don't find any fault in them. It was inexcusable. Verse 5, it says, Jesus then came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Behold the man. Pilate. Feared that Jesus was a righteous man, but he didn't fear that Jesus was anything more than just a man You know, Jesus bleeds like any other man bleeds, staggers like any other man staggers. Certainly no kind of threat to Rome. And Pilate's hope is that after Jesus is brought out in this unrecognizable form after being beaten so many times, after being scourged, after all the abuse , That the people would look at Jesus and somehow that it would draw some sympathy out of them. Certainly this crowd is going to think that this is punishment enough for whatever he's done to offend them. I mean certainly there's some Some grain of sympathy within your hearts for this guy. I mean, isn't this enough? Behold the man, look at him. But look at what they say in verse 6. So when the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him! Crucify! Paul said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die because he made himself out to be the Son of God. Therefore, when Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. And he entered into the praetorum again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave them no answer. After Pilate hears that Jesus claims to have a divine origin, he pulls him back into the Praetorium. Remember, he brought him out to show him to the Jews. To say, hey, look at him. He's just a man. You know, certainly you're going to let him go. After he hears that he's the son of God, he pulls him back inside. Okay, tell me, where are you from? Who are you really? But Jesus doesn't answer. Why should Jesus give additional light when Pilate didn't respond to the light that he already had? Pilate should have listened to his conscience that said this man is innocent. Pilate should have listened to his wife that says, Have nothing to do with this righteous man. Now it's too late. Now you want to find out who he really is. Jesus doesn't even respond. But then Pilate tries to throw around his weight, and Jesus simply reminds him that any authority you have is from above. Look at verse 10. So Pilate said to him, You do not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you? And I have authority to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no authority over me Unless it had been given you from above. For this reason, he who delivered me to you has the greater sin. What he lets him know is that all all authority comes from above. And we're held accountable for how we use that authority that comes from above. And Jesus makes it clear that Pilate abused his authority that was given to him from above. Powet was in sin for violating what he knew to be true. He knew that Jesus was innocent. He found no guilt, but he still went through with it. But the one who delivered Jesus over to Pilate had even a greater revelation. So Pilate knew that Jesus was innocent, right? He knew that. He sinned against that. But the one who delivered Jesus over to Pilate had an even greater revelation. Because as Jesus stood before Caiaphas just hours before this, Caiaphas asked the question. In Matthew 26, verse 63, the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. And Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you, hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. The high priest knew that Jesus was the Son of God. Pilate knew that Jesus was innocent. The one who had the greater sin was the one who had the greater revelation. But even in light of the revelation that Pilate had, he. Still went through with this heinous crime. And just as a reminder, the greater revelation that you have, it's the greater accountability you'll have before the Lord. Pilate had a great revelation. Caiaphas had an even greater revelation, but we're all responsible for what we know. In Luke 12, verse 47, it says, And that slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will will receive many lashes. To whom much is given, much is what? Much is required. You've been given a lot, you're held accountable for a lot. But even with this extra information That's still not enough to keep Pilate from following through with the crucifixion. Over in verse 12 of John 19, it says, As a result of this, Pilate made efforts to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If you release this man, you are no friend of Caesar. Everyone who makes makes himself out to be a king opposes Caesar. Therefore, when Pilate heard these words he brought Jesus out, sat down in the judgment seat at a place called the pavement, but in Hebrew Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation for the Passover, it was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king! So they cried out, Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him Paul said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And the priest, chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he then handed him over to be crucified. You can flip back over to Matthew twenty seven at this point But that just fills in a little bit more of the story. So at this point, as he's handed over to be crucified, they rip the robe. that they put on him to decorate him, they rip the robe back off of his flesh. And the crowd that gathered to mock him goes back to whatever realms. or whatever duties they had to perform, and Jesus is finally led away to be crucified. I know we often think about the the pain of Jesus' suffering, but have you considered the shame? Of his suffering? Even in the events leading up to the cross? That Jesus was shamed on your behalf? Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 2 says fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the what? The shame. And I sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. What Christ endured was shameful. Shameful. Isaiah 53, verse 3 says, He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. The kind of beating that Christ endured would have made him even grotesque to look at. Psalm 22, verse 6 says, But I am a worm and not a man. They reproach of men and despised by the people. And for the one who endured this kind of shame, are you ashamed of him? The one who endured shame for you, are you ashamed of him? Are you ashamed to be associated with Jesus Christ? Are his words too much for you to repeat? Are his actions too radical for you to stand by? Is his suffering too repulsive to proclaim? Believers, we followed a crucified Savior. We follow a crucified and despised Savior, and that's nothing for us to be ashamed about. 2 Timothy 1, verse 8 says, Therefore do not be ashamed. of the testimony of our Lord or of me as prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel according to the power of God. Think about his substitution and his suffering I love what J. C. Rowell said at this point. He says, we may follow him at every step as our mighty substitute, our representative, our head, our surety, our proxy. From the bar of Pilate to thy might minute of his to the minute of his death, was he flogged? It was done so that by his wounds we are healed Was he condemned, even though he was innocent? It was done so that we may be acquitted through though guilty. Did he wear a crown of thorns? It was done so that we might wear the crown of glory. Was he stripped of his clothes? It was done so that we might be clothed in everlasting righteousness. Was he mocked and reviled? It was done so that we might be honored and blessed. Was he reckoned a criminal and counted among those who have done wrong? It was done so that we might be reckoned innocent and declared free from all sin. Was he declared unable to save himself? It was so that he might save others to the uttermost. Did he die at last in that most painful and disgraceful of deaths? It was done so that we might live forevermore and be exalted to the highest glory. Let us ponder these things, for they are worth remembering And the last point I would mention is that we need to think about our participation in a suffering. And this is just a brief observation, but worth mentioning. Look back at Matthew 27 and verse 32. It says, as they were coming out, they found a man of Cyrene named Simon, whom they pressed into service to bear his cross. And this is where Jesus has helped to his crucifixion. And it's a small detail that's picked up on Matthew, but as Jesus is leaving the praetorium, making his way to Galgotha, it's clear to the soldiers that were escorting him that he wouldn't be able to make it to the place of his crucifixion, which is traditionally just outside the western wall of Jerusalem, would have been less than about 2,000 feet And Jesus would have been so physically exhausted that it was apparent that he couldn't carry the beam of the cross by himself. Jesus was so weakened by the constant beatings, the scourging, the loss of blood. The carrying the beam proved difficult. Some say if he carried the entire cross, it would have been up to 200 pounds. If it was only the beam, it would have been considerably less than that. But even that was too much for Jesus at this point. Simon of Cyrene was a Jewish pilgrim who happened to be passing by. Simon was a typical Jewish name, and Cyrene was located in Africa, modern-day Libya. Had a large Jewish settlement there, and apparently Simon was in town for the Passover. Happened to be passing by. And this would have been the worst kind of request to make of a Jewish person on the Passover. I mean, crucifixion itself was utterly repulsive to the Jewish people. And out of all days to ask him to bear the cross on a Passover day? It's certain that the beam would have been covered in blood, which means Simon wouldn't have likely been able to do what? To celebrate the Passover. So here they get this guy who's just in town for the Passover. Hey, you're going to carry the cross. But according to Matthew 5. 41, Roman soldiers could force anyone to carry a burden for a mile. And Golgotha was less than a mile. We're not told anything about what Simon said, how he felt. But Mark adds an interesting detail to this account over in Mark chapter 15 and verse 21. I'll just read it for you. Mark chapter 15 and verse 21. It says they pressed into service a passer by coming from the country. Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross. You think about this, it's like, why would Mark tell us who Simon's children are? The father of Alexander and Rufus It's likely because the New Testament church knew who his children were. There's only one other Rufus mentioned in the New Testament. And it's in Romans chapter 16 and verse 13. Let me just read it for you. Romans 16. Verse 13, it says, Greet Rufus, a choice man in the Lord, also his mother and mine. And we can't say this with certainty, but it's not a hard stretch to say that Simon, who literally picked up the cross of Jesus that day, also spiritually picked up the cross of Jesus as well. And that's what everyone does who comes after Christ, right? Matthew 16, verse 24, then Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone wishes to come after me. He must deny himself, take up his cross, follow me, for whoever wishes to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? The cross is repulsive, it's despised, it's shameful, but as Christians, we bear the reproach of Christ and we embrace the emblem of shame. Amen. Amen. In the words of uh of a hymn, Jesus on my cross have taken. Listen to these words. Jesus on my cross have taken. All to leave and follow thee. Destitute, despised, forsaken, thou from hence my all shall be. Perish every fond ambition, All I've sought or hoped, or known. Yet how rich is my condition, God in heaven are still my own Let the world despise and leave me. They have left my Saviour too. Human hearts and looks deceive me. Thou art not like them untrue. O while thou dost smile upon me, God of wisdom, love and might, foes may hate and friends disown me. Show thy face. And all is bright. Do you embrace the cross? Do you embrace the shame of the cross of Jesus Christ, recognizing that in the cross is our greatest glory? Amen. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for uh this opportunity that we have to uh come before you, Lord, to think about these words together, uh to think about the cross of Christ. Uh Father, I pray that we would glory in the cross and that we would not turn away from the shame even in the suffering of Jesus Christ. And that as good soldiers, those who have been bought by Christ, that we would endure suffering alongside of him. And those who are faithful to you, Father, that we would uh embrace uh the suffering of Jesus Christ and the reproach for him, and uh Father, that uh we would find in that our greatest glory, that we would be associated with this one. who is the king, who is coming back, and the one who has the last word and the last laugh. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.