The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, uh today we'll be continuing our journey through the book of Romans, and uh it's been a privilege to walk verse by verse uh through this epistle, through the pages of Romans together. And uh when you're forced to slow down and consider what you're reading, there's connections uh that you might not make otherwise. Uh you you you're there's truth that you're forced to encounter uh that you might not otherwise observe and consider. And uh these verses that we're going to consider today uh aren't the kind of verses that people put on Christian t-shirts. Uh they're not the the type of verses that go on coffee mugs, but the argument that Paul has been making can't be captured with a meme, uh with a soundbite, or with a tweet with 280 characters. What Paul is uh doing here is he's making a sustained argument. He's dealing with arguments and counter-arguments. in order to defend the righteousness of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ, to defend the righteousness of God and to declare the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it's it's really a masterclass And how to deal with these various arguments that we might face as believers. And the last time we were together, we saw that Paul was dismantling the belief that your religious lineage Your religious knowledge, your religious heritage, or your religious rituals could do anything to save you from the wrath of God And those were some of the particular hiding places of the religious Jews. But there are parallels to Christianity as well. Back in chapter 2 and verse 17, Paul reminds them that they could not find safety in bearing the name Jew. They cannot find safety in their religious lineage. They bore the name Jew, but simply being able to trace your lineage back to Abraham was not going to be enough to save you on the day of judgment. In Luke chapter 16 and verse 24, it describes the son of Abraham who lifted up his eyes in the flame. The rich man in Luke chapter 16, 24, cried out and said, Father Abraham. Have mercy on me and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water to cool off my tongue. Here we have a son of Abraham who lifts up his eyes in the flame Being a son of Abraham wasn't enough to protect them from judgment. Your DNA match cannot help you on the day of judgment. It's not going to be enough to save you, but you have a family of faith. They also can depend on their religious knowledge. In verse 17, it says they rely upon the law in chapter 2 and verse 17. But their reliance on the law did not mean that they knew the Lord. Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 8 says in the sobering passage, those who handle the law do not know me. Handling the word of God alone does not save you. If you remember the scribes and the Pharisees, they were the professional teachers and the professional students of the law, but Jesus also called them the sons of hell. You handle the law all the time and and you make those who follow you twice the sons of hell as you are Knowing the Bible itself is no protection on the day of judgment. You can be a Sunday school teacher, you can be a pastor, you can be an armchair theologian, it doesn't matter. You could be an itinerant conference speaker. Preacher across the world and still be unsaved. You can be a world famous apologist Somebody who likes to debate Christianity among your friends and still be on your way to hell, and we know examples of both of those. Defending the faith and declaring the faith is not the same thing as trusting in Christ You can declare the faith, be an evangelist. You can defend the faith as an apologist and still not have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Your knowledge can be nothing more than just a cloak for wickedness, a mask for sin. And it also wasn't a protection to have a religious heritage. The nation of Israel was associated with the God of the universe God identifies himself as the God of Israel hundreds of times in Scripture. Israel boasted in God, but having God associated with your nation said nothing about whether or not those individuals within that nation were associated with God. They boasted in God, they wore the jersey, but they did not know him. In Jeremiah chapter 9 and verse 24 it says, But let him who boasts boast of this that he understands and knows me. And how many people associate themselves with God, but don't know him. You can boast about God. You can talk about God. You can bless God. Praise God. Whenever you greet somebody, you know, praise the Lord. But does that mean that you really have a relationship with the God of the universe? You know, what you post and tweet is it in your heart? Or is it just what's on the outside? Has he transformed your life? And will he acknowledge you on the day of judgment? And then finally, Paul uncovers the hiding place of ceremonies and rituals. In verse 25 of chapter 2, he says, For indeed, circumcision is of value if you practice the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. All of your ceremonies are no substitute for a transformed heart. In Isaiah chapter 1 and verse 11, it says, What are your multiplied sacrifices to me, says the Lord? I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams, the fat of fed cattle. I take no pleasure in the blood of bulls, lambs, or goats. When you come to appear before me, who requires of you this trampling of my courts? Bring your worthless offerings no longer. Incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath, the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure. Iniquity and the solemn assembly. I hate your new moon festivals and your appointed feasts. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. I mean, think about that for a moment. The God who says that I do not become weary or tired. He says, now when you come before me with your hypocrisy, I am tired of it. I'm weary of bearing this. All these ordained signs, symbols But even the things that God ordains, if you start to trust in them instead of Him, then that becomes the burden. It 's hypocrisy. You know, just like you know in the the wilderness, you know, God had uh Moses set up a bronze serpent so that the people would look on it and be saved. Remember that? They'd be healed of their plague. But then what did the people turn around and do? They started to worship the bronze serpent. And then the bronze serpent became the burden. Get rid of this thing. You had to chop it up and get rid of it. People can take signs and symbols and substitute that for the real thing. Substitute it for a real relationship with God. And so much could be said the same for Christianity today. Can I How many people are trusting in their baptism to save you? Did you trust in your baptism to save you? Did you trust in uh eating a wafer at communion to save you? You know, some grace that was added to your life. Did you believe that some priest or a pastor had a connection with God? And that if he prayed for you or anointed you on your head, put a little bit of little dabble do you, right? A little bit of oil on the head. And that somehow is going to connect you with God, that you're safe now. Do you think making the sign of the cross or wearing a cross around your neck is somehow going to protect you? Did you think that Mary or some saint in heaven could actually pray you through? Did you think praying to the dead was going to help you? Praying to a saint? I mean, I I don't know how you pray to a saint and don't make the connection that you're praying to the dead. Praying to a saint. Somebody who's already died, as if they can help you. Did you think think you were safe? Because you prayed to a saint? I don't know what the difference is between that and witchcraft. And when we trust in these symbols, we wear God out. We burden God. And when it comes to these ceremonies and rituals and signs and symbols, God says they've become a burden to me. I I'm weary of them. It's a grief to me. Bowing before a saint, receiving a communion wafer, and trusting in that. God says, I can't take it anymore. And at the close of Romans chapter 2, Paul was reminding his Jewish readers that everything that they were doing was on the outside. They they focus so much on the externals. But God was concerned about what? The heart. You know, here you are, you're concerned about everything on the outside and how you dress and how you look and how big your head is and what cross you're wearing and everything else and gases. I'm not that that's not what concerns me. I'm concerned about the heart. And if those symbols don't say anything about your heart, I don't want them. I don't want it Chapter 2 verse 29, he says, He's a Jew who's won inwardly, and circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter, and his praise is not from men, but from God. Like I said, Paul is just masterful in the way that he presents truth because he's already anticipating that there's going to be objections to what he's just shared. He already knows what they're going to say before it gets out of their mouth. Because the objection is, if my lineage and my knowledge and my heritage and my rituals mean nothing, then what was the purpose of all of it? Why did God command these things? Why did God give us these things? Why give us circumcision if it doesn't mean anything? If my circumcision doesn't make me any better than a pagan Gentile, why did God have me do it in the first place? What are we doing here? What advantage is there in being Jewish? I thought we were the chosen people of God, Paul, and now you're going to tell me that I'm no better than a pagan, unbelieving, Gentile? Paul, certainly you can't mean that. I mean, I mean it's it's got to give me a couple notches above on the day of judgment. You can't tell me that I'm at the same place. What benefit was there in any of it? And in a similar way, I've asked people, I've had I've talked to people, you know, and let them know that, you know, hey, your baptism doesn't save you, your communion doesn't save you, your attendance at church doesn't save you. And you've had similar conversations, haven't you? Well well, why am I doing all this then If this doesn't add to my standing before God, I mean, why communion? Why baptism? Why church attendance? I mean, why all these things if that doesn't save me? If if this isn't part of earning my way to God, why do any of it? Why did He command any of it? And this is a text that I believe will help you answer some of those objections and what Paul shows us is that those who argue in that way are really attacking the character of God. That's what they're really attacking. And like I've said before, our greatest problem is really theological. Theological problems that we have. Tozer, A. W. Tozer in his book, The Knowledge of the Holy He says, what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. What what what comes into your mind when you think about God? Who do you think God to be? And here you have those who are objecting to Paul. You know, they're they're saying like, hey, God's like a I mean he's like a tyrant. Having me do all this stuff for nothing? You know, God just like makes up rules for no purpose. I mean, he's just capricious. You know, God, he's he's unjust, he's unfair. Why would he have us do all this if it's not earning us anything before him You know, he's just kind of making us go through the rituals for nothing. You know, so so they're really attacking God. It's really what they they think about about him. And Paul's defense against the debater of this age is The character of God. Let me talk to you about who God is. And there's a series of questions that are raised in this objection that are all answered by the character and the perfections of God. And uh let's go ahead and just take a look at our text and then we'll walk through these together. Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 1. Paul says, then what advantage has the Jew, or what is the benefit of circumcision? Great in every respect. First of all, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God. What then if some did not believe, their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? May it never be. Rather let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. As it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I'm speaking in human terms. May it never be, for otherwise, how will God judge the world? But if through my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I also being judged as a sinner? And why not say, as we are slanderously reported, and as some claim that we say, let us do evil that good may come. Their condemnation is just. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, and as we always do, Lord, just asking for your help. Lord, asking for your grace as we open up your word, I pray that you would speak to us through your truth. Father, I pray that Uh you would allow uh your word, Lord, to have application in our lives, even as we read about an ancient people and ancient practices and rituals and symbols, Lord. Father, that these things wouldn't just be distant from us, Lord. These are things that we grapple with, Lord, day in and day out, and with those around us. And Father, just understanding this helps us to clarify the gospel. So Father, I pray that you would allow us to hear these things, Lord. Help us to understand what we read. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Paul's defense against this debater, again, is the character of God. And what he talks about within this section of scripture is number one, the oracles of God, his word. In verses 1 and 2. The faithfulness of God in verse 3, and you can find it right there, their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? The righteousness of God in verses 4 to 6, and you see it there in verse 5. But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, it's about his righteousness. And then verses 7 to 8 speak about the glory of God. He says, but if through my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I also being judged as a sinner? And this is what Those who are objecting against Paul didn't really understand. They didn't understand the word of God, the faithfulness of God, the righteousness of God. or the glory of God. And God is really his own best defense. So what Paul does is just holds up the Lord before us. And I love the words of Spurgeon, you know, you don't have to defend a lion, you just let it loose. And the same could be said for the Lord as well as for Scripture, you know, to just let it let it loose and uh God will defend Himself. And the job of the apologist, the true job of the apologist is just to hold God up and get out the way. You know, that that's what we're doing in defending the faith. We're presenting people with the truth. and getting out of the way, presenting people with God and getting out of the way and let let them deal with that. Let them deal with the scriptures. Let them deal with the the God who sees all and knows all. And the first encounter that we have, this first objection in verse 1, is what advantage has the Jew? Or what benefit is circumcision? And this really argues that God really isn't trustworthy. I mean, why did he give us all of these things if it didn't mean anything? Like God is just, like I said, just kind of capricious. I mean, he's putting us through these, these, you know, jumping through the hoops for no reason. And Paul has just spent an entire chapter dismantling the confidence in Jewish lineage and knowledge and heritage and rituals for salvation. And right here and Chapter 3 and verse 1, when he says, what advantage has the Jew or what benefit is circumcision? You might expect them to say, no benefit at all. It doesn't mean anything. But that's not what he says. No, it's of great benefit. There's great benefit in that There's benefit in it. Great in every respect, he says in verse 2. Now, if you're talking about for salvation, it doesn't help you for that. And that's what 1 Corinthians 7 and verse 19 says. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing. If you're you're doing it for salvation, it doesn't help you with that. But that doesn't mean that there was not a purpose for it. There was an advantage of being Jewish. There was an advantage of circumcision. And Paul says it has great value, great in every respect. First of all, he says, What's the benefit in being Jewish? What was the benefit? What was the benefit in being of the circumcision? You were entrusted with the oracles of God. It's like, you know, in this one benefit, he says, first of all, verse 2, first of all, do you notice there's not a second of all? He just says, first of all, they were entrusted with the oracles of God. And it's like, this one is so great, we don't even need a second. You're entrusted with the oracles of God. And we'll get into the rest of the benefits later on. He actually gives us a list over in chapter 9. If you want to flip over to chapter 9 and verse 4 of Romans. He speaks about the benefits of the Israelites in verse 4. He says, Who are Israelites? To whom belongs the adoption of sons, the glory, the covenant? The giving of the law, the temple service, the promises, whose are the fathers, from whom is the Christ, according to the flesh, who is overall, God blessed forever, and all God's people said , Amen. No, no, there's great benefits, but here Paul just says they've been given the oracles of God. First of all, they've been given the oracles of God, and he just stops. I mean, we could just camp out right there. Do you understand the privilege that you've been given to handle the very Word of God? Psalm 19, if you want to flip back there, Psalm 19 provides us with a list of benefits for the word of God. Psalm 19, in verses 1 and 6, it speaks about the The benefit of general revelation, you know, that God reveals himself to all people in all places, irregardless of what language they speak, but in Verse 7, it starts to talk about the benefit of his special revelation. The special meaning that not everybody has this. This is not in every language. Go down to the Museum of the Bible sometime and you'll see that there are languages that the Bible is not in yet This was a privilege. I mean, think about this: that when God spoke, he spoke in the language that they understood. He revealed it in the Hebrew tongue. They had this word that was given to them as a people. This is your gift. I'm giving you my revelation. Look at verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect. Restoring the soul. The word restoring is a word that means to convert, to turn back. I've given you my word so that you would turn back. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. It gives discernment to the naive. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, it will encourage your soul. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. We learn in Psalm 119 that the word is a lamp to our feet and the light to our path. And it gives light to your eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The word of God is settled forever in heaven. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous all together. His words are pure. Words like silver tried in a furnace, heated up seven times, more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold, more valuable than any treasure. That's what we have Sweeter also than honey in the drippings of the honeycomb. You'll find more delight in the word than anywhere else. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, you tell me what not to do, where not to go. And in keeping them, there is great reward. There's great benefit. Do you understand the benefit that you've been given by holding the word of God? And this is the law that Israel was given, like I said, in their language. And what other nation had the privilege of having God's revelation delivered to them like that? Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 7 and 8 says, For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as is the Lord our God whenever we call on him? Or what great nation is there that has statutes and judgments as righteous as this whole law which I am setting before you today? What other nation had this privilege? Deuteronomy 5. 26 says, For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire as we have? Who else has had that? Psalm 147 verse 19. He declares his words to Jacob, his statutes and his ordinances to Israel. He has not dealt thus with any nation. And as for his ordinances, they have not known them. Praise the Lord. What a great privilege that we have to have the Word of God. Israel had the oracles of God. The word oracles Just a word that means utterances, from the Greek word lagyan , just sayings, words. You've been given the words of God. Entrusted with that from the Greek word pestuo. It's a word for faith, that Israel was above all nations, was trusted to be faithful with the word of God. And we give God praise for the way that the scriptures were carefully handled by the Jewish people, don't we? For example, you might have heard of the Masoretic text. Which was the product of the the Masoretes and basically there were scribes who were responsible for uh copying the scriptures and preserving in writing the pronunciation of words or the oral tradition. According to one authority, from as early as four hundred B. C. there were scribes who tried to establish and maintain the true text of the Old Testament, and they made a practice of counting the verses, the words, the letters of each book of the Bible. And then the the Masoretes picked up where these scribes left off, and from 500 A. D. to a thousand A. D. uh. And in order to protect against errors and copying, they filled the margins. With all sorts of data concerning how often a various word was used. How often is this word used in the Bible? Where phrases appear in a given line of a text and where they could be found elsewhere. They provided the text with vowels and accent marks, systems of dots and strokes, so that they would know how to pronounce every word. And their task was not to invent pronunciation, but to preserve it. for the future generations. This is the kind of attention that they would give to the Word of God, counting up every letter. And then they would know, like, okay, this is the middle letter of the book. If you count up every letter in the book, this is where you should land. I mean, they'd have notes to that kind of detail. But the question was, how accurate was the work of these scribes, the Masoretes, until 1948, the oldest known Hebrew manuscripts were dated to about 900 A. D. And the oldest complete manuscript was dated to about 1010 A. D. So the question was, how do we know what the text looked like before then? How do we know what the text looked like during the times of Christ? If the the oldest manuscript, Hebrew manuscript we have, is from 900 A. D. You know, maybe somebody made up those prophecies in Isaiah. How do we know that those things are all true? And then in the winter of 1946 or 47, there were three Bedouin shepherds. Who were tending their sheep and goats near a spring in Qumran, and one of the herdsmen threw a rock into a small opening in one of the cliffs, and he heard the shattering of pottery. And when they went into the cave, they explored and found ten tall jars with scrolls on the inside, and we know those today as the Dead Sea Scrolls. Partial or complete copies of every book of the Old Testament except for the book of Esther. And the oldest text is a fragment of Exodus, which dates back to 250 B. C. 250 years before Christ. And then they have a copy of Isaiah, which dates to 100 BC, 100 years before Christ. And when they compared those scrolls with the manuscripts that we have today, they found them to be accurate to a 95% accuracy. And the only difference was spellings of some words and some grammar changes, but it was a hundred , it's 95% accurate They had the blessing of the Word of God. And we have the blessing of benefiting. From how they they took such meticulous care of the word of God. And the Jewish people were given the privilege of being entrusted with that. Can you imagine that? Entrusted with that word. The fathers were Jewish, the prophets were Jewish, Jesus and the apostles were Jewish. And even when the word of the gospel went out, who was the first to receive the message? The Jews, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. You know, Romans 1. 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. And when Paul went to preach the gospel, it was his practice to go first to the synagogue or to the place of prayer. And only after they rejected the message did he go to the Gentiles. Don't tell me there's no benefit. What are you talking about? What benefit is there in being Jewish? What benefit is there in circumcision? The Jews had the message first. The tremendous privilege was given to them to have the oracles of God Of course, there was a benefit. And in the same way, there are so many of us who grew up with the Word of God Attend church services, have the symbols of the cross and Christianity all around us. And you can thank God for that. You can thank God that God gives you the advantage. Of growing up with Christianity around you. You can thank God for that. That's a benefit that the Lord has given to us. None of these things will save you by itself. Just coming to church on its own is not going to save you. Holding a Bible in your lap is not going to save you. Hearing a sermon today is not going to save you. Unless it's connected with faith and you've turned from your sins and trusted in the message that's preached, but praise God that the message is preached. Amen? Praise God that we live in a country where the message is is proclaimed publicly. That I can go down to the street corner in Baltimore and open up my Bible with a microphone. And declare the good news of Jesus Christ. We can praise God for that. We have precious advantages by having the Word of God, and the Jewish people were the custodians of that word. And for those of of you, young people who are here, you know, you might think it's like, oh I I wish that, you know, I experienced more of the world. No, you don't No, you don't. You know, some people say I've just been homeschooled all my life. You know, like like all that I've had is like church and the Bible and you know. You better be thankful for that. You've been given the privilege of having the Word of God. Why would you want to go to the gutter so that you can find your testimony? You know, sometimes people say, you know, I don't I don't know if I have a testimony. You know, because I wasn't on drugs for like 30 years and you know living in the gutter with the needles out my arm. You know, I don't think I have anything to tell the church. What are you talking about? The God of the universe came down, became flesh Live the life that you couldn't live, died on a cross for your sins, paid the price for your salvation in his own blood. Rose again three days later, ascended to the Father, is now making intercession for you, and I don't have a testimony. I don't know if I've Are you kidding me? Of course you got a testimony. You don't have to live out in the the world ticks. Uh you uh what what they used to say, you don't have to dig in the garbage to know it stinks, right? You don't have to jump into the dumpster to know it's it's it's dirty in there. You don't have to jump in there. Yeah, garbage stinks. Stay away from it. The world that we we live in, it's a wicked and a perverse generation. Why would I want to play around there just so I can get my testimony? Jewish people were the custodians of the Word of God. They also benefited from the faithfulness of God. Look at verse 3 back in Romans chapter 3. Look at verse 3. What then if some did not believe? Their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? May it never be. You know, first of all, they kind of question this trustworthiness. And now they question his faithfulness. You know, there's people that don't believe in your message, Paul. How do you expect us to to believe that that this is uh a a message for the the G first and also for the Greek when there's there's so many of us who haven't believed in your message? Are you are you telling me that the the chosen people aren't chosen to believe too? We've been chosen by God, but now there's some who don't believe. And what does Paul say? What then if some do not believe? Their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? God 's word is not considered ineffective because certain men reject it. And what is his answer? May it never be. He uses the Greek phrase megenoita. It's the strongest form of negation in the Greek language. The word genoita comes from the uh the word genomai, which means to to become, to happen, and it's in the it's just the word for to be. And it's placed in what's called the optative mood. Optative mood is the uh the mood of uh possibility or potentiality. And it's negated to say that there is not a potential. There is not a possibility. No way. Certainly not. There's not even a possibility that that would be true. No possibility whatsoever that God would be unfaithful. Certainly not. God forbid, perish the thought. Shouldn't even cross your mind. As one author said, it's an expression which indicates a recoiling, abhorrence, utter shock, and disgust. How could you even think such a thing that God would be unfaithful? The problem doesn't lie with God or his faithfulness. It's the stubborn unbelief of sinful men. That's the problem. The problem isn't with God. Not only has God been faithful to give his word to the Jewish people, God has been faithful to keep the Jewish people around to hear his word. Think about that. Have you ever considered just how many times the Jewish people have been on the brink of destruction? Jacob and his family were in danger of being wiped out. By a famine, severe famine across the Near East, but God sent Joseph ahead of time so that he could preserve life. Pharaoh of Egypt wanted to put the children of Israel to death. The king said to the midwives, When you're helping the Hebrew women to give birth, and ye see them upon the birthstool, if it's a son, you shall put them to death. But if it's a daughter, then she shall live. But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt had commanded them, but let the boys live. There are numerous nations that attacked Israel during the Exodus, like the Amalekites. You heard about that today in 1 Samuel 15. But the Lord sustained them miraculously through prayer, that Moses continued to lift up his hands. In prayer, and God gave Israel the victory. Could have been wiped out. Under the Persian kingdom, Haman sought to destroy all the Jews. It was a planned genocide. Esther chapter 3 verse 6. Haman sought to destroy all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, who were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahashuarus, but Haman had no idea that God placed Esther in the king's house for such a time as this. To preserve life. We all know about the Nazi Holocaust. Six million Jewish souls were claimed by a state-sponsored genocide. Extermination camps in Poland had specifically were specifically designed with gassing facilities. Places like Auschwitz, the Nazi camps used pesticides that were designed to kill rats. Charlotte Weiss, a Holocaust survivor, recalled that when she arrived in Auschwitz in 1944 with her sisters, they saw mountains of eyeglasses, shoes, and clothing belonging to the victims How did the Jewish people survive any of that? How do they survive that? You know how they survive? Because God is faithful. Because God is faithful. And you don't think that that has any application for today? You watched the news recently? No application for today? Any nation that commits itself to exterminating the Jewish people will find itself fighting against God. Because God has made promises to this specific nation that will be fulfilled. And it's not because Israel has been so faithful to him. That's not why. It's not because Israel is so faithful, Israel is so holy, Israel is so righteous. No, it's because God is so faithful and God is so holy and God is so righteous. That's why. Why do you think you're surviving? You think it's because you're so great? It's because God is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us of all unwickedness, all of our wickedness. God is faithful. It's not because we're so great. It's because God is so great. Israel could have been like all the other nations that perished You know, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Canaites, the Hivites, the Jebusites, the Dynamites and the Otisites, right? And I love what what MacArthur said. He says, I haven't met any of these, but I know a lot of Israelites. Why is that? Because God is faithful. God's a faithful God. What are you talking about? What if some do not believe? We know that's true. But this does not nullify the the faithfulness of God. And there's going to come a time in the future that Zechariah 12 describes It will come about in that day that I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples. All who lift it will be severely injured, and all the nations of the earth will be gathered against it. All the nations of the earth coming against Jerusalem. But in verse 8 of Zechariah 12 it says, in that day The Lord will defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the one who is feeble among them in that day will be like David, and the house of David will be like God, for the angel of the Lord before them, like the angel of the Lord before them. And in that day I will set about to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. It's a suicide mission if you want to wipe this nation out. It's a suicide mission. And if some don't believe and some suffer judgment, that does not nullify the promises of God. God will make sure that he leaves himself a remnant. So that he can show his faithfulness to them. He's going to leave a remnant. Jeremiah 31, 35 says, Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day. The fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, the Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from me, declares the Lord, Then the offspring of Israel will cease from being a nation before me forever. But God is not unfaithful to his promise. I think I think the sun came up today, right? I think it's coming up tomorrow, too. God says, as long as this order continues, I'm going to continue to be faithful to this nation. They were entrusted with the oracles of God. They benefited from the faithfulness of God, and they also demonstrate the righteousness of God. Look at verse 4. After he gives this expression of disgust, may it never be that you would think that God's unfaithful. Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. As it is written, that you may be justified in your words, and prevail when you are judged. But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I was speaking in human terms, may it never be, for otherwise, how would God judge the world? After denying, like I said, in the strongest possible terms that God would be unfaithful, he now turns to the righteousness of God. Talked about the word of God. We talked about the faithfulness of God. Now we're talking about the righteousness of God. God is a righteous God. He says, let God be found true, though every man a liar. That you may be justified. And all these things are just speaking about the righteousness of God. God being justified. That's a word that can be interpreted as Righteous, he may be declared righteous. Verse five, the righteousness of God. He's not unrighteous, is he The righteousness of God is on display throughout this text. When Paul says, let God be found true, that's in contrast to breaking his covenant to Israel in the previous verse You know, the word rather, you know, well that will not nullify the faithfulness of God. Well it no. But rather let God be found true. Not this, but this. God's not unfaithful, but God is Faithful. He's righteous. He's faithful and righteous to fulfill his word. God's going to fulfill his promises, even if everybody were to contradict him. He's going to stand firm on his word. Let every man be be a liar. Let God be true in every man a liar. There's a statement that's been attributed to Martin Luther that says God, one plus God is a majority. You don't you don't even need the one. You just need God. You have the majority, right? His word is truth. What I'm said I'm going to do, I'm going to do it. And their unbelief is not going to nullify my faithfulness. Let me be shown to be true and every man a liar. And it says that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. And this may seem like a strange way to articulate this here But when it says that you may be justified in your words, it's uh it's from the the Greek word dikaiao. It means to to declare righteous, that you may be declared righteous. And actually this is one of the places where we understand the the meaning of the word. Justify. It's not making righteous, it's declaring righteous. Because we don't make God anything. We can't make him righteous, can we? But we can declare him to be righteous. You know, so that word justifies to declare righteous, just like God declares us to be righteous. Even though we're still sinners, he says, nope, they're a saint. They're justified. They've been declared innocent in my sight. And uh here it's God being declared innocent. God is being declared righteous. That you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged When when people look at you, that you can be declared innocent when you judge. And if you look at the verse there, it's it's in all caps or in some of your texts set aside, letting you know that it's a quotation. And let's just turn back to where this quotation comes from, Psalm 51. Psalm 51. This is a Psalm of David, Psalm 51. And in the context here, this is after David's sins found him out. When Nathan the prophet came to him after he had gone into Bathsheba, it says in the superscript of the text. And look at what David says. He says, be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to the greatness of your compassion, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin, for I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only, I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you are justified. When you speak, and blameless when you judge. What's going on here? David, after he sinned and his sins, like I said, have found him out He cries out to the Lord for mercy. He says, Be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to your greatness, the greatness of your compassion, blot out my transgressions. But he knows that he's wrong. And he says, I know that against you and against you only I've sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you are justified when you speak. Lord, when you pronounce judgment on my life, you are absolutely right to do it. And I can't turn around and blame you with doing wrong. I deserve everything that I have coming to me. What were the the words back in uh 1 Samuel? Look at back at 1 Samuel chapter 12 Sorry, 2 Samuel chapter 12. I knew something was wrong there. 2nd Samuel chapter 12 This is after Nathan came to David and said that you are the man Then Nathan pronounces a judgment upon David. Look at verse 10. Says, now therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house. Because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife. Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against you from your own household. I will even take your wives before your eyes and give them to your companion, and he will lie with your wives in broad daylight. Indeed you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and under the sun. Then David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has taken away your sin. Ye shall not die. However, because by this deed ye have given occasion for the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, the Gentiles blaspheme, the child also that is born to ye shall surely die. So Nathan went to his house. But what did David do when he was found out? Verse 13. I have sinned. And God, whatever you say to me is absolutely right. David was not trying to justify himself Lord, I've got a reason why this happened. Lord, I don't deserve the punishment that you're trying to give me. Lord, I know I'm better than this. Did you forget that I'm a child of Abraham? No, he says, Lord, I've I've sinned. And the only thing that I can plead for is mercy. I'm not coming before you pleading my righteousness. I'm coming before you pleading your righteousness. That God, you are righteous when you judge. You're justified in your judgment. You're righteous when you judge. David acknowledges that God's judgment is right. And what's the application for the book of Romans? We'll probably go ahead and close here and save the rest of this for next time. But what's the application for the for the book of Romans? When God judges Israel for their sins, God is not doing them any wrong. He's not doing them any wrong. Let God be true, let every man be found a liar, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. If God judges Israel And if some do not believe and experience the judgment of God, nobody can turn back to God and say, God, you're wrong. God, you shouldn't have done this. God, I'm one of the chosen ones. I've been circumcised. I have the law. I'm a child of Abraham I've got a religious heritage. God, you have no right to judge me. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. God is the one who's going to be declared as righteous. And we are the ones that have to recognize that whatever God does is absolutely right. That we would not open our mouths in defiance against the creator of the heavens and the earth to try to try to you know erect our own righteousness, to let God know what we've done. Lord, look at me. No, look at me. Who's the one that's going to be declared righteous? Me or you Bible says that God will render to each person according to his deeds. There's going to be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek It 's because God is righteous that he does inflict his wrath on unbelieving people. It's right for God to pour out his wrath. If you look over in uh Daniel chapter nine, Daniel chapter nine. You find Daniel who's acknowledging the same thing before the Lord. That Lord, if you judge us for our sins, it's only right. I'm not coming before you to plead our innocence. Look at Daniel chapter nine. Look at verse 7. He says, Righteousness belongs to you, O Lord, but to us open shame as it is this day. To the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and all Israel, those who are nearby, those who are far away, and all the countries to which you have driven them, because of their unfaithful deeds which they have committed against you. Open shame belongs to us, O Lord, to our kings, our princes, our fathers, because we have sinned. That's the way that you glorify God. I'm the one who's wrong. To the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him, nor have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God to walk in his teachings which he set before us through his servants the prophets. Indeed, all Israel has transgressed your law, turned aside, not obeying your voice. So the curse has been poured out on us, along with the oath which is written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, for we have sinned against him. Thus he has confirmed his words which he hath spoken against us and against our rulers who ruled us to bring on us great calamity, for under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done to Jerusalem. God destroyed Jerusalem, the holy city. Thousands were massacred. And then you think that God's going to spare you? God put David's son to death, the sword never left his house, and then you think that God's going to spare you? God wiped out an entire generation of Jews in the wilderness for unbelief? And then you think God's going to spare you and your unbelief? Let God be true in every man a liar. And when they face this condemnation, it's not because they weren't given privilege. They had great privilege. Great privilege. Like I said, they're the chosen of God. They're the seed of Abraham. They have the law. They have the prophets. They had the circumcision. They had the temple service. Theirs were the fathers, from whom is the Christ according to the flesh who is over all. God bless forever. Amen. And they could not turn to God and say, God, it's because you didn't give us enough. They were given all the privilege in the world, but what did they do with it? They wasted it. The tragedy of wasted privilege. It was all there. Adam and Eve, placed in the garden, had all the privilege that they needed to flourish. And what did they do? They wasted it. Esau was given the birthright, turned away from his privilege for a pot of stew. Saul was given the kingdom, wasted it because of his own disobedience. Judas was given all the privilege in the world to be next to the Christ. Think about that. Saw him walk on water, ate The bread and the fish that was multiplied, he ate of that. He saw all the miracles of Christ, and he still turned away. All the advantage in the world. Wasted it. And how many do we have who grew up in the church, have all the privileges of Christianity, and turn away from all of it? Wasted it. It's a tragedy of wasted privilege. Tragedy of wasted privilege. One more passage and then we'll close. One more passage. But uh flip back to Isaiah chapter 5. This is the song for Israel, chapter five, starting at verse one. It says, let me sing now for my well-beloved, a song of my beloved concerning his vineyard. My well beloved had a vineyard in a on a fertile hill. He dug it all around, removed its stones, planted it with the choicest vine, and he built a tower in the middle of it, also hewed out a wine vat in it. Then he expected it to produce good grapes, but it produced only worthless ones. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, the men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it? Why, when I expected it to produce good grapes, did it produce worthless ones? So now let me tell you what I am going to do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedges, and it will be consumed. I will break down its walls and it will become trampled ground I will lay it waste, and it will not be pruned or hoed, but briars and thorns will come up. I will also charge the clouds to rain no rain on it. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his delightful plant. Thus he looked for justice, but behold bloodshed, for righteousness, but behold a cry of distress. What more could be done for his vineyard? And I'd ask another question, what more can be done for us? What more can be done for us? Have we not heard the word of the Lord? Have we not sat underneath his gospel? And have we turned away from it? But here's the beauty, and here's the grace that the Word of God is still being preached to you. As many times as you might have turned away from it before, God is still giving you the opportunity of hearing the word of God. And there's coming a day, like I said, for the remnant of Israel where they will turn. Zechariah 12 talks about this, right? There's coming a day when they will turn. And we know that there's a remnant that the Lord has preserved for Himself, but we don't know who that remnant is. The Bible says that today is the day of salvation. As you hear the word of the Lord, that you would turn, that you would trust, that you would repent of your sins and trust in Christ. And out here today, I don't know who the elect are, who are the remnant that the Lord has preserved for himself. But what I do know is that the word is still being preached. And that if you would turn and trust in Christ today That God would have mercy. That God would save. The God would rescue. And that you could be one of these choice vines. that would be protected for all of eternity. And that's our prayer for each one of you that the Lord would have mercy. That the Lord would have mercy And that God would be glorified, not in destruction, but in salvation. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we I thank you God so much uh for your word and Father, we thank you that the Word of God is still being preached. Our Father, that uh with all the privileges that we've had and turned away from, uh Lord, that You still give more, God. What a gracious God you are. That you would still allow your word to be heard. And we know that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And that even today, as the word is preached, that as people hear about the Savior who came, a Savior who lived the perfect life in their place. A Savior who died as a substitute on the cross for all who would repent and trust in you, that they can still be saved today by this same Savior And that while they're still hearing the message of truth, God, that today would be the day of salvation, Father, I pray that no one would turn away from the immense privilege that they've been given. To be under the sound of your oracles, the word of God. And you're a God who is faithful. To forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we would acknowledge our sins before you, confess our sins before you, God. That you are faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And Father, I pray that today would be that day of salvation for those who are here. And may you do your work through the power of your Spirit. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.