The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Behold your king. And uh that's what we're going to try to do today as we turn in our Bibles to the book of Matthew, uh the book of Matthew. We've been studying through the book of Matthew together as a church, and in uh God's kind providence we're landing uh right at the birth narrative on Christmas Sunday, and it's just the next text in our in our study, so uh I'm thrilled for that that I don't have to stop anything and pick up something else. So uh right right in the flow of the the text here. So Matthew chapter one, uh we'll read from verses eighteen down to twenty-five. It says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly. But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph Son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife. For the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Now all this took place to fulfill what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which translated means God with us. And Joseph awoke from his sleep and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took Mary as his wife, but kept her a virgin until she gave birth to a son, and he called his name Jesus. Without question, Jesus was unlike any person in human history, unlike any person in human history. He's unmatched, he's unsurpassed even by by secular historians will acknowledge that. And like it or not, every year the calendar rolls around, you're being reminded of a unique individual that appeared on the world stage and changed history forever. The reason why we have a 2014 coming around is because Jesus Christ came. He gave history a new beginning. History is marked either before him or after him. And it's been said that belief in his life, death, and resurrection has transformed and even redirected world empires, cultures, and people It would be safe to say that Jesus has been the subject of more personal and public letters, sermons, lectures, pamphlets, books, skits, plays, documentaries, movies than any other figure. in ancient or modern history. Philip Schaff , a church historian, he writes this. He says, Alexander, Caesar, Muhammad, and Napoleon Without science and learning he shed more light on things human and divine than all philosophers and scholars combined. Without the eloquence of schools he spoke such words of life as were never spoken before or since Produced effects which lie beyond the reach of an orator or poet. Without writing a single line he set more pens in motion and furnished themes for more sermons, orations, dict discussions Learn volumes, works of arts, and songs of praise, than the whole army of great men of ancient and modern times. I'll I'll read you one more because I like this stuff, right? In an essay called the Incomparable Christ, the author says this. More than 1900 years ago there was a man born contrary to the laws of life. This man lived in poverty and was reared in obscurity. He did not travel extensively. Only once did he cross the boundary of the country in which he lived. That was during his exile and childhood. He never wrote a book, yet all the libraries of the country could not hold the books that have been written about him. He never wrote a song, yet he has furnished the theme for more songs than all the songwriters combined. He never founded a college, but all the schools put together cannot boast of having as many students. He never marshaled an army, but drafted a soldier, nor fired a gun, and yet no leader ever had more volunteers who have under his orders made more rebels stack arms and surrender without a shot fired. The names of the past proud statesmen, statesmen of Greece and Rome have come and gone. The names of the past scientists, philosophers, and theologians have come and gone. But the name of this man abounds more and more. Though time has spread nineteen hundred years between the people of this generation and the scene of his crucifixion, yet he still lives on. Herod could not destroy him, and the grave could not hold him He stands forth upon the highest pinnacle of heavenly glory, proclaimed of God, acknowledged by angels, adored by saints, and feared by devils as the living personal Christ, our Lord and Savior. Amen. And without question, this one solitary life changed the world we live in. And he stands alone in history as utterly unique. And that was true even from his birth. Of of all births. This was the most extraordinary birth. And it's placed in a class all by itself. All by itself. And the Bible records a number of miraculous births. Jesus' birth was not the only miraculous birth in the scriptures. For example, if you turn back to the book of uh Genesis, the book of Genesis, Genesis chapter 18. Genesis chapter 18. Find that Abraham and Sarah are paid a visit by a number of heavenly guests, uh two of which were angels, and uh One that many theologians would believe is the preincarnate Christ, appearance of Christ right here in uh Genesis chapter 18. Look at uh verse nine, back in Genesis eighteen, verse nine. Then they said to him, Where is Sarah your wife? And he said, They're in the tent. He said, I will surely return to you at this time next year, and behold, Sarah your wife will have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in age, Sarah was past childbearing. Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I have become old, shall I have pleasure in my Lord being old also? And the Lord said to Abraham, and recognize there it's uh it's Lord in all caps if you're looking in your Bibles, uh another uh phrase for Yahweh, uh Jehovah. And the Lord said to Abraham, why did Sarah laugh? Saying, Shall I indeed bear a child when I am so old? Is anything too difficult for the Lord? At the point of time I will turn to you at this time next year, and Sarah will have a son. Sarah denied it saying however saying I did not laugh for she was afraid and he says no but you did laugh you did laugh Sarah was over 90 years of age, over 90 years of age when she gave birth to Isaac, and Abraham was over a hundred. Romans uh chapter four verse nineteen says about Sarah and uh Abraham and Sarah. Uh Romans uh four nineteen it says, Without becoming weak in faith, he contemplated his own body. You know, this is Abraham, contemplated his own body, now as good as dead Since he was about a hundred years old and the deadness of Sarah's womb, uh, biologically, this was an impossibility. This this this isn't supposed to happen here. Sarah's womb was no longer productive Uh there was no life coming from her and the the caper bearer was ineffective for Abraham. You know, so this is just like, yeah, we I mean there's nothing that can be done, right? Biologically, this is impossible. But according to Genesis chapter 21 and verse 2, it says that so Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him And uh as the Lord said, is anything too difficult for the Lord? It's not nothing too difficult for me. And if you remember, they they named their son Isaac, which means uh laughter. Laughter. Uh, because not only did uh God turn uh Sarah's laugh of disbelief into a laughter of of joy, uh but also everybody who heard about a woman who was uh over ninety years old still nursing was like a hilarious, right? It's like everybody who saw this was laughing at this. You know, this is this is hilarious. Genesis twenty one verse six that Sarah said, has gone has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh with me. And she said Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children, yet I have borne him a son in his old age? Who would have said that I would nurse children at my age? But but here it is. It's a miracle from God. We find that Isaac is a miracle baby. There's a number of other miracle babies throughout scripture. Joseph Uh son of uh Jacob and Rachel is a miracle baby. Uh she was considered barren, and we're told that the Lord opened up her womb to produce. Uh Samson, the son of Manoah and his uh wife was a miracle baby. Uh she was also considered barren. Uh the Shunammite woman in 2 Kings 4 was barren, and Elisha predicted that she would have a son, and then in the New Testament there was a couple There was uh Baron advanced in years as well, uh Zacharias and Elizabeth, Luke chapter one and verse six, and it says they were both righteous in the sight of God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and requirements of the Lord. But they had no child because Elizabeth was barren and they were both advanced in years. And they also had a miracle baby, John the Baptist, who was the forerunner of Jesus Christ. And the same thing that was said about uh uh to Abraham in Genesis is repeated in uh Luke chapter 1 and verse 37 when he's when uh the angel says, nothing shall be impossible with God. There's nothing impossible with God. I like what uh D. A. Carson said. He says, there should be no difficulty in believing that God is capable of intervening miraculously in what is, after all, his own creation. I mean after all it it does belong to him, right? He can do what he wants. And as Christians we're we accept the the great miracle of of God and after that everything just makes sense, right? Everything makes sense after God. You accept God, everything else makes sense. So a miraculous birth is not a problem for those who accept the supernatural. But there are many miraculous births. But there was none like the birth of Jesus Christ. He was not just one of many, he was one of a kind. When when Jesus was born, it was one of a kind, and we'd expect something like that, something spectacular from a king like that, a king who was predicted. Even John the Baptist, who was a miracle baby himself, realized that there was this vast gulf in between himself and the Lord Jesus Christ. Even though the he he was produced through a miracle. He says there there's this big difference between me and the Messiah. John understood that the Messiah was a total of a totally different origin than himself. Listen to what he says in John chapter 3 Verse 31 he says, He who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all And when people uh wonder, you know, John, are you the Christ? You know, he's out there preaching and people are coming to him. He's baptizing him in the Jordan. You know, hey, are you the Christ? Listen what he says. You know, first first of all he denies that, you know, I'm I'm not the Christ. You know, don't don't don't mistake me for him. But then he talks about the Messiah and he says this, it is he who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. It's like the distance between me and the Messiah is so great, I I can't even stoop to to unloose his shoes. I mean that's that's how great this Messiah is. And even though John, like I said, knew he was a miracle baby, he recognized that the distance between him and the Messiah was just, you know, infinitely apart, between him and the Messiah. Jesus recognized that his birth was unlike any other birth. Jesus recognized this about himself. He didn't consider himself to be born just like any other man. He considered himself to be sent from above in John chapter 8. Verse twenty three it says, And he was saying to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. I said therefore to you that you shall die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am Unless you believe that I am he, you shall die in your sins. And so they were saying to him, Who are you? Who are you? Early in John chapter 6 and verse 51 he speaks of himself as coming down out of heaven. He says, I'm the bread that came down out of heaven. John chapter 16 he lets his disciples know that he's not from this world. He says, I've come forth from the Father, and I've come into the world. And then when he speaks to Pilate in John chapter 18, he speaks about coming into the world in John 18, verse 37. Pilate therefore said to him, So you are a king. Jesus answered, You say correctly that I'm a king, for this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world. I've been sent into this world. And later on, uh, Pilate starts to get a little fearful and then he comes back to Jesus and he says, Where are you from? Where are you from? Recognized something was different about Jesus Christ. Jesus knew exactly where he came from. Knew exactly where he came from. He understood that his birth was a unique birth. There was no question about that. But not only did uh John and Jesus know that the birth of the Messiah was unique, it was also indicated in the scriptures as well. And I I found this really uh Fascinating as you start to look through the scriptures, you kind of think that, you know, hey, well, maybe the Jews really didn't recognize that it should have been like this miraculous birth that happened. It was predicted long ago. Predicted even as far back as Genesis. There was hints that were just dropped That this birth that you're looking for is going to be unlike anything you've ever seen. Unlike anything you've ever seen. Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, which has been called the proto -evangelium or the first gospel. There's this future deliverer that's promised. And here he lets them know that this verse is going to be unique. You know, God's speaking here. In uh Genesis chapter three, verse fifteen it says, And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel Talks about the the seat of the woman. There's nowhere else in scripture where you find the seed of the woman mentioned. It's always the seat of the man. Here there's there's something different. When it talks about the seed of the woman, it's a very unique phrase that's only found here everywhere else. Like I said, it's it talks about the seed of the man, not the seed of the woman. Over in uh Psalm chapter 2, if you want to flip over there. Uh Psalm chapter 2, which is part of uh it's a messianic psalm. Psalm chapter 2 it was recognized as as that, as a is a psalm that spoke of the Messiah. Look at what it says in verses six and seven. It says, but as for for me, this is God speaking, I have installed my king. Upon Zion, my holy mountain, I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. What's that about? You're my son, today I've begotten you. What's different about this Messiah who's to come that the Lord Himself says, I have begotten him? This this is a supernatural kind of birth that was being predicted even from uh from the psalms. There there should have been an expectation of a special birth even from this psalm, and there's a A lot of other scriptures we could go to, but I'll turn to one more, flip over to Isaiah chapter 9. Isaiah chapter 9. Look at verses uh 6 and 7. What it says here, it says, For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us. Kind of unique, a son given. And the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful, Counselor. Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace, there will be no end to the increase of his government. Or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. There should have been an anticipation that the one who is promised as the Messiah is going to be utterly unique Even in his birth, there should have been an anticipation of that. This is a king who is not going to be born like any other king. He's going to be the seed of a woman. He was going to be begotten of God. He was going to be a son who was given and is given these exalted titles. And uh what we're going to discover over in uh Matthew is that uh Joseph also recognized that this birth was unlike any other birth, so you can flip back to to Matthew. And as the the narrative unfolds here Joseph is convinced of the uniqueness of Messiah's birth, and we're invited to be convinced with him and to glory in this birth of Messiah. And uh up front the passage introduces us to uh to the betrothed. Look at verses 18 and 19. It says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit, and Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away secretly Right here we have the virgin birth of the king presented by Mary. The virgin birth of the king presented by Mary. Like I said, this passage here introduces us to a betrothed couple. Uh and this is different than what we think about engagement today. Uh betrothal is not not what we think about with uh engagement today. It's kind of it's like our engagement in the sense that uh betrothal was a period of time for uh couples uh uh to kind of prepare for marriage. Uh usually lasted for about a year. And uh in the case of one man, uh we know that he waited for seven years before he actually got his wife. Jacob agreed to a betrothal period of seven years that he's working, you know, before he finally gets his his wife Rachel. In Genesis 29, 20 it says, so Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days. Because of his love for her. Seven years working for his wife. Seven years. I'm just working. It's like a couple days, you know, in my sight. Jennifer, if you listen that, that's you, okay. In this period of uh betrothal, uh it tested the commitment of the potential marriage partner, okay? And uh also served as a measure of protection uh for the uh uh the spouses as well. Uh just in case one turns out to be unfaithful, that there's a way out. You know, before you actually say I do, you know, there's there's a a way that you can back out of this. And all this happened to to people at a fairly young age. Men were considered uh ready for marriage at about the age of eighteen, expected to marry, by eighteen, between the ages of eighteen and nineteen, uh eighteen and uh twenty. Actually they were expected to be married Girls were considered ready at a much younger age, in their early teens, and uh frequently at the age of twelve. Believe it or not, ready f ready for marriage at the age of twelve. Hey, I'm I'm just I'm just doing the research, okay? And uh while young people could uh meet their own marriage partners, it was uh more often arranged by the parents. You know, the parents would arrange these marriages uh for their children or even use a marriage broker. You know, they had people that would you know arrange marriages uh for for people But unlike our engagements today that are easy to break off, you know, it's just as easy as pulling off a ring and saying, you know, hey, I'm done, uh, the patrol was a lot more difficult to get out of A betrothal was actually a legal arrangement and the first step in the marriage. Okay, so marriage was considered like this two part process. Betrothal was the first step and then the the formal you know wedding was the the second step. Uh one source on uh Jewish custom says this. Betrothal involved both financial and legal implications. Formal betrothal took place in the home of the bride's father, where the groom gave the bride money or something of value to show his intention called the mohara He also presented a written marriage contract listing his responsibilities, taking some initiative here, right? Listing his responsibilities. This is called a Katuba. and the amount of money she would receive at his death or in case of divorce. So he's letting her letting the parents know, hey, I'm going to take care of your daughter. Okay? This is the amount of money that I'm putting up. In case I die, something happens to me, this is what she's gonna get, your daughter's gonna be taken care of. So he writes up this little contract. Uh this was a legal arrangement that required the presence of formal witnesses, after which the betrothed couple was looked upon as a married couple And uh the only way that a betrothed couple could be separated after this point was through divorce. You actually had to get divorced in order to get out of a betrothal um arrangement. Uh it was that serious. Uh betrothal was essentially the first stage in marriage, like I said before. And every aspect of of marriage at this point was finalized. besides coming together physically. Every other aspect was considered done. The betrothed still lived in separate houses, um, but you were called husband and and wife at this point. You're already called husband and wife. You're bound together legally Uh if the spouse died before the formal wedding, you were considered a widow. And if the spouse was unfaithful during this time He or she was considered an adulterer. And the Jewish penalty, according to the law, was pretty steep for adultery, right? If you remember. According to Deuteronomy chapter 22 Verses uh twenty-three and twenty-four it says this it says, If there is a girl who is a virgin engaged to a man, and another man finds her in a city and lies with her, then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city and you shall stone them to death The girl because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he has violated his neighbor's wife, thus you shall purge the evil from among you. And it was during this time of betrothal. During this time of betrothal, that Mary is found to be with child. During the time of betrothal that Mary is found to be with child. When Mary agreed in Luke chapter 1, verse 38, when she said, uh Behold the bond slave of the Lord. May it be done to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her. She was not only taking on herself disgrace, she was taking on herself danger. She was accepting danger for herself because to be pregnant out of wedlack could cost her her life. People might laugh with you when uh you know you have a miraculous birth at 90, you know, and you're married. People might stone you if you have a miraculous birth when you're young and you're betrothed. That's the difference here. But this is how the birth of the king was was presented. And we don't know how Joseph found out about this. But obviously at first he wasn't too convinced that this was a child of the Holy Spirit. Actually, if you compare Matthew's account with uh Luke's account, if you turn over to Luke, found this interesting. If you turn over to Luke chapter 1, you have in verse 36. Where the angel's speaking to uh to Mary, and it says, and behold your relative. Actually I'll I'll uh back up into uh Back up a little bit. It says the angel answered and said to her, This is actually she says, you know, how can this be since I'm a virgin? The angel answered and said to her, verse thirty-five, The Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the most high will overshadow you and For that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. And behold, even your relative Elizabeth has also conceived the Son in her old age. And she who was called barren is now in her sixth month Look at verse 39. It says, Now at this time Mary arose and went in a hurry to the hill country to a city of Judah. And then look at verse 56. And Mary stayed with her about three months and then returned to her home. So so just just track with me, alright? Follow the timeline. Mary finds out that she's conceived a child. Right? Mary hears about Elizabeth. She's in her sixth month. Mary runs in a hurry to go up into the hill country. Spends three months with her her cousin Elizabeth. By the time she comes back, guess what's showing? Three months later, three months later, she returns back to Nazareth, and uh she might not have even had a chance to explain herself to Joseph. And even if she did, you know, please, who's ever heard about a virgin birth? You've been away for three months and now you come back, and it's a virgin birth. In Joseph's mind, there's no choice about whether or not to put her away. It's about how am I going to put her away. That's the only question he has. It's not whether or not I'm going to put her away. It's how am I going to do it? How am I going to put this this woman away? It's over. So Patrol proved who she really was. That was what the patrol was for, right? It's the amount of protection. So now it's like I've I found out who she really really was. By this point in Jewish history, it seems that the death penalty described in Deuteronomy was in practice, although there was a woman in John 8 that came pretty close. That we find in the New Testament. But Joseph had the right to drag Mary through a public trial, accuse her of immorality, demand that she be stoned. He could have demanded the death penalty for Mary. Even if they didn't follow through with the full extent of the law, she would have received a harsh penalty. She would have been marred for the rest of her life. The rest of her life The other option that Joseph had was to put her away quietly. And that was pretty fairly easy to do. Deuteronomy twenty four one made an allowance for divorce. According to Jewish law, he simply had to give his wife a bill of divorce before two witnesses and send her away. And it was to be signed by the two witnesses and include the phrase, the bill of divorce had to contain this phrase according to Jewish law. Lo, thou art free to marry any man whoever you will. You're you're you know you're you're you're freed. Free to do what you want. It didn't even need a to state a reason for the divorce. You know, just I'm I'm I'm releasing you. So uh Felt like, you know, this would spare Mary the public embarrassment. I'll write her up a writ of divorce. Won't necessarily specify why. And let her let her go secretly. And I'm not going to try to drag her name through the mud and put her through the public trial. I'm not going to try to press for the death penalty. Let's just, I'm just going to let her go. And as a righteous man, he couldn't see himself following through with the marriage. Divorce for adultery was considered mandatory among some Jewish circles. It was mandatory. It's like, you know, that's what you're supposed to do. Supposed to do. But as a man of compassion, he decided to take the the route of sending her away secretly. And uh for Joseph the presentation of the birth would have been a total shock You know, this is this is a girl that he'd come to trust, right? This is a girl that he that he was intending to spend the rest of his life with. He trusted her. He knew her character. This would have been the last thing that he would have expected from Mary, especially knowing that she was a holy girl. This is the holy girl. And he knew he had nothing to do with it. So it's a shock. This is a shock to Joseph. Virgin birth is presented by Mary, but maybe not as shocking as what happened next. Look at uh verses 20 to 21 back in Matthew. It says, But when he had considered this, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And this The the birth narratives, they just have like angels just hovering all around them. I mean everywhere you look, there's there's angels popping up. Uh they make an announcement to Joseph, they make an announcement to Mary, they make an announcement to the shepherds, they make an announcement to Zacharias It's one of the ways that the Lord uh indicated something extremely significant was happening. Because this isn't common to have angels just popping up all over the place. You know, there's like a significant uh uh uh uh sign that he's trying to give here, but there's something special going on. These are unique periods of time during the the history of uh Revelation. And angels and uh visions were one of the many ways that God chose to spoke uh speak to his people according to Hebrews chapter 1. And here you have uh Joseph, he's receiving a direct word uh from God, and look at how the angel addresses him. It says uh Joseph, son of David. Son of David. That's significant. Why? Because right up front, the angels letting Joseph know the significance of this meeting. This is significant meaning right here. Joseph is an important piece of the messianic puzzle, right? Last last week we uh considered the genealogy in uh verses 1 to 17. And saw how there was this right to rule that was passed down through the uh through uh David's line. And uh Joseph is about to play an important part in seeing this fulfillment of uh the promise to David in his time. And it wouldn't be through fathering a physical heir, but it would be through this legal heir, the role that Joseph would have in fathering a legal heir. It would be a legal heir to the throne, not a physical heir. Uh and in order to establish the royal lineage and to pass down the legal right to rule, it was necessary that he take Mary as his wife. It couldn't have been passed down any other way. He had to take somebody, you know, that that had the legal right to rule And marry him off to marry. That I mean that's how it happened. That's how the legal right was passed down. So the marriage had to become legal Publicly recognized in order for Joseph to receive the throne of David. And uh listen to this. According to uh Jewish law, the marriage had to be registered in order to make the children legitimate. It had to be a legal, official, publicly recognized marriage, or else it didn't count. So without a legally constituted marriage, that was a officially registered Uh they weren't considered married, and Jesus would not have been considered the heir. It was that important. That important of the mean. So uh Joseph couldn't divorce Mary Joseph couldn't just remain betrothed to Mary. Joseph had to go all the way through and actually marry Mary, right? He actually actually had to go through the final step and make it official. That was the only way the line would be established. It wasn't just a piece of paper, you know, for Joseph to sign. It was a matter of obedience. And what the angel does is give him the assurance that he needed to hear. He says, uh The Holy Spirit is in this, okay? You know, this this child that's been conceived, this this child is of the Holy Spirit. According to Justin Martyr uh church father of the second uh century, Joseph, the husband of Mary, at first wished to put away Mary, his betrothed, since he supposed her to be pregnant. uh from another man. Uh Joseph would have needed this kind of heavenly confirmation to go through with with the marriage. To say that, you know, I'm assured that she's you know she's she's really pure. That she's she's really faithful to me, not some illicit relationship. This is considered a holy child. In Luke chapter 1, verse 35 it says the angel Answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. He was holy from his conception. In in every way. From his conception, he was a holy child. And this is a another aspect that separates uh Jesus from some of the Roman myths uh that were kind of floating around. Uh virgin myths had circulated, the Greek myths, uh Roman myths. There was a a legend that floated around that said Alexander the Great was born by the power of Zeus, who was manifested as a snake and lived with his mother. Ridiculous. Ridiculous. But y you don't have any any hint of that in this sacred account. This is the holy uh report of uh this holy child and the holy conception that's reflected. Even in the name that he was given. Look at verse 21. It says she will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. It's a holy name. The Greek name Jesus from where we get our English word Jesus. You will save or O Lord save. Even a prayer, O Lord, save. The Old Testament name would have been uh Yeshua or Yahashua, or as we would say, uh Joshua. Uh the scriptures anticipated a hope of salvation from sins. There was that kind of recognition even in the Old Testament. There was a new covenant described over in Jeremiah chapter 31, if you want to flip back there, Jeremiah chapter 31 Talked about this uh new covenant and anticipated hope for Israel. Look at verse uh thirty-three It says, but this is the the covenant. Actually I'll I'll back up to verse thirty-one. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand To bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant which they broke, although I was the husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days. declares the Lord, I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord basically he's saying there's no need for evangelism You don't have to run around and saying, Hey, know the Lord, know the Lord, come to come to know the Lord. Why? For they all know me From the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin. I will remember no more. What a time that's going to be. What a time that's going to be. Or it's just every everybody knows the Lord Everybody knows them. This is the new covenant, the full-blown fulfillment of the new covenant here. Everybody knows the Lord. In Ezekiel's description of this same account, you don't have to turn there, but it in Ezekiel talks about the same thing in chapter 36 of uh of Ezekiel. Verses uh twenty-four uh through twenty-six here it says, For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land. This is the return to Israel. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances. And over in uh Psalm 130 and uh verse eight it also talks about uh This hope of uh redemption for uh for Israel. Psalm 130 and verse 8, it says, and he will redeem Israel from all her iniquities So many of the Jews missed this. So many of them missed this. Because they uh what they were looking for was somebody who would come to deliver them from their oppressors. They're looking for somebody who is going to uh conquer the impressors, you know, instead of conquering their hearts. Somebody who's going to deliver them from their enemies physically instead of delivering them from their sins spiritually. Uh but what you find is that uh Christ came to save us from our sins first and from everything else later. Sin um deal let's deal with the sins first. You know, then we can deal with with everything else. And they get they got the order wrong. They got the order on. They needed to be saved from their sins because their sins placed them in danger. And uh sometimes Christians talk about uh Being saved and people wonder, you know, what does that mean to be saved? You know, we kind of throw that term around a lot. You know, are you saved? You know, it's like saved from what do you mean, saved? You know, saved from what? Romans chapter 5, verse 9 explains it. It says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. What do we need to be saved from? We need to be saved from God. We need to be saved from God's wrath. God's the one that's angry with our our sins. That's the truth that's pointed out in this verse, that our it was our sins. That needed to be dealt with. Our sins placed us in the crosshairs of God's wrath. We were the target for God's wrath because of our sins. And one day he'll unleash his fury Against our sins, unless we've run to safety in Jesus Christ. I mean that 's the only hope that we have. The only hope that you have from God is in God. The only rescue that you'll have from God is in him. Being delivered by Jesus Christ Himself. And all who trust in Jesus are rescued from wrath. Are justified, which is a word that means to be declared righteous. Declared righteous. Not only do you have your sins paid for, but the righteous life of Christ. His righteousness is credited to your account so that when you stand before God, you stand as completely blameless. Hallelujah. Blameless because of what Jesus Christ has done. That's That's salvation. This is what Jesus Christ came to do. To save his people from their sins. Need to be saved from sins. That's salvation. And if you're you're ready to turn from your sins, I mean this this is the offer that's extended to you, right? This is the offer that's extended to you. If you're willing to repent, turn to Christ He'll be saved, rescued from your sins. He will save. Nobody else can do it. He will save his people, those that God sovereignly draws to himself And he will save them from their sins because that's the primary deliverance that we're in need of. Being delivered from our sins. And uh if there's anybody here today, I just believe with you to be reconciled to God, be reconciled to God, be reconciled to God. You may be looking for Christ to deliver you from political enemies, from economic enemies, from physical enemies. Christ wants to deliver you from your spiritual enemy. The the enemy of of sin that that uh that's placed you as a target of uh of God's wrath. And uh this is what the angel came to proclaim in in kind of a capsule form, you know, that When he said the word Jesus, he will save his people from their their sins. This is what he's talking about. This is this is all that he's kind of bringing in here. So it kind of takes us from the beginning of Matthew clear to the end after the cross that this is what Jesus came to do. He came to save his people from their sins. And by taking Mary as his lawfully wedded wife, Joseph also took Jesus as his lawfully adopted son. And by performing the father's role in naming the child, he was given the opportunity to name the child, name him That was the father's role. But by doing that, he was legally claiming Jesus as mine. Jesus is now adopted as my son. So whatever passed through me is is now his. Whatever rights I have are now his rights. So the virgin birth of the king was presented by Mary. Virgin birth was proclaimed by the angel. And if I attempted to cover the last few points, you guys would probably uh pick up some stones and and stone me because we're just there's no way we can do it justice There's just not enough time. So we're going to actually gonna save uh the last few points for uh uh the next time that uh um that I speak after next week. But uh the virgin birth, just just to kind of wrap up the the virgin birth a little bit, the the virgin birth is a hill to die on, okay? Virgin birth is a hill to die on. One commentator observed that faith in the accuracy of such a record induced early believers to die as martyrs. rather than renounce their faith in the virgin-born son of Mary. People would rather die than say that Jesus wasn't virgin-born. It's a hill to die on. It's one of those things that you you can't, you know, there's there's no room for for wiggling on this one. Belief in the virgin birth was part of the earliest creeds of Christianity. The Apostles' Creed, even from the earliest forms, had the virgin birth included. I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth And in Jesus Christ, his only begotten Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary. As early as we know the Apostles' Creed, it's included that phrase. It's included that And the ground we stand on today is the same ground that uh faithful men and women of God have stood on for over twenty centuries. The virgin birth of Jesus Christ and the The birth narratives here just make it painfully obvious. I mean, just anybody can read this and say, Yeah, he's virgin born, right? It's it's only uh uh the the critics, you know, people who want to discount uh the reliability of uh of the scriptures who would argue against the obvious. Uh R. C. Sprohl comment that commented that the the critics who say the Bible does not teach a virgin birth are practicing the exegesis of despair. It's just like anything, just grabbing for anything, please. We don't want to recognize a virgin birth. You know, it's the exegesis of despair. There's no doubt that he's talking about uh a virgin birth here, and I want to leave you with just a few reasons why it makes a difference. If Jesus was born like every other man How would we know that he didn't live like every other man? If Jesus was born like every other man, how would we know that he didn't live like every other man? Uh Job's friends, uh, they didn't always come up with some good answers But they did come up with some pretty good questions. Listen to this. Job 15, verse 14. What is man that he should be pure? Or he who is born of a woman that he should be righteous? Or Job chapter 25, verse 4. How then can a man be just with God, or how can he be clean who is born of a woman? Romans 5, 19 says that through the one man's disobedience, Adam, the many were made sinners. Everybody that followed along in Adam's dream, right? Through Adam, the whole stream of humanity was polluted. What confidence would we have that Jesus is any different if his birth wasn't any different? Right? What confidence would we have in that We want to have have confidence in if there was no virgin birth. It's because of the the virgin birth of the king that we can say, yes, there was one who was born of a woman, but this one is different. Yeah, he came through only, but this one is unique. He's different than the rest. The virgin birth gives us reason to believe in the uniqueness of Jesus Christ. In 1 John 3, verse 5, it says, You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No sin. That's what the virgin birth gives us confidence about. Also, if the virgin, if uh Jesus Christ was born like all other men, in what sense was he really sent by God? Right? I mean it's not even possible to speak of sending somebody who doesn't already exist. How do I send somebody that's that that's not there yet? Right? I mean it it doesn't work. To to send somebody says that they existed prior to the sending. Jesus speaks about himself as coming from God. I've been sent. What does that mean? I existed prior to this birth, right? As men were unable to save ourselves, as men were unable to save other men, what we needed was somebody from outside to come in to save us. Okay? We need somebody from the outside to come in and save us. We need somebody with the power greater than ours because man's power just doesn't work, right? We need somebody from outside of that, and the virgin birth reassures us that that help came from the outside. That help came to us from the outside, and in Jesus we find full Deity. Colossians chapter 2, verse 9, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. One of the reassurances of that is that there was a virgin birth. Okay? That he came from the outside. But on the other side, if Jesus wasn't born as a man, how would we know that he could relate to us, right? How would we know that he could relate to us if he wasn't born? As a man. One theologian made the observation that if the human nature of Christ was not derived from the same stock as ours, but merely resembled it, he just kind of looked human, but he wasn't really human. There exists no relation between us and him, as is necessary to render his mediation available for our good How can he really help us if he's not like part of us, right? He just kind of floated from the outside. He's not really with us, right? How can he die for us if yet he's not really partaking of flesh with us? It was because of uh Jesus being born as a man that scriptures also say that he can sympathize with us. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15, we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weakness. But one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. And it was because he was born as a man that he can bring us salvation. Romans chapter eight, verse three, it says this for what the law could not do Weak as it was through the flesh, God did. How? By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh as an offering for sin, not sinful flesh, but in the likeness of sinful flesh As an offering for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. The word became flesh in order that he could partake of our flesh and die for humanity. That's how it happened. It was through the virgin birth that all this took place. Like I said, the virgin birth is a hill to die on, okay? It's a hill to die on. You don't want to lose this one. You don't want to lose this one. Christ by highest heaven adored, Christ the everlasting Lord, late in time, behold him come, offspring of the virgin 's womb. Joyful all ye nations rise, join the triumph of the skies, pleased is man with man to dwell. Jesus R. Emmanuel Hark the herald angel saying, Glory to the newborn King. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for our Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ, our champion, the one who came as our King. The one who became like us so that he could die for us. And uh Father, I pray that as we uh continue to uh uh think and dwell on and ponder uh this unique life of the incomparable Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you would just help our hearts to exalt in him, that we would exalt our head, Jesus Christ, and that he would be honored above all things, because he is above all things. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.