The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of 1 Corinthians? We're going to take a short break from our study through the book of Matthew. Uh looking forward to jumping back into Matthew chapter 24 uh next week, but uh I thought it would be uh appropriate uh as we're coming back from the the shepherd's conference and Really didn't have a whole lot of time in between to try to get the more study done to go ahead and uh and take a break from Matthew and turn to uh a passage of of scripture that I've preached before uh but also had a particular application for this week as as well. Uh for those of you who are might not be aware Um this year John MacArthur celebrated his fiftieth year in pastoral ministry. It was in uh 1969 that uh John MacArthur preached his first sermon. at Grace Community Church and for fifty years he's been uh faithful in uh ministry and uh uh we're very grateful uh for the ministry of uh Dr. John MacArthur and uh for all that he represents for uh evangelicalism and uh expository uh preaching. And um after receiving uh you know many words of of thanks and uh uh you know hearing uh you know some of the the ways that his ministry has changed the the lives of of people Uh on the day of uh the anniversary uh service uh for John MacArthur, uh he preached about his own unworthiness, which is the only place that you can really go, right? It was the same message that he uh opened up the uh the conference with. He opened up a message uh from 1 Corinthians uh chapter 4 uh to speak about his own unworthiness again. And uh to really talk about uh faithfulness uh being a result of humility. And uh I thought it was uh an appropriate uh message for the for the conference and uh really an appropriate message uh for us as well. Uh during the uh the Q<unk>A, uh he was asked uh questions about, you know, how do you uh keep humble. You know, one of the questions was about diligence and the other question was about uh humility and uh his immediate answer was uh you know just to talk about what a wretched sin pride is. Uh actually uh uh Chrysostom uh who's an ancient uh preacher calls it the mother of hell. Pride is the mother of hell The scripture talks about the odiousness of the sin of pride and says, everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord in Proverbs chapter 16 and verse 15. A writer by the name of Thomas Watson, he says that pride is the greatest sacrilege because it robs God of his glory. We read a little bit earlier in Psalm 115, it says, not to us, not to us, O Lord, but to you, but to your name. To your name be the glory. God is the one who should be glorified. God is the one who deserves all glory. And I love this. This is what Thomas Watson also writes. He speaks about angels being these glorious creatures, but he says, take away humility from an angel, and he becomes the devil. Take humility away from an angel and he becomes the devil, which is exactly what happened in that first sin from heaven as Satan fell. That Satan in his heart desired to become like God. Take humility away from an angel and he becomes a devil. Take away humility from a saint and he becomes a sinner. And uh this is just a a great place for us to give our attention to in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. If you uh have your Bibles there, 1 Corinthians chapter 4, we'll start at verse 6 and uh read down to verse 9. You can follow with me. as I read. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 6 down to verse 9. Paul says, now these things, brethren, I figuratively apply to myself and Apollos for your sakes. So that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written, so that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. For who regards you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did not receive it, why do you boast? If you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? You are already filled. You have already become rich. You have become kings without us. And indeed I wish that you had become kings, so that we also might reign with you. For I think God has exhibited us, apostles, last of all, as men condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, Lord, just uh grateful uh once again uh for your word. Uh we're grateful for the way that it speaks to us, that it speaks to our hearts, that it humbles us, uh, that it tells us who we really are, that it tells us who you are. And Father, that's the right relationship to think about, not how we are related to other men, but who we are in relationship to you. It was after Isaiah saw you high and lifted up that he cried out, Woe is me, I'm undone. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell amongst a people of unclean lips. Well, Father, the right view of humility is not viewing us in our relationship to other men, but it's viewing us in light of who you are and your glory. To you alone belongs the glory. And our Father, I pray that we would recognize that, Lord, even this morning. And I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, I pray. Amen. There are a lot of people who would have us believe that uh having a low view of yourself is really the greatest threat to mankind. You know, often we hear labels thrown around about being, you know, of low self-esteem or feelings of inferiority. And uh both uh Christian and and secular uh secularists have uh uh kind of bought this into this common understanding of the danger of of of low self-esteem. Uh in a book uh titled uh Self-Esteem, uh the author Robert Schuller quotes a professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania who reviewed his book, and this is what the professor said. He says, I've been reviewing with great interest your new book. It is surprising how our minds have come to a similar position. You have pursued a religious route and I have pursued a scientific path, and we have both arrived at the same bottom line. Unconditional self-esteem. I would say man's deepest flaw is to mistrust himself. Man's deepest flaw is to mistrust himself. And to withhold love and self-acceptance. And later in this book, Dr. Schuler says the core of all human, of all sinful or unsocial behavior is a conscious or subconscious attempt. To feed the person's need for self-esteem. And then this is the way he defines sin. He defines sin is this any act or thought that robs myself or another human being of his or her self-esteem. He even goes so far as to say that a lack of self-esteem is the principal reason that the unsaved person does not come to Christ. Listen to this. He says the unsaved person cannot perceive himself as worthy of divine grace and hence rejects it. So I need to see myself as worthy of divine grace before I can accept it. Doesn't grace mean undeserved or unmerited favor? To receive what I don't deserve? Like Lord, I don't deserve your grace. I don't deserve your kingdom. I don't deserve forgiveness, but you've given it to me anyway. Like an unsafe person needs to first see himself as unworthy. Before he can accept divine grace. It was only after the prodigal said, you know, I'm not worthy to be called your son, that he received the acceptance and forgiveness from the Father. But here we have people that say that an unsafe person needs to view themselves as worthy of this divine grace before they can accept it. And in contrast to this kind of philosophy, the Bible warns us over and over again not to think too much of ourselves. Romans 12, verse 31 says to everyone among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. But to think so as to have sound judgment. Galatians chapter 6, verse 3 says, if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. So the Bible says we're to think of ourselves as what? Nothing. Philippians chapter 2 verse 3. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. So man's deepest flaw isn't that he thinks too low of himself. It's that he doesn't think low enough of himself. It's really not self-love that we struggle with, you know, the struggle to to to to love myself, because we already do. We already do love ourselves, right? In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 29, it says, no one has ever hated his own flesh. That's what the scripture says. Nobody has ever hated his own flesh. Psalm 20 in Matthew chapter 22 and verse 39, and it assumes that we love ourselves. When Jesus says this, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. What is he saying? You already love yourself. I'm just telling you to love your neighbor like you already love you. So the problem isn't that you don't love you. The problem is that you love you too much. And you love you in exclusion to loving others. So Jesus is here saying, love others as you already love yourself. You already know how to love yourself, right? When when I'm thirsty, what do I do? I get myself a drink. When I'm hungry, what do I do? I go and get myself something to eat. If I'm cold, what do I do? I turn the heat up, you know, grab so grab a blanket. It's like just love somebody else the way that you already love yourself You do that for you, right? Do it for somebody else. So people, we need to understand that that our deepest flaw is not to to have this low view of ourselves. It's that we we think too highly of ourselves. And even when when people they struggle often with this this idea of of you know you know low self-esteem, it's that they really struggle, you know, if you kind of look at the bottom line, it's that they they really think that like there's They struggle with the idea that people should think more highly of me than they do. And that's why they feel bad about themselves, that people aren't thinking as highly of me as I think they should think about me. And then they start feeling, you know, depressed and, you know, whatever else. But it's it's not because I I think too well of myself. It's because I think other people should really think more highly of me than they do. And they struggle with this idea of depression. People will even go to the extent of even committing suicide. Why? Because they think that my my life deserves better than it is. Look at the hand that's been dealt to me And because of this wanting to escape, this desire to escape, they'll even go to the extent of taking their own life. Because life didn't turn out for me the way that I thought it should I've been dealt a bad hand, you know, things aren't working out, and they seek to escape life instead of understanding that everything that I receive should be received as a gracious gift from the hand of a gracious God. Psalm 119, verse 68 says that the Lord is good and he does good. You know, when when we when we uh uh turn away from that, that's when we start to become self-absorbed. Instead of looking at the God who is above us as the God who does good and his hands are on all of his his works. I remember uh one time I was witnessing to uh uh to an individual and he says, You know what my problem is with God? He says, my problem with God is that uh that I have to worship him. He says to worship somebody else would be hell for me. He says, I'm not going to worship anybody. And it was shocking when I first heard that, but it really shows the depravity of the human heart. That's really where we are. We don't want to humble ourselves. I don't want to look at somebody else's above me. I don't I mean to worship him? Are you kidding me? Like I should be the one that people would give honor to. It's shocking, but it's true. But that is the problem of the human heart, that we think too much of ourselves. And out of all people, Christians should be the most humble people on the planet. We should be. Why? But because we understand reality. The Christian is the one who understands that God alone is worthy of worship, right? The Christian is the one who understands that we're totally dependent on Him, the pulse of our heart, the breath in our lungs. We owe it all to God, right? And for the Christian who's embraced the sovereignty of God, there's absolutely no excuse because even your salvation is a gift of God. If I've come to faith in Jesus Christ, it's not because I'm so smart. It's not because my heart is so tender. It's because God is so good. It's God who grants repentance. It's God who grants faith. It's God who grants salvation. And we affirm all those things. And here's the question: if we believe those things, why are we ever lifted up in pride against anybody else? If we understand that we're only here because of the goodness and grace of God. I love what John Piper said. He says, what a battle we have on our hands when he's speaking about pride. He says the enemy of pride comes into us at every front. We love to be made much of because of how we use our minds. We're good. We got good grades, smart solutions, clever one-liners, victory in a game of Scrabble. Like it even goes to that. I want to see myself as above somebody else. You know, all the competition and we have family games and we do that, but anyway, you know what I'm talking about. We want to be on top. I remember as a child I used to like turn over the Monopoly, you know, board. It's like, man, I'm not winning. Forget this Nobody's gonna win. You know what I mean? It's pride. We love to be made much of because of our bodies. Because of how we look, we can work long, work hard, we're muscular, shapely, run fast, lift a heavyweight, run far. Want people to look at us, appreciate us. Love to be made much of because of our possessions, where we live, in a certain neighborhood, we drive a certain car, have a certain portfolio. Look at my resume. Look at all the things that I've done. Want people to recognize us, you know, put it up on the walls, people can see. Did you did you see that little uh gold emblem at the bottom? I graduated cumulade. Just just to make sure you know. You know? It's like what what what is that for? Why why do we even care about all that? I believe the sin of pride is really the most revolting when it creeps into our spiritual eyes. You know, those are some of the physical things that we can boast of, but it's really the most revolting in our spiritual eyes. And there's really a few passages that are as penetrating as the one that we'll consider today in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Let me read it for you again, at least verse 6. Look at chapter 4 and verse 6. He says, now these things, brethren, I've applied figuratively to myself and Apollos for your sakes, so that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written. So that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. This is a passage about pride About arrogance, about superiority, about boasting, found in verse 7. And pride was not just an isolated problem in Corinth. It was uh really an idea that's covered from uh the beginning to the end of the book And chapter 1, verse 31, he says, Let him who boasts boast in the Lord. If you're going to do any boasting, let it be about God. Chapter 3, verse 21. So then let no one boast in men. Chapter 4, verse 18. Now some have become arrogant. Chapter 5, verse 2. You have become arrogant. Chapter 5, verse 6. Your boasting is not good. Chapter 8, verse 1, knowledge makes arrogant. And chapter 13, verse 4, love does not brag, and it's not what? It's not arrogant. It's not puffed up. And when you read through the chapters concerning the spiritual gifts, it's uh it's apparent that some people believe that their gifts set them apart as being more necessary than anybody else in the body. That's why he says, you know, the eye can't say to the hand, you know, I have no need of you. You can't tell anybody else because of their spiritual gift. Like I don't I don't have a need of you because because I kind of have it all to myself. It came from this this this this desire to be elevated above other people. They were arrogant, they were proud. Pride was a major problem in the Corinthian church. And the context of our passage makes it clear that it's really spiritual things that even became in view. Because what they used to elevate themselves over others was their connection to the apostles. And Paul gives three diagnostic questions to eliminate an unbiblical admiration of people and to annihilate an unwarranted pride in ourselves. Three weapons that you can use to combat spiritual pride. Number one, who do you think you are in verse six? You need to eliminate the defense of spiritual pride in verse six. Second question is this, what do you think you have? Which shows how we must expose the deception of spiritual pride in verses 7 to 8. And number three is How do you think you can boast? Which shows how we must embrace the denial of spiritual pride. Who do you think you are? What do you think you have? And how do you think you can boast? Let's look at the first question here. Who do you think you are? We need to eliminate the defense of all spiritual pride. There were some people in the Corinthian congregation who believed that their inflated opinions about themselves could really be justified. Because they they believed they could defend that they were superior to other people because of the people that they attached themselves to. So so he he really knocks the supports from right out underneath their their feet. He asks this question, uh who regards you as superior? Verse 7. Who regards you as superior? And verse 6 saying that no one of you should become arrogant on behalf of one against the other. When he says, who regards you as superior, literally that could be translated, who has separated you out? Who has kind of like designated you in like some kind of special category? Peter used the same word for for uh uh uh acknowledging a difference in uh Acts chapter 15 verse 9. He says there's no distinction between the Jews and the Gentiles. You know, you're all one You know, there's no distinction. Not one is superior over the other. He says God made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith in Acts chapter 15. Before God, we're all on the same level, sinners saved by grace. You weren't superior before your salvation, and you're not superior after your salvation. We don't have the right to look down at anyone. There's no distinction between you and another brother or sister here in the body of Christ. And the support here that the Corinthians were leaning on was found in the apostles them themselves in verse 6 again. He says, these things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes. Why? So that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written. So that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. And here's where they thought they found a reason to separate themselves from others, it was because of the teachers they preferred. And I don't want you to get lost in too much in the history here, but I found it fascinating that both Paul and Apollos had a great influence on the Corinthian church. Uh both uh uh Paul and Apollos had a had a ministry there. Paul was the one who founded the church uh during the second missionary uh journey according to Acts chapter 18. He had an extensive ministry in Corinth. He uh remained in Corinth for over a year and a half, uh teaching the Word of God among the Jews first and also among the Gentiles. It was at Corinth that Paul met uh Priscilla and Aquila, if you remember, who were fellow tent makers. They were the first to welcome Paul and support his ministry. And when Paul left Corinth, Aquila and Priscilla followed him all the way to Ephesus. And it was in Ephesus that Aquila and Priscilla met an eloquent man who was mighty in the scriptures. And who was that? Apollos. Apollos. And there were a few things that they had to instruct him about because uh uh we find out he wasn't aware of the the fullness of Christ's ministry, but he knew his Bible. Uh so they they did have to instruct him on some things, but but this was a man who was mighty in the scriptures. And Apollos shows up in Corinth and talks about how Apollos greatly helped those who had believed through grace, for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, demonstrating by the scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. And after Apollos leaves Corinth, what occurs is that there's a certain division. Because Paul is the one who founded the church. He started the church. He was the church planner. Apollos came on later on and he was the teacher. He's like the professor. You know, he's the one who comes in and instructs them and powerfully refutes the Jews in public, demonstrating from the scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. So here you have Paul, the church planner, who comes and has a mighty impact on the Corinthian church. Then you have Apollos who shows up later, who strengthens the church, you know, powerfully teaching from the scriptures. And after Apollos leaves, now a division occurs. Like like who who who are you following? Are you following Paul or Apollos? You know, I'm I'm of Paul. You know, Paul's the one who founded the church. Well, I'm of Apollos. He's the one who's mighty in the scriptures. You know, hey, you know what? Our small group is uh going over the sermon notes of the Apostle Paul this week. You do know that he wrote a couple books of the Bible, right? You know, well, uh, you know, Paul and uh and Apollos, they you know, they're they're both kind of hailed as like being the greatest teachers, and and they start to elevate themselves based on who they follow. Who they follow. And the the question is, is who do you who do you think you are? Why are you boasting in yourself? And really it was the cover-up for them to kind of elevate themselves above other people to show that they were more intelligent, spiritually in tune, that they had more insight, because they had made the better choice. And Paul says, that's enough. That's enough of that. Apollos and I aren't here to prop you up to make you feel better about yourselves. So let me take those stilts out from underneath your feet so you can drop back down to earth. Like, you know, Earth to Mars or whatever. It's like come back down. You know, your your heads are in the clouds here. Who do you think you are? So he says first in verse 6 here regarding their teachers, he says, I've kind of put myself in Apollos out here, so that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written. Not to exceed what is written. That phrase, uh, it is written, uh, is a phrase that's commonly used to denote the things written in Scripture It's used throughout this epistle, chapter 1, chapter 2, 3, chapter 9, 10, 14, 15. It's used all throughout the book here And what's interesting about its use here is that there's no Old Testament passage that is being referenced directly when he says, you know, not to exceed what is what is written. So Paul could just be thinking about Old Testament truth in general. Don't exceed what the Bible says about men. You know, look back at what the Scriptures say about men, and don't regard us above what the Scripture says about men. So that's what Paul could be saying, but there's also another way that we could look at this. Paul could also be referring to what he himself has written, because his words were also scripture. So when he's writing about who we are, he's saying, don't exceed what has been written. And what has been written is the very word of God. If you look back to chapter 4 and verse 1, look what he says about men. He says this, let a man regard us in this manner. If you want to think about us, this is how you think about us. As servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. He says, if you want to think about who I am, I'm just a servant. I'm a servant. Think of us as servants. Slaves is what the word is. You know, sometimes I think if we told people, you know, hey, I'm going into slavery. Instead of saying I'm going into ministry, they might get the right idea. I'm going into slavery. I'm going to go for four years to seminary so I can learn how to be a better slave. You know, the slave has shown up, you know, what can I do to serve? Like that is the the kind of attitude that a minister should have. This is slavery. I'm a slave to Christ. I don't come in here to do my will, I come in here to do the will of another. I'm a slave. That is how we should think of ourselves as ministers. We're carrying out the will of the superior. We're slaves, servants. Actually in in some contexts it was used uh the word was used for like a a third level galley slave, you know, an under roar rower. You know, somebody who just kinda I just all I do is pull my oar. Just on the bottom and no nothing, nobody. Just just a another oar puller. Just doing doing my job, just doing my duty. That's how we should think of ourselves as ministers of the gospel of God. And the next word that he uses is the word stewards. Oiko namas, which was the the word for one who managed the property of another. Oikaas meaning meaning house. So it's like I'm I'm looking after the belongings of somebody else. Like like this this does not belong to me. Like this ministry does not belong to me. The words that I speak don't belong to me. I'm I'm just a slave. I'm just I'm just somebody who who who looks after something that doesn't belong to me. It belongs to somebody else. I'm a steward. We don't advance our own agenda. We're not here to start our own thing. We're not here to gain some kind of superiority, some kind of title, like many of the false religions and cults. You know, when they they try to elevate themselves, we talked about that earlier in Matthew. You know, they want to be known as rabbi and you know elevate themselves above other people. Like that's not what we're here for. Titles like His Holiness or Holy Father, what right do you have to grab those titles? Those titles do not belong to you. It's like uh you know I uh I love when uh you know uh Paul and and Barnabas when they they ran out and they just like ripped their clothes when they were uh trying to sacrifice to them. It's like, man, we're we're just men like you! Don't do this, brothers, please. You don't accept these elevated titles for yourself. And Paul, in contrast to that attitude, invited people to not just take his word for it as if he was in charge. He says, you know, I all I want to do is just represent what the scriptures have to say. It's not about me. He used to be a curse. He pronounces a curse on himself if he's not faithful to represent God's word because it's not about his authority. Paul says, think about us rightly. Think about us as slaves. Think about us as stewards. We're watching over what belongs to another. And don't become arrogant on behalf of one against the other. And like I said, the more that the Corinthians elevated their teachers is the more they elevated themselves because they thought that they were better than other people. He uses the uh the word here in um in verse 6, uh you know, becoming arrogant in behalf of one against the other. The word for arrogant, it's the Greek word fusiato. Which means to inflate, to blow up, or to cause to swell, like you're blowing up a balloon, just making it bigger and bigger and bigger. They're inflating themselves before others. Literally used for it to speak of bellows being filled with air, sticking your chest out a little further, holding your your head up a little higher, being puffed up, and they believe that the apostles gave them a reason to think of themselves as better than than others around them. Back in chapter 3 verse 21, he shows them how how silly it really is to think of yourself as better than somebody else because of what teacher you attach yourself to. Look at chapter chapter 3. He says, So then, let no one boast in men, for all things belong to you. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all things belong to you. And you belong to Christ, and Christ belongs to God. So so if if if these ministers belong to the church, they also belong to you. You know, so if somebody says, you know, hey, you know, uh Archie Sproul is my teacher, well, he's my teacher too Oh, John MacArthur's mine. Well, he's mine too. It doesn't matter if if you're in the body of Christ, you belong to all of us. So it's not like, oh, I can separate myself out now. Well, I belong to Paul. Well, so do I. Now I'm a policy. Well, I am too. It doesn't matter. You can't separate yourself. Like we're connected here. All things belong to you. All things. Silly to call one man your teacher as if something's special that says something special about you. The gifts are given to the church. collectively. And that that's true for for us as as well. And we need to ask ourselves that question. Do we ever feel like we're superior to anybody else? Because of who we tune into, who we read, where we've been, what we've experienced. Do you feel better than anybody? Do you feel like you're above anybody because of those things? Like the the Bible says you need to have an accurate view of of yourself. So that's the really the the the first question. The first question that we that we have here about really who who do we who do we think we are, right? Who do we think we are? Let's look at the look at the next point here. Look at verse verse eight. Look at verse eight. Actually, I'm sorry, verse 7. It says, for who regards you as superior, what do you have that you did not receive? And if you Did receive it. Why do you boast as if you had not received it? So the qu second question is this, what what do you think you have? Do you really understand where what you have has come from? What do you have that you did not receive? And if the first question didn't level us, the second question should. Do you acknowledge that everything that you have comes to you as an unmerited gift from God? Everything that you have? The only way that you can build yourself up in pride is to think of what you have as not being a gift. Because you didn't earn anything. You didn't work for anything. It's not that you received something because you achieved it. It's not like we were given this as a some kind of medal of achievement. Like everything that we have is because God has been gracious. There is no material possession that you have. There's no spiritual quality that you have, that you're not obligated to turn to God and say, Lord, I thank you. I thank you. Everything that you have is a gift. Absolutely everything. I remember uh there was one day I was uh on my job and I was uh uh before I ate my lunch, I you know, I bowed my head to pray for my food. And uh the guy that was next to me says, you know, like do you have a headache or something? Like why did you you bow your head like that? And it's like, Come on, you know what I'm doing. I'm praying for my food, right? He says, Well, I don't understand why why you pray for it, you know, to to thank God for it. Didn't you work for it? It's like, you know, just gave me, you know, just lost my appetite, you know, put my sandwich down. It's like, do do do you understand that that if it wasn't for God giving me strength that I wouldn't be here? Do you understand that if it wasn't for God giving me a job, I wouldn't have a job to work? Do you understand if there was no food to eat that I couldn't eat? Do you understand that if God didn't allow this food to be nourishment for my body, that I could eat all that I wanted to and I still wouldn't gain anything from it? I mean, like everything. Like we could be out here eating dirt. And you're not going to turn to God and thank God for what you have? Everything you have is a gift. Absolutely everything We need to come before God recognizing that He's the one who gives us the power to get wealth if we have a job. He's the one who gives us the salvation, like we already talked about before. He's the one who gives us everything. Absolutely everything we have comes from God Back in chapter 1, Paul listed some of the things that are the gifts of God's grace. Look back at chapter 1. Look at verse 4. He says, I thank my God always Concerning ye for the grace of God, which was given you in Christ Jesus, that in everything you were enriched in Him, in all speech, and all knowledge even as the testimony concerning Christ was confirmed in you, so that you are not lacking in any gift, awaiting eagerly the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will also confirm to you. To the end, confirm you to the end, blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. We can't take credit for anything. He gives us the grace, he enriches us spiritually, he gives us the knowledge. He's the one who is the one who keeps us until the day that he comes back. It's all from him. It all goes back to him. Saint St. Augustine said it was uh 1 Corinthians 4 7. This verse that says, you know, if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? He says that it was this that was the door that opened up to the gospel or the doctrines of grace. To understand the total depravity, to understand the unconditional election, all these things came to him by understanding this verse. If I have it, it's because it's been given to me. It's been given to me. In Romans chapter 9, verse 16, it says, So then it does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs, but on God who has mercy. It is God who has mercy. We we sing in the hymn, Oh, oh, O to grace, what a debtor, right? Oh to grace, what a debtor. Do you do you believe that you're a debtor to grace? That I owe everything to the grace of God? And here's the test. If you really believe that everything you have is because of the grace of God, if you really believe that, then Where do you come up with the courage to be proud? Where does pride come from if you really believe that everything is a gift? If we truly acknowledged that all that we have is the gift of God's grace, it would be an end to all pride. If we really acknowledge that The fact that we're still found boasting is clear evidence that we don't believe that we're debtors to God. You know, we have that kind of do-it-yourself mentality, you know, like like you did it yourself, like you know, Home Depot. You can do it, we can help. It's like no you can't do it. That's why God had to come and help, right? You can't do it. None of this, you can't do it. And how dare we take credit for what only belongs Our prayer should be the same as the servant that Christ talked about in Luke 17. Luke 17, chapter 10. I mean verse 10. You're to say we are unworthy slaves. We've only done that which we ought to have done. Just doing my job. Nothing nothing superior. I'm I'm not beyond anybody. I'm not storing up some treasury of of merits. I remember a pastor that spoke to us one time, a group of group of us gathered together and he says, he says, he says, men, nobody should be getting famous here except Jesus Christ. And that's that's the truth, right? Like anybody who gets the honor should be Jesus Jesus Christ. In Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 23 and 24, listen to what God says. He says, Thus saith the Lord, let not a wise man boast of his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast of his might. Let not a rich man boast of his riches, but let him who boasts boast of this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness, justice, and righteousness on earth. For I delight in these things, says the Lord. You know, so if you want to boast, that's fine as long as you're boasting in the right one. As long as your boasting is in the Lord Our boast needs to be in God. And if God is your only boast, you can say that you understand that everything comes from Him. And that's the point here. If we understand everything comes from God, that we can uh we can acknowledge uh that that um uh that there's no reason for for boasting in our lives whatsoever. Is God your only boast this morning? That's the question. Is God your only boast? Look back at uh uh 1 Corinthians 4 again, because what Paul does next is uh is he he really uh uh launches into this uh a couple verses uh like just straight up sarcasm. Straight up sarcasm in this in this uh this next point uh that he that he has here Look at verse. Look at verse 8. He says, You are already filled. You have already become rich. You've become kings without us. And indeed I wish that you had become kings so that we might reign with you. And if you ever thought that all sarcasm was wrong, I mean this This right here kind of like messes up the you know your your your idea here because because Paul is like just laying it on thick. You're already filled, you're already rich, you're already kings. And he's not saying this in actuality because they weren't kings, because he turns around and he says, I wish that you had become kings. So he's saying that you're not, but this is how you think of yourselves. How how do you think of yourself? You're thinking of yourself as this king, this person of superiority. Who do you think you are? Why do you think you can boast? How do you think you can boast? That's the question. That's question number three. How do you think you can boast? Think you've become rich and filled, and uh uh the truth is that as Christians we've been given an immeasurable inheritance in Christ, but the full realization of those blessings awaits the revelation of Christ. And even in even in that time, you know, when we we do reign or rule or whatever, it's it's not over other people as if we're superior to other people. We're we're still uh understanding that this is all a gift of his grace. It all comes from him. The word fill that's used here, it's in the perfect tense in the Greek, uh indicates it's a completed action in the past that has continuing effects in the in the present. And Paul is basically saying, you know, I'm not sure when it happened, but there's some time in the past that you just became full. You just became full of yourselves. And you don't need anything at all. You have no need of anything. To be filled means to be satiated, satisfied, to have enough. He says, uh you're you're you're full of yourselves. You know, you acquired this little bit of knowledge and thought you reached some kind of plateau, like you needed nothing else. Like I'm full, I don't need anything else. Like they've heard it all. Compare this to what Paul said earlier in chapter 3 of the Corinthians. He says, I brethren could not even speak to you as to spiritual men, but as to men of flesh. as to infants in Christ. So here they are thinking that they're full. They don't have need of anything. And Paul turns around and says, your babies, your infants. I gave you milk to drink, not solid food, for you were not yet able to receive it. Indeed, even now you're not able. And here they are walking around like they're full and don't need anything else. You know, it's like like the teenagers who think they've got the world figured out, right? Paul says you're still infants, you're still babies, you still you still need help, but you're walking around like you don't need anything. You're full, you've got it all, you don't need any any help. Not only did they fill full of knowledge, they believed themselves to be full in their possessions, their status. Spiritually, they're satisfied. You're already rich. You've already got everything that you need. You're full. You're rich. And then this next phrase, you've become kings without us. Well, well, isn't that special? You're kings, you're rulers. One commentator said this: Grand things have passed in Corinth since the apostles left. Paul and the other apostles are still in a world of suffering, but in Corinth the church already lives in full triumph. And we know that Paul is saying this in sarcasm because he says it hasn't happened. I I wish that you were. Unfortunately, uh, you know, they got crowned and Paul missed the coronation. Paul and the Paul still consider themselves as pressing on toward the goal in Philippians chapter 3. Paul says, I haven't even arrived yet. But here the Corinthians think that they've they've already made it. What a deception that is, right? And if you want to look at what it looks like to embrace spiritual humility, look at what Paul says in verse 9. He says, For I think God has exhibited us apostles last of all. As men condemned to death, because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. And Paul Paul understood what his place was in the world. It was last place. I'm in the last place. And this is absolutely crushing. While the Corinthians are busy fighting for the first place, Paul says, I'm content to be in the last place. And Paul's rejected all claims of superiority. He 's embraced the last position as his own. He says, in the world, I'm the lowest, I'm the least, I'm the bottom, I'm the one without rank, I'm the one without status. That's who I am And not only did he see himself as without rank and status, he he also saw himself as a man who was appointed for death Verse 9, for I think God has exhibited us apostles last of all as men condemned to death because we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. That word uh spectacle, it's from the the Greek word theatron, where we get our English word theater from. And the kind of theater that he that he's talking about here isn't a a theater where you go to watch the movies. It's the the theater where you go to watch men being slaughtered and and killed at the hands of gladiators. The the Greek theater uh that he's talking about here. It's where men would have been exposed to lions and bears, gladiators for the entertainment of the masses. And if you survived, you'd be kept around for the next event. And the conclusion was always death. That's the conclusion, death. The final event in this kind of theater was always death. And he says that we've been appointed as those last of all. Like that's that's our end. We've been appointed as men to die Grand finale where they cry for your blood. And Paul says, I'm content to know that this is the place where I belong. I'm a I'm a spectacle to to angels and to men. And this image was really meant to put the Corinthians to shame. The Corinthians, he says, you know, you're like on the on the stands, kind of watching from on high, like because you're you're above us. Watching us as we're on the field actually giving our lives for the sake of the gospel, and you want to be elevated? You want to be elevated now? We're the ones who are the last of all. You're exalting yourself on our backs as we're being slaughtered for the sake of the gospel. So how can we boast? How can we boast if we really under understand these things? And are we willing to join Paul in being made a spectacle for the glory of God alone? Because if we're going to to really honor God, God doesn't want to want to see more of us. He wants to see more of himself, right? And when we stand up too high, we're blocking his view. When we're puffing our chest out, we're blocking his view. God has not called us to come to him so that we can enjoy making much of ourselves. He's called us to come to him so we can enjoy making much of him. And man's deepest flaw is not that he thinks too low of himself. It's that he doesn't think low enough of himself. Who do you think you are? What do you think you have? And how do you think you can boast? And I want to just read one more uh passage here from uh or a quote here from Thomas Watson. I thought this was this is just really helpful. Talking about our relationship to other people. He says this, he says, a humble man is willing to have his name and his gifts eclipsed, so that God's glory may be increased. He is content to be outshone by others in gifts and esteem, so that the crown of Christ may shine the brighter. This is the humble man's motto. Let me decrease, let Christ increase. It is his desire that Christ should be exalted. And if this is affected, whoever is the instrument, he rejoices. Some preach Christ of enemy envy. They preach Christ, uh they preach to take away some of Paul's hearers in the Philippians. Well, says he, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice. A humble Christian is content to be laid aside, if God has any other tools to work with, which may bring him more glory. A humble Christian is just worried about the glory of God, right? It's not about me. It's not about how people see me. It's not about the position that I have. It's about God being glorified. I remember I was uh reading uh um uh the the biography of uh Robert Murray McShane and uh in his life, I'm not not sure if you're aware of this, I mean we remember uh Robert Murray Machine um and his even his uh Bible study kind of method or you know the way that he read through scriptures often you know uh referred to even today. uh the the Robert Murray Machine method they call it but uh during his life uh he was a a minister of a of a church and uh he left for a trip and there was another minister that uh uh came in his in his place and filled uh the pulpit while he was away. And when he came back, he recognized that the the church that he had ministered to had just like exponentially grown, you know, just exploded in ministry. And uh he came back and and this is uh one of the the quotes from the book. He says that That I should be just as happy if the Lord passes over me to pick up another instrument, as long as God is being glorified. And that's that's the kind of heart that we should have before the Lord, isn't it? If if God would pass over me, as long as it's God being glorified, all the glory is to him. It's about his it's about his name being exalted. It's not about any glory going to myself This is the the kind of attitude that we should have as believers. So I'll ask you again, who do you think you are? Who do you think you are? You think you're you're somebody special? You're superior to anybody else? What do you think that you have? Do you think that you have anything that does not come first from the hands of God that you don't have to turn around to say thank you? It should be an elimination of pride to notice that everything that you have is a gift. I don't own anything. And why do you think you can boast? How do you think you can boast? Understanding what God has ordained is that he would be glorified. Above all, and that if you're really a servant of him, that you should be content to be the last of all, as a spectacle to both angels and to men, as men that were set aside for the purpose of death. For the entertainment of the masses. This is where Paul was. And he was content to be there because he understood that the glory goes to God and God alone. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and we're grateful for this opportunity to uh uh look at this text together. And uh Father, I pray that you would uh allow this text to speak to our hearts. That you would grow us in our um in our humility before you, that we would not seek to elevate ourselves above anybody else here within the body of Christ. Not because of our gifts or our positions, our titles, or whatever else we might have. Father, I pray that we would see ourselves as those who are last of all. Uh that we're not ruling and reigning over other people, uh that we're just the servants, the just the slaves, the stewards who care for something that doesn't even belong to us, the the mysteries of God, the The truth of your word, any any kind of um uh opportunity that we have to serve, Lord, is is just a gracious gift from your hands. Uh so Father, I pray that we would recognize that about ourselves. And uh Father, that we would have a right attitude towards uh one another. Uh make us a humble church, a church that is willing to serve in the the right kind of attitude that uh you've already uh described for us and that Jesus himself is the the ultimate model for The one who was the king of all, the Lord of all, is the same one who stooped down to wash his disciples' feet. Try to remind us. That we need to be imitators of our Savior. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.