The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. As you know the timetable, and the church is going to be raptured, right? So this isn't directed specifically to the church, but there's many principles that we can draw from it as believers, as focused on the nation of Israel and address to those believers who are coming to faith. after the rapture of the church. So we are talking about the remnant of the Jews and the inestimable mass of believing Gentiles. This is the main focus But we cannot remove ourselves from the application. For the return of the king, I don't know if you guys are getting this yet from the conference, but the return of the king or the day of the Lord is judgment, wrath righteousness, but it's also repentance, reconciliation, redemption. They go hand in hand. And as you start to study other sections about the end times, you see that. That's sometimes why it can be confusing because we're talking about two different themes at the same time It's a day of accountability that forces all who understand it to consider their faith in Jesus. Here God calls us to face the future so we know how we ought to live in the present. That's what the return of the king is, and that's what we find in Matthew 24. It's a message of hope, encouragement, motivation, and clarity. Clear instruction so you can look forward to Christ's And his return, his promises, no matter what age or epoch you live in. And um I'm really learning a lot about clear instructions. Um not only am I a a a pastor of uh less than three years But I'm also a father of four. So I'm learning about the importance of instructions and how easy it is for me to give instructions that I think are clear that are really misunderstood. When I give unclear instructions, it typically breaks people's hearts, you know, and the closer it gets to you, the more you love those people, the harder their heart breaks. And I just discovered that the other day with my son, who woke up really in the middle of the night Because he thought he had a rendezvous with dad to go for a bike ride in the dark, awaiting. Any moment, he's imminently coming to give me a great event. And my wife finds him downstairs crying, going, what in the world are you doing down here? I said, I'm waiting for dad. That broke my heart, right? You think when Christ talks about the end times, he wants you to be waiting in a dark room confused, wondering when he's going to show up? No, of course not. He wants you to know the details. He wants it to be clear so you can have hope and encouragement. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about So, let's go to Matthew 24. When I say let's go to Matthew 24, I'm like most of the pastors here, what I mean is open up your Bibles in Matthew 24, and we're going to set all the context Past, present, and future. So open your Bibles in Matthew twenty-four, but get ready to look at a lot of Matthew. And especially in regards to Matthew chapter 24 and 25. What we're going to see as we start to look at the greater context of the Gospel of Matthew is that the focus is on Israel. Nobody's going to argue that the Gospel of Matthew is written to a Jewish audience. Few people are going to argue that the main theme of Matthew is kingdom, Christ establishing his kingdom. But the focus is Israel. In fact, the word church is only used three times in Matthew. So just go over there. I just want to give you the big context. The first time is in Matthew chapter 16 I don't know how I'm going to run through all this. I was just at another session where a pastor ran through an entire book of the Bible and he told us a member of his congregation was there and he said, Don't tell my church I did this So if I manage to do this, don't tell anyone, okay? They can't believe I can't even get through one verse. So uh Matthew 16, 16 Christ asked Peter, Who am I? He says, You are the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood do not reveal this to you, but your Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. So we find a reference to the church. The rock there is the confession that Peter makes. You find the church again in Matthew 18, verse 17. It's a passage on discipline. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses even to listen to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. So there are some references to the church, but Large and in part, Matthew is focused on the nation of Israel. And this becomes ever more obvious as you start to march away from the verses and chapters we just looked at, getting closer and closer To Matthew 24. This becomes pretty obvious here is this important role that the nation of Israel is going to play, and how this role is going to be taken away for a time, but someday restored to them in hope. Look at this in Matthew chapter nineteen, verse twenty seven Then Peter said to him to Jesus, Behold, we have left everything and followed you. What then will there be for us? And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you that you have uh that you who have followed me in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, you shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or children or fathers for my name's sake will receive many times as much and will inherit eternal life. So we have the apostles actually judging the twelve tribes of Israel. That's pretty incredible, right? The apostles are called the pillar of the church. In Galatians chapter 2. 9 they're called the foundation of the church. In Ephesians 2. 20, but here they are judging the twelve tribes of Israel, which means that's a focus here. Same with Jesus, right? Jesus is called the head of the church, but he's also sitting on King David's throne. You see them as a threshold here So Israel is really the address of the message. All the address of the message. You continue to go through it here. You see in the laborers in the vineyard. He's talking about Israel there. See it in the triumphal entry in Matthew 21. Jesus is coming into Jerusalem Matthew chapter 21, when they had approached Jerusalem and had come to Beth Page at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent to his disciples, saying, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied there and a coat with her, untie them and bring them to me. Matthew 21, verse 9, he starts to come into the city, the crowds going ahead of him, and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. Looking at Jerusalem, looking at the nation of Israel. This is the focus that we have here. Jesus immediately after entering into Jerusalem cleanses the temple. Matthew chapter twenty-one verse twelve And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who were buying and selling in the temple and overthrew in the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who were selling doves So we're starting to see the progression, right? We certainly were talking about the church in some regards, but the focus is really Israel. It's in the paras in the disciples' reward. They're going to judge the nation of Israel. It's in the labor, it's in the vineyard It's in the triumphal entry. He's focused on Jerusalem. It's in the cleansing of the temple. It's in the parable of the barren fig it's in the example of the barren fig tree in Matthew 2118. Now in the morning when he was returning to the city he became hungry, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only, and he said to it, No longer shall there be any fruit from you. And at once The fig tree withered. Seeing this the disciples were amazed and asked, How did the fig tree wither all at once? And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not vow, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but even If you stay to this mountain, be taken up and cast in the sea, it will not happen. So the idea is the fig tree, Israel, is no longer fruitful. They're barren. See this in more parables with the two sons. We see in the parable of the landowner. Go there, Matthew chapter 21, verse 33. We get closer and closer, Jesus starts to condemn the nation of Israel, but he's still focused on them. So that tells this parable, Matthew 21, verse 33. Listen to another parable. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it and dug a wine press in it and built a tower and rented it out to vine growers and went on a journey. When the harvest time approached, he sent his slaves to the vine growers to receive his produce. The vine growers took his slaves and beat one and killed another and stoned a third. Again he sent another group of slaves, larger than the first, and they did the same thing. But afterward he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. Now, if if if you're like me, you hear the vine grower sending his son, you're like, what is this vinegar doing? Why did he send his son? Did he know he's going to die? It's the story of the gospel, right? It's Jesus coming to his people, to the Jews, and they're going to kill him and cast them out. Focus is the nation of Israel. What does Jesus continue to say? But when the vine growers saw the sun, verse 38, they said among themselves, This is the heir, come, let us kill him and seize inheritance. They took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. Incredible picture, incredible story. This allows Jesus really to make this condemnation in verse 42. Jesus said to them, Did you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected? This became the chief cornerstone. This came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. Taken away from you, Israel, and given to a people producing the fruit of it. And he who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whoever it falls it will scatter him like dust. So you can you can see that the cross here is on who right now. The nation of Israel and their unfaithfulness. Certain, there's certain promises to the Gentiles, no doubt, but really this is a gospel, and even Jesus' message is directed to the nation of Israel. Their lack of repentance. And you see this that finally Jesus, you know Jesus doesn't always get through to people, right? He tells the parables people don't understand, he condemns people and they But Jesus' message has even gotten through to the Pharisees. Look at this verse forty-five. Finally making an impact. Verse 45 of Matthew 21. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables They understood that he was speaking about them. Have we ever had that incident in a sermon? Like you go to listen to a sermon, you're like, this is about this. Somebody else has got to hear this sermon. And then finally one day you're like, uh oh, this is for me. Well that's the Jews right now. It's taken Jesus essentially his entire ministry, and they're like, okay, he's talking about us, he's condemning us for our unfaithfulness to the things of God And then Jesus really starts to let out on the nation of Israel, focusing on the Jewish leaders. So you see this in Matthew 22, verse 23, and following, he he goes after the Sadducees. He goes after the Pharisees, they try and trip them up with questions, but instead he answers them with the truth of the sc the scriptures and in the end they're tongue tied, Matthew twenty two, verse forty six No one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him another question. He's destroying everything. He comes in, the people praise his name, he tears down the temple, he condemns the nation itself, he goes after the leaders, and then in verse 23 Verse 13, he goes after the Pharisees with these woes. But woe to you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, because you shut off the kingdom of uh from people, for you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering, and he goes again and again. Eight woes condemning the Pharisees, condemning the people, and finally He breaks out in a lament in Matthew 23 verse 37. Jerusalem, Jerusalem who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her, how often I wanted to gather your children together, the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling. Behold, your house is being left to you desolate, for I say to you, from now on, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. This is the condemnation. The focus is on Israel. They're the target. They're turning from God's plan. Jesus keeps calling them to repentance. Finally, he condemns them and he says, I'm turning away from you. Turning away from you. Until Very important, verse 39. Until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. That's a quote from Psalm 118. So he said there's going to be a time. There's going to be a time where you're going to look back to me and turn back to me in faith, and that's really what Matthew 24 is about. This is the until, this is what's coming, this special hour when the nation of Israel, which is once judged is going to be restored. Under the wrath of God will receive his grace and mercy. Incredible picture. That's the context that we have here. The context. And we see this not just in Matthew 23, or you see it throughout the scriptures. I'm sure as you guys are going to some of these other sessions, you're seeing this as you're Saying Daniel or the Day of the Lord or or the covenants in the Old Testament or wherever whatever session you went to, you're seeing that this is a promise throughout the scriptures. But but I do want to make a special connection to the Olivet Discourse, and that's in Zechariah. So you can maybe even just put a piece of paper in Zechariah if you can find it It's not far away from Matthew. You go, Matthew, Malachi, Zachariah, start going towards Genesis. It will be right there. And the Olivet Discourse is really lined up with Zechariah 12 through 14. That's the consensus. So if you think all of a discourse Matthew 24-25, well a great parallel to that would be Zechariah 12-14. It's kind of a one-for-one. But even the lead up to Zechariah 12 , 14, 13, 14 , even parallels what Jesus is doing in the Gospel of Matthew. So I want uh before we look at Zechariah 12, 13, 14, I just want you to look at Zechariah 11. Verse 15. See, the context is really important. You know, I'm just going to try and get you guys a running start. I hope to make it through all the Olive discourse. If not, hopefully you get enough speed to make it through by yourself, right? Context is so important. Zechariah 11, verse 15. Lord speaking to the prophet Zechariah, and he says to him, He says, The Lord said to me, Take again for yourself the equipment of a foolish shepherd. For behold, I am going to raise up a shepherd in the land who will not care for the perishing, seek the scattered, heal the broken, or sustain the one standing But will devour the flesh of the fat sheep and tear off their hooves. Woe to the worthless shepherd Who leaves the flock? A sword will be on his arm and on his right eye, his arm will be totally withered, and his right eye will be blind. What did Zechariah just say? Woe to the worthless shepherd His right eye will be blind? Does that sound familiar? Who just said that? Come on, guys, you can talk to me. It's okay. Who just said that? Jesus, right? Just before we get to the Alba of the discourse, Jesus delivers his woes to the Pharisees. And what's the one invective that he really likes to repeat when he talks to the Pharisees? He says, You are Blind. You are blind. You are blind. You are blind. Whoa isn't that incredible? So Jesus is taking the same critique from Zechariah and putting it onto the Pharisees. An amazing, amazing picture. And then right from there we have The rest of Zechariah, which really does parallel uh Jesus here. I'm sorry, yeah, Jesus' all the discourse. Look at Zechariah 12. Zechariah 12, verse 1. After the woes, what comes next? Well, Zechariah tells us the burden of the word of the Lord concerning Israel. Thus declares the Lord, who stretches out the heavens, lays the foundation of the earth, informs the spirit of man within him Behold, I'm going to make Jerusalem a cup that causes reeling to all the peoples around. And when the siege is against Jerusalem, it will also be against Judah. It will come about in that day that I will make Jerusalem a heavy stone for all the peoples. All who lift it will be severely injured, and all the nations of the earth will be gathered against it. And that day declares the Lord, I will strike every horse with bewilderment and his rider with madness, but I will watch over the house of Judah while I strike every ha every horse of the peoples with blindness. Then the clans of Judah will say in their hearts A strong support for us are the inhabitants of Jerusalem through the Lord of hosts their God. It's a pretty powerful message. Now so just imagine if you're the disciples, right? You're following Jesus. You know the Old Testament, you've had a lot of the teachings of the end times. Jesus just delivered the woes to the bad religious leaders, the blind shepherds. What are you expecting? You're expecting Zechariah 12, 1 through 5, right? There's going to be a siege, but God is going to sustain his people and they're going to be victorious. You're expecting war against the Romans, you're expecting the religious system to be turned upside down, you're expecting King Jesus to be on his throne, A-S-A-P. Right? That's the picture that they have Say, well, where do you get that? Go back to Matthew. Matthew 24. So now we finally made it to the Isle of the Discourse. Matthew 24. Verse 1. Jesus came out from the temple and was going away when his disciples came up to point out the temple buildings to him. What are they doing? They're pointing out the temple building. That's to show. In the Greek it kind of has this idea of of exhibiting or showing off. Can you believe this temple? Can you believe how big it is? And it was an impressive temple. It uh occupied over forty acres acres. Its highest wall was a hundred and fifty eight feet from bedrock. Its length was w roughly equivalent to of five football fields. They quarried limestones ranging from 3 to 35 feet long and from 3 to 6 feet high. I mean, this is a fortress So this is good, right? This is good if you're the apostles, right? Jesus has delivered the woes. Zechariah 12 says there's going to be a siege, but we're going to be victorious. And hey, doesn't get better than this temple, right? This is a solid block of rock. Right, Jesus? Right? This is what's going to happen next. And then Jesus twists Zechariah on its head and totally confuses the apostles, and that's why most of you guys are here. Because what does he tell them? Verse 2, and he said to him, and he said to them, Do you not see these things? Truly I say to you, not one stone here will be left upon another, which will not be torn down. Wait a second. I thought you just did the woes, and now we have a war with Rome. We tear down the religious system and you're king, priest, and prophet. What are you talking about? They're confused. He shocks them. It's a stunner. And actually you're going to find the same language in Zechariah. If you want to go back to Zechariah for a second, if you listen to me and kept your finger there. I didn't. I have something to help you. Zechariah 11 Verse 6. Zechariah 12 talks about victory in the siege, but Zechariah 11, 60 to this. God talks about removing a hand of mercy and grace from the nation of Israel for a time. It's going to end in a siege, but not one that's going to be victorious. Zechariah 11:6. For I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of the land, declares the Lord. But behold, I will cause the men to fall each into another's power, into the power of his king, and they will strike the land, and I will not deliver them from their power So I pastured the flock doomed to slaughter. And hence the afflicted of the flock, and I took for myself two stouts, the one I called favor, and the other I called union, so I pastured the flock. Then I annihilated the three shepherds in one month, for my soul was impatient with them, and their soul was weary of me. Then I said, I will not pass for you What is to die, let it die. And what is to be annihilated, let it be annihilated. And those who are left eat one another's flesh That is a gruesome picture. That's a picture of the siege. So I think Hezekiah, that was a good siege, that worked out well. Bad siege, Jeremiah, lamentations, the people inside the walls, those that actually remained alive, ended up eating one another That's what Jesus is talking about here. That's gonna come in 70 AD. The walls are torn down. Destroy So the disciples are going, What is happening? I was thinking restoration, but now you're talking about judgment. What's going on, Jesus? And they ask him this question. And and this is really kind of how I want to frame the rest of our time together. They ask one question. And Jesus gives two demands, and then he's going to give us a bunch of information. So one question, two commands, and a bunch of information. And the question is in verse 3. As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us when will these things happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age. It's one question. It's a two-parter, right? Any disciple knows you don't don't ask a single question. You always ask a two-parter, right? Just one more question, Pastor. I can't believe the amount of times I've heard that. One more question Just ask a two-part question. The first is when will these things happen? Jesus is going to answer that. The second is what will be the sign of your coming and the end of the age? That's really framing all of this That's a question they want an answer to, and that's what Jesus is going to strive to answer. And Jesus frames this question. He doesn't just go right in and say, I'm going to give you a bunch of information. He frames this question with two commands, or really two types of commands, and this is so, so important as you read the Olivet Discourse or as you study any end times, day of the Lord. Distress of Jacob, tribulation, rapture, whatever. All of this is for your mind and it's for your heart. It's for you to grow in a comprehension and understanding of God's Word, and it's for you to be cut to the quick and go, Lord, what should I do? How can I be ready? So I want whatever you hear today, let that be uh let that be in the kind of the two poles, the guardrails of your mind. Let me know and grow and follow the Lord in this, so he gets to know the scripture, what it says. There is clarity, some things can be known here And then the other side, Lord, let these truths impact and affect my heart. We find Jesus given both of these. First, he looks at the heart. We're going to see this in verse 4. Has everyone ever thought about that there's there's commands in the outphate discourse? Are you serious? I thought this just allowed us to do a bunch of graphs in different colors on maps to explain the end times. No, there's commands here There 's commands. Verse 4. And Jesus answered and said to them, See to it that no one misleads you. You know? If you're going to circle anything in the Olive Discourse, may you circle that. See to it that no one misleads you. It's a command. See to it. Bleto. Be aware. Be ready, be considering, thinking. You could say it's it's discernment on fire. That's kind of the picture you have here. And he's actually going to say it again near the end of the Olivet Discourse, so it's kind of the the frame that you walk through this whole thing in verse forty-two. Pardon me, end of uh chapter twenty-four. All the discourse goes into chapter twenty-five. Uh verse forty-two. He says, Therefore, be on the alert. for you not know which day your Lord is coming. Gregorio. It's it's it's it's a very similar phrase. It's it's you're anticipating at a moment's notice that the tides could change, that the threat could come. That you're in danger and you need to be prepared. He's going to expand this in the the parables and the lessons in that section, but that's the this the the general First type of the command, be ready, be alert, be aware with your heart. The second looks at the mind. And you see this in Matthew 24, 32. He says this, now learn the parable from the fig tree. When its branches have already become tender and puts forth its leaves, you know that summer is near. Now learn, it's Mapateo, it's the same word for disciple. Learn, study, come under, consider, grow in these truths. And he also says, recognize Recognize, it's in the next verse, verse 33, so you too, when you see all these things, recognize that he is right at the door. Recognize ganoscope looks right to the mind. Gotta have this in your mind, gotta have this in your intellect, you've got to have the all these scriptures we're talking about, there's a lot of cross-references when it comes to the end times, isn't it? I'm amazed, you know, I I feel like uh a little brother who gets called into the the high school game, you know, listen to Professor Bloch talk about uh, you know, the end times. I'm like, why are they even asking me to come here? I don't know, but praise the Lord. Right? He knows so many verses, right? There's so many connections. This is incredible tapestry. You need to know this, you need to recognize, you need to be ready. That really helps us understand the rest of the olive discourse and it sets the application. In fact, I was talking to in in the in the green room there with some of the guys and and Harry Walls looks right at me. He Harry Walls is he's a pastor's pastor. He looks right at me and like, so what's the application? I'm like, Uh oh. What's the application for Matthew twenty four So I got the application at the beginning and I got the application at the end. So here's the application. What does this do? What should this do for you if if the Lord is telling you to recognize and understand If the Lord is telling you to be ready and be on the alert, what's the application when you even before you start to study the Olive Discourse? What's the application? Be right? This isn't really important. I gotta understand what in the world this is. I mean, is anybody like me when it comes to eschatology? You're kinda like, yeah, uh, you know, uh yeah, it'll all work out in the end Yeah, I you know, all you know one one guy in our church says we're uh pan-dispensationalist or something, it's all it all pans out in the end, right? Sound like yeah, yeah, yeah. I get that, I get that. But Jesus says learn, recognize Or or maybe you're the kind of like, I gotta figure this out, I gotta understand it, and then you you go to the coffee shop with your friend and you're bored to death with the end times and and it doesn't change your Christian walk at all. Neither of those can happen. This is really, really important, and it's not just academic. It's got to affect you. It's got to impact you. I've been to churches that study the end times unceasingly, right? And God blessed those dear churches. But what I've noticed is it made them very insular. That's not what real end-time study should do. If end-time study says it makes you go, Maranapa, Lord come, then you don't understand it, and you're certainly not applying it What's the application? Well first you need to say, am I ready? Am I prepared? Do I even know what's happening or what's going to come? Well it's introspective, it should bring you to your knees. The second is it needs to drive you outward. It needs to drive you outward. To ask a similar question to those that don't know the Lord. Are you ready? Are you prepared for the coming of the Lord? Do you even know what's happening in this crazy world? Because the Lord tells us what is Tells us what is. So, let's take a look. Like I said before, this is directed at the nation of Israel. That's the main focus here. But there's certainly things that we can learn And as we do that, I'm going to give you kind of the rest of the outline here, so which really spawns from um the the questions and the commands. Jesus answers their question really looking at three different things. The first is the promise for his return. I 'm going to talk about the parables for his return, and lastly, the preparation for his return. And If we don't finish, then you'll just have to come to my church for the next two parts, I guess. I don't know what we're going to do. But let's just start to get through these details as we talk about the return of the king. So Matthew 24 He starts to answer this question in verse 4. And I'm going to read, really, verse 4 down to 14 And this is a big snapshot of what I would say is the whole tribulation period. A big snapshot of the whole tribulation period. There's a couple different views on this. I'm going to explain why I say it's of the whole period. So let's read it here. And Jesus answered and said to them, See that no one misleads you. For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will mislead many. And you will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not frightened, for those things must take place, but that is not the end. For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes, but all these things are merely the beginning of Earth pens. Then they will deliver you to tribulation and will kill you, and you will be hated by all nations because of my name At that time, many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another. Many false prophets will arise and will mislead many. Because lawlessness is increased, most people's love will grow cold, but the one endures who endures the end will be saved This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. So this is an overview of the whole section from beginning to end. And here we see things go from worse to worse. Like from bad to badder, right? It just gets worse and worse and worse. And I think it's as you just read this on the face of it, i y y it's it's easy to think this, and I think the disciples did it well, is that, man, are we always living in the end times Really? It seems like that, right? Nation rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, famines and earthquakes. There's always an imminacy. There's always a nearness to the kingdom of God. That's just because of the world we live in and the people who we are. Another pastor is saying this the world does not fall away because of the global warming. It falls away because of our sin. So since we're all sinners and we ain't getting any better, it always seems like the end times is near in some regard. But we do want to be careful here because there are signs. The world is fertile ground for the coming of the end of the age, but it doesn't mean we're in the end times yet. You get the idea? People try and do that, right? They read the newspaper like the end is near, see, there's an earthquake, see, there's a there's a war, see there's a famine, see there and you're kind of like, yeah, I know, that's pretty bad, isn't it? It does seem like there's rumors of wars everywhere, right? And you don't want to be some sort of stuck up person that says, well no, it's gotta be at this time. No, you're like, yeah, I know, I get that. Because we live in a sinful world. That's the answer. Wars, famines, earthquakes. Now it it is amplified, right? The day of the Lord is going to be a global catastrophe. So these are everywhere in a way that we couldn't possibly know. But even in that, Jesus still says It's only the beginning, verse 8, but these things are merely the beginning of verse pain. Just the start. Just to start. If you want a little bit more detail on this, you can go to Revelation chapter six and you can read this kind of in expansion here. But it does grow more focused and intentional. And this is why I say this is the whole period, because you see this in verse 9, there's this then. Very important, right? That means there's a there's a change. Something happens that's a that's different, that's more intentional, more focused, more intense. Verse nine, then they will deliver you to tribulation and will kill you. And you will be hated by all nations because of my name. Who is he speaking to? Who's the you here? Yeah, the nation of Israel. Right, the nation of Israel is the you. This is the focus. So what it seems like is things go from worse to worse, and then all of a sudden there's this intensive focus and hatred on you, the nation of Israel. They hate these people. They want them dead. I think we read that in Zechariah chapter 12. It says they made a cup of reeling. Like it's like, why do you hate the Jews so much? I don't know, I just do. We don't hear that, do we? I just do. Why? I don't know. Just hate 'em. So w we not only see this global catastrophe with floods and famines and wars, but there does seem to be a change in time and Daniel chapter nine would say this is the midweek of the the the tribulation period, the three and a half years in But right here we see that there's a focus, intensification, persecution on the you, on the Jews, the nation of Israel, whom the apostles represent. And you see this also in Revelation chapter six. After the famines and the wars and the death, you see martyrdom. God's chat chastising, chastising the nation here, and it's really to restore the remnant and judge the unfaithful to reveal who you really are. This is clear in verse 10 At that time, at that time of testing and intense persecution, the many will fall away and will betray one another Many false prophets will arise and mislead many because lawlessness is increased. Most people's love will grow cold. So there's going to be a falling away, the judgment, the unfaithful. But there's also going to be a restoration. Verse 13 I mean I think I hope you guys are seeing this. As you talk about the end times, I mean, is every end times booked did have fire on it? I mean what's the deal, right? Because there is judgment, there is wrath, but there's also grace and mercy extended. There's a gospel preached. You know, if I ever have an end-times book, I want an angel with a horn on it, you know? Those angels preaching from heaven. And that's the encouragement we have here. So verse thirteen, but the one who endures the end, he will be saved, this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached from the whole world as a testimony to the nations, to all the nations, and then the end will come. There's going to be some that fall away, there's going to be some that stick with it. By God's grace, it's going to be hard, it's going to be excruciating, but they will persevere, and that's genuine faith. Then you know you're a real one, a child of God. So you see the the procession, right? It's it's uh war, famine, earthquake, death, tribulation, martyrs, and that's really followed throughout Revelation 6. So it's it's a unique period. It's a global catastrophe Especially focused on the nation of Israel. God's chosen people, the faithful Jews, they're the clear mark, and this makes sense after the rapture as well. The church isn't there, right? At least in the the sense that we know it now And um so I'll be in the end times. It t it seems like every generation that we are, right? All these things are happening. This is intense persecution, hatred of the Jews. And Jesus understands this, right? Rome 70 AD probably felt like they were in the end times When the Muslim Caliphate came in the Byzantine Empire in a 634 invasion probably felt like the end times for the Jews that were there. When the Turkish Ottoman Empire came in and took over the Roman Empire, it probably felt like the end times. When Nazi Germany came in and killed countless numbers of Jews, probably felt like the end times. How do you know the end times? Well, Jesus says, okay, this is the general overview, but there's two really specific signs that cannot be missed that will help you determine if you're in the end times or not. And that's what we have in the forthcoming verses, in verse fifteen. So there's general signs. There's wars, there's famines, there's earthquakes, there's death, there's martyrdom, there's intense hatred of Israel But there's two specific signs that are going to occur during this time which will make it undeniably clear that you are in the end times. He makes it real specific here. And it's essentially, I love Jesus, he's a pastor, right? He says it's an abomination of desolation, it's an intentional, institutionalized desecration of the temple, and it's my return. So when you see me in the skies, you know it's the end. I mean I love that, right? Talk about a clear command. You know, as I talked to Benjamin, the one thing I realized was You know, this is dad, right? Dad likes to dad likes to get in adventures too. He likes to tell stories. He likes to dream. So as I'm talking to Benjamin the night before, I'm like, oh, wouldn't it be great if if we got up early in the day and we went for a bike ride when all the girls were sleeping He's one of three girls. I mean this boy needs to get out, right? And so he took it as Dad's gonna wake up early with me and go on a bike ride with me in the dark. Ooh. Need to be more specific. Jesus is specific. Verse 15. There's going to be an abomination of desolation. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place, so again he points us right to Daniel. Thank you, Jesus. Then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. Whoever is on the housetop must not go down to get the things that are on that uh the things out that are in his house, whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. But woe to those who are pregnant and those who are nursing babies in those days, but pr but pray that your flight will not be in the winter or on the Sabbath, for then there will be great Tribulation such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will be. So this is a great tribulation that the world has never experienced. Who here has experienced a worldwide flood? It's going to be worse than that. Whoa. What are we talking about? God's promise not to flood the world, thank the Lord for that. But it's a great tribulation. The world has never seen a systematic uh Uh persecution of the Jewish state, wars, famines, earthquakes, death, everywhere. Wow. Okay. That's pretty specific, and it's all anchored in this abomination of desolation. Now Daniel is going to talk about the abomination of desolation three times. And I'll give you those references now. I'll just read a few of them. Daniel 9. 27, he talks about it. Daniel 11, 31 he talks about it, and Daniel 12, 11 he talks about it. Daniel 9 is really the key passage there. It gives you kind of a time period. This is all going to happen. But yeah, I'm just uh read Daniel 1131. It says forces shall be mustered and they shall defile the sanctuary fortress, then they shall take away the deadly sacrifices and place there the abomination of desolation. The idea is that there's a temple It's offering daily sacrifices. This is allowed because of the Antichrist and he makes a pact with the Jewish state. He allows the nation to to worship in the temple again. It's rebuilt. Daniel nine, eleven, twelve. Yeah, no problem. You know what? Let's just go to Daniel 9. What's your name, sir? Lamon. Let's go to let's go to Daniel 9, Lamon. I want you to see this. I know George Lawson just did something on Daniel, so I'm not going to dive uh into it. Essentially there's there's 70 weeks in Daniel. That's 490 years And and the tribulation is the last week or the last seven years. It's a time period that has not happened yet. The other 49 years has, but we're waiting for the seven years to come. We don't know when it comes, and when it comes, it's going to come all at once. It's going to all be unleashed like a flood in this generation. That's kind of the idea of how that word is used. And so let's pick this out and um verse, I guess, Daniel 9. 26 Then after the 62 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off and have nothing, and the people of the prince who is to come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. And its end will come with a flood. Even to the end, there will be war, desolations are determined. And he will make a firm covenant. with the many for one week. So this is the Antichrist. He's going to make a firm covenant with the many for one week, for seven years. But in the middle of that week, at three and a half years, he will put a stop to sacrifice and grain offering On the wing of abominations will come one who makes desolate, and even until a complete destruction, one that is decreed, is poured out on the one who makes desolate. So the idea is that three and a half years They're going to say, no more worship in the temple. I'm going to set and establish myself as the one to be worshipped. That's the abomination of desolation. You see it in Daniel 11, 31 as well, since we're in Daniel now. Forces from him will arise, desecrate the sanctuary fortress, and do away with regular sacrifice, and they will set up the abomination of desolation. Daniel chapter twelve, eleven talks about as well, from that, from the time that the regular sacrifice is abolished and the abomination of desolation is set up, there will be 1,290 days. So what's an abomination? I think it's important. An abomination is something that causes disgust or hatred. A desolation is a state of complete emptiness or destruction. So this is really a picture of false worship within the temple It's not destroying the temple like they did in 70 A. D. It's a planned, intentional, institutionalized, habitually practiced false worship within the temple of Israel. That's the picture. That's what we have, the abomination of desolation is set up. Now this happened before. It happened one time in history. You can say something like the abomination of desolation. before Christ. So Antiochus IV, the king of Syria, captured Jerusalem in uh one hundred and sixty seven B uh one hundred and sixty seven BC and desecrated the temple by offering the sacrifice of a pig on an altar to Zeus. In seeking to prohibit Judaism and Hellenize the Jews, Antiochus forbade the religious practices and commanded that all copies of the law be burned. That's from Josephus. So we kind of know what it looks like. Take away all the scriptures, they burn them, they sacrifice a pig on the altar. It's institutionalized, false worship, they bar the temple. 70 AD, they burned it to the ground. It's hard to worship institutionally in a false way when you burn the temple to the ground. That's the picture that we have here. And it's a great tribulation. Joel talks about this, Joel chapter 2. I think it's 3031, talks about there's no other day like it. It's a great tribulation. But according to God's mercy, it's going to be restricted. Find this in Matthew. Back to Matthew 24. Remind, you got us off track here. That's alright. Matthew 24. Matthew twenty-four verse twenty-one. For in that day there will be great tribulation, such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor even will. Unless those days have been cut short, no life would have been saved, but for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Now the word elect is used in a variety of ways. Sometimes it's used specifically for the nation of Israel. Think about Romans uh 1126, right? The elect of God, that's the nation of Israel. That's what it's talking about right here. God's going to cut these days short to preserve his nation as an act of grace. There's one more sign. This is the last sign. So that's pretty obvious, right? It's clear. It's going to be a temple. In that temple is going to be false worship, week after week after week after week. There's another sign. Specific sign. And this is really the return of Christ. Where are we going to pick this up? Verse 23. Matthew chapter 24, verse 23. Then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe him. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. So again, false teachers go to the church, false prophets go to the nation of Israel. Again, it's focused on Israel. They're going to arise and show great signs and wonders. We see the Antichrist does that in Revelation to mislead, if possible, the elect. Behold, I've told you in advance, verse 26. So if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out, or behold, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe them. For just as lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. So before he really announces what the Son of Man looks like, he says it is going to be very obvious. Lightning comes from the east and flashes in the west, right? You can't miss it. It's across the sky When you see a a turkey vulture, do you think and there must be a good farmer's market around? No, when you see a tar turkey vulture, what do you think? There's a dead animal on the ground somewhere, right? It's obvious. Jesus is going to say it's going to be real obvious Verse 29. Verse 29 to 31, he gives us second sign here. But immediately after the tribulation Of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heaven will be shaken. That's amazing. The world like stops functioning as we know it. The sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from the sky. Incredible picture. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky And then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. And he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of the sky to another. So after this Wars, famines, earthquakes on a global scale. After this intense focus on the nation of Israel, after the abomination of desolation, there's going to be a sign in the sky. Now what is that sign? Some people say it's Christ in the clouds, that's what I like to think. Some people say it's God's Shekinah glory shining out in the darkness, but whatever it is, it's indisputable I think perhaps the best summation of all, that of God's Shekinah glory and of Christ coming in the sky would be Daniel chapter seven, where the ancient of days hands over the keys to the Son of Man. That's happening, that's like an exchange that you're seeing That's what it seems to indicate here. That's the sign. And in doubt, all the tribes of the earth will mourn. Now I uh uh Professor Block there, he did he did a great job researching this word, and he says that word of the earth uh can sometimes be translated of the land. It's gates in the Hebrew. It can be sometimes translated earth, sometimes translated as land. It makes a lot more sense if you read it as all the tribes of the land It's looking at the tribes of the nation of Israel. That's the focus. That's where the target is. They're going to see this sign. They're going to see Daniel chapter 7 fulfilled before their very eyes. All this darkness, all this difficulty, and God's light shines through. Who's blind? Nation of Israel. Who needs to see? The nation of Israel. Who are they going to see? Christ in the clouds. Beautiful picture. Beautiful picture. I just want you to see this in Zechariah. Go to Zechariah. This morning. I think this is one of the most touching sections in the scripture in regards to the nation of Israel. Like you know what the most beautiful thing for a Christian is? Real repentance. Genuine sorrow over your sin. And that's a hard thing to get, isn't it? Real, real repentance. That only comes through the Spirit of God being poured out. And we see this in Zechariah chapter 12, verse 12 Zechariah 12, verse 10 So the last days, I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplication, so they will look on me whom they have pierced, and they will mourn for him. as one mourns for an only son. And they will weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping of a firstborn. In that day there will be great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Hadramenon in the plain of Megiddo. The land will mourn every family by itself, the family of the house of David by itself and their wives by themselves, the family of the house of Nathan by itself and their wives by themselves. The family of the house of Levi by itself and their wives by themselves. You see this is like a national outpouring of revival of repentance. We have we have injured, we have hurt, we have sinned against our great God That's exactly what we see here in Matthew. This mourning of the people. And then Christ calls them into the fold. Verse 30 comes on the clouds in verse 31, and he will send forth his angels with a great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of the sky to another. So the return of the king, it means judgment, it means retribution, but it also means repentance. It means being brought into the grace of God. to know him, to love him, to follow him. This has always been God's plan. Promise and and and petition and habitual practice of the nation of Israel time and time again. They're unfaithful, he sends them out, he chastises them, he draws them back in, and he does it here again with Christ. And he gathers them together with this great trumpet blast. When are we going to see this? Um see this drawing. Go to Deuteronomy 30. Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 1. This is how God promises to restore the nation. He does it again and again. He does it kind of on a micro scale, a partial fulfillment throughout. the nation's history, but this is this is the final fulfillment that we see here in Matthew twenty four. And he gives him a new heart. This is the new covenant for the nation of Israel fulfilled here. Deuteronomy chapter thirty verse one. So it shall be when all of these things have come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you, and you called into mind in all the nations where the Lord God has banished you And you return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart and soul, according to all that I command you today, and your sons, then let the Lord your God will restore you from captivity. and have compassion on you, and will gather you again from all the peoples peoples where the Lord your God has scattered you If you are outcasts, if your outcasts are at the ends of the earth, from there the Lord your God will gather you, and from there he will bring you back. The Lord your God will bring you into the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it, possess it, and he will prosper you and multiply you more than your fathers. of restoration. It's the gospel. A gospel extended once to us, right? The Gentiles, now extended again to the nation of Israel, and they get it in such a way that it's it's permanent. Look at verse six. Moreover, the Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all so that you may live. Man, that's an incredible promise. Incredible promise. That's the promise of his return. It has incredible benefits for the nation of Israel, but it should encourage us. And that's really the rest of it. Majority of the rest of the Olive Discourse, there's a couple other sections in Matthew 25, is really practical encouragements for us to understand the day of the Lord and strive after it. And so let's just go through these rather quickly and then I'll conclude here because I'm already over time. But they brought the microphone late, so I think on tape I probably only have, I don't know, forty-five minutes probably. Um Look at this, Matthew 25. Matthew 24, rather. So after the glorious return, we have the parable of the fig tree. Two parables really here. It's the fig tree. The fig tree is saying, hey, the coming is obvious. Just like a fig, there's its leaves, the coming is going to be obvious. It comes and it tells you all the other seams that are going to come. Verse 34, truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Once these fig leaves start, you cannot stop it. The season is there. That's what this generation is. All these things are going to happen within one generation. So it's It's obvious. The second is that uh verse 36, but on that uh but of the day and hour no one knows, not even the angels of heaven nor the Son, but the Father alone. Wow, that's a problem passage, right? When people say, what? We know that Jesus knows, okay? He's God, He knows all things. In his humanity it's veiled this knowledge. Why is it veiled and why does Jesus have to go out of his way to make this so explicit He 's saying don't try and crunch the numbers. He's saying know the signs of the times, but you don't need to know the date. That's okay I don't even know what the father hasn't even revealed to me, so you can't even know. You know you go to read Jesus. He was trying to read Jesus subconsciously. I wonder if he's in some way secretly. He doesn't even know. But you know the signs of the times. Focus on that. And he says it's like this, verse 37, for the coming of the Son of Man will just be like the days of Noah. He goes and talks about the days of Noah. While the signs are obvious, it's going to be unexpected for a lot of people. They're going to be surprised. They're going to be surprised because they're not really prepared. They didn't know and recognize. They didn't watch out and look for, as we talked about. So take from these parables, take from these parables that it's coming. It's obvious. It's imminent, but you also need to be ready, you need to be prepared. And Jesus supplies this at the end of Matthew 24 with the faithful and unfaithful slave. So what's the takeaway? The takeaway is we need to be ready for the day of the Lord. We need to be ready for it. Even though it's talking about Israel, talking about the future, we need to be ready to face the Lord because he will reveal all things. Nothing's going to be hidden for him. What else? We need to know. We need to prepare our hearts. We need to prepare our hearts for the day of the Lord. Look at this in Matthew chapter 24. Verse 48, this is the unfaithful or the evil slave. But if the evil slave says in his heart, My master's not coming for a long time, and begins to beat his fellow slaves and eat and drink with drunkards. And he says in his heart. We need to prepare our hearts for the coming of the Lord. We need to be faithful to him in all things. Word says it, we need to do it. We need to be prepared for his coming and we need to follow him. And this should give us hope, whatever age, dispensation, epoch or in, whether the nation of Israel or believer in the time of the church who is ethnically Jewish or a Christian from the Gentile, whoever we are, wherever we are, this should bring us hope, encouragement, confidence. I have another story for my son about another early outing. This one I managed to communicate quite clearly. So I went to his room in the dark of night to extract him from his three sisters for an adventure in the early morning. We got everything ready the night before And I went to his room, I opened the door very quietly, I snuck in like a thief in the night. And I said, Benjamin, you ready to wake up? And I just remember this is the craziest thing. It was early in the morning. His eyes snapped open. His arms went out. Gave me a big hug. Took him out of a room. I sat him down. I gave him for the sisters and looked at me and said, Dad, I love you. That's what God wants to communicate to us. Right? He has a clear plan, a clear mission for us. We just need to hold on and be prepared and be ready. If you don't know, man, you're not going to be there. You're going to have your eyes shut when he comes. If you do know, then you need to be ready so you can give them a big old hug and say, I love you. Doesn't change whatever era you're in, alright? So apply these principles to you according to theological truth as all these other guys are drilling into your mind But thank you so much for your time, for your attention. God bless you. Let me pray for us, all right? Now Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. It's so precious And Lord, uh, it's so hard to get through all this. Uh so it's just a blessing that we we at least got halfway through the chapter, so thank you for that. Um thank you for um The coming of Christ. Thank you for the rapture. That brings us hope. Thank you for the principles here that we are called to be prepared and to be ready to know, to recognize, and to watch out for. Lord, may these be true of us. May we know the signs and the times, but may we also have a heart that speaks to us in the truth of the scriptures and helps us to grow in a life of blessing and sanctification as we await the time when we will look at Christ face to face. And may we hear the words, Well done, good and faithful servant. We pray this in the name of your Son, our Blessed Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.