The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Matthew? The book of Matthew, chapter 5. It's a joy to return to the book of Matthew this morning and uh the Sermon on the Mount to hear our King speak This sermon contains the most well-known and beloved words of our Lord, as well as the most convicting and challenging words. From our Lord. And this morning will be no exception to that. Just a reminder of where we've been in the opening twelve verses of chapter five. The Beatitudes introduced us to the character of the citizens of the kingdom. In verses 13 down to 16, Jesus invites us to consider the influence of the citizens of the kingdom, where our light where the world is dark, and salt where the world is decayed. In verses 17 to 20, we are presented with the authority of the citizens of the kingdom. The scriptures are authoritative, and Christ argues that he has not come to abolish, but to fulfill the law and the prophets. And then beginning in verse twenty-one, Jesus begins to explain what righteousness of the citizens of the kingdom looks like. And uh what Jesus does in this section is he goes beyond the claim that the scriptures have a superior authority. He's already stated that. Now he goes further to claim that he has a superior interpretation of that superior authority. That he is the authority on the authoritative word. This is what Jesus claims for himself. He is the authoritative interpreter of the authoritative word. And six times in this section here, starting in verse 21, he continues to repeat the same phrase, you've heard it said, but I say. You've heard it said, but I say. And this would have been a shocking statement for Jesus to make because the Jewish people already had a group of men that they recognized as the authority on the law and the prophets. And who were they? The scribes and the and the Pharisees, right? The scribes were the professional interpreters of the law, and the Pharisees were the professional practitioners of the law. The scribes and Pharisees were known for their righteousness. And they were the standard for righteousness in their community. If anyone was going to have a prominent place in the kingdom of God, They would have expected it to be one of these guys, one of the scribes or the Pharisees. That would have been the perception. And Jesus' words must have dropped like a bomb when he said this in Verse 20 of chapter 5. Listen what he says. He says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Forget having a prominent place in the kingdom of heaven. You won't even enter the kingdom of heaven unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees. And uh this is a verse that R. C. Sproull called one of the most frightening verses in all of Scripture because it is not speaking of the righteousness. of justification which has been imputed to us. Rather it's talking about the righteousness that's imparted to the believer. And uh James Montgomery Boyce had this to say about this verse. He says when I handled this verse, for the first time I taught that The righteousness referred to in verse twenty is the divine righteousness that comes to us by imputing to us on the basis of Christ's work. And that's true. Of course we're we're uh righteous are declared to be righteous in the sight of God because of the righteousness of Christ. We understand that. But while that's true, that's not the way that righteousness is consistently used in the book of Matthew It's also true that God justifies the ungodly on the basis of Christ's work, but that is not at all, that's not all that God does. God also regenerates the one who's being justified. Thus there is no justification without regeneration, just as there is no regeneration without justification. When God declares you righteous, he also makes a change in your life. You're a new creature, you're a new creation in Jesus Christ. And last week we celebrated the Reformation truth that the gospel is the power of God to all who believe, to everyone who believes in Romans chapter 1, verse 16. And that the righteous man will live by faith from the beginning to the end of his life. His life is a life of faith. Uh Paul in the book of Galatians, he he ridicules the notion that God would receive a person by faith, but then keep them based upon their works. You know, if you've come based on faith, you remain because of your faith, right? And this is a faith that the God gives you, a faith that's that's eternal. So it's it's ridiculous to think that uh once you enter by faith that you're now kept by your own good works. In Galatians chapter 3, verses 2 and 3 Paul says, this is the only thing I want to find out from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? Which one? Are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? We're not made perfect by the flesh, we're not kept By the works of our flesh, we're kept by our faith in Christ. We're rescued based upon the righteousness of Christ alone, and God does not save us based upon our works, and God does not keep us based upon our works. But God does save us unto good works, right? We're not saved because of our works, but we're saved unto good works. And as citizens of the kingdom, we'll be characterized by a different kind of righteousness. A righteousness that is not merely external, hypocritical, or superficial. If you're a believer, you will be concerned about applying God's standards internally. It's got to be a matter of the heart. Where nobody knows but but you. Where nobody can see but you and and God, right? Believers not just concerned with what's seen by men. But he makes it makes it his ambition to please God. That's our ambition. To please God in the innermost parts. And perhaps no place is more secret and hidden than the area of lust. and sexual desire. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 5 again. Look at verse 27 down to 30. Jesus says, you've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you. For it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. If your right hand makes you stumble, cut it off and throw it from you. For it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you once again, uh Father, just pleading with you for understanding of this text, and Father, that you would, through the Holy Spirit, make the application to each one of our lives. Father, we pray that we would be a congregation known for fidelity to your word, for fidelity to our spouses. And that in a a culture where people are just laying on the battlefield left and right Wasted because of these sins. Father, I pray that we would be a people that would stand firm on your word, trusting in your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, it's hardly news to inform you that cheating statistics in the United States are increasing every year at an amazing rate. And that long-lasting marriages or relationships seem to be harder to achieve and even rarer in the U. S. According to one report, given the secretive nature of infidelity, exact figures about cheating and extramarital uh extramarital affairs, if you want to call it that, are nearly impossible to establish. I mean, who's going to get an accurate, you know, uh survey for for that, right? Going to get an accurate count. They're almost impossible to establish. But according to some of the most well-supported facts, it's estimated that roughly thirty to sixty percent of all married individuals in the United States will engage in infidelity at some point during their marriage, and uh these numbers are probably on the conservative side. 30 to 60 percent. Uh there was another news source that cited a survey that indicated that about, and this is staggering that to believe, but it says about seventy percent of married men admitted to cheating on their wives. And uh most statistics found that about fifty to sixty percent of women admitted to having and affair according to this one survey that was taken. In addition to this, the digital age has invented new ways to practice old sins which are no less damaging. To marriages, the internet, email, chat rooms, making it easier for people to engage in infidelity. It's been noted that online cheating without any physical contact is the most damaging type of infidelity. Uh M. Gary Newman, the author of Emotional Infidelity, argues that an emotional affair happens when you put the bulk of your emotions into the hands of somebody outside of your marriage, and becoming emotionally invested in another person means you've likely checked out of your own marriage. And rather than discourage this kind of behavior, our culture has made light of it, been entertained by it, accepted it as just a part of who we are, this is just us. I think it's safe to say that the Shack Valley has all but disappeared. I mean hardly anybody shocked anymore. It's just accepted that most people have a a secret that they're trying to hide And this assumption is reflected in our entertainment as well. It's nearly impossible to find a movie or TV program that doesn't make some kind of reference or allusion to an extramarital relationship. Even our cartoons aren't off limits to that. I was just in the I was in the the store the other day, a CVS, I think it was, or Walgreens, just looking for a birthday card. I mean how many birthday cars are are filled with that kind of filth? Forget about the music. It's absolutely saturated with it. You can't escape it. The number of songs that glorify and celebrate infidelity are staggering to think about. And our culture, for the most part, has just accepted unfaithfulness as normal. And now we're pushing the limits beyond the immoral to the unnatural. We want to push the limits. But the the Jewish culture that Jesus spoke to is not like our Western culture. The original audience for the Sermon on the Mount was spoken to a group of people that were committed to the idea of marital fidelity. This is who Jesus is talking to. It was a part of their fabric as a as a people, the Jewish people. This is part of what Jesus was acknowledging when he said, You you've heard it said that you shall not commit adultery. He's saying, you guys already know this, right? You've heard it said that you shall not commit adultery. This is nothing new to the people that he spoke to. Every Jewish child would have had this law memorized as far back as they could remember. According to Deuteronomy chapter 6, parents were to teach their children faithfully, diligently. Deuteronomy 6, 6-7, it says, These words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your sons and talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up. And not only would they be taught by their parents, but the the culture around them would have reinforced this idea. The the people that Jesus is speaking to here. They didn't grow up in a Western society that makes rulings about uh where you can and can't place the Ten Commandments. Because if somebody might be offended, you know, that uh there's a law up there that says thou shalt not commit adultery. There might be a God behind that, right? The religious leaders would have taught this command publicly when uh Jesus said that you've heard that it was said he was making specific reference to these religious teachers who communicated this idea of not committing adultery. The people would have heard this prohibition against adultery, often from the teachers as well as from the law of Moses, which was read every Sabbath day. In Acts chapter 15, verse 21, it says for Moses From ancient generations has in every city those who preach him, since he is read in the synagogues every Sabbath. And beyond that, though the law against adultery would have been enforced by their judicial system as well. Not only would their parents teach it, the teachers around them and the society teach it, it would have been enforced by the judicial system. In the ancient Jewish society, the Old Testament law was their law The Old Testament law against adultery was their law against adultery. It was illegal, not only immoral, it was illegal to commit adultery. If you are caught in adultery, you are subject to the death penalty. In Leviticus chapter twenty, verse ten, it says, If there is a man who commits adultery with another man's wife, one who commits adultery with his friend's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be what? Put to death. It was serious. You didn't mess around with adultery. Even under Roman domination in the first century The Jewish people were still given the unique freedoms of what was called the religio licata, which is Latin for legal religion. They were recognized as a legal religion, and adultery would have been illegal here as well in the first century that the people that Jesus is speaking to They didn't have the right to execute the death penalty, which is why they brought Jesus to the Romans for execution, because they couldn't execute them themselves. So they brought Jesus to the to the Romans to execute them, but it was still illegal in Jewish society. You might not have known this, but uh in twenty-one states in America, it's still punishable, a punishable crime to commit adultery. I mean, nobody's gonna enforce that, but Twenty-one states in America, it's still a punishable crime. USA Today reported in April of 2014 that adultery isn't just a crime in the eyes of your spouse. In twenty-one states, cheating in a marriage is against the law and punishable by fine or even jail time. Like I said, nobody would even think about enforcing that, but the Jewish law insisted that spouses remain faithful, and they wanted to enforce that. This would have been in direct contrast with the Gentile, Greco-Roman culture around them. The Gentiles, in contrast to the Jews, were known for their debauched lifestyles. Adultery was tolerated among the Gentiles, even expected among the Gentiles in most cases. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 4. Let me show you something real quick. 1 Peter chapter 4. I'll go ahead and start at verse 1. 1 Peter chapter 4. Says, therefore, since Christ has suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves also with the same purpose, because he who suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. So as to live the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for the lust of men, but for the will of God. For the time already past is sufficient for you to have carried out the desires of the Gentiles. Having pursued a course of sensuality, lust, drunkenness, carousing, drinking parties, abominable idolatries, and all this, they are surprised that you do not run with them into the same excesses of dissipation, and they malign you. If you weren't engaged in this kind of lewd living, they were surprised. They were shocked. Because this is just how they live. This is normal. Normal for him. Being a gentile and engaging in sexual immorality went hand in hand. That's what it meant in those days to be a Gentile. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 Verses 4 to 5 it says that each of you know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor, not in lustful passion, like the Gentiles who do not know God. And then there's uh verses that associate sexual immorality again with the Gentiles, 1 Corinthians 5, Colossians 3, Ephesians 4. In places like Athens, prostitution was legal. And Demosthenes, a Greek statesman in order in Athens, had this to say about women. This is real encouraging for you ladies out there. For this is what living with the women as one's wife means. To have children by her, and to introduce the sons to the members of the clan and of the Dem or the city, to betroth the daughters to husbands as one's own. Mistresses we keep for the sake of pleasure, concubines for the daily care of our persons, but wives to bear us legitimate children and to be faithful guardians of our households. Real nice, right? That wasn't characteristic of the Jewish people. In Galatians chapter 2, Paul says, we are Jews by nature, not sinners. from among the the Gentiles. The Jews would have been disgusted by the rampant immorality and adultery that they witnessed among the Gentiles. The story in uh John 8, although it's not found in some of the early manuscripts, tells us what their attitude would have been towards people that they found engaged in adultery in Israel. They would have wanted that woman who was caught in adultery to be what? Stoned. Stoner. They believed that adultery was wrong and this is what they heard and what they heard was right But what they heard here was a direct quote from Exodus chapter 20 was the seventh commandment. What they heard was right And Jesus wasn't contradicting the prohibition against adultery. When he says, You've heard it says, but I say. He's not contradicting the law of God. The problem is not what they heard. The problem is in what they understood from what they heard. What they understood from what they heard. What they understood was only a shallow understanding of God's law. They believed that they were innocent of breaking God's laws because they made the standard superficial and external. They created a standard that they could achieve and then they congratulated themselves when they achieved it. You know, they set the bar low and then they pat themselves on the back when they can jump it. But if you're going to put the heart of adultery to death, you can't modify the intended meaning that God had. You can't modify the meaning. Look at verses uh back in Matthew chapter 5 again. Look at verses 27 and 28 one more time. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery, but I say to you, that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. And just like the the command against murder is to be uh is not obeyed just because you never pulled a trigger on somebody. The command to commit adultery is not obeyed simply because you've never arranged a date with your neighbor's wife. You can't say that, hey, I'm free from violating this command. Christ goes so much deeper than that. And the first question is, have you modified what God intended by the command, thou shalt not commit adultery? Do you think you're free from making this command because you've never consummated the act? And may God help us if We're so shallow in our thinking. God help us if we're shallow. Jesus backs the discussion up to the to the look of the eye and the desire of the heart, because you're you're guilty long before you even speak a word. Long before you even arrange a meeting. And Jesus explains what God meant by the command not to commit adultery and what the Jewish people should have understood by the command not to commit adultery. Because God has always been after the heart. It's not just about concern about what's on the outside. It's a matter of the heart. God's law is internal, not external. So what did Jesus identify as the greatest commandment? You remember that? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. God is concerned about the heart. David understood that God wanted his heart as well in Psalm nineteen, verse fourteen. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. God is concerned about what's going on on the inside. Psalm 51, verse 6 says, Behold, you desire truth in the innermost being, or in the inward parts you desire truth, and in the hidden part you will make me know wisdom. God 's always been concerned about what's going on on the inside. And any understanding of the law that is merely external alters the true meaning and intent of God's law. God's law is internal, not external. God's law is also to be obeyed sincerely and not hypocritically. Sincerely, not hypocritically. If there's a sincere desire to obey God's commands, there won't be this desperate search for a loophole. or some legal technicality that you can get off on. Some have understood this prohibition against adultery to refer only to two married people as if you were free from the violation just because both parties weren't married. Like that makes it better? This kind of feigned obedience when you look for loopholes as if God could be deceived about the intent of your heart. In addition, when Jesus talks about adultery here, he does not say, you know, if a married man looks at a woman, he has committed adultery. Or if a man looks at a married woman, he has committed adultery. He simply says, everyone who looks on a woman. Everyone who looks at a woman with lust has committed adultery. It's purposefully general. He leaves it general on purpose. You're not to imagine yourself free from this command because you're not married, or the person that you're desiring is not married. Or because you're a woman and not a man, you know, that's this lessening. It doesn't matter. Any any forbidden desire for another person is covered under this command. God's law is to be obeyed sincerely and from the heart. And also the spirit of God's law is to be obeyed as well, not just in the letter of it, the spirit of it as we've learned before. Just like it was true that the heart of murder finds its root in an angry heart, the heart of adultery finds its root in a lustful heart. And the word lust is the word for strong desire. Epithumeo. By itself, it's a neutral term. And it can be used either for positive or a negative desire. In Matthew chapter 13, verse 17, it's used positively for righteous desires. It says, for truly I say to you that many prophets and righteous men desire to see what you see and did not see it, and to hear what you hear and did not hear, it's a good desire to see what you're seeing, to see the works of Christ. They desire to see that, they didn't see it. But what makes a desire sinful is when it's directed at something or at someone that is forbidden to you. Then it becomes a sinful desire. And the spirit of God's law is not to suffocate desire, but rather to preserve and protect it for the proper context. That's God's desire. And this is an important point to get, especially for our day. God created our desires. Okay? God created our desires. Even sexual desires have been created by God But our desires are not king. God is. You get that? God's created desires, even sexual desires, but our desires are not king. God is king. God is king over our desires. And there are people that will argue that if they have sexual desires and God created sexual desire, then somehow God is either responsible for it or God is in approval of it. Because, you know, God's the one that granted desires. I have these desires. They came from God, so obviously whatever I desire must be good, right? First of all, how would you dare cast the blame on God for your own sinful choices? In James chapter 1, verse 13, it says, Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. Oh, God's to blame for this. God's to blame for the way that I am. God made me like this. It's not God's fault. You don't blame God for your sin Say I'm being tempted by God. Goes on to say for God cannot be tempted by evil and he himself does not tempt anyone. And secondly, we don't apply that same logic anywhere else in life, do we? You know, I'm hungry, so uh I have the right to steal your food. Or I'm I'm tired of walking, so I have the right to steal your car. It's cold outside, so I have the right to break into your house. I mean you don't apply that logic anywhere, do you? I just have these desires, so they just should immediately be fulfilled And even if you could argue that food or shelter was a necessity, you can't do the same thing for sex. You can't. Sex is not just another physical necessity. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 As uh Paul makes that point here, 1 Corinthians chapter 6. In the context, Paul's just Made a case just to give you a little bit of the background. Paul is uh making a case for why uh believers shouldn't take believers to court and uh and basically he argues that Believers should know better. And uh listen to how many times he appeals to to what they know. Look at verse two. Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? Like why take a A believer to court. Don't you know that the saints are going to judge the world? Why would you go before an unbeliever for some kind of judgment for a believer? Verse 3, do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more are the matters of this life? Verse 9. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? You know, do you not know? Do you not know? Do you not know? Why would you go before an unbeliever when an unbeliever won't even inherit the kingdom of God and you're going to go before him for a judgment between two believers now? They're not even inheriting the kingdom of God. And you're trusting them with that? Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous Nor drunkards, nor violers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. All things are lawful for me. But not all things are profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. And here he goes on to explain that it's just not this kind of natural function, not just the natural function of the body, but that sexual relationship is actually a spiritual function. This is what he goes on explaining. Listen to what he says, starting at verse 13. Food is for the stomach and the stomach is for food. But God will do away with both of them. And basically here he's just Quoting what they're saying. You know, food is for the stomach, stomach's for food, it's just a natural function of the body. You get hungry, you eat. You get the urge, you have sex. Food is for the stomach, stomach's for the food, but God will do away with both of them. Yet the body is not for immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord is for the body. Now God has not only raised the Lord, but will also raise us up through his power. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make the members of a prostitute? May it never be Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? For he says the two shall become one flesh, but the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him And here he says that in this area of sexual sin, that when you sin, you sin against the Lord. You are one body with the Lord. You are connected to the Lord. You sin in this era, you sin against Christ. You sin against Christ. And since you're a member of his body, and we're members of his body, guess who else you sin against? You sin against the church. You sin against Christ, you sin against the church. Verse 18: You sin against yourself. Flee immorality. Every other sin that a man commits is outside the body, but the immoral man sins against his own body. You sin against yourself. Verse 19: you sin against the Spirit. Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? You sin against the Spirit of God. Verse 20, for you have been bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body. Speaking here of God the Father, you sin against God the Father. You sin against the Lord, you sin against the church, you sin against yourself, you sin against the Spirit, you sin against the Father. And back in Matthew, it says that you've already committed adultery with that person that you're lusting for in your heart. You sin against whoever you're lusting after. And if we're honest about this, if you look back into Matthew chapter 5 again , you're sinning against a person even without gaining their consent. What would that be called? Scrape. Sinning against somebody that you don't even have consent. Without permission, by the gaze of an eye or the thoughts that are in our hearts, we take advantage of other people for our own pleasure. And like I mentioned, it's not that God is against desires, but he is king over them. And you are responsible before God for what you desire in your heart. Responsible before God. Any lustful look that is intended to satisfy a craving of the heart is sinful. And if it's not directed towards your spouse It's sinful. And even though you might not have followed through with the act, you're guilty of of sin. And that's not to say that Committing the act has the the same consequences of thinking about the act, it's not to say that. It's just to say that you're guilty of the same sin Guilty of the same sin. You bear the same guilt. Don't modify the meaning for adultery. Don't modify the meaning for it. And rather than try to cover the The next point here, let me just uh close by mentioning uh a few reasons why it's so important that we don't modify the meaning that the Lord intended to give adultery. I'll just mention uh five of them, okay? First of all, one of the reasons we don't want to modify the meaning of adultery is that we want to honor the sanctity of marriage. Honor the sanctity of marriage. That person that you place your eye on for your own selfish fulfillment either belongs to somebody. Will belong to somebody? Or if they're a believer, who do they belong to? They belong to the Lord. It's not yours. It's not yours. Honor the sanctity of marriage. That person either belongs to somebody or will belong to somebody one day. Honor the sanctity of marriage if they're a believer, like I said, they belong to the Lord. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Verse 6 again, it lets us know this. And it says, And that no man transgressing defraud his brother in the matter, because the Lord is the avenger in all these things. Just as we also told you before and solemnly warned you, and it's referring here to the lustful passions like the Gentiles who do not know the Lord. They belong to the Lord or they belong to somebody else. Honor the sanctity of marriage. Number two, when we uh give the meaning of of marriage or of adultery that uh the Lord intended to give here. It also expresses contentment in the Lord. Expresses contentment in the Lord. And uh included in the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments, is uh this command in Exodus chapter 20. In verse 17. Often overlooked, but here it is. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife. Or as male servant, or as female servant, or as axe, or as donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor. We're to be content with what we have, right? Content with where we are, content with where the Lord's placed us, content with who the Lord's given us. In uh Psalm 73, it lets us know why we can be content with with anything. Because our contentment is rooted in God Himself. In Psalm 73, starting verse 25, it says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. For behold, those who are far from you will perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you. But as for me, the nearness of God is my good. I've made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works. We need to find our contentment in God. Find our contentment in the Lord. Also, one of the reasons we want to make sure we properly identify what adultery is, is because it maximizes God's intended joy for your life Maximizes God's intended joy for your life. If you're meant to be married, you want to preserve that for marriage, right? You want to preserve your excitement and your joy for marriage. In Proverbs chapter 5, verses 15 down to 20. It says, drink water from your own cistern, and fresh water from your own well. Should your springs be dispersed abroad, streams of water in the streets? Let them be yours alone and not for strangers with you. Let your fountain be blessed and rejoice in the life of your youth. As a loving hind and a graceful doe, let her breast satisfy you at all times, be exhilarated always with her love, for why should you, my son, be exhilarated with an adulteress and embrace the bosom of a foreigner? Why not maximize the enjoyment that you get out of your own marriage or whatever marriage the Lord is intending to give you in the future Preserve God's maximum intended joy for your life. Also, another thing that protecting this uh definition of of adultery does uh for us is that it protects us from sinking deeper into sin. Protects us from sinking deeper into sin. What kind of pain would have been avoided in the life of David if he only didn't take the second look. What kind of pain would have been avoided avoided in his life? Second Samuel chapter eleven tells a story. Then it happened in the spring at the time when kings go out to battle That David sent Joab and his servants with him in all Israel, and they destroyed the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. Now when evening came David arose from his bed and walked around on the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing, and the woman was very beautiful in appearance. So David sent and inquired about the women, and one said, Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? Should have been end of the conversation right there, right? But from the second look, what happened? He had a son that died, he had a son that turned against him, almost had the kingdom ripped right from under him, experienced the plague of God It protects you from sinking deeper into sin. Check it at the heart level. Check it at the eye level before it gets here. And another thing that it does when we make sure we have the proper definition of adultery is that it elevates and glorifies the grace of God. Elevates and glorifies the grace of God. How so? 1 Corinthians chapter 6 talks about a group of people that received the grace of God. First Corinthians chapter six verse nine says, Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous Nor drunkards, nor violers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God, and such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God If you don't have a proper view of what your sin is, you don't have a proper view of what God's forgiveness is, do you? Do you know how much grace has been given to you, believer? For you who have trusted in Jesus Christ, how many times has your heart been unchecked? How many times have your eyes been unchecked? How many times have your thoughts gone places where they shouldn't But God's grace was sufficient for you. And the more you understand that you've been forgiven of is the more that you can glorify your Father for. We love much because we've been forgiven much. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God. So much for uh just this brief consideration of uh uh Matthew chapter five and this matter of adultery of the heart. Uh Father, we uh We know that there's uh much more that can be said and I look forward to coming back to this next week and uh giving some more help in regards to this, Lord. We know that so many uh people have uh been their lives have just been decimated uh because of these sins. Uh whether it's uh addiction to pornography or uh watching movies that they shouldn't be on the internet, uh talking to people, chatting with people that they have no business talking to. Father, again, we thank you, God, for your grace. We thank you, God, for your mercy. We thank you, God, for your forgiveness. Your forgiveness has been great that's been demonstrated towards us. And Father, I pray that we would respond with a great heart of love, a great heart of gratitude for the forgiveness that you've given us in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ died for adulterers. Jesus Christ died for us. And we thank you for that gift of your perfect Son who lived the perfect life in our place. And died as a substitution so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.