The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, it is a great joy and pleasure to be with you and uh Just to make another connection with the church, you might wondering how be wondering how in the world uh did this guy from Africa ever get a chance to preach in our pulpit and who is he? Uh really the connection is Carl Hargrove, who I think you guys know very well here in this church. Uh Carl's been a long-term friend of mine. I started seminary just as he was starting on the staff at at Grace Community Church in his first life at Grace Church. And so So Carl and I go way back and he's been to South Africa many times to teach in our Shepherd's Conference and he and I work together from time to time in Ethiopia doing some work there. you might know about that a little bit as well. And Carl and I were talking uh last year and he uh said uh when 's the last time you saw your grandson who was newly born? And I said, uh well about a year ago and he said When's the next time that you'll see him and I said I have no idea? I'm the next time I see him will be when one of my friends in the States wants me to preach a conference and pays for a ticket so that I can afford to come back to America. And he said, I know a friend like that and a month later this was organized along with I was just at uh uh BBC South, I believe is the proper terminology this morning. And our home base for this trip is Winston-Salem, North Carolina, because my daughter and her br husband attend Carrie Hardy 's church and some of you might know Kerry as well. And then next Sunday I'm up in Wilmington with Paul Shirley and his church. So so there's some connections there and that tells you that it should be safe to listen to me because Carl will donk me on the head if I do anything wrong. Let's take our Bibles this afternoon and turn to Acts chapter 11. Acts chapter 11 in your Bibles In Matthew chapter 16, verse 18, you find that great and very familiar statement of our Lord Jesus Christ, I will build my church. I will build my church, said our Lord. And my question today is, how does Jesus do that? How does our Lord Jesus do that? When it comes to building the church, when it comes to building a missions effort, which is certainly part of the book of Acts as well, we want to work with Christ and not against Christ. To illustrate that, a few years ago, one of the men in my church was helping me put in an extra security sensor in our home, and to complete the wiring, we had to run a new cable down an existing electrical conduit. And first he tried to push a cord down from above and it got stuck, and then I tried to push a wire up from below and it got stuck. At one point, because I didn't realize what he was doing up in the attic, I was pushing up a wire from below at the same time he was pushing a wire down from above, and you can imagine you know how much progress we made doing that Well, in the same way, if the Lord Jesus Christ is going to build his church, we want to know know what he's doing up above. We want to know what he's doing so that our efforts will not in any way conflict with him. And in fact, he might in some small way choose to use us to his glory and build his church Well today I want to show you in action what Jesus plan to build his church looks like. Not theoretically, but actually see it in action in the book of Acts. I would suggest to you that the way that Jesus built this church we're going to look at is going to be the way he wants to build my church and your church as well. I want to do this by showing you what I like to call the best church in the Bible. The best church in the Bible. And the way that Jesus built the best church in the Bible is surely the way he would want to build our churches as well. Now, we could just pause the service and have a nice 45-minute conversation and debate over which is the church, the best church in the Bible, and that would be kind of fun to do, but since I've got the mic, we're going to do it my way, right? There could be many candidates for the best church in the Bible. You might start with Jerusalem, Thessalonica, Ephesus, Philippi, Corinth. No, we'll scratch them off the list. They're they're not a Corinth is a rolling disaster, right? However, I would like to suggest to you that in my mind, the best church of the Bible is the Bible we meet is the church we meet here in Acts chapter eleven. the Church of Antioch. The Church of Antioch. From Acts chapter 11 onwards, the Church of Antioch provides a brilliant model of how Jesus Christ builds his church. Now I believe the Church of Antioch is the best church in the Bible for four reasons, and this will be our outline this morning, so you can jot it down or this afternoon. I'll say this morning the rest of the day. This is our outline tour this afternoon. And so it's going to be the four reasons that the Church of Antioch is the best church of the Bible, and then of course we want to imitate those things about them. And it's going to be number one, their evangelism. Number two, their training. Number three, their serving, and number four, their missions. Let's begin with their evangelism, and that's laid out for us here in Acts chapter 11. Chapter 11, verse 19, really takes you back to an earlier point in the book of Acts where Stephen has just been stoned to death for proclaiming Christ. And through Paul or Saul's persecution that he was a leading part in, the church in Jerusalem was scattered. And so what Luke does is he goes back and grabs exactly the same terminology from chapter 8 and uses it again here in 11 verse 19. showing you that he's showing you now not what Jesus did when he scattered the church in Judea and Samaria and kind of that local confined area. But what happens now as they moved out beyond that into the Gentile world, into the rest of the Mediterranean world? And so with repetitive, intentionally repetitive terminology, in Acts chapter 11, verse 19, Luke says, So then Those who were scattered because of the persecution. That's the persecution at the end of chapter 8 and the beginning, or end of chapter 7 and beginning of chapter 8. Those who were scattered because of the percu persecution that occurred in connection with Stephen made their way to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, that's our city, speaking the word to no one except Jews alone. But There were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks also, preaching the Lord Jesus Christ. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number, those who believed, turned to the Lord. Now, as you know from reading the book of Acts, for some time after the day of Pentecost and the beginning of the church, the only church in the world was the Church of Jerusalem. There wasn't any other church. It was the only one. And the things that were happening there in that church with the apostles and all that was going on there was so exciting that no convert to Christianity wanted to go anywhere else. And you remember that Jesus had to kick-start those Christians on their task of world evangelism by expelling them from Jerusalem after the death of Stephen there in Acts 7. Well, one of those places that one of the places that those Christians went was the city of Antioch. Now, it was logical that they would go there because Antioch had a large Jewish population in that time period, and so they would have had, you know, brothers, sisters, cousins, uncles, and all that sort of thing there. They could have gone there, stayed with them in their home, worked in their business until they got on their feet to start their own business and so on. So it was a very logical place for them to go. Many people have never heard of the city of Antioch, but in fact it was the third largest city in the Roman Empire in this era, following Rome itself and then Alexandria in Egypt. It was located on the River Orantes, that might not help you much, but if you just go straight north from Jerusalem up about 350 miles on the map. you will arrive at the place where on the modern map Turkey and Syria come together in the northeast corner of the Mediterranean Sea. That's where Syrian Antioch, the city we're concerned with, that's where it was at. And as I said, Antioch was the home of a large Jewish population. Therefore, it was a very logical place for these new converts to Christianity, Jewish converts, to go when they were expelled in Acts 8. Now, when they arrived there, Luke tells us that those new arrivals were faithful to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. They were faithful to preach to their fellow Jews that Jesus of Nazareth was the Messiah, the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy. Now according to Acts 19, sorry, Acts 11, 19, verse 19, some proclaimed only to their fellow Jews. There were others, however, who had not grown up in Judea and didn't feel those kind of Jewish constraints, perhaps. They were more willing to preach the gospel to Gentiles as well. Verse 20 mentions that. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who came to Antioch and began speaking to the Greeks also, preaching the Lord Jesus. These men understood the spirit of those Old Testament messianic passages. They understood that the Messiah would be a light to the nations, not merely to the Jewish nation. And they took to heart Peter's preaching to Cornelius' house earlier in Acts chapter 10. And so they also began then to preach not only to their fellow Jews, but to the Gentiles in that large, significant Gentile city. And so in Antioch, this bustling hive of Gentile activity, they began to preach Jesus Christ as Lord. Now I want you to notice two specific things about their evangelism as we read further into the text. Two things about their evangelism, the evangelism that Christ used to start and to build that church in Antioch. No, the first is very obvious in verse 21. It was God-blessed evangelism. It was God-blessed evangelism. Verse 21 says, The hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number of the ones believing turned to the Lord. Well that's obviously essential to their evangelism then, to our evangelism now, and everything in between. The only way that somebody is going to come to faith in Jesus Christ is for the Lord to bless our efforts For the Spirit of God to regenerate the heart, to make alive from the dead the one who is caught in his trespasses and sins, so he or she will believe and come to faith in Jesus Christ. When the hand of the Lord is with you, things are going to happen. That divine blessing, of course, was the key to what happened in Antioch. It was the key to what would happen in any of our evangelistic efforts today as well. But I want you to notice, with that foundation, I want you to notice a second characteristic of the evangelism in Antioch, and it's actually it's something that's not mentioned in the text. As you read through that those three verses that I just read, 19, 20, and 21, if you're thinking about it, you'll start to realize that the evangelism that God used to begin and build this Antioch church It wasn't organized by any apostles. It wasn't done by some famous church plantary evangelist like Paul or Peter or Philip the Evangelist. It wasn't tied to a technique like a big football stadium crusade or something like that. In fact, as I read the text, it seems that it's just a bunch of ordinary ordi ordinary Christians. common ordinary Christians who going about in their daily to and fro of life preached Christ and made disciples. Can I just tell you that's a great way to build a church? That is a wonderful way to build a church. In fact, I would suggest to you it's the very best way to build a church. I mean, God might use some other means in other times, but But but the truth is this is the best way to build a church. You see, a church that is created by grand evangelistic events will disappear when those events disappear. A church whose evangelism depends on the pastor will falter and fall apart when the pastor goes, gets sick, or dies, or whatever. On the other hand, a church with ordinary Christians who speak to the people they know in their life preaching the Lord Jesus, that is a church that will always be strong and whose evangelism will always be strong. And that was the Church of Antioch. There were no miracle working apostles at this point, no famous evangelists. Christ built this church not through the programs and through the professionals, but through the faithfulness of ordinary believers. Christ built this church from the pews up, you might say, rather than from the pulpit down. You see, that's a wonderful way to build a church because a lot of churches just depend on the pastor to do all the evangelism. And you think, well that's why we pay you. If you you know, if your your plumbing's fixed, you you call a plumber. If somebody needs to be evangelized, you you call the preacher, right? But the truth is the pastor is only one man. He's only one man. He can't do all the evangelism, not by a long shot. I mean I tell my church, you know hundreds of people, maybe thousands, that I will never ever meet And so if we're gonna evangelize the city of Pretoria and preach Christ to people, i it can't all depend on me. I mean think of it this way, when you go on a picnic, is it easier to keep away from your food your dog or the ants? I mean no matter how big your dog is, you can catch that thing and tie it to a tree, right? But how do you keep a million little ants away from your cheeseburger? And so in the same way when all the ants in the anthill called the church scurry out into the world and speak about Jesus Christ, there's no stopping them. And so when Jesus said in Matthew 16, I will build my church, I believe his preferred way to do that is just what he did in Antioch. Exactly the same thing. a bunch of common, ordinary, everyday Christians who just can't shut up about Jesus Christ. Now, in Antioch, the effects of that kind of grassroots evangelism were radical. Verse 21 tells us that. It was radical in several ways, first in the numbers. The hand of the Lord was with them. That's always, always going to be the key, right? The work of the Spirit of God to regenerate unsaved Darkened and dead hearts, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a large number, literally those believing, turned to the Lord. When normal Christians get it through their heads that they are the storm troopers of the Church of Jesus Christ, then things are going to happen. When you guys realize that that that you're the first one off the landing craft, charging into the surf and up the beach into the machine gun fire, when you get that mentality in regard to the gospel of Jesus Christ, that's when the Lord Jesus Christ is going to start building your church. Here the radical effects were very obvious. There were radical effects in the numbers that came, and that's God's business. We're not in charge of the numbers. He'll take care of that. The numbers who believed and also in the radical change that conversion brought to their life. Luke first mentions the radical numbers and He says, in fact, the effect was so great, the reports trickled back to Jerusalem, and the apostles in Jerusalem said, well, we need to make sure that This church that is now being built in one of the most significant cities of the empire, we need to make sure that that church starts on track and stays on track. And so to make that happen, the apostles sent an experienced elder type man to Antioch to approve and guide and oversee the work, and as you remember, that was Barnabas. Verse 22 The news about them reached through the ears of the church of Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas off to Antioch. Then when he arrived, rather, and witnessed the grace of God, he rejoiced and began to encourage them all with a resolute heart to remain true to the Lord. For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And again, Luke emphasizes considerable numbers were brought to the Lord. That's his summary. There were radical effects as God blessed the evangelistic efforts of these ordinary, everyday Christians in the Church of Antioch. And so again, when common everyday Christians refuse to turn the task of evangelism over to the professionals or to the famous evangelists, that's when Christ starts to build his church. When you guys say, you know, hey, whatever you pastor guys do, you know, whatever you do, don't worry, we got the evangelism sorted out. No, that's an exaggeration. Uh pastors evangelize too, right? They say, we'll you go do whatever you do, we're going to be just we'll be the point of the sphere here. And that's a Christ-built church. That's how Christ loves to build his church. Ordinary Christians take it on their shoulders to be the faithful preachers of the gospel. Now, let me give you a second reason that the Church of Antioch was the best church in the Bible, and we'll call it their training, their teaching. Barnabas wasn't in the city of Antioch very long before he realized something. All these new converts who were being brought to Christ through faithful gospel preaching, they needed to be taught They needed to be taught. They needed to be trained in right theology. They needed to be trained in godly living. They needed to be trained in continued evangelism so they would know the gospel so they could preach it clearly to others. After all, Jesus' great commission was to make disciples, make people learners of Christ, literally, baptizing them once they've come to faith in Christ to represent the transformation of life from death to life. Right? And so to represent that, and then you remember Jesus said that you are to make disciples, and then he added on there, teaching them everything that I have commanded. Barnabas looks around and says, We need to do this here. And that's the next step in the church building plan here at Antioch. We need to teach the believers in this church, these brand new baby believers, to obey all that Jesus said. The faithful evangelism by ordinary believers was being blessed by God, but who would teach these new converts? who would teach them to obey all that God had commanded, and a face immediately left to Barnabas's mind. Here, in one of the most important Gentile cities in all of the empire, God was doing a unique and amazing work. And Barnabas quickly realized the strategic nature of this because the truth was it was going to be hard to reach the Gentile world from Jerusalem. There were just a lot of barriers there that had not yet quite come down. And so so To have Antioch be a springboard into the rest of the empire, that could work. And so a face immediately comes to Barnabas's mind, and of course it is Saul, or as we usually call him, Paul. The end of verse 24, considerable numbers were brought to the Lord, and Barnabas left for Tarsus, it wasn't too far away, that city. He left for Tarsus to look for Saul. Saul had gone there in Acts 9 and was still there. And when Barnabas had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And for an entire year they met with the church and they taught considerable numbers. And the disciples were first called Christians or Christians, as I like to say it, in Antioch. The church that Christ builds is a church that teaches its people to obey all that Jesus commanded. Doesn't just preach the gospel. They do that, of course, too. But they preach the gospel, but more than that, they now teach the congregation all that Christ has commanded. And that's why Barnabas went to get Paul. Paul is the logical choice. You might remember later in life, Paul wrote these words in 1 Timothy 2, verse 7, I was appointed a teacher of the Gentiles. This is the best guy available. Have you got Gentiles in a church that can become the launch pad for reaching the rest of the empire? Let's get the best teacher of Gentiles on the planet. That'd be the Apostle Paul. Let's get him and turn him loose on this new church. And so Barnabas could clearly see the strategic nature of what God was doing. And so no better man than Paul was available. He was the man to give the Antioch Church an unshakable foundation in doctrine, in godly living, in zeal for outreach, and so on. And Luke tells us in verse 26, when Barnabas had found him, that's Paul, he brought him to Antioch, and for an entire year they met with the church and taught considerable numbers. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. Now, a year might not seem that long, but the truth is the early church's habit was to meet every day. They met every day. Luke talks about that in Acts, right? Paul taught daily at the school of Tyrannis. And so they met every day, not just once a week, and so they could make a lot more progress in a year than you and I might think You say, okay, well what did Paul teach him? What did Paul and Barnabas teach these guys? And they said, well, I mean just open your New Testament to Paul's epistles, and I think you found what he taught them, right? What Paul taught them was, well, industrial strength doctrine. New believers need strong doctrine. You know, if you haven't read Romans recently, go back and read it. And that's what Paul would have been taught now. Paul Paul is Romans, right? And so new believers need strong doctrine. Paul would have taught them that. But if you read the rest of Paul's epistles, you also see that Paul would have taught them, well, how to live in the workplace. How to live in your family, how husbands are to love wives, and how wives are to submit to their husbands, and how parents are to raise their children and children obey their parents. He would have taught them all of that. Ephesians 6, Colossians 3 How to speak, how to control your temper, how to be tolerant, kind, and forgiving in the body of Christ and with everyone else. In short, Paul continued the church-building work in Antioch by teaching this church everything that Christ had commanded. And whatever Paul did, it worked. Whatever he did, it worked because the new believers were soon called Christians. They were soon called Christ followers by their Gentile neighbors because their pagan friends gazed in wonder at the changed lives of these converts. And they said, they must be Christ's followers. We're going to call them Christians because they just do everything that Jesus Christ guy told them to do And so why do I consider the Church of Antioch the best church in the Bible? Well, first because of their evangelism. Common Christians refusing to turn the task of evangelism over to the professionals. And the second reason that their church was so good was because of their training, their teaching ministries. However, Paul didn't teach the Antioch believers. He didn't teach them in order to create a bunch of theological brainiacs. Paul wasn't interested in making the Antioch Church a bunch of clean-nosed, starch-collared moralists. puffed up with their holier than thou attitudes, who we know more theology than you do, and so just leave us alone. A fed, fat , self-righteous church is not a Christ-built church. We say, okay, well, what is a Christ-built church? A serving church. A Christ-built church is a serving church and That's the third reason I consider this the best church in the Bible. And my church in Pretoria has consciously set itself to imitate this church for several decades now. And third reason that I want to imitate this church is their serving. You've maybe experienced this yourself here at Baltimore Bible Church A church of relatively new converts who are for the first time in their lives, maybe they were believer before they came, but went to a series of dodgy churches and just really didn't grow much. Suddenly you arrive at a church where the Word of God is held high and Christ is exalted and the teaching is fantastic and you just uh you you're a starving man who has not eaten for weeks or months or years or decades and You're just devouring the meal and you don't even notice that there's somebody on your left or your right. That kind of church or new believers coming into a great church like this is a church that is in great danger of becoming a self focused church. It's a realistic danger for any good Bible teaching church. We've been saved and we are being trained and we are so enjoying the learning process of We aren't especially concerned about anyone else. We're studying infra versus super lapsarianism. Thank you very much. And so so you don't need to bother us with teaching third grade Sunday school or something like that, right? I'll explain what that means later. In fact, it's not even worth talking about. Infralapsarianism, superlapsarianism. But it is definitely a problem. We can get so excited that we're learning this great stuff for the first time that we're really no longer loving our neighbor. And so that's not a Christ-built church. You say, why not? Well, because a Christ-built church is a serving church. In Antioch, the serving began with a shortage in verses 27 and 28. Acts 11 verse 27. Now at this time, some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. Legitimate New Testament prophets. One of them, named Agabus, stood up and began to indicate by the Spirit that there would certainly be a great famine all over the world. And just to let you know that Agabus was a genuine prophet with a hundred percent accuracy, as all prophets Old and New Testament had to be 100% accurate. Luke tells you, oh, and it took place in the reign of Claudius. You can trust this guy, legitimate, because he has a hundred percent accuracy. It says, so this took place in the reign of Claudius. This is the shortage that is going to drive the serving. As a genuine New Testament prophet, Agabus received direct revelation from God, 100% accurate. That's how All prophecy is if it's from God. In this case, it was a revelation regarding a great shortage that would strike the churches of Jerusalem and Judea and so on. It was a famine, a shortage of food. And in fact, Josephus, a Jewish historian of this same time period, confirmed that Judea went through a severe famine during the late 40s A. D. just a year or two after this would have been, this event occurred. And so the question is, how will the Church of Antioch respond? Were they so wrapped up in their training and their truth learning and their theology studies that they would give no heed to this significant need? And the answer is no, because Paul had taught these new converts more than just theology. He had taught them a theology of serving as well. He taught them the theology of serving. And that's a critical part of a Christ-built church. The church that Jesus Christ builds will be full not of sitters but of servers. Say that again. The church that Jesus is building is a church that is full not of sitters, but of servers. Christ loves a church where everyone, as it were, is busy mixing cement and hauling bricks So when Agabus announced this pressing need in the believers in Jerusalem, the believers in Antioch leaped into action. Verse 29 And in proportion that any of the disciples had means, each of them, not just few, but each of them determined to send a contribution for the relief of the brethren living in Judea. That tells us that this church was as well trained in serving as they were in everything else. Doctrine, we'll all agree, doctrine is of primary importance. That's unassailable. Doctrine is of primary importance, but to have a Christ-built church, the card of doctrine must be pulled by the horse of serving. And in the Church of Antioch, the horse of serving was a Clydesdale, one of those horses that looks like a moving mountain. And it wasn't just the wealthy few, the same old 20% who give 80% of the money, as the saying goes in church circles. It wasn't just that. Each one, said Luke, determined to give a donation. In the Antioch Church, the attitude of serving was like a flu virus in a daycare. Everybody's got it. Now, some of them could give more than others, of course, that's normal. Some of the slaves could probably only give a few pennies But each one in proportion to his income gave to the serving of this need. And verse thirty gives us the completion of their serving. This is a church serving a church, not some kind of social program aimed at the world. This is a church serving a needy church. And this they did. They gathered the money and they sent it in charge of Barnabas and Saul to the elders. That would be the elders of the church in Jerusalem. And so the Antioch Church is a Christ-built church because of their evangelism, because of their training, and because of their serving as well. When ordinary Christians refuse to pass on the task of evangelism to the professionals, when the leaders are busy training the congregation in all that Christ has commanded, And when everyone in the church is pitching in to do the cement mixing, brick-hauling tasks in the life of the church, that is a Christ-built church. Now that leads us to a fourth reason, and one that's near and dear to my heart. A fourth reason that this Church of Antioch was the best church of the Bible, as I like to call them, and that is their missions. Their missions. A Christ-built church is a church that wants to build not only itself, but other churches as well. And of course you're a well-taught church. You understand in this context when I say church, I mean the people, not the building, right? I mean you know that very well. You're in a borrowed building. We were in school halls for the first ten or eleven years of our church. I understand all this, right? And so you know very, very well that the church is not the building, the church is the people, the living stones that God stacks up to make the church of Jesus Christ. The Christfelt Church, then, like her Lord, will always be thinking of reaching out to others. And the primary way she does that, of course, is through her missions. So let's look at the Church of Antioch and see how this Christ-built church approached the matter of missions. The Antioch Church was a trained church, it was a serving church, it was an enthusiastic church, it had established leaders, solid doctrinal commitments, it had pews full of servers, not sitters. In short, it was a church ready to plant another church. So after evangelism and training and serving, the final stage of Christ's church building plan is reduplication. Reduplication. It's very simple. Send someone to do somewhere else What you have done, frankly, what Christ has done in your church so that other people can enjoy the blessings of a Christ-built church too. It's not just about the gospel. And the gospel is a starting point, it's the staying point, right? We never leave it behind. But it's not just about the gospel. You you want to hand other people not only the gospel of Jesus Christ, but If you're thinking about it, you want to hand them a Christ-filled church. You want to hand them a church like this church. How has it changed your life since you have been here in Baltimore Bible Church? I'm sure it's been transformational to you. Could you give a better gift than a church like this one to someone else? There's no better gift you could ever give. To give them the gospel of Jesus Christ and a church that is like this one that has changed your life forever. See when you love God, love neighbor, that's on your mind. Because you love God because you want to exalt Christ and God through the church, through the power of the Spirit, but you love your neighbor and you want to give him what you've enjoyed so much And so it's a pretty simple scenario, right? What you have is here is too good to give away and too good to keep at the same time. Guess which one's going to win? Too good to keep. You love God and you love neighbor. What you have here is too good to keep. A church like this is the best gift you could ever give to three neighborhoods over. Just cross the county line. to the other side of the world. Doesn't matter where it is. Missions, you know, sometimes just crosses the streets talk to your neighbor, right? Missions might not even cross the county line. But the best gift you could ever give to someone else is a church like this. Let's think about it. Let's walk through this. Here's how it happened in Antioch. Turn over to chapter 13, verse 1. Chapter 12, Luke takes you back to Jerusalem to kind of close the door on that episode and you have Peter in jail and the death of Herod the Great, Peter's release and all that. In chapter 13, verse 1, he picks up with Antioch again And what you need to realize is that the next few chapters of the book of Acts, the middle section of Acts, we often totally misread this. We think Oh, this is about Apostle the Apostle Paul, the great Lone Ranger missionary out there galloping through the Roman Empire, you know, preaching the gospel, saving sinners. That's the wrong way to read this. Acts 13 through about 20 is really just Luke's report on the missions program of the Antioch Church. Because if you read carefully, you'll see that Paul goes back and reports to his sending church about every two to three years. And he adds Jerusalem to that then later as ascending church as well. This is the Antioch Church's missions program, chapter thirteen and following. That's what it is. And so let's read it that way. Beginning in verse one. Now there were at Antioch and in the church that was there prophets and teachers, Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Menean who had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul, who we know better as Paul. Now, the situation in Antioch is very clear. This is a church with solid internal structure, including established, mature leaders and teachers. Antioch had five of them, that's their elder board, I guess, listed in verse one. Paul, Barnabas, and the three other men mentioned In that situation, you can be sure that plenty of attention was being given to the building up of the Church of Antioch. And of course that never goes away Right? You you start by making the center strong. You you start by by by building your church up, but every Christ-built church eventually starts to look with one eye outside. And so their church is going well swimmingly, to be honest. At some point, however, every Christ-built church will divert some of its resources from building itself. to building other churches, and I don't mean buildings. And therefore the Spirit gives them an instruction in verse 2. It's not quite as dramatic as the death of Stephen and the persecution there, but the Spirit of God again has to motivate this great church of Antioch to get moving in the issue of their missions, the world evangelism and church planting. And churches are often reluctant. They're a little bit stuck in the mud and you've got to rock the car a little bit before you can get them out of this. And so that's what the Spirit does in verse 2. While they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work which I have called them. Again, we were told in verse 1 that some of these men were genuine New Testament apostles or prophets. Paul was an apostle. Genuine New Testament prophet, and so they received direct revelation from God. Infallible, inerrant, always came true. In this case, the revelation was an instruction about the next step in their church-building plan, and it was going to be reduplication The plan involves setting apart Paul and Barnabas for his special task. Luke doesn't actually tell you here in these verses what the task is, but as you read through the next chapters in Acts, it becomes very clear what that task is The Spirit is intending them to carry on a church planting and church-strengthening ministry. And so the Spirit's instruction given in verse 2, that leads to the commission and the sending out of these missionaries in verses 3 and 4. Then when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. And so being sent out by the Holy Spirit, They went down to Seleucia, that was the port city of Antioch, and from there they sailed to Cyprus, which was just a day or two sail off the coast the first place they went. You remember they also, after preaching the gospel in Cyprus, they also went to what today would be South Central Turkey as well. Since the Antioch Church was well established, was doing all those things we talked about, the right kind of evangelism. the right kind of training, they were serving. So as that was a well-established church, the Lord just tried to st spread some of the spiritual wealth around. Keeping all those high-caliber leaders in Antioch was overkill when there were literally millions dying without Christ just a day or two's journey away in Cyprus. And therefore, the Antioch Church selected, get this, the two best men for the job. Very few churches approach missions that way. Very few churches understand that and of course their missions blows up, right? They send out these young, excited, but not very gifted, not very seasoned kind of guys, men and women, and and they they flame out on the missions field because frankly what church planners and what missionaries do is a lot harder than what your pastors and shepherds do here. They do all of that plus all the things that are involved in if they go internationally and church planning and so on And so they need to be capable, mature men. That doesn't mean they need to be sixty years old, but but it does mean they need to be proven and capable. And the Antioch Church understood that as led and motivated by the Spirit. They sent out Paul and Barnabas, because they are sending these guys out to reproduce what had happened in their own church. No, they're not going to reproduce the the the shape of the platform and what kind of pulpit you use and whether you use PowerPoint or not. Those things are not essential. Right. But but they were going to reproduce the things that make a church a church. When we sent a church planner or translator to Papua New Guinea a few years ago, you know, we didn't send him with a PowerPoint projector. They don't have electricity in the village. You're not trying to reproduce that, that they need to sing our same songs or something. You're trying to reproduce the things that make a church a church. What God had done in Antioch was a model, and now they're sending two guys who had been key in that to go out and reproduce it somewhere else. They sent the very best men available. Paul and Barnabas were not simply eager, they were proven and competent. They didn't become missionaries because they had a pulse rate above 20 and a passport. Paul and Barnabas were proven capable men. They were being sent to do in other places what they had already shown that they could do in Antioch. Now, we read over this way too quickly. Way too quickly. Oh, that's great. The Spirit of God directed them to Paul and Barnabas. This is fantastic. What a blessing it must have been to send out Paul and Barnabas. You think so? Just think about that for a moment. If you have the Apostle Paul teaching Romans in your pulpit, I mean he he doesn't teach Romans, he is Romans, right? If you have the Apostle Paul teaching the content of Romans or Colossians or Ephesians or whatever, in your pulpit every Sunday, do you want to send him out Uh-uh. And do you remember what Barnabas meant? It wasn't his name, it was just a nickname. The son of encouragement, right? If the guy doing your biblical counseling is nicknamed the son of encouragement by the apostles, you want to send that guy out? You're sending out the Apostle Paul and the son of encouragement. You're going to put those two guys on a boat and watch them sail away to start churches somewhere else? That is a great, great sacrifice by the Church of Antioch. Love God, love neighbor. And that's what it drives you to. Love God, love neighbor. They're sending their two best teachers, their best counselors, their best shepherds, their best elders, their best everything, out to do church somewhere else. That's a sacrifice, my friends. That's a huge sacrifice. That is a church that understands Christ's church building plan. What we have here is too good to not give away. It's too good to keep to ourselves. Too good to give away, but too good to keep. And so we'll give it away. That's a church that understands Christ's church building plan. Once we have things going here, reasonably stable, I mean you don't start a church plant three weeks into your church plant, right? Once we have things going here reasonably stable and so on, let's send some of our best people out to do the same thing somewhere else. We planted two churches out of my church before we even had a building. You don't need a building to do this. The center needs to be strong. Your church needs to be strong and stable, and you guys can decide when that is, right? But the truth is, once we have things by God's grace going reasonably well here, we need to start looking at the map. Because Christians live with their eyes on the map. It's called the Great Commission. We can't keep the gospel of Jesus Christ and the joy of a Christ-built church to ourselves. It's too good. We've got to share it. Now, by the way, that's exactly how my church, Grace Fellowship Pretoria, began. Grace Community Church in Los Angeles, a strong, mature church sent an experienced man to South Africa and he was instrumental in starting our church in Pretoria and another one in in Johannesburg. At the same time, Grace Church spent five years training me in the seminary in the church And eventually at Grace Hellish 's request they sent me there to teach and to train and to shepherd. Just so you know, they didn't send their best. They had a list of five guys who were a lot older than me and a lot wiser than me. And guys kept going off the top of that list, and eventually I was all that left and was left. So with great fear and trembling, they scraped the rust flakes. off the bottom of the barrel and sent me. My my my church asked me, how did you come to South Africa? 'Cause nobody else wanted me. That's actually the truth. And I'm delighted that that's the way it worked out. I tell my people of any church on the planet should understand the Church of Antioch and this model, it should be our church. Church is never about getting fed and fat and self-focused. A church on the other side of the world full of people that you will never ever meet this side of heaven cared enough about you people here in Pretoria to train a man and send him to the other side of the world so that You could have a Christ-built church too. I I think we need to imitate that. Yeah, I think we need to imitate that. I've only been here two weeks and we're just arranging to have visiting my grandson, as I said. We just arranged to have my my current associate pastor. We've done this with many guys through the years. Um he uh he had the conversation with me a while back that I never want to hear, right? And it's like, you know, Joel, I'm starting to feel the itch to pastor my own church. No, you're not. Is what I told him. I love Steve. He's great. Our old church loves Steve. Steve loves our church, right? But yeah, he's the kind of guy who should eventually pass through his own church. He's more than ready. I was hoping he would stay forever, but But uh but so we're now gonna send him out, God willing, to Cape Town and some of our people are actually thinking of moving halfway across not halfway, all the way across South Africa, sixteen hour drive, um, so that they can help Steve do that church plan. That's an ethos that we've built into Grace Fellowship through the years, because I preached this sermon about 20 years ago. Um and we just embrace this model. Our new visitor card is this sermon in very small print. One page from that. This is it. If you want to know what Grace Fellowship is about, this is it. And this is what every church of Jesus Christ, I mean every church will have slightly different emphases, that's fine, but we need to exhaust ourselves in the service of Christ. Because there are others out there who need the opportunity to go to a gospel preaching, Word of God preaching church just like you do. It's too good to keep, too good to give away, but too good to keep as well. That, my friends, is a life mission. And I would urge you to take that on as your life mission, not just as a church, but as individual Christians then who make up this church. It's not about getting multiple cars in the driveway in a grand house and an office big enough to practice your five-iron shots in it. It's just not about that. It's about this. This is what Christianity is about. Working hard at church so that others in other places will get a chance too Whatever you do in this church, you say, well, I'm not an elder or a preacher or whatever, it doesn't matter. Every part of the body of Christ is important. So whatever you do, if you're just, you know, you're making the the the coffee and uh before the service so that people stay awake while I drone on. If you're teaching Sunday school, if you're serving in one of the outreaches that was mentioned earlier, if you're you're delivering meals to the the the uh the newly pregnant you know families or whatever whatever you do in this church, all of that is to make this church strong so that you can help other churches. Now, let's see how the Church of Antioch went about this. Just very quickly, we'll survey chapter 14. There were two stages to the missions program of the Church of Antioch, as exemplified by Paul and Barnabas in these chapters. Two stages. The first stage was focused on evangelism, gospel preaching, in an area where there was no Bible-teaching church in order to start a church. I want you to underline that last little phrase, in order to start a church. I want you to underline that clause because The evangelism is not merely to produce a scattering of individual believers. We're delighted when people come to faith in Christ. But in a missions program, you're not just trying to save an individual here, an individual there. You're trying to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ so that you can start a church. That's the Antioch model. And that's the first stage. The second stage was Paul and Bardias going back over time to strengthen those new churches, especially in the area of leadership training and appointing elders. Let me show you it in action. In Antioch, it started with evangelism for the purpose of tarting a church, and so they just did the same thing. Acts 14, 1. This is what Paul and Barnabas did. It's what God did in Antioch. 14. 1, in Iconium, that's south-central Turkey, they entered into the synagogue of the Jews together, and they spoke in such a manner that a large number of people believed, both Jews and Greeks. Again, God's in charge of the numbers. They're just faithful to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. To beach the cross and Christ crucified and risen for the sake of sinners. The gospel is the light that draws moths. It's the message that converts the lost. And as you know, when they were chased out of one city, they just went to the next city and did the same thing. Verse 5. And when an attempt was made by both the Gentiles and the Jews with their rulers to mistreat and stone them, just another day in the life of Paul. They became aware of it, and they fled to the cities of Lyconia, Lystra, Derby, also in that same area, and the surrounding region, and they continued to preach the gospel. But evangelism is for the purpose of starting a church, of building a church, not just to produce a scattering of believers here and there. What would it have been like for you to come to Christ as a teenager or a young adult, right? to come to Christ and for the next forty years have no Bible teaching, no church, nowhere to go, no fellowship, no models, no examples, how well would you be doing spiritually twenty years later? That's not what we want to give people. I mean if someone gets saved and we don't have contact with them again, well we're delighted that they're saved. But the reality is we want a people to get saved and to get plugged into a great church like this one because you know what it's done to change your life. Look at verse twenty-one of chapter fourteen. After they had preached the gospel in that city, Derby, you mentioned verse twenty. Paul got up, and soon left him for said, after they had preached the gospel in that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and Iconium and to Antioch. That's actually a different Antioch than the one they were sent out from. Different city, same name. And what did they do when they returned, strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith, saying, through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And when they had appointed elders for them in every church, having prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. Now, why return to where they had already been? For some missionaries, that's like the worst sin you could ever commit. Not for Paul and Barnabas. You say, why not? Because they knew what had happened in Antioch. What had happened in Antioch was included teaching them all to obey, to obey all that Jesus had commanded, their training. And so they knew if they were going to reduplicate strong churches like Antioch, they were going to need to help establish that church, they were going to need some teaching of that church, they were going to have to raise up men, in this case Jewish men who had already been probably Old Testament believers. And so they can be elders fairly quickly then. And so they can raise up those men and appoint them as elders because that's essential to a strong church. So after evangelism, the second stage of the Antioch Church's mission was establishing and strengthening those existing churches, especially focused on raising up elders, leadership training. That's biblical missions in a nutshell. That's biblical missions. If you want to pick up the book of Acts and say, if we're supposed to imitate this, what would it look like? That's biblical missions. Luke has included this in the book of Acts, motivated by the Spirit of God, because he wants us to look at Antioch and say, that's what we should do. You evangelize so that you get people saved, but you can't leave them at that point. They must also be directed into a Bible-teaching church. The task is not done until that is done. Too many missions efforts today bail out after an initial evangelism evangelism stage. Others do some teaching but never really establish a church. Others establish a church but don't adequately train the leaders and then the missionaries leave and the churches implode. I've seen that many times in Africa I think the Antioch Church is the best church in the Bible because of their philosophy of missions. It included all of those things, all the way through to leadership training and church strengthening. They went out to plant churches, reduplicating as far as was sensible what had happened in the Antioch church as far as each situation involved Now, in some places, church planting will also start with Bible translation into the language the people speak. That wasn't an issue for the Antioch Church because there was a translation of the Old Testament called the Septuagint into Greek, and everyone in this half of the Roman Empire spoke Greek, so they didn't have to do Bible translation But that would be an essential part of the gospel stage because you remember what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15? He said, I'm going to deliver to you that of first importance which I received, that Jesus died according to the scriptures. And he was raised according to the Scriptures. The authority of Scripture is part of the gospel. We often forget that, but it is part of the gospel. So in this case, they had the Old Testament scriptures in Greek, so they didn't have to do that. But for us today, if we're reaching some kind of unreached people group, then the evangelism stage is going to start with Bible translation because we need the authority of the written word of God behind us. So we can say, here's what God has said. So, when you study Acts 11 through 14, you see that indeed there is a New Testament plan. There is a plan, there is a guiding strategy that fills out Christ's statement, I will build my church. And for my money, the Church of Antioch is the best church in the Bible, and imitating what Christ did there, it means that we're going to focus on four things in our churches. Many others too, but these four as essential backbone things. First, evangelism. Encouraging ordinary Christians not to turn the task of evangelism over to the professionals. But rather to embrace it as their tasks and well, yeah, the pastors do it too, but this is our job. Second, training. Teaching people all that Jesus has commanded, so that changed hearts can lead to changed thinking and changed life, change family living, change everything. Third, serving. Christ builds his church when a congregation is full of servers, not sitters. And finally, missions. Send out proven, trained, gifted men to focus on church planning and church strengthening, leadership training, just like the Church of Antioch did. And when you focus on those things, as I have no doubt you are in this church, when you focus on those things, then you are building the church the way Jesus wants you to build it. Let's pray. Lord, we're grateful for the opportunity to open the Word of God and see how incredibly applicable it is and how it guides us in the simplicity of what we see here written by Luke through the wisdom and inspiration of the Holy Spirit Lord, I pray for this wonderful church. They have a great reputation everywhere I've gone. They have a wonderful reputation with all my friends and my circles. No, this is my first time here. I know what to expect. Um, I know what to expect when I come here. A a church that loves you, a church that is exalting you, a church that worship and delights in you, a church that exalts Jesus Christ. This is a church that glories in Christ Jesus, as Paul said to the Philippians, and puts no confidence in the flesh. A church that holds high the Word of God, a church that that serves, a church that has great fellowship, a church that longs to help and serve in love. other churches. Other people in other places. It might just be on the other side of the city. It might be on the next county. It might be somewhere else in the United States. It might be across the world. Doesn't matter. But when we love God and love neighbor and read the book of Acts, we realize that this is the mission of the church. And so, I Lord, I pray that this would be a reigniting of the fire that is already in this church's heart. And that you would help them realize that they can do magnificent and wonderful and significant things for your work and the kingdom of God, for the building of the church. It doesn't matter if they have a building. The church is not the rectangle of bricks. that the people meet in. It's these wonderful people indwelt by the Spirit and living to your glory. And so I pray that you would use this church in great ways, whatever their plans for the future. future are. So that they can give the gift of a Christ built church to other people who don't have that. There is no greater gift than the gospel and a Christ-filled church. And I pray that they would love to take what you have done here and give it away. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.