The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So why don't you open up your Bibles to Philippians chapter 4? And I really believe that Philippians 4 has a timely word for all of us this morning because we're in uncertain times. As a nation, we're facing uncertain times, regardless of what your political perspective is. We have a president in office who hasn't been tested yet And every decision that he makes affects millions in our nation and billions across the world. And uh even uh today I uh read a report about uh some protests going on at different airports because of uh an executive action. Uh so we live in uncertain times and we understand that. As a church, we also face uncertain times as you already know we're Still in search of a church home for ministry, and the clock is winding down on our time here at Edmonton Heights. For those of you who don't know, the last Sunday in February is going to be our last Sunday here. And uh the clock is winding down on our time meeting here in the school. And I'm very excited about the possibilities ahead of us and uh look forward to sharing uh more of the details about that with you later. There's some very exciting possibilities ahead. Uh but yet we understand that that that future is uncertain. The future is uncertain for for us as a nation, for us as a church, and as families and individual Christians here within the church. Uh many of you are facing uncertainties this morning as as well. Some of you are facing uh difficult days uh because of ongoing health concerns, issues that you faced in your own body, uh wondering when is relief ever going to come. Uh that some of you are undergoing uh financial hardships and it's uh tiring to kind of stretch out a few weeks of of earnings to stretch out over the budget for the month. And uh and that's uh uh something that's uncertain in your own life. Uh for some of you the the hardship that you face is a relational hardship Uh you've kind of been uh rolling along this kind of rocky road in uh in a marriage or uh with your children and you're kinda wondering, you know, when is the paved road going to show up You know, just keep on going over all these bumps in the road. When is when is the the smooth part of this relationship going to enter in? And you kind of wonder when is when is that going to So there's uncertainty there as well. And I believe that Paul has a word for all of us. And I pray that that's what you'll hear in this passage. understand what this passage was intended to say instead of the the misinterpretations that have become so popular for us in many of our churches today. It's been said that a text without a context as a pretext, an excuse or a justification for what you really desire is the pretext. And many times people take scriptures And they twist 'em and they use 'em for things that they were never intended for, sometimes maliciously, sometimes ignorantly, uh, but still when we use the scripture out of its own context, we turn it into something that it was never meant for. And unfortunately, unfortunately, this passage that we're about to study today is a is a text that's been stripped out of its context far too often. And uh what I'm talking about is Philippians chapter four and we'll be looking at verses ten to fourteen. I'll read all the way to twenty uh just to set the context before you but our focus will be Philippians chapter four verses ten to fourteen. I'll listen to the words of the Apostle Paul. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at last you have revived your concern for me. Indeed you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak from want, for I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in prosperity. In any and every circumstance I've learned the secret of being filled and going hungry, both of having abundance and suffering need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Nevertheless, you have done well to share with me in my affliction. Yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. For even in Thessalonica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. But I have received everything in full and have an abundance I am amply supplied, having received from Epaphroditus what you have sent, a fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God. And my God will supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Bow your heads with me in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, uh, this morning, and as we approach your word, uh Father, we uh pray that uh you'd help us to be careful with what we find here. Uh Father, that we would recognize that We're not the ones who have written this text, and uh we're not the ones to just uh use this text in whatever way we choose, that we receive it as uh the revelation of God that comes from heaven, that comes through men and to us. And now, Father, we want to receive it as the gift that it is, your very word. And Father, I pray that you would use your word to strengthen and encourage your people to challenge us. And to drive us to Christ. And our Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen The gift of contentment. It's called the lost art of Christian contentment in a book by Thomas Watson. It's a rare bird. Uh I remember when I visited uh the Grand Canyon uh for the first time there were a number of people who were standing on the edge of the canyon and they were waving around this thing that looked like a like a TV antenna. You know, some of you guys know what a TV antenna looks like. You know, my my generation and and older, you know what a TV antenna looks like. Sometimes I used to use a hanger for the antenna, but there's these these these guys that were just all kind of scattered around the the Grand Canyon and they're waving around this kind of device, looks like a TV antenna. And I found out later that they were searching for the California condor. There's only a couple hundred of these birds that are left in existence, you know, all across the world. There's I think the the last uh record that I read, there's only something like maybe four hundred of these birds that uh still exist. So I found out that they were looking for a couple of California condor and while we were in the bus uh the the driver pointed out, hey there's a there's a condor right there and you know like the whole bus just kind of rushed over, you know, to see, you know, the site of this This rare bird, you know, because it was something that uh we probably wouldn't see, you know, again in in our lifetime or unless we came back to the to the canyon again, uh, because uh apparently the canyon was one of those places that they liked to to fly around. And when you think about contentment, I really think about contentment as a rare bird. You know, that when we look around at people, for people who are truly just content, like I'm satisfied, I don't need anything more, nothing different, I'm just content. with my life and all that I have. It's rare to find a person who's truly content. A person who says, I'm just satisfied in where I am and and what I have. It's it's it's rare. Jeremiah Burroughs, the Pyrident author, called it a rare jewel rare jewel of Christian contentment. And this is what's presented to us in this passage. The book of Philippians is really a book of joy. It's a book of encouragement in the midst of difficult and trying circumstances. A book of joy in the midst of difficulty. And Paul is really facing affliction when he writes this letter. He says it right there in verse 14. He says, Nevertheless, you have done well to share with me in my what? My affliction. I'm under hardship. He's under hardship and uh he's literally in chains as he writes this letter. And he mentions his imprisonment four times in chapter one alone. He mentions is imprisonment, imprisonment, imprisonment, chapter 1, verse 7, verse 13, verse 14, verse 17. Four times he mentions, I'm in bonds as I write this letter. I'm in chains. But we don't remember the book of Philippians as a book of bondage. We remember Philippians as a book of joy. Because for every time that he mentions imprisonment, he mentions joy four times. It's overwhelming the kind of joy that's his in the book of Philippians. He mentions the joy that he has, the joy that the Philippians should have, and it's all rooted in this contentment that he has in Jesus Christ. And Paul has something to teach us this morning, just to set the context before you. By the time Paul writes this letter, he's been in change, not for a short time, he's been in change for about four years. About four years. And he has yet to be convicted of any crime. I mean, just think about that. You're sitting in prison without even a conviction. This is Paul yet to be convicted of a crime. He's already spent two years in prison in Caesarea without a fair trial. We read about that in Acts chapter 24 to 26. If you uh look at that, Acts chapter 24 to 26 it lets us know about that He's in the latter half of a two-year house arrest in Rome while he waits for a trial before Nero. Like I said, he hasn't even been convicted yet And he's allowed to have visitors, but as can be imagined, uh there's not much that he can do. You know, he's just kind of surviving on uh on the gifts of of others. There's not much he can do to earn money There's no indication indication that he was able to continue his trade as a tent maker. That's what Paul was by trade. And he's likely living off the charity of friends. That's Paul. And on top of that, he's unsure about his future Because although he was confident that he will be delivered, look over at uh Philippians chapter 1, look at uh chapter 1 verse 20. He's confident that he will be delivered. Actually, uh flip back to verse 19. Look at verse 19. He says, for I know that this will turn out for my deliverance. Through your prayers and the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, I know I'm going to be delivered. This is what Paul says. According to my earnest expectation and hope that I will not be put to shame in anything, but that with all boldness Christ will even now, as always, be exalted in my body. And you say, hey Paul, what are you worried about? You're going to be delivered. You know you're going to be delivered. But look at how he says his deliverance could come, whether by life or by death. Paul says, I know I'm going to be delivered. I just don't know which way it's going to come. I might live and get out of here, or I might be put to death by the sword. I don't know which way this is going to end. I know that Christ is going to be exalted. I know that I'm going to be delivered, but I have no idea what it's going to look like. My deliverance could be my death. And this would have been a difficult time for the apostle. And the word reaches the Philippian church, a church that he founded. That he was in distress, and they send this gift through uh one of their fellow ministers named Epaphroditus. He's one of the key leaders of the church. And this gift came to Paul at a great sacrifice. This church sends them a gift and a great sacrifice to themselves. And we know that it's a sacrifice because first of all, the Philippian church was a poor church. According to uh to scripture, if you want to flip back to 2 Corinthians chapter 8, uh just a couple books back, 2 Corinthians chapter 8. It lets us know that the gift that came from the Philippian Church, and the Philippian Church is part of a region named Macedonia, this is the gift that's referenced here in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. uh the uh region of Macedonia is an area that was known as a poor area. And uh they actually uh collected a gift to uh to send to the Jerusalem saints and they also collected a gift to send to Paul. But look at what it says here in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, look at verse 1. It says, Now, brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the churches of Macedonia, includes Philippi, that in a great ordeal of affliction their abundance of joy, and in their deep Poverty. It's not just poverty, it is deep poverty. Overflowed in the wealth of their liberality, for I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability, they gave of their own accord, begging us with much urging for the favor of participation and the support of the saints. This is a church that had small pockets but large hearts Poor church, but they were a giving church. Not only were the Philippians a poor church, they were also a church that was some distance away from where Paul was, located in Rome. The trip from Philippi to Rome would have been easily about 800 miles. And this is before modern inventions of uh you know plane, trains, and automobiles. So here you have Philippi de Rome being 800 miles away Could have been driven in the distance of uh it could have been driven in 14 hours if they had a had a car. They could have flown it in two hours. But here aphroditis takes this long and arduous journey. And if you traveled about 20 miles a day, just say if you could, right? 20 miles a day, it would have taken them at least 40 days on the road to try to bring this gift to Paul. They're a distant church. And they're also a sacrificial church. In order to uh to send this gift, they they lost one of their leaders for for months as he traveled back and forth And then chapter 2 verse 27 back in Philippians, it lets us know that they almost lost him for good because of the difficulty of the journey to reach Paul. Look at that chapter 2, verse 27. Talks about Epaphroditus. It says, For indeed he was sick to the point of death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but also on me, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow. You know, to have this guy come in, you know, 40 days' journey to bring you a gift and then have him die on your doorstep. You know, what kind of what kind of sorrow is that? You know, the the the sacrifice that was made, he says, not only was he was God kind to you, but he was kind to me and not letting this guy die. Because he was sick as he brought this gift of of yours. So here you have Epaphroditus. He brings this. this gift to to Paul. And Paul sends Epaphroditus back, uh which is who the Philippian letter came from. Uh it was through through the hands of Epaphroditus to let them know that he had received their gift and he expresses thankfulness to them. And his thankfulness is a full and bounteous thanksgiving because, not only because of their gift, but because of who he recognized beyond their gift. And that's what you need to understand. There's three traits of a truly thankful and content person. And I want to give them to you. First of all, the traits of a truly content person. First of all, a content person rejoices in the gifts of God. Rejoices in the gifts of God. That's chapter 4, verse 10. Thankful and content person rejoices in the gain of others. Also in 4 verse 10. And a content person rejoices in the glory of Christ. And we'll take a look at that in verses 11. But let's take a look at the first one. A content person rejoices in the gifts of God. Look at chapter 4, verse 10. It says, but I rejoiced in the Lord. Greatly. I rejoiced in the Lord. And this is a short point, but it's an important one. A truly content person rejoices in the gifts that come from the hands of God. He recognizes that everything is a gift from God. And notice that the gift was it was delivered by Epaphroditus. It came from the Philippian church. But Paul recognizes that the Lord is the source of this gift. I give thanks to God. And he says, I rejoice greatly, greatly in this gift. The Lord's gifts have filled my heart with joy, with thanksgiving. The word that he uses for uh for greatly is uh uh the Greek word megalos, and you can hear that prefix mega in that word. This is a great and overflowing uh type of joy. So to thank the Philippians was right. But if Paul only thanked the Philippians, it would be like receiving a gift from the mailman, and the only person that you write a thank you card to is the mailman. Hey, thanks for bringing me the gift. Without recognizing who's the source of the gift. Who's the one that actually delivered it to me? Who sent it to me? Who's the one that actually wrote it down and delivered it? You know, who paid the expense for it? And he recognizes that the true giver is God. The mailman came through the Philippian church and through Epaphroditus. The real source of the gift is God. And thanksgiving is never truly complete until it finds and reaches its ultimate benefactor. And the Lord is the ultimate giver of gifts. In James chapter 1 and verse 17, it says, Every good thing that's given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. Everything that we receive comes from God. Any good thing that you have, you have God to be thankful for it. There's nothing that you possess, there's nothing that you're not obligated to turn back around to God and say, God, I thank you. You can't name one thing That you own, that you possess, that hasn't been given to you by God. Because he owns everything, right? Psalm chapter 24, Psalm 24 and verse 1, it says, The earth is the Lord's and all it contains, the world and those who dwell in it. You can't escape your duty to give thanks to God. And uh done believers try to suppress that truth, you know, even though they're reminded of it every year at Thanksgiving, you know, that we should be thankful, thankful to somebody and It's like you kind of ask them, it's like, well, who are you thankful to? It's like, oh, you know, I'm just thankful. I'm just thankful today, so I just want to celebrate being thankful. P - Who? Who are you thankful to? Romans chapter 1, verse 21 says this that even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. Even though you know who God is, because there's there's There's really no atheist in the ultimate sense of that word. Everybody somewhere deep in his heart, he knows that there's a God. But even though they know that there's a God, there's somebody that gives you breath and energy and food and the air to breathe. Even though they know that, they don't want to give him honor. God has made himself evident just by what he's made. But people refuse to give him thanks. And that's why I say your thanksgiving is incomplete unless it reaches its source in in God. It finds its ultimate benefactor in God Himself. So he says, I rejoice, and my rejoicing is in the Lord. I rejoice in the Lord greatly because of what's been given to me. Second thing, a truly content person rejoices in the gain of others. Look at verse 10 again. Indeed you were concerned before, but you lacked opportunity. First he tells us who he rejoices in, and then in the rest of verse 10, he gives us the reason why. He says, you've revived your concern for me, or literally your thoughts for me. And the the gift that they sent was a tangible expression of their thoughts for him. Uh there's no way to be certain about the amount of time that's elapsed between uh the time that Paul planted the church and uh the time that he actually received this gift, but some people estimate that it might have been as many as ten years since they've had contact with him. When Paul first left Macedonia, uh where he's located here, uh he received uh two gifts that we uh learned about earlier. Uh It says in verse 15, if you take a look at it there in verse 15, for you yourselves know Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel, after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. For even in Thessalonica you sent a gift more than once for my need, so they had already been involved in giving gifts, but the period between that time and the time that they gave the gift again, it could have been years in between that time. And he says that you've revived this concern for me. He uses a Greek word anathala, which means uh gardening term used for the blooming of a flower. It's like it's it was your time to bloom again. And here it is, I've received this gift from you. And Paul is confident of their thoughts for him, but he says, you know, you didn't have an opportunity. And Paul rejoiced, not merely for his own sake, but really what he was rejoicing in was their sakes. I'm glad that you had the opportunity. I'm glad that you were able to revive your concern. And look what he says in verse 17. Not that I seek the gift itself, but I seek for the profit which increases to whose account? To your account. So it's not rejoicing in the gain that I receive. I'm actually rejoicing in the gain that you receive. I'm glad that you had the opportunity to give. I'm glad that this is actually an increase to your account that God sees your gifts. Paul rejoiced, like I said, not merely for his own sake, but he rejoiced in the uh in the gift that was actually given to God and enabled by God. And uh Paul realized that all giving, all Christian giving is enabled by God in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 13. Look it over in uh in uh a couple chapters back, chapter 2, verse 13. Talks about in verse 12 this this working out of our salvation, you know, our sanctification. And then he says in verse 13, for it is God who is at work in you. Both to will and to work for his good pleasure. So any any truly Christian work is done is enabled by God. It's not just because of yourself. It's not like you just kinda drummed this up in your own, you know, pulled yourself up by your bootstraps and I'm just a moral person. I just love God on my own. No, it is God's enablement. If you love God, if you do good works, it's because God has enabled you to do that. And Paul recognizes that. So when he sees this gift, this is the gift that's been enabled by God. He also understands that this gift, even though it's given to me, it's actually directed to God. Look at chapter 4 and verse 18. He says, But I have received everything in full and have an abundance, I'm amply supplied, having received from Epaphroditus what you've sent, and look what he calls it. A fragrant aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to who To God. Even though it came to me, who is it really directed to? Who's the sacrifice really given to? It's to God And lastly, Paul recognizes that Christian giving is also rewarded by God. Look at verse 19. And he says, and because of this, and my God will supply all your needs according to his riches So he says, this increases to your account. And my God is going to, my God sees, and my God will reward what you've done. So he rejoices in this gift that's been given, and it's an indication of their Christian growth. He rejoices in their concern. He rejoices because it's enabled by God, directed to God, and it's going to be rewarded by God. He says, I'm actually happy about the gain that you receive. You know, it's not so much about me about what I need and what my wants are. I'm just happy for you that you're able to do this. So it's about their gain, that is And number three, a truly content person rejoices in the glory of Christ. And this is what he spends the rest of 11 to 14 speaking about. Look at verse 11. He says, not that I speak from want. For I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. And he talks about the sufficiency of Christ. So think about this. You have uh the Philippian church. They've collected what they could out of their deep poverty. They've persevered in their search for the apostle, you know, some 800 miles away, you know, from Philippi to Rome. They've risked one of their beloved ministers, Epaphroditus, to bring the gift. And he came close to dying on Paul's doorstep as he brings this gift to the Apostle Paul. He's on the brink of death to deliver the gift. And what's Paul's reaction to all of this? Paul says, I rejoice to see your concern, but I'm not speaking because I had a lack. Verse 11. Because I'm content. You know, basically what he's saying, I'm really thankful for your gift, but you know, I didn't need it. Think about all the sacrifices just been made for you, Paul. Out of the deep poverty. 800 miles. One of our ministers almost died and you don't need it? Like, why don't we just keep it at home then? He says, I I I I appreciate the gift. I'm thankful for the gain that comes to you. But but guys, I just want to let you know, even though I'm thankful and I rejoice, I'm very excited, a great joy, but I was content even if I didn't have it. I'm content. And you look at that and at first glance it's like, you know, is that like a slap in the face? You know, like, you know, run through all this expense to sacrifice for you, and then you want to turn around and say you don't need it? Was this ingratitude? Was he too proud to admit that he had a need? Did he fail to appreciate all that they went through, all that they sacrificed? And the answer is no The answer is no. And honestly, this is the only answer that a truly content person can give. This like, oh, I'm just so glad you came through because I I don't know what I was going to do if I didn't, you know. That's not a content person. A content person is content whether I receive the gift or whether I don't. And like I said, contentment is such a rare bird that when you recommend when you see it, it's just like, what is that? What kind of response is that to give? It's like it's foreign to us that we would have this kind of contentment regardless of what kind of position we're in. And once you see something external, an external circumstance as necessary for your contentment, if something outside is necessary for your contentment, you will never be content. If it's always about like I I need this and I need that and I need this, you'll be discontent until you get it, and then when you get it, you'll need something else. That's the what that's the just the way it works. That's just the way it works. Whatever you get will not ultimately satisfy. Listen to what Jeremiah Burroughs has to say in his book, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. And this is it's a great book. You should pick it up, read it, but uh listen to this uh this quote Many men think that when they are troubled, it's because they have not and they have not enough contentment. It's because they have a little in the world. If I only had more, then I'd be content. He says, this is just as if a man were hungry, and to satisfy his craving stomach, he should hold open his mouth and take in the wind. And then he should think that the reason I'm not full is because I haven't taken in enough of the wind. He says, no, the reason is because the thing is not suitable to the craving stomach. Yet there is really the same madness in the world. The wind which a man takes in by opening his mouth will soon satisfy his craving stomach, ready to starve. As all the comforts in the world can satisfy a soul. If you're looking for contentment, it's not going to be by getting more and more and more and more and thinking that, you know, I'm just not content because I don't have enough. And that's the way that we think. You know, I I don't have enough, and if I have more, then I'll be content. It's just like opening up your mouth, taking in the wind, it's like, ah, I'm not full yet. Let me take in some more wind. That's not what's necessary to satisfy your stomach. And the things of the world will never satisfy your soul. Never satisfy your soul. Solomon Ecclesiastes chapter 2. Verse 10 and 11, listen to what he said. He says, All that my eyes desired, I did not refuse them. So here's the man that just went after everything that was before him. All that my eyes desired, I did not refuse them. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure. My heart was pleased because of all my labor, and this was my reward for all my labor. Thus I considered all my activities which my hands had done, and the labor which I exerted, and behold, all was vanity. Meaningless. Empty. Striving after the wind. There was no profit under the sun. I got everything that my eyes wanted. I did everything that I could put my hands to. And after I'm done with it all, it's nothing. Empty. Vanity. Meaningless And some of you might be on that same pursuit. Thinking that if I just get just a little bit more, if I can just get that raise. If I can just get whatever you're thinking about, if I can just get that person, then I'll be satisfied. That relationship, that's really going to bring you satisfaction. You're not going to get satisfied by looking for the things of of this world. Contentment has to be based on more than what's on the outside, physical things on the outside, and it's also got to be more than what you can drum up on the inside as well. It's gotta be more than than than that. Uh the word uh content, it's the Greek word autarkase. It's a word that means to be self-sufficient, self-reliant, independent of external circumstances. It was a popular word. Stoicism, which is a uh a philosophy that taught that man could be sufficient unto himself. But basically if uh and basically what they taught was like, you know, if you wanted to to avoid kind of being swayed by your circumstances, just like don't care about anything. I don't care if I'm happy, I don't care if I'm sad, I just don't care. You know, just some kind of flat line. You know, basically you're dead, right? Just dead to the world around me. I don't care. Just do what you want. Bring your worst Like that is not the kind of life that Paul is talking about. Like I'm just dead to everything. You know, there's no joy. There ain't no sunshine. Gone, right? It's not like that. What he's saying is not that I gotta just bear up and you know grip my teeth and deal with it. I just bear it. Just bear up under it, the weight. What he's saying is that I can greatly rejoice in my circumstances. There's something that Paul learned to take him beyond where he was. It wasn't I just grip my teeth and I'm just gonna endure. He's rejoicing in difficulty. That's what Paul is saying. I can rejoice Chapter 1 verse 18, I rejoice, yes, and I will rejoice. Chapter 2 verse 17, I rejoice and I share my I've got like more to share. I've got like abundance. I can give my joy to you I share my joy with all of you. Chapter 4, verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Chapter 4, verse 10, I rejoice in the Lord greatly. There's something that Paul learned that allowed him to rejoice regardless of what situation he found himself in. And he says, I 'm able to rejoice in whatever circumstances I'm in. I'm able to rejoice in every circumstance. It's not like the Stoics. Paul says, I 've actually learned the secret of joy, to be content and to be joyful. And Paul spends the rest of 11 through 13 explaining why he could say, I have need of nothing. In the word uh for that you uh uh find there in uh in in verse uh 11, not that I speak from want, for he's given an explanation. Whatever was thrown his way, he was able to take it. Why? For For there's a reason here. I've learned to be content in whatever circumstances I'm in. Look at verse 12. First of all, he says with or without prosperity. With or without prosperity. I know how to get along with humble means, and I also know how to live in prosperity. So with or without prosperity, I'm content. The word that he uses for humble here means to be brought low, to be abased, literally used for like just being brought down to the ground, like the leveling of a of a hill. And Paul says, financially, I know what it means to be there. I'm just like deprived of everything. Like I've like everything's just been depleted. I know what it's like to be there. And I can be content. And although uh Paul occasionally received uh aid from the church, it was normally not his practice to do so. Paul lived for the most of his life as a Christian, as a missionary, in poverty. He didn't have much. And he didn't want anybody to accuse him of taking advantage of the church, so he actually refused gifts at times. In 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 7 he says, Did I commit a sin in humbling myself, so that you might be exalted because I preach the gospel to you without charge? I'm not even gonna I don't even want to take any donations from you guys. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 12 he says, We endure all things so that we will cause no hindrance to the gospel of Christ. He'd received from the Philippians because he knew they came with the right heart He refused it from the Corinthians because he says, you guys are going to try to accuse me. Like I'm not going to get accused. Keep your money. Don't try to support the mission. Keep your money because I want you to know that this is all about Christ, the glory of Christ. So Paul, in a lot of cases, went hungry, was impoverished. And this is a hard pill to swallow for some of these televangelists today, isn't it? You know, they they almost make it seem like, you know, not that the gospel will be hindered if we take money, you know, the gospel will be hindered if we don't take money. Like the gospel will be hindered if I don't have that multi-million dollar jet to fly around, you know What if oh the poor people out there without the gospel now because I don't have my my million-dollar jet. Like this is the kind of hindrance that people talk about today. It wasn't what Paul said Paul says it's not going to be the gospel's going to be unhindered, you know, either way. But I'm content in whatever circumstances I'm in. So he says, I know how to get along with uh humble means, and I also know how to get along with prosperity. And you might be thinking, you know, hey, what's so hard to learn about that? You know, Lord, teach me, teach me about the prosperity. You know, I want to get along with some prosperity. Teach me, Lord, please teach me Lord, God. But you know what? It's it's actually uh maybe more of a difficulty for people to get along with prosperity than in poverty. Because as soon as you start getting a little bit, you start thinking that that's where my security lies. And start thinking that if I just get a little bit more, then that's you know that's where it's all at. Spurgeon once remarked, he says there's there's many men who know how to get along with a little that don't know at all how to abound. When they're put down in the pit with Joseph, they look up and see the starry promise of God and hope for an escape. But when they're put on the top of the pinnacle, their heads grow dizzy and they're ready to fall. So it's sometimes it's just better to be on the bottom, you know, get along with little. And having more is likely a greater t temptation for discontentment because you think just a little more will do it. Just a little more. If I can just put that extension on this house, you know when it's that just be fantastic? If we could just like change the furniture in here, you know, whatnot what'd that be like? Then we'd be set, you know? The more we have is the more we what. The more you want. More you have is the more you want. But Paul said, I could do both. Verse 18, he said he could consider this gift from the Philippians to be in abundance, more than enough, an ample supply, no desire for more. You say, okay, well that's that's about you know pro poverty, prosperity, but but what about when it affects you physically? How about physically? You know, I can get along if I'm I'm poor, but like, you know, if it affects my body, that's like a totally different story. Look what uh Paul says. He says, in every and every in any and every circumstance, I've learned the secret of being filled and going hungry. Both of having an abundance and suffering need. Paul knew what it was like to feel the pain of hunger. He knew what it was like to feel the pain in his stomach. To feel the weakness of his body. You know what it meant to be hungry in 2 Corinthians 11, verse 27. He says, I've often been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights. Often in hunger and thirst, without food and cold and exposure, my body being exposed to the elements. I know what it's like to be there. I'm not sure if any of us really knows what it means to be hungry. I don't think I don't think actually I'm not sure that many of the homeless in our nation really know what it means to be hungry What falls from our tables is enough to feed nations. What you know some of these panhandlers make, you know, like people that are really suffering, like in the heart of Africa or India or wherever, it's like they'd be happy to get what the panhandlers are making. It's like, hey, you're eating like kings. I recently listened to a Christian who uh suffered persecution in China, uh Dr. Daniel Wong, uh now teaches at the Masters University, California. Uh he said that he had a family of five. And they'd split one bowl of rice. One bowl of rice. Split one bowl of rice five ways. And that would be all that they ate for the entire day. One small bowl of rice. And he says that, you know, even as a child, he used to wander around the streets in China just looking for something on the ground, like just the scrap that I can pick up off of the ground to try to fill my stomach. You you don't know hunger like that. You don't know hunger like that. You know, then you open up your refrigerator and say, man, there's nothing to eat in here. You know, if it's not two double cheeseburgers in a in a milkshake, it's like, man, there's nothing to eat. I'm gonna die. When are we gonna get to the drive-thru? We can't take God's grace for granted, right? Don't take God's grace for granted. God's been gracious to us. Paul knew what it was like to be hungry when it even affected his own body, but he also understood what it meant to be filled. Uses the Greek word uh kortazo, uh which is a word that means to be fattened, satiated, satisfied. It was used for fattening up of an animal. So Paul knew what it was like to eat a meal, you know, get stuffed and just like uh I've had enough, you know, just kind of push back from the table. Like that's that's all all she wrote, right? You know, put a fork in me, I'm done. Paul Paul knew what it was like on either end. But to be satisfied and content, not wishing for anything different, anything better, anything more. He knew how to also have an abundance and suffer knee, which is the third one. Talks about material possessions when he talks about uh uh suffering, uh both having abundance and suffering need. Uh Luke chapter 12, verse 15, listen to what it says. It says, uh Jesus told the multitudes, Beware and be on your guard against every form of greed. For not even when one has an abundance, uses the same word in Philippians, abundance, talking about material possessions. Even when one has an abundance, even then his life does not consist in his possessions. Your life is not about the stuff. Your life is not about what you own. I remember seeing a bumper sticker that says he who dies with the most toys wins. I wanted to make another bumper sticker that says, he who dies with the most toys is dead. What does it matter how much stuff you have? Do you think your gold will save you in the day of judgment? The day of God's wrath? Our stuff doesn't mean anything to God. But Paul was able to swing from one side of the pendulum to the other. It didn't matter where he was. He was stable. Any position. And the question is how? How could how could he endure what he did? Unfair treatment without complaint. Four years without a trial. Without you know crying out justice! No justice, no peace. We want justice four years without a trial. And he says, I'm content. Nights without food, without drink, and Roman custody. And he says, I'm content. Criticism from other Christian teachers, which it talks about earlier in Philippians, there are people that criticized him for preaching the gospel of God, and he says, I'm content. How do you do this? He says it's a secret. But it's a secret that he lets us in on. The Greek word uh secret that's used here is the Greek word muao. Means to be initiated, initiated into the mysteries kind of like a you know a secret fraternity, a secret society. He says, I've been initiated And then he shares the same secret with us. Look at verse 13. I can, here's the secret: I can do all things through him who strengthens me. That is my secret. I do everything through Christ. It's through Christ who strengthens me, and this is utterly amazing, and sadly, it's been so misinterpreted and so misapplied that it's like that the key to contentment has like been bent out of shape and we can't even use it anymore. Because we have the wrong ideas in our minds. People turn it to mean the exact opposite of what Paul means to say. You know, people say, you know, I have this difficult task on my job, but you know what? I can do all things through him who strengthens me People say, hey, I want to get this house, but you know what? I can do all things through him who strengthens me. I know I'm going to get that house. I'm going to get that job. I'm going to get that girlfriend or that boyfriend or whatever. Because I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Athletes use it all the time, right? Evander Holyfield used to wear it on the back of his uh robe, you know. Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things. I'm gonna knock that guy out. Because Jesus strengthens me. Athletes use it all the time. Tim T. Bow, Seth Curry, you know, put it on the shoes. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. But what do they mean by that? They're always talking about I can succeed, I'm gonna be able to win, I'm gonna be a winner, I'm gonna get whatever I want because it's Christ who strengthens me. But you know what Paul is talking about? I can lose. I can be without. I can be abase. Why? Because it's Christ who strengthens me. And people take that verse and they just twist it out of context. It's this verse is not some blank check to fill out any way you want. I'm gonna get whatever I want, whatever I desire, kind of like the you know rubbing the magic lamp, like the genie's gonna come out the bottle, and he's just gonna give me whatever I want because I believe that Christ is gonna strengthen me to do that. That is not what this verse means. It's not a formula for success. What he's talking about is that I can face, I can endure any circumstance, any hardship, I can suffer whatever comes to me because I know Christ strengthens me I have Christ on my side. I've been given strength. I've been given power. I've been given resources to face any challenge. Because I have Christ who actively works in my life. It's because of my connection and my union with Jesus Christ. It's in him. I have strength in him who strengthens me, through him who strengthens me. We learned earlier in chapter 3, if you want to flip back there, that the believer is united to Jesus Christ. As a Christian, once you place your faith in Jesus Christ, turn away from your sins. You are placed in Jesus Christ. You're vitally connected to Jesus Christ. Chapter 3, verse 8. He says, More than that, I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things. And count them rubbish so that I may gain Christ. Look at verse 9. And may be found in him. I'm connected to Jesus Christ And I don't have a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, a righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. And not only are we connected to Christ in our justification. We're also connected to Christ in our sanctification. And everything that faces us, we're in him. It's like we're surrounded by the love and the mercy and the compassion of Jesus Christ. He's the one that gives us strength. To face whatever challenge we have before us. Kind of like the difference between a battery and an electric socket You know, Christ is not like a you know, it doesn't give you like a battery of strength and like, Hey, let would that last you? You know, kinda like your your iPhone or whatever and you're just like hoping like Oh please, you know, sometimes you're on your way home, you know, depending on it for directions, like, oh no, please don't dial me down. Don't fail me now. Christ is not like a gives you like a battery of strength and just say, hey, I hope you make it. It's like an electrical socket where you plugged in and it's just like when you need more power, you got more power. It just keeps on coming, keeps on coming, keeps on coming. It's uh when when it talks about strengthening me, the the word that it uses here, it's a present active participle. That might not mean a lot to you, but it means a lot, okay? It means that he is constantly, continuously supplying me with the strength that I need. Presently, actively, supplying me, supplying me, supplying me. So that whatever I face, it's right there. It's right there. It's right there. May find yourself in a difficult situation and under a lot of pressure and you may be saying, like, I just can't endure this much longer. I I can't keep this up. And it's like, you know, another wave of the trial is about ready to hit you and you just like brace yourself, okay, this one's gonna just wash me away. Like I I know I don't have the strength to deal with this. And as this the wave comes and then it passes and you're like, man, I'm still standing. You know, another wave comes and you're ready to get washed away again. It's like, man, I'm still I'm still here. Why is that? It's because when you need the strength, Christ was there to provide you with the strength. It's like you know, I didn't have the strength last week, but you have the strength now because now you need it. When you need the power, the power is there. That's the point. Christ is actively strengthening you for whatever you face. Christ infuses us with his strength. So the circumstance doesn't matter. And that's what Paul learned. It doesn't matter what I go through. And he says, it's like I learned this over time, but it's just like every wave that came, I could endure it. And I understood it wasn't my strength, it was because of him who strengthens me. This is the secret Jesus strengthens me so he could face deprivation, loss, persecution, attack, ridicule. Because he understood it was Christ who strengthens him. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 10, he says, Therefore I am well content. With weaknesses, insults, distress, persecution, difficulty, for Christ's sake, for when I am weak That I am strong. Why are you strong? It's because it's Christ who gives me the strength, right? That's the secret. That's the power. See understood that Christ had the power and He could be content in him. So that's why he could say I didn't need the gift. It's not because he's ungrateful. It's because he recognized that even if the gift never came, Christ is actively there to strengthen me. And he's content in that. So when we walk around and we talk about, you know, we need this and we need that, and if I could only have, who is defining your need for you? Who's defining for you what you need? Who defines that for you? What do people do before refrigerators in 1850? Automobiles, 1885, aspirin, 1899, air conditioning, 1911. Thank God for air conditioning. Because it gets it gets out. But we don't need it. We don't need it. Television, 1923. Frozen Food, 1924. Calculator, 1945. Microwave Oven, 1947. World Wide Web, 1989. What did we do before the internet? You survived! You did well! God strengthened you! Praise God! You don't need it! Far removed from what uh 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 8 says that we need. Uh Paul says, if I have food and covering, shelter, I'll be content with that. I don't need anything else. That's all we need. But today we have a shopping list of things that we need. I need, I need, I need. One author says this, he says it's the tragedy of our modern times that no matter what we achieve, how much money we earn, how many blessings come our way, more is never enough. For every desire you fulfill, you fill, another one always follows just on its heels. You may own a house in Aspen, make more money than Bill Gates, but still the filling of fullness keeps slipping away. And as try as you might, no amount of possessions power proceeds, satisfies for long, because that's not what you were designed to be satisfied with. You're designed to be satisfied with Christ. And the question is, do you have Christ? Do you have Christ? If you have Christ, do you have enough? He's sufficient. You're complete in him. You have everything that you need in Jesus Christ. Everything else is just like the icing on the cake, right? But it's like we have Christ. And if you don't have Christ, uh the only way to receive him is just what we learned about earlier. It's by giving up your trust and dependence on everything else, just like Paul did. He talked about in uh chapter three, and uh in verse four, he says, uh even though I might put confidence even in the flesh, if anybody could put confidence in the flesh, it would be me Circumcised the eighth day, the nation of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of the Hebrews, that's the law of Pharisees, the zeal of persecutor of the church, that's the righteousness which is found in the law of blameless. But whatever things were gained to me, those things I've counted as lost, nothing, rubbish, for the sake of Christ. If you don't have Christ, you need to consider everything in your life as rubbish, nothing. Like this is what's keeping me from Christ. And be willing to give all that up to deny yourself so that I may gain Christ. Because that's ultimately what you need. And until you learn to be content with the Lord, you'll be searching hopelessly for contentment anywhere else. Because more will never be enough. Because only Christ was meant to satisfy you. You believe that? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you God this morning, and uh Father, we thank you Thank you for your goodness, for your grace. Thank you for your son, Jesus Christ. And Father, we pray that you would help us to find our contentment in Him and in Him alone My Father, regardless of what we may face as a nation, regardless of what we may face as a church, and regardless of what we may face individually or as families, my Father, we pray that we would Learn the secret that Paul learned, the secret that he shares with us. It's an open secret. That we can find our fulfillment, our happiness, our contentment in Jesus Christ. It's not going to be found anywhere else. Father, I pray that we would stop searching in vain for fulfillment elsewhere. And Father, that we would sink our teeth deep into the contentment that we can find only in Jesus Christ. Father, we're uh we are so grateful. That you've uh delivered him to us, uh, that we've been given a savior, and uh that because of our savior, Lord, that we have uh contentment not only now, uh, but also promise for the rest of eternity. In Jesus' name we pray. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.