The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, uh, this Lord's Day I get to introduce you. uh to one of the preachers that I really like to listen to and uh his name is Rick Holland. Um uh Rick has served as senior pastor of Mission Road Bible Church since August of 2011 And uh before that he spent 25 years at Grace Community Church in uh Sun Valley, California, where he pastored the Crossroads College and Singles Ministry and also served as the executive uh pastor under Dr. John MacArthur. Um the first time I've I heard of Rick Collin was at a uh Shepherd's conference and I think it was either 2001 or 2002. uh when I listened to one of his Shepherd's Conference uh seminars and the title of the the seminar was uh Preaching as if lives depended on it. Preaching as if lives depended on it. And uh I think they just came out with this new technology at the time called the a C D. Uh so I think they they just you know went from cassettes into CDs at that time. Some of you don't know what I'm talking about. Um but uh I I remember having that CD and I probably played it so many times that it started to skip. And some of you don't know what I'm talking about there either But uh I played that that uh uh over and over again because um I I just found in him just a kindred spirit, uh just the love of preaching, the love of God's word. And um so so that's uh uh was my early introduction uh to Rick Holland. And uh when I actually uh went out to Grace Community Church and the Master Seminary uh to study there. Um uh Rick was the the first uh pastor who uh uh involved me in ministry so I got involved in the college uh ministry out there uh did a uh a Bible study at uh uh C Sun. Uh so uh was there with Rick and uh I remember early mornings, you know, with uh with Rick, you know, the A and the B team. Uh we had it, I think it was 6 a. m. if I remember correctly, you know At 6 a. m. we got together with Rick and asked all kinds of questions about ministry and life and scripture and uh was really shaped uh by Rick in more ways than uh he knows and uh my wife and i have also been in their their home out there in california and spent some time uh with them and just uh grateful uh to be able to introduce him to the to the rest of of us today Rick also serves on the faculty of the Expositors Seminary. He's also written a book called Uneclipsing the Sun, which we gave away for our college and career night. And you can find that on Amazon, Uneclipsing the Sun, if you're interested and uh hearing a little bit more from uh from Rick and his writing. Uh but one of the things that I really appreciate about uh Rick is that he's not just a preacher, he's a pastor. And uh there are men who really enjoy preaching, uh, but that don't really enjoy people as much. And uh getting into their kitchen and really having to deal with life issues, and uh Rick is one of those guys that puts preaching and the priority of shepherding the pastoral ministry uh side by side. Uh so uh just uh very much appreciate uh his heart for ministry. Appreciate his wife Kim uh being here uh with us. We've really enjoyed uh having her uh her with us uh here as well. Uh they have three sons, Mark, Luke, and John, uh two of them married. And he's he's he's he's told us before that he knows it's out of order and we're missing Matthew, but that's okay. Uh we've preached through Matthew, so we don't need him to have a son named Matthew as well. Uh but uh they also have two grandchildren, so uh we're grateful uh for uh having a grandfather among us and he's got a few gray hairs Uh a few more than I remember when uh we were serving together. But uh uh Yeah, so but uh and he he doesn't mind he doesn't mind that at all. So but uh Rick, why don't you come up and uh minister the word of God to us. Oh man. Oh, thank you, George. I I love that man so much. Um by the way, you Yeah, it's worse than you than you introduced. It's actually Luke, John, and Mark, so they're out of order. And I skipped Matthew. So um I have been introduced before and said he has Luke, John and Mark and people come up to me afterwards and say You know there's a Matthew to I know, I know. Um if we had another one though we were gonna name it Axe. So that's uh okay What a joy it is to be here at Baltimore Bible Church. I have heard of you with the hearing of my ear for so many years, and now to see you I just want to take it in to see what the Lord has done in this amazing uh body of his son uh here in Baltimore. Thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for loving my friend George and his wife Jennifer, who are dear You know, you have s you have friends in your life and then you have lifetime friends. They are lifetime friends to me. And uh I could go on and on. We could sound like the mutual admiration club if I went on talking about uh George for the next hour but that would be easy. Um he is uh just a dear and a precious special friend. But I want to tell you, brother, it is very intimidating. Very intimidating. Not to preach in front of you and Jennifer, but your moms are here. That's I am trembling. I mean this is this is serious, okay? You brought moms in to listen to this. This is uh Exposing me at a at a very serious level. Thank you for your commitment to this church and for your commitment to each commitment to each other. And uh again, thanks for loving my friend George and his dear wife, Jennifer. George has the gift, some people call it the gift of hospitality. George has the gift of eating. It is a spiritual gift. I have eaten more in the last three days than I've eaten in the last three years. It's And it's been very good. Um I just keep saying, yeah, I don't know if this is the best crab cake I've ever had in Baltimore. So they keep taking me to another place to to try it out. So it's really good. Thank you for the invitation to be here, my friend. Well, if you open your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 11, 2 Corinthians chapter 11. While you're turning there, let me pose a thought with you, if I may. If we could summon any angel from heaven. And they could speak to us and talk to us from this stage. What do you think they would talk about? I have no doubt they would speak to us about Jesus. If we can invite any person who has died to show up on this same stage and speak to us, any soul enjoying the glories of heaven, any Soul suffering the horrors of hell, I am confident they would speak to us about Jesus. If the Holy Spirit himself Or to materialize and stand at this podium. We know from John 14 and John 16, he would speak to us about Jesus. If God the Father were to rise from his throne and descend on this stage for just a moment , I think we know what he would talk about. He would say, Behold, my beloved son, in whom I'm well pleased. He would speak to us about Jesus. But if we could materialize any demon, or the devil himself, to come and stand on this stage, I don't think we would invite him, George, but if they elbowed me out of the way for a moment I am quite confident that they would speak to us. They would love to speak to us about Jesus. But not the Jesus of the Bible. A redefine Jesus. They would use our dictionary and their words. Their our word rather and their dictionary. They would redefine them. Christianity is fundamentally about Jesus. So it shouldn't surprise us when we read in 2 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 3, that Paul says, but I am afraid. That, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, that your minds would be led astray From the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. One of my historical heroes is John Knox 400 and Fifty or so years ago, he rocked Scotland with the power of the gospel by preaching the exclusivity of Jesus Christ underneath the Catholic crown. One of the things Knox is most remembered for is his bravery. It was said that no one was as brave who has ever lived in Scotland braver than John Knox. Well said he feared nobody and he feared nothing. He was debating Mary, Queen of Scots about the impotency of the Catholic way of salvation, and he was told that his language was discourteous and disrespectful to the Queen. And to this he responded, quote, It is no more privilege of the rich and powerful than of the common people to offend God's majesty, end quote. She burst into tears, ran out of the room. Mary's courtiers then charged Jox charged after Knox and said, Stop upsetting the Queen with this Protestant gospel. And Knox answered, I cannot let the tears of the honorable lady suppress the voice of my conscience or silence the her to the hurt me to the hurt of my nation. She had the power to behead him, and he didn't back down. Mary was queen keenly aware of John Knox's impregatory prayer, so much so that she heard that he had asked God to rain down curses on her false religion in the land. And she told her Privy Council this I fear the prayers of John Knox more than all of the assembled armies of Europe. Wow At his funeral, Earl Morton pointed to John Knox's grave, which as a footnote is in parking spot twenty-three in St. Giles Cathedral. It's not even it's it's under a parking lot. And they marked it with a a gold dot. I stood there and wept over the dishonor to him. He said about John Knox, There's never there lies a man who never feared the face of any other man. That's bravery. But Noxia's bravery is a distant, a very dim shadow and echo of the bravery of the Apostle Paul. Think about him for a minute. He preached the gospel in open openly in hostile synagogues. It's a a sermon for another time. I'm sure George will get there someday after fifty years in Romans. But um I understand. So he uh uh but um every po God told Paul you're gonna be a got uh uh a a missionary to the Gentiles He said, okay, God. And then every time he went to a town, you know where we went first? The synagogue. Because he loved his people. And that never never ever went well, by the way. He kept proclaiming the gospel in those hostile synagogues. He preached the gospel in open Gentile marketplaces. He debated on the Areopagus of Athens. He evangelized before the intimidating council of Jerusalem who had murdered Jesus He had been beaten so badly at Lystra that he was left for dead outside the city in a ditch. He stood for the gospel before Agrippa and Felix, Festus. Even to the Roman guards who were holding him in jail at sword point. And in Acts chapter 20, he told the Ephesian elders in a meeting at Miletus that the Holy Spirit had promised him suffering and chains in every place he would go. How about that? For God loves you and has a wonderful plan for your life. The Holy Spirit said everywhere you go, torture. Chains, and one day you're going to die for the gospel. And he gladly got up every day and went to work. I love how the Book of Acts and chapter 17 describes him. They knocked on Jason's door looking for him and said, Where is this man and these men who have upset the world? What testimony. So you hear all that. And then you read, Paul say, But I am afraid That gets my attention. That grabs my attention. What in the world was Paul afraid of? Paul's bravery would eventually s be sealed with a martyr's blood by Nero. When Paul was born the Roman Empire was fully entrenched in heathenism and in paganism, and when he died it had been shaken by the gospel of Christ because of his preaching. And yet he says here in chapter 11 of verse 3 of 2 Corinthians, but I am afraid. When Paul speaks of being afraid, it ought to grab our hearts. What was the fearless Apostle, the audacious missionary, the bold pastor, the ferocious theologian. What was he afraid of? He tells us in this verse, he was afraid that the hearts of his people would be distracted and led us astray from devotion to Christ. Here's some background. False teachers had an infiltrated the Corinthian church. They were preaching a false gospel. They are preaching against him personally. Further, they were doing so by attacking and discrediting his ministry. Paul's worthless. He's not really an apostle. He wasn't one of the twelve. All to gain a following after themselves because they were jealous of Paul. In chapter 11, Paul provides the climax of actually his defense as well as his heart. For ministerial aspirations for the Corinthians. And the head of this lies his jealousy for their hearts, not their affections or admiration. Now, any survey of Scripture will show an obvious accent on protecting believers from spiritual dangers. There were false Christs, false apostles, false prophets, false evangelists. False teachers, false pastors, false elders, false brethren. And at this point, the false teachers at Corinth had gotten traction. They were getting a following. Interestingly, in this passage, Paul's concern is for the disloyalty of his readers' minds. Christianity is fundamentally a mental religion. It's a thinking religion. It's about what you think more than how you feel It's likely that their gospel, the false gospel of the false teachers, was about the power and glory of Christ, only about social implications or While utterly ignoring Christ's humiliation and weakness and persecution and suffering, that's why Paul emphasizes the cross and the crucifixion so much in the Corinthian letters. There's a lot of blood in 1 and 2 Corinthians. And here we come to 2 Corinthians 11, verse 3. And we find Paul's heart, his his pastoral affections on full display. So what I want to find with if you'd like a an outline to kind of hang your thoughts on. We're going to look at three applications of pastoral concern. Now I know what you're thinking. Okay, that's great. That's for George. and the elders and Rick. No, no. Pastoral concern means you're you're you're you're concerned about the hearts of those with whom you have influence. All of us should be expressions of pastoral concern with each other. Parents, this is applicable for you and your children. Husbands, you and your wives, wives with your husbands. Friends with friends, three applications of pastoral concern because Paul's concern pastorally for the Corinthians should reflect our concern, not only as church leaders, but each other for each other. So let's look at those together. Three applications of pastoral concern. The first is in the very first part of verse 3. A fearful Big word, ecclesiology or doctrine of the church. It was a fearful ecclesiology, a fearful doctrine of the church. That's where he starts in verse 3. But I am afraid. Now, in order to understand the force of this fear, you've got to go back to verse 2. He's trying to Corral their thinking. Put their thoughts in right order. And there's a trajectory and a and a momentum that's building. I mean look back just for a moment to verse two. I'm jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband. This is like He's taking father language. The father was the one who betrothed the the daughter to the to be married. I betrothed you to one husband. Not a husband, but to one husband. So that to Christ, there's the husband, I may present you as a pure virgin. Paul understood that to be the spirit himself to be the spiritual father of the Corinthians and Christ as their bridegroom. During the betrothal period, during that time, the father took the public responsibility for the virginal fidelity of his engaged daughter until the marriage day. If you look back at chapter 1, verse 14, Paul spoke of the day of the Lord Jesus where he wanted to be proud of the Corinthians as he presented them to Christ. Now, he doesn't say, again, a husband, but one husband. There's singularity in the focus of the affections. He says, I'm jealous. Not regular human jealousy. It's not motivated by envy and self-interest. Paul is jealous like a Father protecting his daughter, not like a husband or a fiance who's sees someone flirting with their Beloved. It's a deep emotional vigorous response to seeing the blood bought people who he loved and The sons and daughters of God flirting with any worldview that diminish their unilateral affection for Christ It's impressive to me that Paul's eschatology had such a working application on his shepherding. He was looking for the great day when he would present these people to Christ. This jealousy, this fatherly protection made Paul afraid for the flock. He starts by saying, I am afraid. Now, this is a word that with which you're very familiar. It's the word phobiasis, from which we get the word drumroll. Phobia, good class, very good. Phobias. It was used to put a horse to flight by smacking it. It was used when a horse was terrified by lightning or thunder spooking an animal. It was a protective reflex, a strong alarm. That's what he had for these people. Also, if you look at the Greek construction of this, the word fear is the first word in the sentence, which usually says that's what's most important. Fearful I am, kind of a Yoda approach to theology. Fearful I am for you. I'm afraid. I am jealous for you, your spiritual condition and health, your affections, as we'll see in a moment, for Christ Himself. Keep me up at night. Wake me up in the morning. Motivate my relationship with you And ultimately, that was in context of the church. He looked at the bride of Christ with jealousy. His ecclesiology was very sober-minded. He was fearful that the church would drift and experience mission drift. That tells us of the importance of a defined ecclesiology. I have heard all weekend about your church. Can I just give you a little footnote? Your pastor In a righteous way, brags about you. I can't get a word in edgewise with George at a meal because he wants to talk about you. And he wants to talk about the church and what God is doing, and he's amazed by it and can't wait to get here. It's just so encouraging. And I trust that you share that same feeling and affection for one another. Our ecclesiology is fearful in that we are afraid that we will lose focus and experience mission drift. That'll come back to bear in just a moment. It's a fearful ecclesiology. A second application of pastoral concern is this. This is really important. A functional bibliology. That's just your doctrine of the Bible. A functional bibliology. Now, he goes into a parentheses right here, and and he's going to pick up the rest of the sentence and after this parenthetical expression, but he says, I'm afraid that as and he looks aside for a second. I'm afraid that as and then this illustration. The serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness. He uses this epic illustration from Genesis that functions in two dimensions It actually illustrates the point he's making, but the point he's making is illustrated by the fact that he uses God's word. His bibliology, what he thinks about the Bible, the Old Testament at that point is functional. He uses it. Don't miss the fact that Paul takes the Genesis account of Adam and Eve legitimately, historically, and seriously. Even the abnormality of a talking serpent was not too fantastical. For him to believe. For Paul, if it was in the scripture, it was true and to be believed. So we talked about this uh uh on Friday night with with some of you who were you know in the at the singles event and uh it's just amazing how people and uh it 's it's so it's wonderful George to be able to say this at a church like this I don't understand why you doubt six days of creation in Genesis one and two and say, well, that's Allegory or mythology or whatever, because we don't take that literally. And my question is always, well then where do you start taking it literally? Chapter three with the talking serpent? I mean do you do you wait till chapter three? I mean where do you w Paul took it seriously. He took it as histor as historical fact. And I hope that your bibliology is like that too. You take God at his word. Maybe the most powerful attack the enemy has on anyone's soul is to get us to doubt the veracity, the truthfulness of God's word. Paul didn't, he just used it. He talks about Eve and her fall. Don Carson says when Eve fell, it was not because she was battered into sinful submission to a wicked overlord, but because she was taken by cunning She was deceived according to 1 Timothy 2, 13. If you'll go back, and we don't have time right now to Genesis 3, 1 to 7, it says I remember the first time I saw this, I was shocked. It says that Eve took the fruit And she ate. And then it says, and she gave to her husband who was with her. Adam took the fruit out of willful disobedience. Eve took the fruit out of being deceived and being tricked. Paul understood that and he says, I'm afraid just as Eve was deceived, just as she was tricked, that you'll be tricked. Questioning God and offering a lie in the place of truth. The first question of the Bible was posed by the devil. Who said, did God really say? He's been saying that ever since. Did God really say, does God really mean Causing us to doubt the perspicuity, the clarity of God and his word. Satan is always trying to trick believers into following a self-centered, Christ distancing faith. And again, the problem is that the enemy uses our words in his own dictionary. He redefines things according to himself. He makes error seem reasonable. And the best way to do that is make people think good about themselves and distant about God. Look just for a moment at verse 3. Excuse me, verse 4. He says, for if anyone comes and preaches. . . Another, a different Jesus, whom we have not preached, you receive a different spirit, which you have not received, or a different gospel, which you have not accepted, and these sarcastic You just accept this. You bear it beautifully. You're happy to believe it. And that's the that's the focus of the devil is not to Cause us not to think about Christ, not to think about the gospel, not to think about the Spirit, but to think about them wrongly, because then we're deceived, they were tricked. We think we're okay, but we're deceived. That's his Age-old goal. By the way, that's the age-old protocol of liberalism. This is just liberalism in new clothes. Making faith seem reasonable, making people feel good about themselves. Satan wraps his coils and successive subtleties around our heart. And it's always unsuspecting. Part of our goal in helping each other experien extending pastoral care is to expose the enemy's lies and to show each other you're being deceived just like Eve was deceived. This isn't a woman thing. This is a person thing. He doesn't say, I hope you women aren't deceived like Eve was. He says, I hope all of you, none of you are deceived like Eve was. He disguises himself, Satan does. He never comes as Satan. You know, I think he laughs at horror movies where he has a Red face and horns and a pitchfork. He would love for us to think Satan is not out to scare you He's out to deceive you. He said he find out down the page, by the way, in verse 14, Satan disguises himself not as a pitchforked Horned, red-faced devil, he comes as an angel of light. He never comes looking like Satan. He looks like an angel. He looks like the truth. He's a counterfeiter. He disguises himself. Just like that old The story of the counterfeiter that make their money look as much like the real as possible He deceives. He's the father of lies, John 8. 44. He distracts by putting our attention on self rather than Christ. He distorts. He's a master isogete. Isegesis as putting something in the text that's not there. His main attack is by using God's word in a distorted, out-of-context, incomplete, augmented, diminished way. He would rather we think about Christianity as behavior modification, doing better, trying harder, psychological rescue, self-fulfillment, a relationship with the crucified Messiah who died a substitutionary atonement is As far from his protocol as he can make it. Satan's supreme ambition then is to prevent Jesus from having supremacy in our hearts. I think one of the day the ways he does that is by chopping up the Trinity. We don't think rightly about the Father, so we don't think rightly about his son, and we don't think rightly about his spirit. The Spirit is not an it, it's not a force. The Spirit is a he. He's a person. Jesus is not just the one that the God of the Old Testament prophesied. He is the God of the Old Testament. In the flesh. So looking at this, do we have an extension of our pastoral concern for each other, for our kids, for each other? For the elders and pastors for you, do we have a functional bibliology? Do we believe the Bible enough to use the Bible? And do we understand the Bible enough to have a good hermeneutic? I love the fact that this church understands hermeneutics. You understand how to interpret the Bible. Listen, let me tell you what your pastor is doing for you every every week. Preaching is a lot of things, but it's nothing less than public hermeneutics. And what I mean by that is every time George gets up to preach, he's not just telling you what the text says, he's telling you why to believe what the text says by telling you how to interpret it. Understanding how to interpret the Bible. When I was in high school, I had a a friend who was uh on my wrestling team and he um um He was a little bit superstitious. A lot of it superstitious. And I remember before our wrestling matches, he always brought a Bible, his old Gideon King James Bible. And uh b right before we we went out to to wrestle our match, he would he would take his Bible and start rubbing it all over himself And I remember saying one time, dude, what are you doing? This one said, I want the power of God on me when I go to wrestle So I said, Can I borrow your Bible? No, I didn't say that. We kinda laugh at that. How serious do you take your Bible? Is this the Read Your Bible more sermon? Yes, you caught me! Yes, it is It's one thing to believe it, it's something else to read it. It's one thing to appreciate it, it's another thing to apply it. And sometimes I think in Bible believing churches like this, like ours, like we share a sister church relationship between each other, it's It we can think, well, I appreciated the sermon, I appreciate the truth, I appreciate the Bible. That's not applying it. Liking it is not making it work in your life or applying it. So make sure you're Bibliology, your view of scripture is functional. It's working in your life. That's what he uses it for here. So now he he goes back to the main verb and will go on to finish his his sentence. Three, applications of pastoral care, pastoral concern, fearful ecclesiology, a functional bibliology. This is really important. Number three, a jealous Christology. And this is where he focuses laser precision. A jealous Christology. Now go back and pick up the verb, I am afraid. Then he gives the parentheses. As they used as Eva's deceive, um, I'm afraid That your minds, what are you afraid of, Paul? I am afraid that your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion To Christ. After that parenthetical illustration of Eve, now he finishes the thought, his sentence about his fear for the Corinthian flock. This last phrase, Paul, explains the target and ramifications of his godly jealousy he mentioned in verse two His point is simple. Jesus Christ is the integrating centrality of faith. He focuses on the mind, as I said. I'm afraid that your mind, your thinking, will be led astray. Led astray. Wander off. Lose focus. The word for led astray in the original is corrupted Make erroneous and inaccurate assumptions about Christ and Christianity. Then he says, How could you be led astray? What would you be led astray from? And he gives two very simple words. They're not complicated. He says, led astray from two things, simplicity and purity. And if you'll notice, if you have a new American standard, you'll notice that uh that little phrase of devotion is in italics. That's because it's it's implied, but it's not in the original language. It it's a certainly a fine interpretation. But literally this is how it reads. I'm afraid That your mind will be led astray from simplicity and purity of Christ. Incredible. Simplicity simply means this. Single-minded focus. Laser precision on Christ. Simplicity. And purity means unpolluted. And pollution about any view of Christ comes from outside the scriptures. You have an unbiblical view of Christ. 1 Corinthians 16, 22, he says, if anyone does not love the Lord, he is to be accursed. Love the simple love for Christ. You know, we we get attacked day in and day out by the enemy. I uh Um I'm not a great counselor because I think all of my counseling session is the same. I asked three questions. What do you feel? What do you think? What do you know? What do you believe? Because everything starts with I feel bad about filling the blank. I feel anxious about filling the blank. I feel fearful about. I feel you you you know that's how I feel. That's why we're that's why we're counseling It's not just pastoral, this is around your dinner table. They say, well, what do you think about that? Usually this where we live is is in What do you think? Usually we we think based on how we feel. What do I feel? What do I think? What do I know? What do I believe? And the goal of Christian thinking is to believe and know enough that will help you think better and then control your feelings. The polarity usually goes, I feel X, so I think badly and it makes me doubt what I believe. No, no. I believe what God's word says. That will help me think the right thoughts. And that will not always change, but it will control how I feel. Paul says, Your mind. Your mind is where everything happens. And you understand this. One of the things that Satan tries to do is to get you to think that washing your mind every day with the The cleansing power of his word is not worth it. Think about who he's talking to. Some first generation Christians J. C. Rowell says, Who would have thought that under the very eyes of Christ's own chosen disciples, while the blood of Calvary was hardly yet dry, while the age of miracles had not yet passed away, who would have thought that in a day like that there was any danger of Christians departing from the faith? But they did, and they were. It's about Christ. Um would you just hold your finger there? I want to show you something. I want you to see this with your own eyes. Turn to Ephesians chapter 4 for a moment. Just a few books over. A few pages over, rather. Um While you're turning there, I I don't know if you've ever had this experience. Have you ever um Have you ever read a verse? This is really embarrassing. Have you ever read a verse? And it landed on you with such gravity that you thought, when did God put that in the Bible? I have read this my whole life, and I've never seen that before. I had one of those moments in this passage. Just pick up in the in the flow in verse 17. He's talking about your old life and your new life. Ephesians 4. So this I say and affirm together with the Lord that you walk no longer as the Gentiles walk in the futility of their what? Mind, look at all these mental words being darkened than their what? Understanding excluded from the life of God because of the what? Ignorance, all of these mental words and pictures that is in them because of the hardness of their heart, that's the mission control central, that's the thinking as well. They become callous, having given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. Okay? Old school, old life, pre-Christian experience. I got it. Thank you for the description, Paul. Now he talks about change. I read this next sentence, and the first time I really saw it was shocked that I had never seen it before. He says But you did not learn Christ in this way. I would have expected him to say, you did not learn to live this way. You did not learn to repent this way. You did not learn to sing this way or act this way. He says you did not learn Christ in this way. It's the only place in the scripture, by the way, where A person is the object of a curriculum. The curriculum of Christianity is the person and work of Jesus Christ. You learn Christ. Oh, he always goes on, by the way. If indeed you have heard him. And be taught in him, just as truth is in Jesus, that in reference to your former life you may lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance to the lust of deceit. There's the devil again That you be renewed in the spirit of your mind to put on the new self, which is the likeness of God, created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Verse five chapter five. Be imitators of God as beloved children walk in love just as Christ Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Let me ask you so to do something sometime. Maybe maybe this will be a fun exercise at lunch. Get your Bible. Just and it's don't use Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, or Acts. It's too easy. Too easy. Too easy. Open your New Testament anywhere. Just plop it open anywhere. Drop your finger. Start reading. Have someone put a stopwatch on to see how long it takes to run into a reference to Jesus. It won't take long. It won't take long. He is everywhere, and it's so easy to miss him. And to turn our faith into trying harder or being better or behavior modification. No. Christianity is the love and worship of Jesus Himself. What did what did Paul want the believers at Ephesus to do love their Lord. What did Jesus say to the believers at Ephesus? In the book of Revelation, you lost, departed from your first love. And they had really good doctrine and were good at apolog ap apologetics and could defend. No, it was Christ that they had left I don't have time, but just a quick little tour. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2, 1. 2-2, I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Second Corinthians 4, 5 We do not preach ourselves, but we preach Christ as Lord, ourselves as your bondservants for Jesus' sake, for God who said light shall shine out of darkness. Listen to this, is the one who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. 2 Corinthians 13, 5. Test yourself to see when you're in the faith. If you're in the faith, examine yourselves. Do you not recognize this about yourselves? That Jesus Christ is in you unless you fail the test. Galatians 2. 20, I have been crucified with Christ, and it's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. The life I live is I now live in the flesh by faith in the Son of God. Galatians 4. 19, my children, he says, my children with whom I am in labor again until Christ is formed in you. And then the worst grammar in the Greek New Testament is really bad. English grammar too is best the best theology. Paul says in Philippians 1 1. 21, for to me, I won't get into the infinitive spirit here, he says, for me to live is Christ and to die as the king. That's bad English and it's even worse Greek. What do you mean to live is Christ? That doesn't mean you expect him to say to live is serving Christ, loving Christ, worshiping Christ. No, no, no It's Christ. Colossians 3, verses 1 to 4. When Christ, who is our what? Life is revealed. He is the object. What is the so appropriate, George? What's the central and primary command in these elements? Do this to remember me. Do you understand the grace of the Lord's table? He instituted the Lord's table as a reminder of himself. Because he knew we would forget. This is grace. Do this to remember, you've probably forgotten. Do this once a month. This is the way we do it. Once a month, stop, make it a reset point in your life. Remember me. Our chief pastoral concern then for each other with each other is to rivet the affections of the people that we love and know, the sheep around us, to the person of Christ. To keep them from thinking that Christianity is merely behavior modification or a social construct or a social alternative to the world, but it's It's a love relationship with a living resurrected Lord. Generating that awareness. Give you a pop quiz. What is eternal life? Now don't answer out loud yet. Because you'd be tempted to say, oh, that's easy. Eternal life is eternal as forever. Life is living, living forever. And you would be partly right, just not biblically right. Why? Because in John 17, 3, Jesus said, and this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ. whom you sent. Eternal life is knowing God through knowing Jesus. That's eternal life. John Owen said this, Christ is the way. Men without him are canes, wandering vagabonds. He is the truth. Men without him are liars like the devil of old. He is the life. Men without him are dead in trespasses and sins. He is the light. Men without him are in the darkness and know not where they go. He is the vine, men that are not in him are withered branches prepared for the fire. He is the rock, men not built on him are carried away with a flood. He is the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the author and the ender, the founder and finisher of salvation. He that hath not him hath neither beginning. Of good or but they shall have an end of misery. Oh blessed Jesus, how much better were it To not be than to be without thee. A thousand hells come short of this eternally to lack and want Jesus Christ. What does that look like? What does it look like to not be deceived like Eve and to have our minds not led astray and anchored to some simple and pure devotion to Christ? Jesus will be the object of our focus and of our love. Our hopes will long for him. Our desire will be for him. Our hate and anger will be directed at sin because it offends him. All the powers and aspirations of our heart will look to him. Our thoughts of him will be our favorite thoughts. Our remembrances of him will be our most precious memories. Our consciences will be will be tuned to his heart. Every sense will be at his disposal. Eyes to see his glory. Ears to hear his word, tongues to proclaim his excellencies, feet to serve his mission. And simple awareness to think of him I'm afraid that as you're walking through life, Paul says, just like Eve was deceived, that your minds will be led astray From the simplicity and purity of your heart being devoted to him. I praise God that this is a church that has a reputation for loving its first love I pray that your candlestick stays lit and that your heart burns fresh and full. Not only with the love of Christ, but fresh and full for passion for the people that you love and know. to do the same. And that's the connective tissue of Baltimore Bible Church. Father, thank you for the grace of this encouragement in this passage. Thank you for the gift of remembering you in so many ways, even at this table. By your grace and by your favor, guard our hearts. From focusing on feelings and thinking wrongly and doubting what to believe and change them to Have confidence in what we know and believe, to cause us to think better and to keep our feelings in check. Lord Jesus, guard us from forgetting you In Jesus' name, Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.