The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well it is wonderful to be with you this afternoon and be able to worship with you. I bring greetings with Grace Community Church there in Delaware. Uh saints gathered this morning to worship. They'll be gathering again this evening for our evening service, which I may or may not make it back in time for. We'll pray for 95. But they send me with their greetings and love for this congregation. It's so sweet to have Sister Church uh here in this area preaching the word and and seeing uh all the ways in which God's word continues to go forth and then all the other opportunities that we have to partner together and and to be able to fellowship together. I'm personally looking forward to the men's conference That's going to be hosted by the church here at Camp Hobana. I'm going to be there. I'm so excited to hear Pastor Dave Doran, who is a personal friend. and mentor of mine. And so I I just know that the men are going to be blessed by that time. So I hope to see uh many of you men there. I'm looking forward to it. We're going to have men from our church coming to that. So it's it's the things like that that make our fellowship so sweet that we can partner together uh in the work of the gospel and encourage one another. Well, as we continue in our worship by hearing from God's word, I want to invite you to turn with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. This afternoon, as we look at this passage, we're going to consider the discernment that is necessary in order to be useful to the Lord. I know this church has been going through a month-long series on the topic of discernment, and so I trust this won't be new ground for you. Much of it will be review. But as we look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, really at the end of this letter, the Apostle Paul is providing some final instructions to the church in order to make sure that they are useful in the work of ministry. Paul did not want anything in their ministry or in their character to hinder them from usefulness to the Lord. And that's part of the reason why he addresses the issue of discernment. Paul knew that in order for the Thessalonians to be useful to Christ, they were going to need to be discerning in the truth. Notice with me in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, beginning in verse 19, how the Apostle Paul frames this up. And just to let you know, I'll be reading and preaching this afternoon from the English Standard Version, the ASV. So here's what it says beginning in verse 19. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good, abstain from every form of evil Now, by now, as you've gone through this study of discernment, you know how important discernment is for the Christian life It's an indispensable part of our life as individual believers, and also it is a vital part of the life of the church. Together, in our ministry, we need to make sure that we are discerning. What does that look like? Well, there are a number of different ways that you could describe biblical discernment. You might describe discernment as the wisdom of knowing the difference between truth and error. Or really , the discernment we need is the wisdom to be able to tell the difference between something that is almost true and something that is actually true. From a broad perspective, as Christians, we might describe discernment as distinguishing between that which comes from God and that which does not come from God. Those truths that are in line with God's revelation and all the implications thereof, versus all that would seek to undermine God's truth, all that we'd be against what God has revealed. Sometimes it's not so easy to tell the difference. We have to have the discernment to be able to know as believers, this is from God and this is not from God. Really, one of the benefits of discernment is discernment leads to clarity. Discernment is being able to identify what an influence is, where it comes from, and and where it's gonna take you if you follow it. You ever be around those kind of wise believers that just always seem to put their finger on what's going on, maybe even in the culture or in your life, and as they talk, they they bring clear biblical teaching to bear in your life and you realize, wait a minute, if I go down this path, it'll lead to that Whereas if I go down this path, it'll lead to faithfulness of the Lord, and those wise believers are able to help you to distinguish between the options that you have before you. That's discernment. The sermon is a skill and the spiritual virtue of recognizing that which is true and that which is good and that which is holy and to be able to recognize these things in in the midst of a world that is filled with blatant errors, subtle lies, and all kinds of misguided influences and priorities. And look, we all need discernment in every area of our lives. You need to be discerning in your own heart. You need to be discerning in your own motives. You need to be able to distinguish in your own heart the difference between An attitude of submissiveness to the Lord and a self-will that wants to do what you want to do when you want to do it. And sometimes that's difficult, isn't it? I I think we are all born with the skill of making excuses. We need discernment so we can even discern what's going on in our own hearts. We also need to be discerning because of Satan's influence on the world system around us. We're warned of this world and who's behind all the lies that are spun out by the world system. It's Satan. We need to be able to recognize what comes from God versus what is against God, and sometimes that's very hard to do Especially since some of what Satan spins out at us actually has a Christian label stuck to it And then, of course, we need to be discerning even within the church because there's so much false teaching in the name of Christ. We need to have the skill of being able to distinguish that which is true to God's word versus the kind of teaching that would take us away from God's word. This is an important issue, which is why I'm so glad you've been studying it for a month, and I'm so glad to be here talking with you about it today. If we're not discerning, then we're going to open up our lives to all kinds of hidden sins, worldly thinking, and even heretical theology. In fact, The end result of a life that is completely devoid of discernment is apostasy. To be undiscerning, totally undiscerning, leads to a spiritual naivete that will ultimately draw you away from Christ. And the age in which we live doesn't make it any easier, does it? We've never had more influences coming at us at all the same time. Well we we we ha all have little little worldly influencers that we carry around and we call them a phone. There's never been more outlets for Satan to influence us through media, TV, internet. There's never been more false teaching in the name. Of Jesus Christ. Heresy is big business. You can make some good money on heresy. Us faithful believers, we're trying to find buildings to buy and where can we meet? The heretics have their own planes. What's up with that? All this to say, we live in a world that calls for constant discernment. You cannot assume that every influence that feels normal, seems right, and claims to be Christian is actually true. You just can't. This feels like it might be okay. This kind of seems normal. They say they're a Christian. None of that means anything We have to be discerning. And you know what? We're not the first church that had to demonstrate discernment. In fact, the church in Thessalonica, to whom Paul was writing in this letter, was in desperate need of discernment. You may be familiar with the situation that they were in, but this was a body of basically brand new believers. The Apostle Paul planted this church through his own missionary work. And was there anywhere between three weeks to three months. Every believer that Paul was writing to in the book of Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians, had been saved probably for less than a year. So you have an entire church of people who had been saved for less than a year, and their founding pastor got run out of town because of persecution. So you have new believers gathered together in a church with no pastor, no identified elders yet. On top of that. When we want to be discerning, we run to the New Testament and we begin to read our New Testament. They didn't have a New Testament yet either, did they? This is a church that in many ways was unprotected. In fact, false teachers and worldly influences almost immediately assaulted this infant church. The Apostle Paul knew. He knew that if this church was going to survive, they were going to need discernment. And really, this is why Paul instructed the Thessalonians on how to be discerning, especially in the kind of prophecy that they received and accepted. And really, in the process of the Apostle Paul instructing the Thessalonians on how they can be discerning, we too learn how we can be discerning. Specifically this afternoon, as we look at 1 Thessalonians 5, 19 through 22, what I want you to see is two perspectives on discernment that are going to help us distinguish between truth and error. Two perspectives on discernment that can help us distinguish between truth and error. And we find the first of these perspectives in verses 19 and 20. We'll call this the pitfalls of discernment. In other words, when you talk about being discerning, when you think about being discerning, when you try to be discerning, what are some of the problems that you can run into? Paul brings that up here in partly because he knew that when immature hearts are focused on evaluating others and being discerning of what others say, there are all kinds of potential problems that can come up. Not the least of which Paul knew the danger of having an unbalanced view of discernment was that it can lead to rampant pride and bitterness in the church. Paul knew that this was a danger, but he also knew being undiscerning isn't an opportunity either. So what do you do? You address the dangers and you avoid them. What are the dangers? Well one of the pitfalls of of discernment is that if you're not careful, you can actually, in the name of discernment, not true discernment, but in the name of discernment, you can actually resist the Holy Spirit. This is why Paul begins his shepherding of these people and what they are to accept and what they're not to accept. He begins by saying to them: do not quench the spirits. This word quench here, it's a word that would be used to describe extinguishing a fire It's a word that means to render something ineffective. It's actually a word that's commonly translated into English to suppress it. It's similar to the kind of language you read in Romans chapter 1, where an unregenerate society under judgment suppresses the truth. And what Paul is saying is, you do not want to suppress the influence and the work of the Holy Spirit in your midst. In the name of discernment, you don't want to find something wrong With everything to the point where you're actually suppressing the influence of how the Spirit is working in your midst. In the name of being discerning, we would never, ever want to be disobedient to the Spirit. That being said, this verse has been used in a lot of interesting ways over the years, hasn't it? This verse has been misused to justify all kinds of unbiblical practices. You say, I'm not sure the church should be doing that. You just want to quench the Holy Spirit, don't you? No, I'm just not sure that swinging from chandeliers is a work of the spirit. The question for us is when Paul says do not quench the Spirit, how might we quench the Spirit? How might we resist His influence in our midst. Well, in order to understand how you would resist the spirit, you have to understand what is the spirit doing? So what is the Spirit doing? Well, one of the things the Spirit's doing is he's working to make us holy like Christ Which means we quench the Spirit when we live unholy lives. The Spirit is influencing us towards holiness. He's the Spirit of sanctification. He's the Holy Spirit. And so when we resist that work, we're quenching the Spirit. Or also, one of the things that the Spirit does for us is He gifts us to serve the body. Each one of us has a spirit gift in order to serve the saints around us, which means get ready to be convicted. When you are not serving the body of Christ, you're quenching the spirit in your life Or how about this? Galatians 5 makes it clear that the Spirit is producing fruit amongst his people. The fruit of the Spirit is, and you can all quote it, right? So the Spirit is producing fruit in our midst, which means when we're not pursuing that fruit that He's leading us to, what are we doing? We're resisting, we're quenching the spirits. To this we could also add, what is the Spirit given to us? What is the Spirit using in us? He's using the truth of God's word. What we have in the Bible is a spirit-inspired text, and then we know that the Spirit takes the Bible that he wrote through human authors and he uses it in our life to make us more like Christ. It's the Spirit of God Who uses the word of God to change the people of God? Which means when you're not responsive to the truth of God's word, you know what you're doing? You are quenching the work of the spirits. When Paul says, do not quench the spirit, he's not saying, look, anything goes. That's clear from the context, because in this very context, he says, test everything, hold fast what is good, extend abstain from every form of evil. So do not quench the spirit. Does not mean anything goes But what it does mean is that true biblical discernment does not lead to such a calcified and hardened heart that you're not responsive to that work that the Spirit is doing. Or to put it this way, if your practice of discernment leads you into unholy responses. If your practice of discernment, get this, if your practice of discernment alienates you from the local church where you're supposed to be bearing fruit and serving. Or if your practice of discernment hinders the fruits in your life, you know what you're doing? You're quenching the spirit. And it's interesting that Paul puts it this way in this context, because how often do we see people who profess the name of Christ, but then They are so discerning that they can't get along with any brothers and sisters. So discerning that they can't find anyone but themselves that's doing everything right. Paul's essentially saying, okay, you can't let that happen. In fact, he even goes on to say, do not despise prophecies. And we'll talk about what that means specifically, but just generally, Paul is cluing us in that there's a danger in an overbaked unbiblical practice of discernment. You can go so far in your discernment that that you cut yourself off from the truth of God. Now Paul here puts it in the terms of prophecies. And one of the things that we need to understand is is is that these believers were living in a different time. There was still prophecy going on. In the New Testament, there were occasional new revelations, foretelling that happened through prophecy, and then regular proclamation of the truth. Forth telling kind of prophecy. And what what Paul is saying is, do not despise those. And the word despise here it means to disdain or just reject out of hand. Reject without consideration. And you know you can understand why Paul would say this, can't you? I mean these are brand new believers. They had a period of weeks with the Apostle Paul, so Paul must have taught them a number of things. In fact Paul chastises them for not remembering what he taught them on eschatology. That's interesting, isn't it? New church plant, new believers, three weeks time. He already gave them eschatology, and then he reprimands them for not remembering their eschatology So they have a number of things, but the temptation amongst these believers might have been, you know what, Paul's not here, we have no pastor, I've got an idea. Let's just reject it all. Nothing new. No new influences, no new teachings, no new perspectives, no new implications. Let's only take what we got and and nothing new. And that would have been a big problem because God was still inspiring and revealing the New Testament, wasn't he? The Thessalonians have despised all prophecy. Instead of discerning true prophecy from false prophecy, they actually would have been rejecting the truth of God, wouldn't they? And that's a temptation for us, isn't it? Rather than discernment, we just want to protect ourselves, reject everything. Now, I do want to be very clear on something. Very clear. Because I'd like to be invited back. The nature of prophecy has changed for us today. There's no new revelation. We have it all. Right here. If you want to hear God speak, read your Bible out loud. Right? Okay, it's all right here. So the nature of prophecy is different now than it was then. However, the pitfalls of discernment really haven't changed all that much. There are some who are so discerning that they can't even listen to a sermon without finding some fault in the message. Let me save you time. Find me afterwards. I'll give you all the faults. I'm noticing them right now. You're never going to find a perfect sermon, but if you use that as an excuse not to listen for the truth, you're going to miss the truth. There's some who can be so discerning that they can find all kinds of faults and any kind of teaching that they might hear In the church. In fact, in reality, there are some who are so discerning that they're not actually discerning. They're just a critic of the word rather than a hearer of the word. Say how do I know when I'm being discerning versus when I'm actually being a critic? Well, I think one of the clearest ways to see when you've gone astray into this pitfall is when you start to suppress or ignore what the truth says about your own life. Have you seen what this guy online said about eschatology? He got won he got he was off by a day on his timeline. False teacher. Meanwhile, hey brother, what's going on in your marriage? No, no, we don't talk about that. And we want to ignore what the truth says about our own life. And challenging truths that we find in the scripture, that is a dangerous thing I think this is something of what Jesus meant in Matthew 7. 3, which, by the way, Matthew 7. 3 might also be one of the most misused verses in the Bible, and yet It's still there and it says, why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Now that doesn't mean that if I have a a log in my eye, I should just accept error anyway. It just means if I'm going to be discerning with what you say, then then I need to be consistent and be discerning about what I believe and do. And I think really that that the main idea here, when Paul says, don't quench the spirit, don't reject prophecies. I think what Paul is trying to shepherd the people away from is a kind of view on discernment that leads to the rejection of truth rather than the reception of truth. True discernment doesn't lead to prideful skepticism. It cultivates a humble submission to the truth. True discernment doesn't produce a contempt for all other believers and teachers. Instead, it forges convictions about the truth. Really, these negative comments that Paul makes about what not to do, they reveal some of the common dangers that you can run into if you have an imbalanced view of discernment. If you try to be discerning of others without submitting in your own heart, what you'll become is a proud, bitter hypocrite. Doesn't mean you don't try to discern. Doesn't mean you don't try to recognize the truth. But when you try to discern What everybody else is saying, but you don't let the truth into your own life in congregation, that's where that leads. That's why we must seek to be discerning without becoming cynical, soured, and sarcastic about everything. See the real pitfall of discernment. Is that we allow our own pride to produce an imbalanced view of what discernment really is. Discernment doesn't lead us to trust ourselves. Discernment leads us to run back to God's word. That's why we need to be careful of these pitfalls. We do not want to genuinely resist the Spirit's work. And we also do not want to miss what God has revealed. Which is why, as we seek to be discerning, we must be humble. We must be open to the truth. Which really that that leads to the next point here. That leads to the next perspective that the Apostle Paul gives to the Thessalonian believers. You see, in addition to warning the Thessalonian Christians about the pitfalls of discernment, in verses 21 and 22, Paul instructs readers on the practice of discernment. Okay, don't do this. Don't become so critical of what everybody else says that you don't allow the truth to penetrate your own heart. But then here's what you positively must do. Which I think is interesting because sometimes when we see dangers of something, we say, well, we just won't do that. Oh, you know what? There's a danger of pride and discernment. I just won't do that. That's not an option The misuses, the imbalances, the dangers that often come with discernment, it's not an excuse to be undiscerning and just welcome any old thing into the life of the church and into your own thinking. The solution to the danger of pride in discernment is not to avoid the discipline altogether. That'd be a disaster. Got about a hundred churches up and down the east coast you could go to and see that disaster. No, we can't just avoid discernment altogether. We must practice it biblically. Which Paul says includes that we must test everything. The practice of discernment requires testing. To test it, to prove it, to determine whether it's genuine, to find out if it's good, to see if it's approved by God. Our powers of discernment are weakened. We usually like to just kind of see whatever we want to see and just say, oh that must be true. We like to turn on the cable news network that we prefer and just, ah, whatever they said must be true. Oh, you know what? My friend, he put it on Facebook. It must be true. Have you verified it? Oh, I trust him. Now discernment requires examining the legitimacy of every influence to see if it lines up with what is true. We need to test all the influences to make sure it meets the standard of excellence and truthfulness that's required by Christ. In fact, Philippians 1:9 Paul says, it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more. He wanted the church to be a loving place. He said, well, that's great. But then notice what he says next. This is a little bit unsuspect uh uh uh uh unexpected for us in our culture day. I want your church to be filled with love, which is rooted in, he goes on to say, with knowledge and discernment, so that you may approve or discern. What is excellent and so be pure and blameless in the day of Christ. Even our love requires discernment. I have to discern what the right thing to love is and what the right thing is to hate. I need to love what God loves. I need to hate what God hates. What does that require? That requires discernment on my part, even in how I show love. And I'll just tell you, just as kind of a side note, I I even this very morning warned my own church about this When it comes to the issue of love and loving our neighbor, we need to be especially discerning. Because somewhere along the way, Satan in this world has realized, wait a minute, Christians are required to love their neighbor. So whenever we want them to do something, we're just going to tell them, if you really love your neighbor, you do this. And so now we're being told, here's the medical decisions you need to make for your own body. And if you love your neighbor, you'll do this. Maybe. Here's the political policies that you have to follow. And if you don't, you don't love your neighbor. Even recently, I was told by someone professing to be a Christian what candidate I needed to vote for if I wanted to obey the Bible and what it says about loving my neighbor. That's dangerous, isn't it? It's gone so far that that that recently there is a billboard put up by the state of California saying essentially if you love your neighbor that you will help them get an abortion. What does that require? That requires discernment on our part, right? Because we do want to love our neighbor. But just because the world says this is how you love your neighbor, doesn't mean that that's exactly what we do, is it? What do we have to do? We have to be discerning. We have to test these things. How do you test something? How do you determine its genuineness? How how do you try to figure out if it's true or not? Well, one thing I would encourage you to do would be to diligently study God's word for clarity. Ask yourself, does the Bible say anything about this? For some reason we we forget about that. I have so many people that come to my office, Pastor, I've got this issue. You are not going to believe it. And of course I've I've already heard it a hundred times. I've been in ministry for a while, you know. No, no, I've I've I've yeah, I've talked to people who are going through that. And it's amazing to me how many times I'll look at church people, whole life in church, church people. And they'll bring a problem before me and I'll say, well, does the Bible say anything about this? And they'll say, Oh, I don't know. Wait a minute. You went through all the trouble of making an appointment with your pastor and you never thought to look at the Bible? Really, that's just my job is to ask what does the Bible say about that and show people what it says You know where discernment starts? Where testing starts? Okay, go back to God's Word. And then in the light of God's word, you then need to consider the implications of God's truth for all of your life. Okay, wait a minute. impact my life. If this is true, what does that mean for me and my life? And then if you really want to grow in your powers of discernment, what you need to do is say, okay, what does the Bible say? What are the implications of my life? And then am I doing that? Am I living a life of submission to God's word? When you do that, when you do that, what happens is the kind of mind renewal and the kind of conscience informing that's necessary to discern what is right versus what is wrong. And this is something we're all required to do. You say that that sounds complicated. Don't worry. God's provided his grace and his spirit so you can do this very thing. Not only can you do this very thing, Romans 12 says you must. Paul says, I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed to this world. What's that going to require? Discernment. But be ye transformed by the renewal of your mind that by testing, same word Paul uses in 1 Thessalonians. That by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. This is what we must do. And as we're testing all of these things, Paul says you test everything, and then he says, hold fast to what is good. Literally, if you translate the Greek here, there's an article there, hold fast to the good. What is the good? What is the standard might even be a loose way to translate it? It's scripture. It's scripture. We can't automatically accept or reject something based on how we feel about it. It must be examined in the light of God's truth. And then Here's what you have to do. Once you've tested something, once you've developed a conviction about something, once your conscience has been informed by Scripture on something, you know what you have to do? That or as Paul puts it, hold fast to what is good. Hold fast to it The language of Paul here hold fast hold on to Keep close. Glue yourself to it. Become inseparable from it. The picture I have in my mind when Paul uses this Greek word. Just yesterday I was at a like a church cookout They call it a barbecue, but they made burgers and hot dogs. That's a cookout. There's no barbecue there. Anyway, pray Pray for me as I shepherd my church. Anyway, at a picnic. Can we get middle ground, okay? We're at a picnic. And and one of the sweet little moms throws her kid in my arms, which hey, I'm happy to do that. My kids are all big now. I'm not carrying them around anywhere. And so mom hands me a kid and I got a kid who who who is holding on to me. And I thought to myself, that's what the Apostle Paul is telling us to do The good word that we see in Scripture, what is true, what is right before God, we need to hold on to that. And you know what that requires sometimes? If you're going to hold on to what's good, verse 22 says you have to abstain from every form of evil. Sometimes discernment requires that you repent. Sometimes discernment requires you to say, you know what? I was wrong, maybe even sinfully wrong, and I've got to turn from that, turn to the Lord, and I need to repent. And when you do that , you need to, just as hard as you're going to hold on to what is true and right from God, you must abstain or reject what is not from God. One note here in older translations, for instance in the King James, you might read, Avoid the Appearance of Evil. That's how I memorized it when I grew up in Iwanas. That's not the best translation. What Paul is not saying is you need to avoid everything that might appear evil to somebody else. That would be impossible, wouldn't it? Because as a Christian, I'm going to do something, and an unbeliever is going to say that's wicked and evil. You can't say that about marriage. You can't say that about homosexuality. That's wicked. That's evil. That's what the Bible says. So Paul is not saying, look, you need to kind of get a consensus of what people feel about what you're saying, and then make sure that you don't offend anybody. That's not what Paul's saying. What Paul is saying is anything that is evil, in whatever form it exists, whether it's a practice, whether it's an idea. Whether it's a friend, whatever form this evil influence exists in in your life, you need to abstain from it Every form of unbiblical influence, every subtle error, it must be rejected. This is the work of discernment, isn't it? One of the things about work of discernment is the work of discernment always leads you back to the truth of Christ, doesn't it? Any thought that's not accurate about Christ, any thought that's not captive to Christ, it's untrue. I believe, I'm pretty sure first John 4 was the topic of your study. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. How do you know? For many false prophets have gone out in the world. But By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus is Christ has come, that Christ is coming in the flesh is from God. A lot could be said on that, but I think it's already been said, so I won't say it. But what I'll tell you is discernment makes sure that you get Christ right And there's really nothing else that's more important than that, is there? You can have the best view on politics in the whole world. You could have the best view on culture in the whole world. You could have the best view on personal health and what you should eat and what you shouldn't eat in the whole world. You could be the most discerning person in all of those realms, but if you get Christ wrong, you're still going to go to hell. You might be voting for the right person and the healthiest person you know, but if you get Christ wrong, you'll end up paying for your sins for all of eternity. But because of what Christ did when he died on the cross, because he was raised from the dead, because he is enthroned on high, interceding for his people, because of his work. By grace through faith, we can be saved by Christ Jesus. If you know Christ today, if you know the true Christ, then you know salvation And we want to be a church not only that that knows Christ, but we want to know be a the kind of church where we are discerning of the truth, so we do not let in any error that might lead people away from Christ. That's the goal. That's the goal. It's not always easy. It wasn't easy for the Thessalonians. They lived in a confusing time that required a great deal of discernment. You know what? Same thing is true for us. There are many influences that we have to discern from private opinions. People will say all the time, God told me. Oh, uh you got a prophecy, huh? It's a public teaching? Everybody is a public teacher now on the internet. Every time you put a Facebook post out there The words of James, not many of you should be teachers, should be ringing in your ear. Which is why we need to be discerning. We can't we can't allow our our practice of discernment to become imbalanced and prideful. But instead, we must be diligent to test everything with the good standard of God's word so that we can obey what God has told us. If you take one thing away from this message, which maybe you won't take anything else but this, but if you took this one thing away from this message, I'd be happy with that. Brother, sister, not everything that claims to be from God is actually from God. It's not. And that's why these truths on discernment are so vital. If we want to be useful to the Lord, if we want to make sure that we're not duped by this world, If we want to make sure that others aren't led away from Christ, we have to be able to distinguish between truth and error. Are we praying? Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for how your truth allows us to be discerning. Lord, this is not an easy task, and so we pray for your spirit's help. First in our character, that discernment would never lead to pride. And then second, Lord, we pray for accuracy in our discernment so that we might hold to what is good and abhor what is evil. Lord, we pray all these things in Jesus' name Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.