The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're going to be in Matthew chapter 5 again this morning. Matthew chapter 5. We've been making our way slowly through the book of Matthew, and while I'm eager to hear what the Lord has to say to us through the rest of the book, it's been exciting to hear what he's been saying to us through what's been titled the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapters five through seven. In the opening twelve verses of uh Matthew chapter five, the the Beatitudes introduce us to the character of the citizens of the kingdom of those who inherit eternal life. In verses thirteen to sixteen, Jesus powerfully presents to us the uh influence of the citizens of the kingdom, reminds us that the only hope for a dark and decaying world is kingdom citizens, those who are salt. And then in uh Matthew chapter uh five verses seventeen down to twenty, uh Jesus gets into the body, uh before Jesus gets into the body of the sermon He invites us to consider the authority of the kingdom which is the Word of God, and specifically the uh Old Testament uh scriptures which are the authority uh upon which uh everything that he says is is really uh built and rests. And uh now, beginning uh here in uh verse twenty-one, uh, he brings us to what we could call the righteousness of the kingdom. The righteousness of the kingdom. Back in verse 20. of uh chapter five, we're given the the frightening warning that the kind of righteousness that we must possess must exceed that of the scribes and Pharisees. And then in the verses that follow, Jesus describes just what that looks like. What does it look like to have a righteousness that surpasses the scribes? and the Pharisees. And it's important to make clear that this is not a a righteousness that earns us the kingdom of of heaven, uh or entrance into the kingdom of heaven, but it's rather a righteousness that demonstrates that we are part of the kingdom of heaven. And uh it's important to make that distinction distinction. I like what uh JC Ryle said of this passage. He said this He says, Let us beware of supposing that the gospel has lowered the standard of personal holiness, and that the Christian is not intended to be as strict and careful about his daily life as the Jewish person was. This is an immense mistake, but one that is sadly very common. So far from this being the case, the sanctification of the New Testament saint ought to exceed that of the person who has nothing but the Old Testament for a guide The more light we have, the more we ought to love God. The more clearly we see our own, uh the more clearly we see ourselves. Uh, we should see the full forgiveness in Jesus Christ. The more heartily ought we to work for his glory. We know what it costs to redeem us far better than the Old Testament saints did. We have read what happened in Gethsemane on Calvary, and they only saw it dimly and indistinctly as a thing yet to come. May we never forget our obligations. The Christian who is content with the low standard of personal holiness has got much to learn. Has got much to learn. And Jesus does much to instruct us here in the Sermon on the Mount. Let's look at Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 21. Listen to what he says. It says, you have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not commit murder, and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing? Shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. And whoever says you fool shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell Therefore, if you are presenting your offering at the altar and there, remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brethren, then come and present your offering. Make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you are with them on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge And the judge to the officer, and you be thrown into prison. Truly I say to you, you will not come out of there until you have paid up the last cent. Uh let's bow for a word of prayer Father, we uh I pray that uh you would instruct us as we uh look into your word. Uh Father, I pray that uh you would convict us, challenge us. Father, that you would uh help us to conform ourselves to your standard. Uh Father, we uh pray that uh you would use my words to be a blessing to your people this morning. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. In the text before us, Jesus gets to the heart of murder. To the heart of murder. And sadly, murder is something that we're all too familiar with in a city like Baltimore. Just last year in 2013, Baltimore witnessed a rise of street shootings, even though in other cities there was a trend of homicides dropping. You know, Baltimore was rising. According to one report, nearly all large U. S. cities, including Detroit, New Orleans, Cleveland, and Oakland, recorded fewer murders in 2013 than Baltimore. And uh the Baltimore Sun reported that the number of per capita murders in Baltimore in 2012 ranks sixth in the country. Strix in the country, uh among cities with a hundred thousand people or more. We're in the top ten. Uh it's not the kind of list you want to be the in the top ten of, right? And the incidents range from uh the totally expected, you know, like drug-related kind of crimes to the totally unexpected, uh like a a shooting at a nail salon. or a a shock trauma assistant who was used as a as a human shield as a at a bus stop earlier uh this year. Uh there's really this utter disregard for life that's exhibited across the the city and as we all know the deceased person's not the only victim. The deceased person isn't the only victim. The victimized include their friends, their families, their children. There's this multiplied grief And uh pain that every murder brings along with it. And uh once you take the life of somebody, there's nothing you can do to bring it back, right? I mean it's it's over. It's gone. If a a person steals a a phone, a car, you know, items can be replaced, they can be restored, uh, but no one can bring a a life back once the the knife has been plunged or the trigger's been pulled. Um there's nothing that you can do to bring the the life back. But there are people who are willing to snuff out another person's life for a car, for a few dollars, or for a reputation. People are willing to take life. Earlier this this year a man was shot because he complained that his neighbor's music was too loud. I mean that's the kind of depth that uh a lot of people go to. And human life is worth so much more than that, isn't it? In Genesis chapter 1 verse 26, the scriptures let us know that man was created in the image of God. We've been created in the image of God. Genesis 1. 26 says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image. According to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps along the earth. Every person on this planet, no matter how unimportant or insignificant they may seem, to us, their value is inestimable. Right? Their value is inestimable. Um and it's not the value that any of us have earned or a value that any of us deserve, but it's a value that's been bestowed on us by our Creator. We derive our value from the one whose image we're created in. And uh because we're created in the image of God, our lives have a value that you can't put a price tag on. And that's why Mark chapter 8 and verses 36 to 37, it says, For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what will a man give in exchange for his soul? If you mashed all of the world's goods together, it wouldn't be worth the price of your soul, right? So the acts of violence that men are willing to inflict on others, they really tell us much more than just about what they think about other people. They really tell us what they think about the image of God. Because the wounds that they inflict on others are actually a wound that they inflict on those that bear the image of God. Has a lot to say about what they think about God. And it was for this reason that God instituted capital punishment in uh Genesis uh chapter nine, verse six, not because of the small value of human life, but because of the great value. In Genesis 9, 6 it says, Whoever sheds man's blood by man his blood shall be shed. Why? For he was created in the image of God. For in the image of God he made man That's why God places that kind of price tag on taking the life of others. And God ordained that life should be taken for life because of the image of God that men bear. And the Jewish audience That would have heard Jesus speak these words understood that. They understood the command, thou shalt not murder. Ever since childhood they would have known that command, thou shalt not murder. In uh Matthew chapter uh 10 if you want to flip over there real quick. Jesus spoke to a rich young man who desired to inherit eternal life. And uh look at what he says over in uh Matthew chapter ten starting at uh verse nineteen, look what he says here. Actually it's in Mark chapter ten, I'm sorry. Full board of Mark chapter ten Look at Mark chapter 10, verse 17. It says, As he was setting out on a journey, a man ran up to him and knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. Basically he's trying to stop him in his tracks and saying, you know, do you really recognize who you're talking to here, right? Uh because he is good and he was God, but Here he says, No one's good except God alone. Verse 19, you know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not bear false witness, do not defraud, honor your father or mother. And he said to him, Teacher, I've kept all these things from my youth up. He says, I've kept all these things. I've known these things since I was a child. You know, I've known the commandments. Don't murder, don't steal, don't commit adultery. Every Jewish boy knows that. Would have been raised with the the knowledge of the the Ten Commandments or literally the the Ten Words as it's called in uh in Hebrew. Uh the Ten Commandments were revered, they held a a place of supreme honor uh for the Jewish people. Uh these were the only commands that The children of Israel actually heard directly from the mouth of God. In Exodus chapter twenty, verses eighteen and nineteen it says all the people perceived the thunder, the lightning, flashes, sound of the trumpet, the mountain smoking. When the people saw it, they trembled and stood at a distance. Then they said to Moses, Speak to us yourself, and we will listen, but let not God speak to us, or we will die. The children of Israel surrounding this Mount Sinai Heard the voice of God thundering from the mountain, the Ten Commandments, the Ten Words they called him. The people heard the voice of God and they said, Moses, that's That's enough. We've heard enough of God's voice. Can you just talk to us? We'll hear it from you. We don't need to hear it from God with all the thunder and lightning and everything else. We'll listen to you, Moses. We'll listen to you. We'll pay attention. And these were the only words that they actually heard from the voice of God Himself. These were also the only commands that were written on the two tablets of stone That uh Moses brought down from Mount Sinai. And uh Exodus chapter 34, 28, uh Deuteronomy 10, verse 4 lets us know that those were the words that were written on these two tablets of stone And when Jesus made reference to the law, this is immediately what would have come to mind for the Jewish audience that he was talking to. Uh they heard this law taught, explained from their youth, they would have considered themselves free of breaking it. That's why when Jesus questioned this uh rich young man about the the laws that he must keep, he he immediately knew where to go to, right? He immediately knew where to go to. But the the thing is is that uh He had a superficial understanding of what it meant to keep the law. He had a superficial understanding of what it meant. And uh In Matthew chapter five, as Jesus starts to to cover verses twenty one all the way down to uh to forty eight He covers what's known as the six antithetical statements that Jesus makes throughout this section. It's important that we understand what he's opposing because he says, You have heard what I say unto you. What is he contradicting here? What is he opposing And there's some commentators that would say that, well, what Jesus is actually opposing is the Old Testament law, which is absolutely ridiculous considering what he's just said, right? Back in verse 17, he says, Do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. Why would Jesus now turn around and say, well, forget about that Old Testament law? Don't worry about those commands. You know, I've come to do away with that and institute something different. It'll be totally totally uh opposite of what Jesus was trying to do. Another reason we should understand that Jesus is not opposing the scriptures is because when you examine the other statements There are ideas that are actually added to the quotations of the Old Testament. For example, if you look in Matthew chapter 5, verse 43 This is what he says here. He says, Ye have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor. You know what we'll find that in the Old Testament. You shall love your neighbor. And then it adds this, and hate your enemy. And what it shows us is that uh the the people that taught the law were actually adding to the law. They they were teaching the law, but they were adding their own interpretations onto it, they're adding their own uh rituals and restrictions and different things onto it. If you remember in uh Luke chapter 10, Jesus was talking to a lawyer, uh, and he was even confused about what it meant to be a neighbor. Remember that? He says, you know, uh you should love your neighbors. He says, Well, who is my neighbor? They were confused about what the law meant. They were confused about what the proper application of it was. And this is a professional student of the scripture. You know, the Lord is confused about the Old Testament law. There's another clue that helps us understand that Jesus is not opposing the Old Testament and is found in verse 21. Listen to what it says again. He says, You have heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit adultery. Interesting way that he introduces that there. Usually when Jesus refers to the scriptures, what does he say? He says, it is written. It is written. Back in Matthew chapter 4, he says it three times when he's combating Satan. It is written, it is written, it is written. Throughout the book of Matthew, Matthew 11, 10, Matthew 21, 13, Matthew 26 24 Matthew 26 31 Jesus continues to use the same phrase, it is written, it is written. What Jesus is opposing is not the law itself. What Jesus is opposing is the superficial understanding that was taught by the scribes and the Pharisees. If Jesus was opposing the law We'd expect him to say something like, You've heard it said, you shall not commit it, uh commit murder. But I say to you, commit murder, right? If he was opposing the law What he's opposing here is their their superficial understanding and interpretation of what the law is. And that's point number one. Reject he's teaching them to reject the superficial interpretation of the law. He says you've heard it You've heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit murder, and whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court, and that's where they stopped. That's where they stopped. They stopped there as the intent of the law is just that we shouldn't commit physical murder And that was all that they understood the law to mean. The scribes and Pharisees taught that you were guilty of breaking God's law if you followed through with the physical act of murder and the person who violated the physical act. would be dealt with by the court. If it could be proven that it wasn't an accident, uh there was actually a allowance that was made like in uh Deuteronomy chapter nineteen that if uh you killed somebody by accident that there was a place that you can run to for refuge, you know, to remain safe. In the same way a person wasn't guilty of murder if he was involved in warfare, there was allowance for that. If a person was engaged in self-defense, trying to protect himself, protect his family, there was allowance for that. Uh the judicial system was uh also given the power to execute people. When they executed people, they weren't com uh committing murder in that case, they weren't guilty of murder. Uh but when the Bible says, Thou shalt not kill, in Exodus chapter 20, it's talking about A planned, plotted, premeditated intent to to kill somebody, right? Planned, premeditated murder. It's not something that's accidental. In uh Exodus chapter twenty-one Verse 14 it says, If however man acts presumptuously toward his neighbor, so as to kill him craftily, you are to take him even from my altar that he may die. If he was convicted of of murder, it didn't matter where he was, didn't matter what he was engaged in. He could be at the altar itself. You s you take him from the altar and you put him to death. That was the the command. He was to be executed. And what the scribes and Pharisees understood about physical murder was right, that there was a command against those that were uh uh committing physical murder. It was right, but it didn't go far enough. That was the problem. It didn't go far enough. And and that's uh uh really true when when you think about uh the way that they thought about all of these these laws. And this is what uh Jesus points out in verse twenty-two when he says, But I say to you, he points him to a superior interpretation of the law. We're to reject the superficial interpretation and receive the superior interpretation of the the law. Look at verse 22 again. It says, But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court, and whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. And whoever says, You fool, shall be guilty enough to go into the fairy hell. And it's it's important to understand what our Lord does say and what he doesn't say. Okay? He does not say that anger is as bad as murder. He doesn't say that. Or that the consequences of anger are the same as murder. He doesn't say that. What he does say is that the angry person is as guilty as the murderer. That's what he says. The angry person is as guilty as the murderer. The person who is angry is no less guilty than the murderer is. He has not committed the same sin, but he's no less guilty of sin. He's no less guilty of murder. And uh the word for anger that's used here is a word or gizzo. It's uh more than a minor frustration, irritation. Uh the word that's used here for uh for anger it's this this kind of intense fury. a seething kind of rage. Uh ancient writers often made a distinction between the the noun form of this word and uh another Greek word that was used for for anger. uh which could be translated as a as a temper. Um ancient writer said this, uh origin said uh thumaath, which is the other word for that's used for for temper, is anger rising in a vapor and burning up, while orge is yearning for revenge. Yearning for revenge. Uh Jerome said, Thumas is a displeasure that ferments in the win in the mind, but when it subsides, orge is that which longs for revenge and desires to injure the one thought to have caused him harm. And what Jesus says is that the the true and superior interpretation of the command against murder is that if you are angry with your brother, you have broken the the command not to murder. You've broken that law. And the the King James and New King James actually add uh if you're angry with your brother without a cause. Uh but the the oldest uh and most reliable manuscripts don't even include that exception. It's just if you're angry with your brother. If you're angry with your brother. And uh the Bible does make allowance for righteous anger. In uh Ephesians chapter uh four, verse twenty-six. It recognizes the possibility of being angry without sinning. If you want to flip over there, Ephesians chapter 4 and uh verse 26. It says over here to be angry and yet do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your your anger. And uh talks about the possibility of uh being angry without sinning, you know, that there's uh actually a righteous indignation that you can be righteously angry. Uh but the truth is is that we have very little experience with being righteously angry, right? Very little experience with that. We have way too much experience with being sinfully angry. And uh even righteous anger has to be dealt with quickly or else it becomes sinful, right? And that's what Paul says and and deals with. He says, you know, before the sun goes down, and that doesn't mean like, you know, if I get angry first thing in the morning I've got a whole day to kind of, you know, work it out. You know, what he's what he's actually saying is, you know, deal with it promptly, deal with it quickly. You know, if you're angry with somebody, you deal with it. You know, if there's a good reason to be angry with somebody, you deal with it immediately. It's just another way to say take care of it. But Jesus, back in Matthew chapter 5, he's not addressing righteous anger, he's addressing an anger that makes you guilty. You're guilty. You're guilty of murder if you have this kind of of anger. This is an anger that's not to be tolerated at all. And if you're anger like this, you are guilty as the murderer. And when he says you shall be guilty before the court, uh what does he mean by that? What does he mean by being guilty uh before the court? If a if a Jewish court convicted A person of murder according to Old Testament law, what was supposed to happen? Supposed to die, right? Supposed to die. The angry person Jesus is saying is worthy of death. That's what he's saying. An angry person is worthy of death. And the same would be true for the person who expresses his anger verbally. Back in uh Matthew chapter five again. It says, uh but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. Whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing in the the King James or uh New King James, you'll find it says uh Rakai This was a hateful expression. It was an insult. Insulting the intelligence of somebody else. It was an Aramaic word that probably meant you empty head. You know, you idiot, you stupid idiot. It's a common word that was used in the Talmud to express contempt. And uh the intent behind using this word wasn't just to jest. It was it was intended to wound somebody. You know, I'm saying this not because it's like, oh you idiot, you know, whatever. It's like, you stupid idiot. It's like your your intent is to hurt somebody with the words that you use. And it's almost like you know, if if I could get my hands on you, I would, right? You know, I'm gonna restrain myself by just you know blurting out what I want to say, but if if I could just put my hands around your neck. And that's really the heart of it. It's a way to get back at somebody without laying a hand on them. And the the person who does this Jesus goes on to say it's guilty before the Supreme Court. It's uh the word for the the Sanhedrin, which was the highest Jewish court in the nation at the time. And if the highest U. S. court was to convict the murderer, what it what what would the penalty be? Again, it's the same thing. It's death. Saying the person who does this is worthy of death. Under the uh the system of of Rome, they weren't able to actually carry forth with uh you know putting people to death, uh, but they could recommend it They definitely recommended it. In uh John chapter 19 and in verse 7, uh they recommended it for Jesus Christ. They said, according to our law, our law, he should die. You know, if he gave us the ability to kill him, we put him to death ourselves. But according to our law, he should die. And then there's this uh Final expression of anger, it's the term fool, moras, uh where we get our English moron from. And uh there's many examples from Christ and and others that demonstrate a righteous use of the word uh moras. Um Over in Matthew chapter 7. If you want to flip over there in Matthew chapter 7, verse 26. Listen what Jesus says. Jesus says in uh Matthew chapter Seven about those that that build their house on the sand. Look at what it says here. It says, Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. Actually uses the same word there. Over in uh Matthew chapter uh twenty-three, uh Jesus spoke to the to the Pharisees there. And he called them in verse 17. Actually I started verse 16. It says, Woe to you blind guides, who say, whoever swears by the temple, that is nothing, but whoever swears by the gold of the temple is obligated. You fools and blind men, which is more important, the gold or the temple that sanctified the gold? Here you have uh Christ using the same word. Uh over in uh Matthew chapter 5, actually I think it's uh later on. Uh Christ uh uh I think it's Matthew chapter 26 is where it's actually found. Uh but Christ talks about the the parable of the ten virgins. Actually chapter 25. Talks about the parable of the uh the ten virgins. Uh five were wives, five were foolish. The five that were foolish were those that didn't prepare themselves for uh eternal life. They weren't prepared uh when the master came back, and he calls them fools. Foolish And here you have uh Jesus calling people fools. And uh Psalm 14, verse 1, it says, the fool says in his heart, there is no God, right? The Bible calls people fools. So it's like, well, what is Jesus saying here that we shouldn't call people fools, right? Like what's the what's the right way to use this and the wrong way to use this? The foolish person in the Old Testament was uh one who knew better but turned away from knowledge. It's not more it's not just a lack of knowledge, it's uh a charge of rebellion, wickedness. And this is actually how Christ used it so often. And uh when you think about the difference between the way Christ called people fools And the way that we often call people fools, there's a difference. There's a righteous way to use this and an unrighteous way to use this. In one way, it just states it as a fact. When Christ called people fools, it was just true, right? It's just true. Often what we state is opinion. When uh Christ talked about people being fools, it was like a judgment, talking about a judgment to come. Often when we call people fools, it's kind of more related to a desire, something that we we we kind of wish on them. When Christ called people fools, there was actually compassion that was connected with it. When we call people fools, often it's in anger. One way wishes that it were different than it were. You know, like when he's talking about the the the fool that you know stores up treasures for himself on earth but is not rich towards God, he calls him a fool. It's like, you know, why wouldn't you prepare yourself for what's to come? There's this Kind of compassion and wishing it were different than it were. Often when we call people fools, we say it in a way that we wish it were true of them There's a vast difference between somebody between telling somebody, as a fool who rejects God, you're on your way to hell, right? You can say that in honesty. You're on your way to hell. There's a difference between saying to somebody, you're on your way to hell and go to hell. Right? It's just a difference. There's a difference between saying to telling somebody that that if you continue in the life that you're living, that you will be damned by God. You will be judged by God. There's another way in saying, God damn you, right? It's a difference. One saying that I wish it wasn't true. The other saying, I wish it were true. The other is saying, this is what I wish for you. We don't wish hell on anyone. Hell is just. Damnation is right. It's just, but it's not what we desire for anybody. We don't desire that on anyone. And those who seethe an anger against others, with this heart of anger against them, content and delighted to call them fools, you fool, you stupid idiot. Understanding the meaning behind this word that fools were often those that are separated from God, and you're content to just leave them there? The ones who are really in danger of hell isn't the person that you're talking to, it's the person who's given that kind of condemnation, right? The person who's saying go to hell is more in danger of hell himself. Jesus says again back in Matthew chapter 5. He says, whoever says you fool shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell. Listen to this one description of what Jesus was speaking of when he used this word for hell, the fiery hell. The phrase translated hellfire or fiery hell is literally gehenna of fire. or fire of Gehenna. Jesus frequently used this familiar term to refer to this place of punishment. Originally the the term referred to the valley of Hinnam Uh Gay means valley, and henam means lamentation. The valley of lamentation is what Gehenem was, and they uh uh said it in the the form Gehenna. That's how they uh they they translate it there This valley in the south of Jerusalem was infamous for the human sacrifices that were performed there. In the Valley of Hinnam, they actually offered child sacrifice. There was a god named Moloch, who they used to worship a false god, deity there. And uh one of the uh the stories about this god is that he was they made an idol out of metal. And they they burned this idol up until it was like red hot. You know, the arms were kind of outstretched like this. And after this this you know molten image was kind of burned up until it was red hot, they placed their children on the arms. Like giving their their their child to this you know this this false god here. When Josiah uh came on the scene, uh this is during the the reign of uh Manasseh that this actually happened, and uh when Josiah abolished these sacrifices He determined that he was going to defile this valley of Hinnem, you know, making it so defiled that nobody would want to go there anymore to offer up any sacrifices to this false god. You can find that in uh Second Kings chapter twenty three and verse ten. He made it so bad that nobody would want to return there. He he made it the receptacle for carcasses, you know, for dead people, criminals. You know, he tossed them over into this valley of of henem. So nobody would want to go back there to try to offer up uh sacrifice again. Uh the prophet Jeremiah had proclaimed God's judgment over this area. He threatened that the valley would become known as the Valley of Slaughter, that birds would feed on the exposed corpses of those struck down by enemy swords. In Jeremiah 17, 32, and it was also apparently the place on the outskirts of Jerusalem that was described by Isaiah. Flip back to Isaiah real quick. Isaiah chapter 66. Look at verse twenty-four. Right at the end of uh Isaiah It says, Then they will go forth and look on the corpses of the men who have transgressed against me, for their worm will not die, and their fire will not be quenched. And they will be an abhorrence to all mankind. This is a description of Gehenna, the valley of Hinnam. And uh later Jewish and Christian writers use this imagery of this valley that was cursed. uh that was defiled, uh that would often have a uh a fire that just continually burned there as the picture of eternal punishment This is the picture that they had in their their mind. And as early as the second century B. C. , there's a book named Enoch, which described the place of eternal punishment as the accursed valley. uh valley deep and burning with fire where the wicked are kept in heavy iron fetters. Uh one Jewish writer in the thirteenth century says that uh there was a fire that was kept constantly burning, always in the valley of of Hinnam, to consume the filth in the carcasses. And uh Jesus described Gehenna as a blazing furnace where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And he used it uh interchangeably with the the word for eternal fire. Eternal fire, which is the the place of of judgment, where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. And Jesus says that those who are happy to wish others to a place like this, out of anger and a desire for their harm Are themselves the ones that are in danger of going to a place like this. And this was vastly different from what the scribes and the Pharisees would have taught about the command, thou shalt not murder. You know, for for them, it's like as long as you don't do the physical act, you're safe. You know, you can wish all that you want on people. You can wish them to hell all you want, as long as you don't physically do anything to get them there. You can wish it on them all you want. And they thought of themselves as free from guilt because they never picked up a knife or another instrument of death to end another person's life, but they were at the same time assassins at heart. And we know from what we find in the gospel accounts that they plotted and planned for both the murder of Lazarus and Christ. You know, after Lazarus was raised from the dead and everybody was believing on Christ, they said, we've got to put this guy to death, too. You know, he died before. Kill him again. You know, too many people are believing in Jesus because of him. Kill him again. John chapter twelve, verse ten and eleven, but the chief priests planned to put Lazarus to death, because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and were believing in Jesus. You can't have that. Put him to death again. And then with Jesus in John chapter eleven, verse fifty-three, it says, So from that day on, after he raised Lazarus from the dead, they planned together to kill him. Got to get rid of this guy. They were not the final instruments that were used to drive the nails and pierce the side, but if words could kill, if words could kill, they would have put him to death over and over again, right? Even while he was on the cross in Matthew chapter 27, those who were passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads. In the same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking him. You are going to destroy the temple, rebuild it in three days. Shave yourself now. If you're the Son of God, come down from the cross. Mocking Him, accusing him. You fool, you idiot, racca. You're getting what you deserve. It's basically what the scribes and Pharisees were saying. Jesus hung there on the cross. And when we have the same kind of attitude towards others, this is the kind of company that we've joined. When words like these come from our mouths, this is the kind of company that we're keeping. And if this is what characterizes our lives, we need to do some serious examination of our own hearts, right? In 1 John 3, verse 15, it says, Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer. You're a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. What Jesus does is he goes so much further than just the external, doesn't he? So much more than just the physical act of murder. He says, if this is what's residing in your heart. If this is how you think about others, how you treat others, if this is the kind of attitude that you have towards other people, you are guilty. And you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. Scribes and Pharisees thought they were clean because their hands were clean. Jesus later says, you woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous and say, if we had been living in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partners with them in shedding the blood of the prophets. So you testify against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murder the prophets. Fill up then the measure of the guilt of your fathers. Just like your fathers did, you're doing the same thing today. There are murderers at heart. Matthew chapter 15, 19 says, for out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies. And the kingdom of heaven belongs to those who are purified, right? Purified. God examines us. God examines us. 1 Samuel 16, verse 7. The Lord said to Samuel, Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him, for God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. First Kings chapter 8, 39. Talks about God. It says your dwelling place is in heaven. You forgive and act and render to each according to all his ways. Heart you know, for you alone know the hearts of all the sons of men. In uh 2 Chronicles 69 it says, For the eyes of the Lord move to and fro throughout the earth. that he may strongly support those whose heart is completely his. God's looking at the heart. He's looking at the heart John Calvin in his institute said this. He says, if if some king by edict forbids fornication, murder, or theft, I admit that a man who does not commit such acts will not be bound by the penalty. That is because the earthly lawgiver's jurisdiction extends only to the outward political order, but God whose eye nothing escapes And who is concerned not so much with the outward appearance as with purity of heart, forbids not only fornication, murder, and theft, but lust, anger, hatred, coveting, and deceit For since he is a spiritual lawgiver, he speaks not less to the soul than he does to the body. God knows what we're doing inside of our minds. And uh we're just as guilty of murder. If we contain it in our hearts as if we let it out. And uh we're not going to be able to finish the rest of this today, because there's a lot more to say. Because when Jesus talks about not murdering, he talks about having the opposite attitude, which is not to seek harm for your brother, but it's to seek the good. It's not to be willing to be at odds with your brother, but it's to seek reconciliation. The command of not murdering Actually, if you read throughout the rest of the verse, look at uh verse uh 23. Therefore, if you're presenting your offering at the altar in there, remember that your brother has something against you. This isn't even you having something against your brother. You realize that your brother has something against you. Leave the offering and go be reconciled. The spirit of this command to not murder is that I want to be reconciled. I want to be at peace. with my brothers. Whatever I can do to be at peace with my brothers, that's what I want to do, to do the opposite. Instead of being at odds, I want to be in union with my brothers. Verse 25, make friends quickly with your opponent at law while you're on the while you're with them on the way, so that your opponent may not hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the officer, you'd be thrown into prison. He's saying not only to to make things right with your brothers, make things right with your enemies. Try to reconcile with your enemies if you can. As much as lies within you, be at peace with all men. That's what the command of not murdering the spirit of it is intending. And there's uh I just want to close with this five principles that uh MacArthur offers on on just this this whole section uh in the Sermon on a Mount. Uh listen to this. I thought this was helpful. So this five basic principles summarize the central thrust of Matthew 5, 21 to 48. The first principle is that the spirit of the law is more important than the letter. The law was not given as a mechanical set of rules by which men in their own power could govern their own their outward living. It was given as a guide to the type of character God requires. Second principle is that the law is positive as well as negative. Its purpose not only is to prevent both inner and outward sin, but to promote both inner and outward righteousness. It's not just to tell you what not to do. It's also to instruct you on what you should be doing, right? The third principle is that the law is not an end in itself. Its deeper purpose goes beyond the purifying lives of God's people. Its supreme purpose is to glorify God Himself. Fourth principle is that God alone is qualified to judge men, because he alone can judge men's hearts. And that's what we find here in this text, right? Because God is seeing the heart. What's going on inside the heart? Only the Creator has the right and the ability to judge the deepest inner workings of his creatures. And the fifth principle that he adds is this, is that every human being is commanded to live up to the perfect divine standard. to which the law points, because that command is impossible for man to fulfill. God himself has provided fulfillment through his Son Jesus Christ. And aren't we thankful for that? Because we know that we all fall short of it. We all fall short of this command, right? All of us. But I'd add the sixth principle, which is this. Is that the kind of righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees or what believers will be marked by? We're not only forgiven by Christ and justified, we're also transformed into his image so that we can actually live a kind of life that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, and we'll learn more about that next time we're together. As uh as you think about um this this passage and uh what it has to say to you, I just ask you to examine your hearts. Examine your hearts. I mean the the way that we can get upset about, you know, uh the murders that that take place uh in our city and and what we see going around, the the violence. Are we are we like secret assassins? You know, do we harbor bitterness in our hearts towards other people? Is there anybody here that's happy to be unreconciled with somebody else within the church? Hey, I don't I don't really talk to them, but that's okay with me. This is the kind of sin that the Christ is trying to address here. That we can't be content to live at odds with others. That we can't be content to just let people go and know that people have something against us and not go towards them. The command here, the positive command, is to be reconciled with one another. And it's something that I'm concerned about here at our church. It's something that Christ is concerned about, that we would be one. And that the world would know that we are Christians because of the love that we have towards one another. That's how we should be known. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh I thank you for uh this text, and uh we know that it has uh much more to say. To us, we pray that you would uh speak to us, that you would convict our hearts, Lord, challenge us. And Father, remind us of uh what we uh just sang not too long ago, that uh uh the power to obey your commands does not come from us. Father, if it could come from us, Lord, there would be no need for Savior. There would be no need for regeneration. But Father, it's uh The commands that you give, you also provide the power to obey them. And uh Father, I pray that uh you would help us uh as a part of your body, as a part of your bride, to be uh redeemed uh people uh that are actually living out transformed lives. In Jesus praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files