The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. It's definitely appropriate that we uh consider Jesus as the Lamb of God on a Christmas Sunday because it's a reminder that Jesus was not born to live, but he was born to what? He was born to die. And he was intended to be that sacrifice, to give his life up as a sacrifice for sins from the moment he was brought into this world. From the moment Jesus was uh brought into this world, he was meant to be that sacrifice. He was meant to be that sacrificial lamb. If you can remember, uh during uh the Passover, which is when the when Jesus was actually crucified during the the time of of Passover. Uh 1 Corinthians uh chapter 5 verse 7 uh lets us know that Jesus himself was our Passover Lamb. And the Passover lamb was a sacrifice that was pointing to him. Jesus was that Passover lamb. Jesus was that sacrificial lamb. In 1 Corinthians 5. 7, it says, Christ our Passover has been sacrificed. Jesus is the sacrifice. And he was intended to be that Passover sacrifice from the very beginning. It was never meant for him to come and stay among us. It was meant for him to come and die. Just to illustrate that, back in Exodus chapter 12, right before the very first Passover , There were some special instructions regarding that first Passover lamb, Exodus chapter 12, starting at verse 3, God speaks to Moses. And listen to what he says in Exodus chapter 12 and verse 3. He says, speak to all the congregation of Israel saying on the tenth of this month, there are each one to take a lamb for themselves, according to their father's households, a lamb for each household Now, if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his neighbor nearest to his house are to take one according to the number of persons in them. According to what each man should eat, you are to divide the lamb. Your lamb shall be an unblemished male, unblemished, a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats. You shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. Then the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel is to kill it at twilight. The children of Israel were instructed to take in a lamb. To keep it from the 10th to the 14th of that first month. Just enough time for the family to get to get used to having this lamb around. They had to feed it. They had to care for it. Maybe the children even began to think about this lamb as a pet. But at the end of those four days, that same lamb would be slaughtered. And why? Because that's what he was intended for. That lamb came to die. And as Mary held in her arms Jesus Christ, who was the Lamb of God, that precious new newborn baby, were quickly reminded that he came to die. And that was the plan from the very beginning. He was brought into this world so that he could be offered up as a sacrifice, as the Passover lamb and the sacrifice for our sins. And there's Several places in the the Christmas story itself where we're given hints that death closely followed after this Christmas child For example, back in Matthew chapter 2, right after the Magi from the East come to present their gifts to Jesus, in Matthew chapter 2 and verse 13 It says Now when they had gone, behold an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, and said, Get up, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to destroy him. That's part of the Christmas story. That Herod would search for the child in order to destroy him Then later on in verse sixteen of Matthew chapter two, it says, Then when Herod saw that he had been tricked by the Magi, he became very enraged and sent and slew all the male children who were in Bethlehem and all its vicinity. From two years old and under, according to the time which had been determined from the Magi. Who in their right mind launches a military attack against an infant? But this is what you have in the Christmas story. Herod was so terrified that there was one who was born as king that he would slaughter all the male children two years and younger. Jesus was that kind of threat, and death would closely follow behind this Christmas child. Just last week we looked at uh Luke chapter 2, where Joseph and Mary present their infant Jesus in the temple in Jerusalem. They're stopped by a man named Simeon, who is informed by the Holy Spirit in Luke chapter 2 and verse 26 that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And when he picks up this little infant in his arms, he tells Mary in Luke chapter 2 and verse 34, he says, Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel. And for a sign to be opposed, and a sword will pierce even your own soul. What kind of Christmas blessing is that? A sword is going to pierce your soul, Mary. This child is meant for the fall and the rise of many in Israel. What kind of Christmas blessing is that? You're not going to find that one on a Hallmark card, right? You know, that this child will pierce your soul. Merry Christmas, right? That's not what you're likely to find on a card, but but this is exactly what the Christmas story tells us. This child would be for the fall and the rise of many, and this child would eventually pierce Mary's soul as she saw her child rejected. His birth was surrounded by the foreshadowing of death. Even his name, Jesus, indicated that he would save his people from their sins. That's what the name Jesus meant, right? And the shadow of death hangs over that name, Jesus, because how would he save his people from their sins? It would be by giving up his life. That's how his people would be saved from the very beginning. Mark chapter 10 verse 45 puts it this way, for even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. That's why Jesus came. He came to be a ransom, to give his life up, so that we might have life. So when I thought about what message I wanted to give for Christmas Sunday, I didn't see any need to to leave the passage that we're already considering in uh Matthew chapter 27 and the crucifixion of of Jesus Christ. So uh if you would turn With me in your in the copy of God's word to Matthew chapter 27, and we'll begin at verse 33. Matthew chapter 27, beginning at verse 33. Why don't you follow with me as I read? It says, and when they came to a place called Golgotha, which means place of a skull, they gave him wine to drink mixed with gall, and after tasting it he was unwilling to drink And when they had crucified him, they divided up his garments among themselves by casting lots. And sitting down they began to keep watch over him there. And above his head they put up the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. At that time, two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left, and those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads and saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days. Save yourself if you are the Son of God. Come down from the cross. In the same way, the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking him and saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel. Let him now come down from the cross and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now, if he delights in him. For he said, I am the Son of God. The robbers who had been crucified with him were also insulting him with the same words. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, and Father, we're grateful for the child of Christmas, and we're grateful for the cross that he came. Father, that uh Jesus Christ uh came to be that sacrificial lamb for us, the one who stood in our place, the one who substituted for us. And Father, even during this season of the year, we remember that. And we bring you honor and glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. As I pointed out last time we were uh together in this passage, uh. the way that Matthew portrays the crucifixion is probably not like the way that most of us would have recorded the events of the crucifixion. Verse 35 simply puts it this way, and when they had crucified him, and then Matthew goes on to talk about how the soldiers divided up his garments. There's more space in the narrative that's given to what the soldiers did with his articles of clothing that Jesus was wearing than the actual details of the crucifixion itself. And after all the buildup to the crucifixion, you think that Matthew would provide just a little bit more detail, right? I mean, when they had crucified him, is that all you can say, Matthew? I mean, we've been hearing about this crucifixion since chapter 16. And now you finally get to it in chapter 27, and you just say, and when he was crucified. Where are the details about the pain, about the agony, about the torture of the cross? Even our English language has a word that's based on the agony of the cross. Ever heard the word excruciating? It comes from a Latin word that means cross. The most severe and intense kind of pain was known to happen at the cross. The pain of the cross was excruciating, but yet there's not one word for pain that's mentioned in this entire section. Why is that? It's because the focus for Matthew was not about the pain that Jesus endured, but it was about the indignity that Jesus suffered. Jesus suffered greatly, and there's many places in Scripture that we can turn to to speak about the sufferings of Jesus Christ. In fact, the suffering was so much a part of his death that sometimes the biblical authors will just say, and he suffered. To refer to his death. Instead of saying that Jesus died, they'll just say, and he suffered. For example, in Luke chapter 24 and verse 46, it says, Thus it is written, that the Christ would suffer. And rise again from the dead. I mean what happened to the death? He just skipped over the death. No, when I said suffering, I meant his death. He suffered, and he is to rise again. His death was so characterized by suffering that instead of saying Christ died and rose, it says he suffered and rose. Acts 17, 3, Christ had to suffer and rise again Acts twenty-six twenty-three that by reason of his resurrection from the dead, Christ was to suffer, and that by r reason of his resurrection from the dead, he would be the first to proclaim light. And then in 1 Peter 11 it speaks of the sufferings of Christ and the glories to follow. Jesus wasn't just put to death. Jesus was tortured to death. And crucifixion was used as a means to drag out the crucifixion and make the suffering as painful as it could possibly be. Before his life finally left him. But like I mentioned, Matthew doesn't focus on the pain. He doesn't focus on the severity. Rather, he focuses on the indignity of it. This is more than just a man being tortured. This is a king who is being dishonored. This is a king who's being rejected. It's not just about the pain. The soldiers strip him of his dignity when they divide his clothing among themselves. The last possession that Jesus had, we'll take that from you too. We'll rob you of your dignity as you stand there naked on the cross. We'll rob you of your dignity, strip you of your clothes, and then we'll divide it up while you watch. Those who passed by hurled abuse at him and wagged their heads. Verse 39. Verse 41, the chief priests mock him as he's on the cross. I mean, it's not enough that they just got him on the cross. Now they have to stay there for the entire time so that they can continue to heap these insults upon him as he's dying, as he's suffering, as he's being tortured. They need to continue to mock him. Can't just leave him alone We've got to add the insult to the injury. And even the robbers who were being crucified join in the party. I mean, how low do you have to be when condemned criminals feel like they've got a notch above you and they can put you down? These are condemned criminals who are hanging on either side. But they feel like they have to jump in and get a get a stab in at Jesus. You can't get any lower. Than Jesus was on the cross. Even the scum of the earth that was just pulled out of the prisons felt like they had to get their shot in. And this is how the indescribable gift of heaven was treated while he was on the earth. That the child of Christmas began his life being rejected in Bethlehem, and he ended his life being rejected from Jerusalem. Even the place where Jesus was crucified was outside the city. Golgotha was located outside of the city limits. In Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 12, it says that Jesus suffered outside the gate. He was treated as an outsider. He was the refuse. He was tossed aside. This entire passage is meant to show us the utter disregard that anybody had for his life. And it begins with this, the disinterested soldiers. Look at verse 33 to 37 again. It says, and when they came to a place called Galgatha, which means place of a skull, They gave him wine to drink, mixed with gall, and after tasting it he was unwilling to drink. And when they had crucified him, they divided up his garments among themselves by casting lots. And sitting down, they began to keep watch over him there, and above his head they put up the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews The soldiers who brought Jesus out to Golgotha had no real interest in Jesus outside of the mockery that they made out of him. In his claim to be king, back in uh verses 27 to 31, uh we're told that Pilate's uh soldiers gathered together, stripped Jesus, dressed him up in uh in a kingly robe, mocked him. Hail, King of the Jews, as they bowed down before him and rose to spit in his face and beat him in his head that was crowned with thorns. They didn't take any of the claims of Jesus seriously. And for the most part, they would have been ignorant about who Jesus was. The Roman cohort was largely made up of Syrian soldiers who traveled uh with pilot whose primary residence was a place known as uh Caesarea Maritime on in the on the Mediterranean coast is where Pilate uh mostly resided. Outside of Galilee, away from Jerusalem, where Jesus ministered for three and a half years. So these are men who come from the outside. And for them, Jesus was nothing more than, you know, some religious nut who managed to gather a following, and his death was just another day at the office for these guys. They traveled to a place outside the city gate, which was known as Golgotha in Aramaic In Greek it's the word cranion, which is where we get our English word cranium from. From the Latin, it would actually be Calvaria, which is where we get our word Calvary from. And uh those words all just mean skull. Means a skull, which is how it's translated in verse thirty-three, a place of a skull And some have argued that the place where the crucifixion uh took place actually resembled a skull, that it looked like a skull, uh, which could have been the case, and there's at least uh one suggested site uh that actually takes the the shape of a of a skull. But another suggestion is that Calvary or Golgotha, Skull, is a place where other crucifixions took place. And uh that skull is just a symbol for death itself. Uh so even today when we see a picture of a skull or like a skull and crossbones, you know, what immediately comes to mind is like death. Like somebody's died, or they're warning you, don't come here because you're going to die, right? It reminds us about death, and Jesus here was about to die. And these soldiers have no interest in minimizing the pain or the shame associated with crucifixion. They don't attempt to ease his pain. And what we find here is in verse 34 when it says they gave him wine to drink mixed with gall, that wasn't their attempt to ease Jesus' discomfort. That's not what they were trying to do. They were actually trying to add to his discomfort. Gaul was a bitter-tasting herb that might have been even poisonous, and it was likely that they mixed it in with the sour wine to subdue their victims. To make it easier for them to drive the nails in because they didn't want the victims to put up a fight. So let's put this mixture together that will kind of subdue you so we can drive the nails through your wrists So we can drive the nails through your feet. Actually, if you flip over to Psalm 69, there's a picture of this in one of the Psalms of David. Psalm 69, where he cries out to the Lord to spare his life from his enemies who have wrongfully accused him, those who hate him without a cause. Look at uh Psalm 69, look at look at verse 3. Actually, I'll just start from verse 1. Psalm 69, I'll start at verse 1. Says save me, O God, for the waters have threatened my life. I have sunk in deep mire, and there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters and a flood overflows me. I'm weary with my crying, my throat is parched, my eyes fail while I wait for my God. Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who would destroy me are powerful, being wrongfully my enemies. What did I steal? I then have to restore. And then listen to what he says in verse 19. Drop down to verse 19. He says, you know my reproach. And my shame and dishonor? All my adversaries are before you. Reproach has broken my heart, and I am so sick. And I looked for sympathy, but there was none. And for comforters, but I found none. They also gave me, listen to this, gall for my food, and for my thirst. They gave me vinegar to drink. This is what we find that three figures, this crucifixion of Christ, this wasn't for sympathy. They weren't trying to comfort Jesus. The enemy surrounded Jesus Christ, and this mixture was a false sense of relief because it actually meant to subdue him so that they could prolong his suffering on the cross. A subdued victim made it easier for them to drive the nails in and so that he wouldn't put up a fight, but Jesus wasn't about to put up a fight. Understand from scripture that he laid his life down voluntarily, right? He says, I give give it up on my own initiative. Nobody takes my life from me. I lay it down. So he willingly laid himself down without any subduing necessary and allowed them to do their work. spit out the wine and felt every movement of the spikes as they were driven through his wrist, which would have anchored him to the cross. If the nails were driven through the palms of his hand, they would have wouldn't be able to support his weight, so they would have actually been driven through the rest so he could hang on the nails. He felt the spikes as they pierced through both of his feet, and possibly through his Achilles' tendon, as MacArthur notes. Says this, after the victim was nailed in place. Several soldiers would slowly elevate the top of the cross, carefully slide the foot into a deep post hole, the cross would drop with a jarring blow into the bottom of the hole. causing the full weight of the victim to immediately bear the nails, be borne by the nails in the wrist and the feet, that would cause a bone-wrenching pain throughout the body as major joints were suddenly twisted out of their natural position. And that is probably what Christ referred to prophetically in Psalm 22, in a psalm about the crucifixion, when he says, I'm poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. That as he was twisted into this position, his bones were out of joint. It's like I can count all my bones. And after erecting Jesus in place, they turn around so they can play a game together. This is how Christ was treated. After they hung him up, it's like, hey guys, anybody got the dice? Let's play some games. This is what we find in verse 35. It says, and when they had crucified him, they divided up his garments among them, seldom by casting lots. Casting lots was something like shooting dice or drawing straws. It was a game of chance where some kind of object was thrown to reveal the winner. One Bible encyclopedia puts it this way, that the lots appear to have been kept in a container in which they were shaken until one was thrown or sprang out. And they were different colors to say, oh, like, oh, that's yours. You know, you you won this round and play another round. These soldiers here are merely feet away. Just a few feet away from the Lord of glory, who's agonizing in pain. His life is being offered up to God as a sacrifice for sin. And they're shooting dice. Playing a game like rock, paper, scissors, okay, you get that one. According to John chapter 19, verse 23, there were four soldiers who divided up Jesus' clothes, but they cast lots for the seamless tunic. They didn't want to rip that apart. We don't want to divide that up. Let's shoot for that one. John 19, verse 23 says, Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his outer garment, made four parts, a part to every soldier. And also the tunic. Now the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece, so they said to one another, Let's not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture. They divided my outer garments among them, and for my clothing they cast light. Psalm 22, verse 18. And if they're dividing up Jesus' clothes, guess who wouldn't have them? Jesus. Ever since the fall, there's been a shame associated with nakedness that is often used as a judgment in Scripture. It was a punishment to be exposed. Isaiah 20, verse 3 talks about that. You know, the shame of being exposed. And here was the Son of God being shamed. On top of all the torture that he experienced, now he's going to be shamed. Let's rip his clothes off of him and expose him for the world to see. Again, do you see the indignity of this? They're completely indifferent to what's going on. Jesus is a nobody. It's like he doesn't even exist. In verse 36, the soldiers just sit down leisurely to keep watch over the victim, to make sure that the job's done. Verse 36, and sitting down, they began to keep watch over him there There's no real attention given to the most significant event in human history that's taking place right before them. They're busy sheeting dice and dividing garments. They've taken the scenery from a comfortable position on their seats. And the way Matthew presents this account, it's all just a matter of course. Nothing special about this. And their disdain for Jesus was completed by the sign that hung over his head in verse 37. It says, and above his head they put up the charge against him which read, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And while it was meant to be an attack on Jesus, it was also an attack on the Jewish people as well. Pilate was kind of pushed into a corner. He didn't want to crucify Jesus But the chief priest and the people threatened to report him to Caesar if he didn't crucify Jesus. So he writes above his head, this is your king. And when the chief priest saw what he wrote, in John chapter 19, verse 21, the chief priests of the Jews were saying to Paul, don't write that. Don't write that he is king of the Jews. But that he said, I'm king of the Jews. And Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. It was a way to rub it in their faces. That 's the kind of king that you deserve. Back me up into a corner. That'll be the last time. Let me show you what kind of king you deserve. A crucified one. This is your king. It was all a mockery. And the soldiers who took part in this were disinterested. They really weren't driven by religion. They didn't have a bone to pick with Jesus. They didn't have a score to settle with Jesus, but they definitely didn't think that anybody should take Jesus too seriously. I mean, what's all the fuss about? He's just a clown. Like he's not even talking to us. You know, as we mock him and spit on him, like he's not even answering back. You know, is he mental? He's got a problem upstairs So they mocked him, they ridiculed him, basically ignored him, get on with their games. It's no big deal that he's suffering a couple feet away. And why would anybody be offended that we had a little fun at his expense? No big deal, right? Have a little fun with Jesus. Just this week I heard about a new film put out on Netflix called The First Temptation of Christ. where Mary and God are portrayed as illicit lovers and Jesus is romantically involved with a male companion. Hasn't Jesus been mocked enough already? Or thousands of years after his crucifixion, we got to put up trash like that? Oh, let's just poke a little fun at Jesus. What's the big deal? Why should anybody be offended that we're having a little fun in games over here? There's nothing wrong with that. And some filmmaker thought it would be enjoyable to have a laugh at Jesus' expense. What's the big deal? Just having fun? Just enjoying ourselves? Don't really have a bone to pick with Jesus. We're just, you know, just having a little fun. But even if people like that are ignorant, they're not innocent. They're not innocent. Matthew twelve, thirty-six says, But I tell you that every careless word that people speak, they shall give an accounting for it in the day of judgment, for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Blasphemy was punishable by death in the Old Testament. Leviticus 24, verse 16 says, Moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. It was a punishable offense. To blaspheme the Lord. But then we shrug our shoulders and say, it's no big deal. Just having a little fun. Just getting up our ratings. Nothing wrong with that. Galatians 6. 7 says, do not be deceived. God is not mocked. God's not mocked. You may not take your words too seriously, but God does. And his son will be honored. His son is going to be honored. But not only was Jesus disregarded by these disinterested soldiers, he was also abused by the deceived crowds. Look at verse 38. He's abused by the deceived crowds. Verse 38, it says at that time two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left. And those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads, saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. They're deceived. You know, by all outward appearances, there's no reason to take Jesus any more seriously than the soldiers did. First of all, the people look at who he's associated with. Like, like, look who's on the right and on the left of him. The robbers. He's between two known criminals. What kind of king is this? The word that was used for robbers in verse 38 is the Greek word lestase It was a different word from the regular word for a thief, which would have been kleptase, where we get our English word kleptomaniac from. A thief would be somebody, a club face, you know, a thief would be somebody who would who would rob you during a time that you were unaware that it was happening. It was used uh and uh uh about the the thief who who came in the middle of the night The thief in the middle of the night, that's the thief, the club days. You know, he kind of sneaks in when you don't know that he's he's going to show up. That's the club days. The lust face would be much different He doesn't care that you know he's coming. Because he's an armed robber who doesn't mind making his presence known. And he'll take what he wants by force. And those are the guys that are hanging next to Jesus. The lustes, the robbers. It's the same word that Jesus uses over in Luke chapter 10, verse 30, for uh in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Remember that? No, I look chapter ten verse thirty, and Jesus replied and said a man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among robbers Midday. They stripped him. They beat him. They went away, leaving him half dead. Those are the lust days. We're coming armed. We don't care if you see us. We're going to grab you, we're going to beat you down and take what we want. We're not sneaking around. Barabbas was a known, notorious Robber, according to John chapter 10 and verse 8, who had actually committed murder. Mark chapter 15 and verse 7. And that's the guy who should have been on the center cross. But now the guy who takes his place is Jesus. And the assumption would have been: hey, if Jesus is here between the two robbers, I mean honestly he's one of them. Whatever he did is just as bad as these guys. He must be guilty. He was numbered with the transgressors. But isn't that exactly what Isaiah 53 predicted would happen? That he'd be numbered among the transgressors? Isaiah 53, verse 12. Therefore I will allot him a portion with the great. He will divide the booty with the strong, because he poured himself out to death and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he himself bore the sin of many and interceded for the transgressors. Israel should have been looking for a Savior who would be numbered with the transgressors in his death. And that was Jesus. Not only was Jesus associated with the transgressors, he was abused by the accusations that were thrown against him. Look at verse 39. It says, and those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads. And saying, you who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. Where Jesus was hanging on the cross would have been a well-traveled road. That was the custom of crucifixion to place the victim on the on a well-traveled road so everybody knew the wrath of Rome. This is what happens to people who stand against us. And as many people pass by this way, they would have seen the sight of a twisted figure on a cross. And above the said, this is Jesus, the King of the Jews. You know, so as these Jewish people are walking into Jerusalem for the Passover to celebrate, you know, they're saying, This is the king. This is your king? The Jewish people were walking in. This is your king. What kind of indignation do you think they would have felt as they walked past this cross? That's not my Messiah. That's not the kind of king I'm looking for. Everything would have welled up in them to say, I will not have that man to rule over me. They would have worn the t-shirt. It's not my king. It's not my king. And as they passed by, they hurled abuse at him. The word for abuse is the word blasphemeo, where we get our English word blaspheme. They spoke evil of him, they derided him, they would have rejected any suggestion that he was the king, and they shake their heads in disgust. SMH, shaking my head. It was a sign of disbelief. It was disgust. I can't believe this. Who in the right mind would say that this is the king? Which is really fitting that this comes from Psalm 109. Why don't you actually turn there? Psalm 109 We actually find David, who's praying to God that he would not stand silent in the face of his accusers who fight against him without cause. Psalm 109, look at verse 25. He says, I also have become a reproach to them, and when they see me, they wag their head. They wag their head at me. But listen to what else David says in the first couple of verses. Look over in Psalm 109, look at verse 1. It says, O God of my praise, do not be silent. For they have opened the wicked and deceitful mouth against me. They have spoken against me with a lying tongue. They have surrounded me with their words of hatred, fought against me without a cause. In return for my love they act as my accusers, but I am in prayer. Thus they have repaid me evil for good and hatred for my love. And that's exactly what These Jewish people did as they walked into Jerusalem. They returned hatred for the love that Christ was demonstrating all throughout his ministry. What reason did Christ ever give anybody to reject him? After all the miracles, after all the healings, after all the teachings. And and this is how he's treated. Now if you turn back to Matthew 27, I just want to show you the kind of false accusations that were being made by those who passed by. Matthew 27, look at verse 40. Matthew 27, verse 40. It says, and they were saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. I just want to remind you that those accusations that were thrown against Jesus, those accusations did not originally come from the crowds. Those were the very same accusations that the chief priests came up with during the fake trial they had the night before. If you look back in Matthew chapter 26, in verse 59 to 64. It talks about the uh the chief priests as they're they're trying to obtain this false testimony against Jesus. And two of the best arguments that they could come up with were only partly true. Because they said that Jesus said he would destroy the temple and raise it in three days. But that's not what Jesus said. Over in John chapter 2, verse 19, what he said was, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The temple that he was referring to was his what? Was his body. So here these Jewish people come through and they say, oh, you're going to destroy the temple and raise it up. Let's see if God's going to deliver you now. Why don't you save yourself? Not realizing that the words that he spoke were actually being fulfilled at that very time. Destroy this temple. The temple is now being destroyed. And in three days I'm going to raise it up again. He was fulfilling prophecy at the very time they're they're throwing these accusations at him. They didn't even realize what was happening. But they're deceived. These accusations they come up with are are just borrowed from the chief priest. Oh he said he's going to destroy the temple. And they just kind of bobble their heads and say the same thing. Oh yeah, he's going to destroy the temple That's what the chief priests say. That's what I'm gonna say. He said he was the son of God, which was true. But I'm not gonna investigate it because that's what the chief priests say, so I'm gonna say the same thing And how many people do you run into that that throw abuse at the Savior and have no idea what they're talking about? But it's just because that's what I've heard before. You know, these objections that you hear, if you do any uh any witnessing for any prolonged period of time, you start to recognize it's like, I've I've heard this before. Like deja vu, right? You know, I've I've been in this conversation. And it's because they've heard it from somebody who's heard it from somebody who's heard it from somebody. And they're just repeating the same objections. Oh, the Bible is full of errors. You can't trust the Bible. The Bible is full of errors. And then you give them your Bible and say, can you show me one? Well, uh you know, uh I just know it's full of it. It's like you're just repeating something that you heard somebody said. Why does evil exist? I can't believe in God because I don't know how evil can exist. Well well, how do you explain evil apart from God? Well, you know, I just can't believe that. If there's evil, there has to be a good. There has to be some kind of standard that you judge evil by, right? Where are you getting the standard from? How is there evil without good? Well, I don't know. I just I just can't believe in that You know what about those who've never heard the gospel before? What about you who are hearing the gospel now? Right? What does that have to do with you? Well, I don't know. I just, you know. Like like it's not true because you're hearing it? Like what like what what are these objections? What do they even mean? But you just repeat them because I heard somebody else say that Like I said, I I've mentioned this before. I even heard somebody said that they can't believe in the Bible until they figure out where Cain got his wife from. It's like, seriously, don't let Mrs. Cain slow you down. We can get over this. We've got answers for that. So here Jesus is being ridiculed by these people. Who are just repeating what they've heard. They haven't really thought through anything. They're being influenced. But here's the reasoning, if they had any reasoning at all. This is the reasoning that they had is why would God allow his son to be treated like this? If you're really the son of God, what should you do? You should come down. I mean, that's what I would do if I was the Son of God. I'd come down from the cross. I want to stay there. If Jesus is really the Son of God, why? Why is he treated the way that he is? Why is he being rejected? But from the cradle to the cross with very little reprieve, Jesus was rejected and scorned and ridiculed throughout his entire life. And death followed right on the heels of the child of Christmas. And here's the truth, that Jesus could have saved himself. Jesus could have saved himself, but he couldn't save himself and you at the same time. Why did he stay on the cross? Because that was the only way that salvation could be accomplished. When he cried out in the garden, you know, if there's any other way, let this cut pass from me. But not as I will, as you will. What was he doing in that moment? He's submitting his life to his father If he is the Son of God, guess what he does? He submits his life to the Father. He was actually demonstrating that he was the Son of God as he hung on the cross. But the Jewish people didn't create any room in their theology for a Messiah who would suffer, for a son of God who would suffer. But they forget, in Isaiah 53, it says he was despised and forsaken of men. A man of sorrows acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face. He was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. How does the conquering king suffer and die? That doesn't make sense. That's beneath his dignity Why would God come to the earth and die? It doesn't make sense, and you are so right. It shouldn't make sense. And that's why the grace that we're saved by is amazing grace. The hymn writer put it well, amazing love, how can it be? How can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? It shouldn't make sense for us that someone who was so worthy would die in such an ignoble way. That he would be tortured, and on top of the torture, that he would be ridiculed and mocked as his life is being offered up before the Lord. The Son of God was rejected. The gift of Christmas. It's the rejected gift of Christmas. It's Jesus Christ. And he's the most valuable gift. The most valuable gift. Before I became a pastor of Baltimore Bible Church, I served as a youth pastor in Little Rock, Arkansas, and we'll save the rest of this message for later on. We're not going to have time for it today. But uh before I became a pastor at the at Baltimore Bible Church I served as a youth pastor uh in Little Rock, Arkansas and and one of the events uh that we had was uh at the end of the year we had this Christmas party uh where we had this uh white elephant gift exchange. You guys ever done that? You know, where everybody brings a gift and puts it in the middle and you can kind of pick a gift or maybe trade with somebody else. And the way that this worked was uh everybody brought a five dollar gift and also brought a five dollar contribution for the for the party. And uh all the gifts were placed in the middle and, you know, we kinda went around a circle and everybody's picking their gift and everybody's trying to look at the gift, size 'em up It's like, okay, that looks bigger than that one, I'll take that one. You know, that one's wrapped more neatly than the other one, so that whoever did that one probably put some more in that, you know, probably thought about the gift that they were gonna gonna give. So as we run around the room and everybody's picking their gifts, there was this one one gift that was wrapped that uh that nobody picked up and it was this this crumpled brown paper bag that was just not even a bow on it. Just kind of like lying there in the middle of the floor and you know people it's like is is that really a gift or does somebody like leave their lunch? Like what's what's going on there? And uh finally came to the end and you know there's this one lonely paper bag in the middle. So, you know, the last person gets up and you know people are kind of snickering as they're getting up to pick up the gift and Finally they picked it up and they they opened it up and it was the the sum of all the $5 contributions were placed inside this one paper bag. So the one gift in the middle was worth what I think it was like between four and five hundred dollars based on everybody who had come that night And uh the the the the the leader who kind of put the the the the the event together he says I want you to think about this because Jesus Christ didn't look like he was the indescribable gift when he came to this earth. He had no stately form or majesty that we should be attracted to him. But in him we find all the hope of Israel, the consolation and eternal life we find in him. And it was uh it was definitely one of those uh events that stuck. Jesus is the gift. The the best gift in the pile that day was overlooked because of how it looked on the outside. It was rejected But it was more valuable than any gift that was inside the middle of that room. And Jesus Himself is the most beautiful, the most valuable, the most worthy gift, because he would be the one who would save his people from their sins. Amen. And let's uh bow our heads together for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for uh the opportunity that we have to uh to gather together and my father to think about the gift of Christmas. The gift of Christmas is Christ Himself. It's Jesus. Jesus is the gift. It's because of him that we have life. It's because of him that we have forgiveness. It's because of him that we don't have to fear death. Because he's the one who died in our place. He was rejected so that we could be accepted by you. And Father, we thank you for the gift of Christmas. We thank you for Jesus Christ. And even as we think about his birth, we recognize that he was born to die. And just as the lamb was taken in by the children of Israel, that same lamb that they cared for, that they fed. Would eventually be the same lamb that they would have to offer up in order that the angel of death would pass over them. And Father, Jesus Christ is our Passover. And it's because of him that the eternal death has passed over us, and in its place we've been given eternal life. And Father, that's a gift that belongs to all who would trust in Jesus Christ for their salvation. For all who would turn to Him and give their lives to Him, Father, today they can know with certainty that they have eternal life And Father, I would pray that if there are any here who do not know your son, that today that they would receive that gift, that as we talk about it, that they would receive that gift into their lives. And that they would become your children forevermore. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.