The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Originally it was uh my intent to save the rest of our discussion on this important topic until our exposition of Matthew nineteen when uh Jesus actually comes back to this uh issue of uh divorce and and remarriage. But there's uh Good justification for returning to it a second week. One, I have a biblical justification. The Bible encourages us to be reminded of the same things. Often writers of scripture highlight the benefit. of uh being reminded of what was already communicated. In uh Romans 15, 15, Paul says, But I have written very boldly to you on some points so as to remind you again because of the grace that was given me from God. In Philippians 3. 1, finally my brethren, rejoice in the Lord to write the same things again. It's no trouble to me, for it is a safeguard for you. And uh Peter in 2 Peter 1 verse 12 says, Therefore I will always be ready to remind you of these things, even though you already know them and have been established in the in the truth which is present. with you. And uh you have with uh in the book of Matthew, even in the book of Matthew itself, uh the issue of divorce and remarriage comes up twice. You know, in chapter five and again in in chapter nineteen. So there's There's good reason uh to return to it again uh to make sure that we understand uh what the Lord says here. Also have pastoral justification for uh returning to Matthew 5. 31 to 32 because uh after the message on marriage and divorce, I had uh a number of questions afterwards, just uh asking me about you know different scenarios and what about this and What about that? So it's my job as a shepherd to uh exhort with great patience and instruction. Uh so one of the things I wanted to make sure that we do is to return to this, uh to make sure that uh that this is uh clear as well. And also have a uh a cultural justification. I guess I'm on mute here. Uh cultural justification as well because our society is uh one in which the biblical ideals of marriage and family are under a concentrated attack. And I I think everybody would agree with that. And it's it's imperative that Christ Church speaks with clarity. and authority on these uh different issues because marriage does not belong to the culture to define any way that they would uh like. Uh marriage is God's institution, only he has the right to define it and provide the ultimate meaning for it. So uh with that let's turn to Matthew chapter five uh verses thirty one and and thirty two says it was said whoever sends his life away Let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastee Makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, once again, for uh being able to return to your authoritative, inerrant word Father, I pray that you would speak to us, that you would use me as a weak instrument in your hands to uh to be a blessing to your people. Uh Father, we pray that uh your word would be made plain to us. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, as I said, I don't think that anybody would argue with the observation that uh the traditional family is under attack. Within the last decade, we've seen what Al Moeller calls a moral revolution at warp speed. He writes this, he says, Western society is currently experiencing what can only be described as a moral revolution Our society's moral code and collective ethical evaluation on a particular issue has undergone not small adjustments, but a complete reversal. That which was once condemned is now celebrated, and the refusal to celebrate is now condemned. He also states that the moral revolution represented by same-sex marriage is vast in its scope and unprecedented in its velocity. Just this month, the Supreme Court announced that it will decide whether same-sex couples have a right to marry everywhere in America under the Constitution. Uh the justices will take up gay rights cases that ask them to overturn bans in four states and declare for the entire nation that people can marry the partners of their choice, regardless of gender, and the cases will be argued in April and a decision is expected in June. And uh we can only imagine how how that's gonna go, especially with uh a current president urging the Supreme Court to overturn, you know, bans on gay marriage In addition to the attack on marriage, there's an attack on the unborn. Forty-two years ago this month, the Supreme Court ruled in the case of Roe v. Wade that a child in the womb is not to be considered a human person And since that time, over 56 million babies have died in America under the sanction of that law. My friend Mike Ricardi and uh Uh he's a local outreach pastor at uh Grace Community Church. He writes this. He says, I've been listening to the various defenses of this legalized murder, and I think to myself, can he really believe that? Something that grows, moves, consumes, is distinct from the mother, has its own chromosomal makeup and its own unique DNA, isn't alive? Does it really satisfy her intellectual honesty to say that something with a heartbeat Functioning kidneys, liver that is responsive to pain is just a clump of cells. And a clump of cells when it is not wanted But a baby when it is wanted? Don't any red flags go up when we start talking about human beings not being human persons? How can that possibly be when even on just a purely rational and even scientific level the reasoning is so weak? Like how how do we justify it? How is the how is it that the most radically pro-infanticide president, this is what he continues to write, this country has ever seen can chastise us for failing to do all we can to protect our children. And speak about a society being judged by how well we care for our children. Seriously. Seriously. Uh both the homosexual agenda and demand on demand abortion have struck a devastating blow to the traditional family and nobody can predict what the next chapter will look like uh for us. Uh we haven't even thought through what all the implications of this are. Haven't even thought through it. It's like we just purchased our ticket for the train, not even knowing where the train's going That's what the the nation is is doing and it's frightening to think about. But while we've heard much about the attacks on the family from the homosexual agenda and abortion, it's been surprising how little we've actually heard about divorce When it comes to family values, how little we've heard about divorce. Mark Smith, who teaches political science at the University of Washington, and pays close attention to what's been commonly called the uh culture war in America. He wrote a paper entitled Religion, Divorce and the Missing Culture War in America. As Smith studied the culture wars across the U. S. he was struck by the issue that was conspicuous by its absence, namely divorce. He noted that during its existence the moral majority mobilized and lobbied on many political issues, including abortion, pornography, gay rights, school prayer, sex education. In contrast, divorce ranks so low on the group's agenda that books on the moral majority do not even give the issue an entry in the index. Muller, who interviewed Smith, asked this question. He says, How did divorce so clearly identified as a grievous sin and the Bible become so commonplace and accepted in our midst? The sanctity of human life is a cause that demands our priority and sacrifice. The challenge represented by the possibility or probability of legalized same-sex marriage demands our attention and involvement But divorce harms more lives than will be touched by homosexual marriage. Children are left without fathers, wives without husbands, homes are forever broken. Fathers are separated from their children. Marriage is irreparably undermined as divorce becomes routine and is accepted. Divorce is not the impardable sin, but it is sin, and it is sin that is condemned in no uncertain terms. Evangelical Christians are gravely concerned about the family. And this is good and necessary, but our credibility on the issue of marriage is significantly discounted by our acceptance of divorce. And I think he's right. I think he's right Jesus was very clear on divorce among believers. Divorce among believers within the church. And there is nothing that attacks a family like divorce because marriage was ordained by God to be the foundation of the family. It's the foundation of it. The pattern for marriage according to Scripture is monogamous or exclusive, lifelong companionship between a man and a woman who are joined together by God. And picture God's relationship to his people. I'll say that one more time. Marriage, according to Scripture, is a monogamous, lifelong companionship between a man and a woman who are joined together by God. and picture God's relationship to his people. And this pattern in picture of marriage is dismantled, disfigured, and distorted by divorce. We at least need to begin there and admit that divorce is a departure from God's plan. God hates divorce. We need to admit that. However, by the time that Jesus addressed his disciples in Matthew 5, divorce had been a reality for centuries. We see divorce mentioned in Deuteronomy almost 1500 years before Jesus preaches the Sermon on the Mount. There's no explanation for how it originated. It just appears on the pages of Scripture. As this kind of man-made, chaotic mess that Moses has to regulate and try to clean up and try to discourage. But the difficulties were all man-made. Man-made divorce. God did not institute divorce. And because of the difficulties surrounding divorce, there are many who refuse to touch on the subject. Martin Lloyd Jones asked this question. He says, How often do we hear an address on a text such as this? Is it not true to say that this is the kind of subject that preachers tend to avoid? And thereby, of course, we are guilty of sin It is not for us to study some parts of the Word of God and to ignore others. It is not for us to shy at difficulties. For some reason or other, many commentators, even though they may have set out to write a commentary on the Sermon on the Mount, slide over this topic and refuse to deal with it. And I've actually seen that as I've studied through uh commentaries and looked at commentaries on the Sermon on the Mount. They just a lot of them just slide over. Slide over it And as I pointed out last week, it's not the difficulties brought from the text of Matthew chapter 5. It's the difficulties that are brought to it. That's why we have issues with what Jesus has to say. And uh there are many difficulties that surround divorce and uh and and all of us at some level, some level, have been touched by the pain of divorce. Everybody. Everybody has. I s I still vividly remember um a time during my childhood when I when I actually feared that my own parents were about to be divorced Uh the arguments kind of escalated and it got so bad that uh at one point my mom came to me and said, you know, you know, I'm leaving. Who are you gonna come with? Me or your father? And uh I don't I don't know where I saw it, but I saw some cartoon somewhere. I was only like seven, eight at the time. I was, you know, just a young guy. I just remember seeing some cartoon where somebody was faced with the same position and said, I'm going with grandma I said the same thing. I said, Hey, I'm going to grandma. I'm not going with anybody. And uh my mom actually said that that that, in addition to the grace of God, is what prevented her from leaving. 'Cause she said if we had agreed, you know, the kids agreed to come with her, she said she would have left. But somehow the Lord, you know, allowed me to remember something and say, hey, grandma is it. Grandma is the choice. And uh My parents actually enjoyed a wonderful relationship not too long after that, you know. Um after the the storm there was uh the calm and and uh they enjoyed a rich relationship after that But I just bring that to say that the divorce touches everybody. Divorce touches everybody. And that the pain that's associated with divorce is pretty deep. John Stott says, there is almost no unhappiness so poignant as the unhappiness of an unhappy marriage, and almost no tragedy so great as the denigration of what God meant for love and fulfillment into a non-relationship of bitterness, discord, and despair. And I I don't have uh to describe this for some of you here because uh for some of you you've actually lived this You've actually lived it. And uh what I want to do today is to to take the same outline that I used uh last time we were here in the Sermon on the Mount. uh to show you the hope and the encouragement that's here as well. Uh last time we kind of talked about uh some of the stipulations surrounding a divorce and why we shouldn't uh divorce, but um Today I want to want to point out some of the hope and encouragement that's pointed out in Matthew chapter 5 as well, and hopefully this will answer some more of the questions that you have. Not all of them. We'll get back to Matthew 19 and start to deal with this a little bit more, but hopefully this will be an encouragement to your hearts. First of all, there's three movements within this passage that help us understand what our Lord is saying to us. Back in Matthew chapter 5, verse 31. First of all, he talks about the way that those with heart and hearts excuse themselves from their commitment to marriage. In verse 31. It says it was said Whoever sends his wife away, let him give her a certificate of divorce. And we remember from the rest of the Sermon on the Mount that Christ here is not arguing against the Old Testament law. Christ didn't come to abolish the law but to fulfill it. And he's here the supreme interpreter of that law. So Christ is not here saying, oh, what you've heard in the Old Testament doesn't matter. He's saying the interpretation of what you've heard from this Old Testament text is wrong. It was actually being used as an excuse to get out of the commitment to marriage. When the original context was trying to make it more difficult for people to get out of their commitment, they used it as this excuse. So we see this heart in heart that was being excused by using this. Then he talks about the way that those who were sinfully divorced left their un left their spouses unprotected and exposed in verse 32. Look at verse 32. It says, But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastity, makes her commit adultery. So here you have this promise to love, to protect, and instead of this spouse loving and protecting their spouse, they just kind of leave them out there. You're out there defend for yourself. And actually they they drive them to commit divorce in many cases because they they marry uh again. And it says they've committed divorce when they when they do that. And then the third thing that he talks about, and it kind of wraps up this discussion, is he talks about those who would later marry these abandoned spouses. are also kind of dragged into this sin as well in uh verse thirty two at the end it says, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery So not only was it the sin to send this woman away, it was a sin when this woman remarried, and it was a sin for the person who married her. So it's just kind of a compounding of sins. And like I tried to mention before, that this is uh speaking in this instance of those that would call themselves believers, those that would call themselves followers of God. Those that let their spouses go and marry another and it goes on to talk about the rest of this, but but it's talking about a very specific instance, but we'll get to some of that in a in a minute. But what I'm going to do is just take that same outline, the hardened heart excused, the broken heart exposed, and the tender heart exploited, and uh show you the hope that is found in what Christ says as well, because Christ does not excuse the hardened heart. Christ does not expose the broken heart, and Christ does not exploit the tender heart. Let's look at verse 31 again. It says it was said, whoever sends his wife away Let him give her a certificate of divorce. And uh like I said, Jesus is uh really quoting the uh the kind of uh summarizing the teaching of of that day. Uh he's not attempting to to contradict the scriptures at all and here uh Deuteronomy twenty four was uh pulled out of context, uh as if divorce originated with God, as if this was God's plan, you know, just write a certificate, send her away, as if all God is really concerned about is the paperwork. You know, not even concerned about the reason that you would send your wife away or the consequences of sending your wife away. Hey, just take care of the paperwork. And this is what the Pharisees would do is reduce the law of God to this kind of like this common base level. Like it's all about the letter. It has nothing to do with the intent with the heart of it. It's all about just making sure you take care of the procedure. Get the procedure right. Don't worry about anything else. And Jesus summarizes his teaching on divorce as well over in uh Matthew chapter 19, if you want to flip over there And makes it clear that the Pharisees were actually giving a different meaning to the words that were found in Deuteronomy chapter 24. Look at Matthew chapter 19, I'll start at verse 6. Jesus says here, so they are no longer two, but one flesh. But therefore God is going together, let no man separate. Again, just emphasizing this Solidarity and importance of divorce of marriage here. Verse 7, it says they said to him, Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce and send her away? Why did he command it? He said to them, verse 8, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses what? Permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it has not been this way. It has not been this way. The Pharisees understood divorce as a divine institution. But this is something that God actually commands us to do. He's commanding this. If they were asked where did divorce come from, they would answer, It comes from God. God is the one who commands us to divorce. And there were actually rabbinic laws current in the day of Christ that did more than recommend divorce. In certain cases, they actually required divorce. If a woman does a certain thing, you are required to divorce her. It's like this command from God. But Christ argues that divorce is not the institution of God, but rather the invention of men. It was man's heart in heart that devised the practice of sending their wives away and under the Mosaic Law it was permitted, it was not commanded. By the uh year 200 A. D. that the Mishnah included these as grounds for divorce A man could divorce his wife if she was barren or deaf, mute, had epilepsy, warts, leprosy, if she failed to perform certain services in the home, if she had a head that was a turnip shape. Hammer-shaped, sunk in, she had poor posture, thinning hair, no eyebrows, bushy eyebrows, eyes that were too low, too high, crossed, no eyelashes If her nose was too big, too little, if her ears were too small, too floppy, if she had an overbite, an underbite, hope you have a good dentist, right? Missing teeth, bony ankles, or a slowing big toe. And the list goes on. The list goes on. And hopefully none of that was included in your marriage vows, you know? Until Toad does his part. You know what I mean? You have uh in in history some of you are familiar with uh Henry VIII, right? Uh separated from the Roman Catholic Church in order to marry uh another woman, you know, uh st separated from I think it was Catherine to marry this other girl named Anna and uh the reason was because Catherine couldn't give him a child, she was barren. So he says, I I I need a son. I need somebody that's gonna carry on this line Some of you might not know that he also divorced his second wife too and married another. Married a third. Doesn't solve anything. While there are cases where women divorced their husbands, for the most part it was the men who were the primary offenders. To have a beautiful, respectful wife was a supreme honor. to a man. Remember that was the case with King Ahashuarus, if you flip back to the book of uh of Esther. You have the king who's uh throwing a banquet. Let's turn back the Psalms and keep flipping back a couple books, all right? Turn back to Esther, Esther chapter 1. The king's throwing a banquet for his officials, and his queen Vashti is uh throwing her own banquet for a group of women. In the palace and it says in uh Esther chapter chapter one, look at uh verse ten. It says on the seventh day when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mahomen Vista, Harbona, Vikha Abagatha, Zethar, and Carcass, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of King Ahasuerus, to bring Queen Vashti before the king with her royal crown in order to display her beauty to the people and the princes, for she was beautiful. Yeah, the the king's request, you know, bring out the queen. You know, I've got this party going on. I want to, you know, some you know some kind of party favors here, party tricks. Let's let's get Queen Vashie out here, the flare beauty. Put the crown on. Let's do a little catwalk here, you know, show you off to all my friends. Verse 12, the queen refused. Queen Vashi refused to come at the king's command, delivered by the eunuchs. Then the king became very angry, and his wrath burned within him. This is an outrage. This is disgraceful, an embarrassment. Ask the queen to come out. She wanna come out. Gotta do something about this. He actually talks to his uh, you know, uh the people that give him his vice, his advisors here. Verse 19, it they give him this advice in verse 19, If it pleases the king, let a royal edict be issued by him, and let it be written in the laws of Persia and Media, so that it cannot be repealed, that Vashti may no longer come into the presence of King Ahashuarus. And let the king give her royal position to another who is more worthy than she. When the king's edict which he will make is her throughout all his kingdom great as it is, then all women will give honor to their husbands. You know, we're worried about ourselves too. This the word might get out. Women will give honor to the husbands, great and small. This word pleased the king and the princess, and the king did as Memukin proposed, so we sent Letters to all the king's provinces, to each province according to its script, to every people according to the language, that every man should be the master in his own house, and the one who speaks in the language of his own people Captain of my own ship, I'm the master of this house. What I say goes. Later on we find out that uh that the king even has some kind of remorse for this, you know, he he started thinking about Vashti again after he, you know, makes this kind of drunken, you know, decision. But it was too late. He had already given this decree. The edict was out. You couldn't reverse this decree. It was too late. This is the kind of practice that God did not design. This hard-heartedness of men, this did not originate with God. It was a gross perversion of God's design. And the excuses Are not accepted by God. Excuses are not accepted by God. If you've been divorced or abandoned, or in some other form you've been put out or sent away from a relationship that you were faithful to. You need to know that God does not recognize any excuses for the person who turned you away. There's no justification for it whatsoever. Whatsoever. You don't need to carry around the burden that if if only I did this or if only I did that, you know, the things would have been different, or you know, and you might have heard it otherwise, but that's not what Christ says. It's not what Christ is. Christ doesn't give this person any excuse that turns their spouse away. Christ doesn't give any excuse for that. And if you're here contemplating divorce or separation from a person That's demonstrated faithfulness to that relationship, you have no excuse to entertain the thought of divorce either. No excuse I was reading an article that said, as people grow up, they also grow apart, and we should just expect divorce as a natural part of our evolution. Just expect it. You know, you grow up and you grow apart. It's just natural. But love is not something that you fall out of and fall into. It's an active commitment of the will to seek the welfare of another. That's what love is The active commitment of the will to seek the welfare of another. It's beyond just the feelings, right? Beyond the feelings. I I like the story that Jay Adams tells about the couple who comes in for counseling. After the husband's recitation of all the ills of 13 years of this kind of wretched life with this woman, he concludes, so you see, Pastor, there's no hope for this marriage. There's no hope. And the counselor says, well, I guess the only thing left for you to do is what uh and he's expecting you know divorce, right? I guess the only thing left for you to do is what Ephesians 5. 28 says is to love your wife. He says, you don't understand. I haven't loved her for years. There's there's nothing to build on here. We're so distant. I mean we're just He says, so so what I'm hearing is that that you feel like you're you're not even living in the same house? He says, exactly. Just like we're we're not even living in the same house. He says, well, you know that the Bible says that you need to love your neighbors. He says, you don't get it. He says, I I don't love her. Sometimes I even hate her. I despise her. I loathe this woman. He says, well, uh do I sense some animosity here? I guess what's left to do is that you need to love your enemy. The Bible doesn't excuse the heart and heart. You get it? The Bible doesn't make an excuse for the heart and heart. And the the reality is that if if that was even somebody in here that sent a spouse away without a biblical justification If it was you who demonstrated unfaithfulness towards your spouse, you need to know that there's no excuse for what you did, that what you did was sin, and precisely because it's sin, it can be what? Forgiven. Can be forgiven. 1 John 3. 5 says, you know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. What did Christ come to do? He came to remove sins. There's no hope unless you first acknowledge that what I did was wrong, right? Unless you first acknowledge, hey, there's no excuse. I'm not going to justify myself. I'm going to come to God, admit that what I did was wrong, and receive the forgiveness that he gives. Christ doesn't make the excuse for the heart and heart, but he does forgive the heart and heart, right? Does change the heart and heart Second thing, Christ does not expose the broken heart. Back in Matthew chapter 5, look at verse 32 again. It says, but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife except for the reason of unchastee makes her commit adultery. As I pointed out last time, the ancient Jewish society, most women had domestic duties. They were trained for domestic duties, were either cared for by their fathers. by their husbands or bear by their uh grown children. That's how the the women were often cared for. Uh first Corinthians seven talks about the father who cares for his virgin daughters, his unmarried daughters. The father had that responsibility. of caring for them. After marriage, the responsibility was transferred to the husband. In Exodus 21, verse 10, it lets us know that the responsibility of the husband to his wife was food, clothing, and intimacy. That was the responsibility of of a husband, it was required by law for a husband to give that uh to his wife. And then in old age if the husband didn't survive It was turned over to the adult children to care for their parents, to honor their parents. It was part of honoring, you know, your father and mother in uh Mark chapter seven, verse eleven, and the the religious leaders try to escape that. Uh, you remember uh Jesus as he was dying, he turned over that responsibility to John to say care for my mother, the care for Mary. If the family couldn't pick that responsibility up, that burden would be turned over to the church 1 Timothy chapter 5. But the great tragedy in divorce is that women who had already left the home and either had no children May not have had children old enough that the career uh for them were exposed by their husbands to this unkind world that often showed no mercy No mercy. And one awkward example was Hagar in Genesis chapter 21, if you want to turn back there, Genesis 21. If you're familiar with this story, everything is wrong about this one, okay? Just everything is wrong. Sarah gives up hope in the promise of God being fulfilled, gives up on this hope. And suggest that, you know, maybe that this promise is to be fulfilled through this, you know, through a surrogate relationship with Hagar. You know, maybe she can have children for me Abraham, in one of his uh not so stellar moments, gives into this idea from his wife. He believes that maybe God needs his help. You know, maybe this is how the promise is to be fulfilled, and Abraham fathers Ishmael through Hagar. But when uh God finally answers his promise with Isaac, Isaac was the child of promise, the child of the covenant. When God finally answers with Isaac, as he always intended to, we have a problem. We got this other woman and her son in the house. What are we supposed to do now? What are we going to do with this maid and her son? Genesis 21 tells you what happened. Genesis 21, verse 14. It says, so Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread. And a skin of water, and gave them to Hagar, putting them on her shoulder, and gave her the boy, and sent her away, and she departed and wandered about in the wilderness of Beersheba. What a tragedy What a tragedy. You know, when you when you don't follow God's plan, you know, what a tragedy. It actually becomes one of the great illustrations of the compassion of This is the first example that we have of divorce, one of the first examples we have of divorce. But even though Hagar is turned away by Abraham, she's not abandoned. Look at uh verse 15. Says when the water and the skin was used up, she left the boy under one of the bushes. Then she went and sat down opposite him, about a bow shot away, for she said, Do not let me see the boy die. She sat opposite him and lifted up her voice and wept. God heard the lad crying. The angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What is the matter with you, Hagar? Do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him by the hand, for I will make a great nation out of him. And like I said, this uh tragedy turned into a great illustration of the compassion of God. In this case, God gave permission in, you know, uh for uh Abraham to to release Hagar. Um again, she wasn't the uh the one that was promised. It would have been a violation of the covenant, but here you have God caring for her God caring for the one that was sent away. And throughout scripture, God is seen as the God of compassion. And he does not place us into a temptation or a trial. The same Greek word is used for temptation and trial. God doesn't place us into a trial that's greater than we can bear, right? Uh so so those that are uh divorced even wrongly, uh God hasn't place you in a in a trial that's that's more than what you can can bear. And what the scripture makes clear is that if a divorced person A person is divorced by a believer , believer, divorcing a believer, they're to remain what? Unmarried. Bible says you're to remain unmarried for the purpose of what? Reconciliation. It's a tough spot to be in, isn't it? To be divorced by a believer and now God tells me you need to wait. You need to be patient and give me an opportunity to work on this believer's heart so that you can be reconciled because that's my plan for marriage, is that it would be permanent, that it would be lasting. Difficult place to put somebody in. And like I said, back in uh in Matthew chapter 5, it just shows the hard-heartedness of the person who would send his wife away. Then now I'm I'm leaving you to just kind of fend for yourself. And you can just just wait on it, right? Just wait on it Christ says that if they get married while waiting for this believing husband, they've committed adultery. There's no way around that. Paul says the same thing in 1 Corinthians 7, to stay unmarried. And the person who sent his wife away to, like I said, left her in this vulnerable position of still having a desire to be married, still being in a position to be married. Calvin adds in pretty harsh words for a person like this. He says the man who unjustly and unlawfully abandons his wife whom God has given him is justly condemned for having prostituted his wife to others. So you've just left her out there. God's laws were not meant to punish the innocent. As we pointed out even in the laws of Deuteronomy 24, it was for order and protection, not to punish the innocent people. And if that original spouse who you are patiently waiting for either gets married or enters into a physical relationship, they effectively break the marriage covenant. That's what happens. Your original marriage covenant is broken and in that case the spouse who's waiting to be reconciled is free to what? You're free to marry now. Free to marry. And and the same would be true if it was determined that that original spouse who you're waiting for is not a believer at all. 1 Corinthians 7, Paul says, if the unbelieving one leaves, do what? Let him leave. The unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or sister is not under bondage. Under bondage to what? In the context, it's talking about the marriage. You're not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. For how do you know a wife whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know a husband whether you'll save your wife? How do you know that just waiting around is gonna bring this brother or sister back to the Lord and you guys can be reconciled? You don't know that And the command from Scripture is that if they don't get saved, you can't reconcile with them. If they're an unbeliever, 2 Corinthians 6:14, do not be bound together with unbelievers. For what partnerships have righteousness and lawlessness, or what fellowship has light with darkness? Different situation if you're already married. The Bible says don't leave. But if that person's been released, you can't even seek to be reconciled with that unbeliever. Why? Because that's what the Lord says. Don't bind yourself with an unbeliever It's the command of Scripture. So Christ doesn't leave the broken-hearted person who's been abandoned, dismissed from the home, to just be exposed like that. He'll provide the grace either to sustain them in singleness if they're waiting for a believing spouse to reconcile or he will free them from that marriage if they're not meant to remain single. That's what the scripture says. And uh finally, Christ not only doesn't excuse the broken, the hardened heart, he doesn't expose the brokenhearted, but he also doesn't exploit the tender-hearted. Look at uh verse 32 again back in uh Matthew chapter 5. Again verse 32. It says uh not only does the the one who Or marries commit adultery. But it says whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And again, it's important to remember the context. It's not whoever marries a divorced woman, absolutely. Like that's just like this blanket prohibition It's the specific context that Jesus is speaking to. Alright? Specific context. Whoever marries a believing woman who's waiting to be reconciled. Alright? It's a believing woman waiting to be reconciled to her believing husband. If you enter into that relationship with this believing woman who's waiting to be reconciled to her husband, then you commit adultery. Because she still has a commitment. She's still supposed to wait for this husband. And maybe knowingly or unknowingly, this person's who has this kind of tender heart for this lady and wants to enter into a relationship. He sinned against the the covenant relationship that was prior to to his and not properly terminated. And I pointed out last time there's a few examples of people who were made to believe that a person's uh marriage situation was different than was first realized. Uh the sin of divorce and refusal to reconcile can in some case lead to an adulterous relationship. If you remember uh uh Abraham, you know, calling Sarah a sister, and you know, the kings are saying, hey, you know, she's she's pretty hot. It's kind of interesting. Sarah in some cases was like 90 years old and they're still looking at her. What kind of jeans does she have, right? But here you have these kings saying, hey, you know, she's available, thinking that that she's free, and uh God has to remind them, it's like you you touch this woman, you are a dead man. You are a dead man, she's committed, she's taken. And here you have there there could be a believing spouse that thinks, hey, this lady's available and enters into this relationship and later finds out, oh, what in the world? You didn't tell me about that. That could happen. In other cases, you have believing spouses that could get tired of waiting for this reconciliation to happen. Say, you know, forget it. And I'm gonna go on uh you know the internet and start looking up some some dates here. You know, I'm tired of waiting for this guy to get his act together. But then if these people get married, what do they do now? This new spouse could feel cheated, taken advantage of, exploited. You didn't let me know that you're already taken But the what we find here is that uh even though they might have been exploited by, you know, this initial husband or the spouse or you know whatever might have happened in this situation. Uh people are never exploited by Jesus Christ, right? Never exploited by Jesus Christ. Jesus knows exactly where you are and doesn't command you to change your position. If you get married to somebody and didn't know and what for whatever reason you entered into this relationship. What the Bible says that in 1 Corinthians 7 verse 27, are you bound to a wife? Are you already married? You already entered into this relationship? Do not seek to be released. Just stay in the condition that you're in. Are you released from a wife? Don't seek a wife. If you got the divorced or whatever, you know, and they're moved on, don't seek to get it back together again. It's like stay in the position where you're in. There's no need for you to fear that you're living in this kind of perpetual state of adultery because of a decision that you've made. Was it adultery to marry in this case? The answer would have been yes. It was adultery to get married in the first place. If you're you're you know that these people were married and they were waiting for their you know spouses to to reconcile. But what we find that out from the Bible is that even adultery is not the unforgivable sin, right? Even that's not the unforgivable sin. Martin Lloyd Jones writes this. He says, It is a terrible sin. But God forbid that there should be anyone who feels that he or she has sinned himself outside of the love of God. Or outside his kingdom because of adultery. No, if you truly repent and realize that the enormity of your sin and cast yourself upon the boundless love and mercy of God, you can be forgiven And I assure you of your pardon. But hear the words of our blessed Lord. Go and sin no more. Go and sin no more. Under the Mosaic Law, the adulterer was punished by a public stoning. But under the covenant of grace, the scripture says in that first Corinthians six, or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do you not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers Nor feminine, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And then verse eleven, such were some of you. What does that mean? All sins previously mentioned, absolutely forgiven. Absolutely forgiven. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. And uh my last word is just for those who uh for those who actually might be the ones who are the ones who were sinned against. Maybe you were the ones that were sinned against. Maybe your husband or your wife was the unfaithful partner. It's important to notice what Christ does not say, okay? While he does not condemn those who divorce for unchastee, he also doesn't commend it or encourage it either, right? Just because your spouse was unfaithful, he doesn't say, well, now you're commanded to get divorced. And there's evidence that according to the Jewish law, a man was not so much allowed as he was required to divorce an adulterous wife, as I mentioned before. The husband wasn't expected to have another offer, and you just divorced. Uh the Jewish mission had demanded termination of a marriage. But even under the old covenant, God's grace was evident to an adulterous people. And this is where I kind of sympathize. at least theologically with uh my brothers who believe in a no divorce, no remarriage, you know, kind of position. But uh but even though God recognized adultery, inflicted a wound so deep that it could be used as a grounds for divorce God never said it was a necessary cause for divorce. He says even that could be forgiven. We no longer can appeal to the hardeness. of our own hearts as an excuse for refusing to reconcile that if this person commits this sin against me and is unfaithful to me, that there is just no room at all. No room at all for forgiveness. We can't claim that anymore as believers. We can't. One one commentator observes that when Jesus said that from the beginning it was not so, Jesus insisted God did not intend hard heartedness to be an excuse for divorce In the age of the new covenant, Christians may no longer appeal to hard-heartedness as grounds for dissolving a marriage. We don't have hearts of stone, we have hearts of flesh, we have tender hearts, right? Even if you've been sinned against There can still be room in your heart to extend forgiveness. Actually, when you look at the Sermon on the Mount, the entire direction of the Sermon on the Mount Would have had a dramatic impact on marriages as well. Chrysostom comment commented that he that is meek and a peacemaker and poor in spirit and merciful, how shall he cast out his wife? He that is used to reconcile others, how shall he be at variance with her that is his own? If we as those that belong to Jesus Christ are peacemakers, Who better to make peace with than your wife or your husband, right? Who better to reconcile with? Where better to show that than with your spouse We're encouraged by the Sermon on the Mount not to clutch our rights. If I have a right to get divorced, I'm going to take it. We're not commanded to clutch our rights, but to lay our rights down, right? Lay our rights down. So we have the entire direction of the Sermon on the Mount that would have made a dramatic impact on marriages. We also have the divine example of God Himself who was willing to woo-back an adulterous life. If you can imagine that. The book of uh Hosea, if you want to flip back there to the book of Hosea , We have uh this picture that 's presented there Of spiritual adultery, the condition of Israel in the Old Testament. Israel is pictured as God's bride, but really an adulterous and unfaithful bride. Jose in an illustration of what was really going on in the nation of Israel marries a harlot. Hosea chapter 1, verse 2, it says, When the Lord first spoke through Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, Go take to yourself a wife of harlotry. And have children of harlotry. For the land commits flagrant harlotry, forsaking the Lord. He says, I want you, Hosea, to be a picture of what the nation is doing to me. This is what the nation of Israel is doing to me. Committing flagrant harlotry, prostituting herself. This is what the nation of Israel is doing to me. Over in chapter 3, verse 1, it says, Then the Lord said to me, Go again Love a woman who is loved by her husband yet an adulteress, even as the Lord loved the sons of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love raisin cakes. And it was uh used for you know this kind of uh practice of uh you know serving these other gods. So I bought her for myself for fifteen shekels of silver and Homer and a half of barley. Then I said to her, You shall stay with me for many days. You shall not play the harlot, nor shall you have a man, so I will be also towards you. What is he saying? He's saying, even after Israel runs out on me, that I'm going to go and pursue her and bring her back. I'm going to buy her back for myself. Because I'm committed to her. I'm committed to Israel. Jeremiah chapter three, it also acknowledges the the harlotry that was played in the in the nation. Guys, if you ever thought that like the God of the Old Testament was just, you know, all you know wrath and anger, I mean you just totally missed it, right? Look at Jeremiah chapter 3, verse 6. It says, Then the Lord said to me in the days of Josiah the king, have you seen what faithless Israel did? She went up on every high hill and under every green tree, and she was a harlot there. I thought after she has done all these things, she will return to me, but she did not return. And her treacherous sister Judah saw it, and I saw that for all the adulteries of faithless Israel I had sent her away and given her a writ of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she went and was a harlot also. Because of the lightness of her harlotry she polluted the land, committed adultery with stones and trees, you know, the objects of their worship. Yet in spite of all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with all her heart, but rather in deception, declares the Lord. And the Lord said to me, Faithless Israel has proved herself more righteous than treacherous Judah. Go and proclaim these words toward the north and say, say what? Return. After all this, what does the Lord say? Return, faithless Israel, declares the Lord. I will not look upon you in anger, for I'm gracious, declares the Lord. I will not be angry forever. Only acknowledge your iniquity that you have transgressed against the Lord your God, and have scattered your favors to the strangers under every green tree. And you have not obeyed my voice, declares the Lord. Return, O faithless sons, declares the Lord, for I'm a master to you, and I will take You one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you design. Then I will give you shepherds after my own heart, who will feed you on the knowledge and understanding. He says it's not over. I'm open to you. Return to me. Jeremiah 31. Look at the commitment that God has. Towards the nation. Jeremiah 31. Look what he says in verse 35. It says, Thus says the Lord, he gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and stars for light by night. Who stirs up the sea so that its waves war the uh roar, the Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel also will cease from being a nation before me forever. For thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth searched out below, then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. What is he saying here? I'm committed to em. I'm committed to em There's nothing that's going to change my commitment. That's the kind of example that we have. That's the kind of example that we have And then lastly, the reality that marriage represents is the relationship between Christ and his church, according to Ephesians 5, right? And the simple question that you have to ask is this: when does God cast off his relationship with you? What sin have you committed that turned God away from you and said, just forget it. Just forget these people Don't even bother coming back to me for forgiveness anymore. You're done. When has God ever done that to you? Back in Ephesians 5. And this is what's so beautiful about this, Ephesians chapter 5, is the Lord takes all the responsibility on himself To present us to himself. Ephesians chapter 5, look at verse 25. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. Who gave himself up? Christ did. So that he might sanctify her. Who's doing the sanctifying? Christ is. Having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present to himself the church in all her glory. Who's presenting the church? Christ is. He's doing all the work. He's doing all the work. In all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. Verse 28. So husbands ought also to love their own wives. What's the example? You know what? Some of you feel like you're doing all the work? Do all the work. Do all the work. Why? Because that's the example that's been given to us. That's the example that Christ sets before us. And Christ never turns us away. Romans chapter 8. This is the last passage I'll turn you to. Romans chapter 8. We all know this. Just want to remind us again. Verse 31, what then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? Who will bring a charge against God's elect Who's going to tell God's elect, you know what, you're done? You're finished. Who's going to bring a charge against God's elect God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who died. Yes, rather, who was raised, who was at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Just as it is written, For your sake we are being put to death all day long, we are considered a sheep to be slaughtered. But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. For I'm convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor things present nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, including you. will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Beautiful. You know what the promise is? If you come to Christ, if you turn to Christ, he will never cast you away. That's the hope that we have. And he says, this is the picture of Christ and the church. What's the picture? Marriage. We have every reason to be committed to our spouse. Every reason. Every reason. And we only need one, Christ, right? Christ is the reason. This is what uh John Stott says. He says, as a Christian pastor, whenever someone asks to speak with me about divorce, I have for some years steadfastly refused to do so. I've made the rule never to speak to anybody about divorce until I have first spoken to them about two other subjects, namely marriage and reconciliation. Sometimes the discussion of these topics makes the discussion of divorce unnecessary At the very least, it is only when a person has understood marriage and all God's call to reconciliation that a possible context has been created within which one may regretfully go on to talk about divorce. This principle of pastoral priorities is, I believe, consistent with the teaching of Jesus. And uh, like I said, there's many things that we can fight for as uh believers today you know, talking about family values, but uh one question I wonder is are we really giving the the world a compelling alternative? Are we really giving the world a compelling alternative? We as believers, we should be the best examples in marriage. Because we know who we're representing. We know who we're representing. All all marriages represent the relationship between Christ and the church. It doesn't matter if you recognize that or not. Just like everybody's made in the image of God, whether they recognize it or not, that's you're you you're a picture. You're a poor picture, but you're a picture. Every marriage is a picture of what? Christ in the church. You may be a poor picture, but you're still a picture. We should be trying to present the clearest picture we can so we can point people to the Savior that will not turn you away. This is the love of God. The loved it will not let you go. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and we thank you so much for the opportunity to revisit this issue of divorce and remarriage. And uh Father, I pray that We as a church would present the clearest picture possible of what that relationship looks like. Father, we're grateful for the truth that you give us in your word how you instruct us, and we pray that you would uh use these things to steal our hearts against the temptations of the enemy who would seek to pull down and destroy and mar that picture. That Christ gives the world of his relationship to his bride, the church. And Father, we thank you that when we belong to Christ, that we belong to Christ. without any fear of being cast away. Father, we thank you for the love that will not let us go. And Father, we pray that we would love our spouses with a love that will not let go. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.