The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the Book of Matthew? Book of Matthew chapter six. We're uh able to return in our uh study of uh the Sermon on the Mount, which has been a a fantastic uh journey uh for all of us, and uh we still have uh have quite a bit to go. We should be able to uh to move a little bit quicker uh after we get through uh uh the section uh ahead of us here but um uh just very thankful for what the Lord's been able to uh to teach us um uh throughout the the Sermon on the Mount and the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. And with this section before us, we'll uh uh hopefully wrap up uh uh the the teaching that the Lord gave on uh material wealth in chapter six, uh verses nineteen to twenty-four. I'll go ahead and read that for you and uh and we'll get started. Matthew chapter six verses nineteen to twenty-four. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but store for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body, so then if your eye is clear, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you again for being able to approach your word. Father, I pray that as we read these words, Father, that we would understand that they are the direction of our Lord. Father, that we would take your words seriously. Father, that we would not only be those that hear your word taught week in and week out, but that we would be those that practice your word in our lives. That we would make it a part of who we are, my Father, because we belong to you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen Well, uh, riches are deceitful. Riches are deceitful. And uh Jesus uses that phrase, the deceitfulness of riches. over in uh Mark chapter four and uh verse nineteen to explain what he means by the the thorns uh that come in to choke out the word of of God, the seed of the word of God. Uh the the love of money is a death trap. It's uh cunning. And uh Matthew 6 describes some of the ways that money can ensnare us. And there's a number of lies that were told by money, by wealth, you know, that kind of whispers into our ears. Uh the first lie we found in uh verses 19 to 21 where we learn that money can trick you into thinking it will be there for you. Money can trick you into thinking that it will be there for you. The word for storing up or storing away is a that's used here is is actually the word for treasury. It's uh uh the the our word thesaurus actually comes from the the Greek word uh that's used here and the whole idea behind the treasury is that you store things away for future use And uh it talks about you know money being stored away uh but you really can't use it in the future. Uh the the money that we have it'll uh or the the the material wealth, which is uh what's being spoken of here, it's either going to be It's either gonna rot, it's gonna rust, it's gonna be robbed, or eventually taken from you when you die. Uh there's nothing that you can store up for yourself uh physically that's going to be there uh for you in the end and money can can trick you into thinking that it'll be there for you. No, the greenbacks got your back. That's not how it works. The greenbacks don't have have your back It doesn't. It's a lie. And Jesus says there's only one storehouse that can guarantee your investment forever, and that's that's heaven. All that you have will uh like I said it either be taken away from you while you live or when you die, and it's It's that simple that we're all going out broke, right? Uh Stephen King, and uh yes you're thinking about the right Stephen King. Stephen King, he wrote this uh uh after a car accident that he was in and I thought these words were uh were profound and pray that he understands the full truth of them. He says this, he says, a couple years ago I found out what you can't take it with you means. I found out while I was lying in a ditch at the side of a a country road covered with mud and blood and with the tibia of my right leg poking out the side of my jeans. like a branch of a tree taken down in a thunderstorm. I had a MasterCard in my wallet, but when you're lying in a ditch with broken glass in your hair, no one accepts MasterCard. We all know that life is ephemeral or brief, but on that particular day and in the months that followed, I got a painful but extremely valuable look at life's simple backstage truths. We come in naked and broke And we may go out dressed, but we're just as broke. Warren Buffett, going out broke. Bill Gates, going out broke. Tom Hanks, going out broke. Steve King, broke. Not a crying dime. All the money you earn, all the stocks you buy, all the mutual funds you trade, all of that is mostly smoke and mirrors, and it's still going to be a quarter past getting late, whether you tell the time on a Timex or a Rolex. Doesn't matter. And like I said, I I pray that he understands that that's not where the story ends. But we're all going out broke. And the only way that you'll have anything invested in the future, you know, that's that's reserved for you is if you put it in heaven, if you make your investment in eternity. Money can trick you into thinking that it'll be there for you. Another lie that money tells us is found in verses 22 to 23 Uh money can trick you into thinking that what's wrong is really right. That what's wrong is really right. Uh the the love of money will will play with your your gauges for morality. Uh what you once thought was wrong all of a sudden doesn't seem all that wrong if you can get paid for it. You can convince yourself of uh of almost anything that it's you know it's for the greater good. You know, even uh doing something that's uh behind the s uh the scenes, that's uh that's underhanded, it's like, you know, well well, you know, look at what I'll achieve if I if I do this And Jesus says that if you focus on material wealth, that it'll turn out the lights morally for you. The moral compass that once pointed north, you know, towards righteousness Now point south, but you think it's north. You think it's north. You think it's it's right. And that's a scary place to be because we can convince ourselves of all kinds of things, can't we? You know, we play all these mind games in our heads. And uh in Second Kings, if you remember that story, uh Second Kings Gehazi uh convinced himself to lie and to take advantage of of Naaman, who had just become a believer in the God of Israel Right after he was healed of leprosy. You know, so Naaman comes from uh his country of Aram down to Israel, meets the prophet, is healed of his leprosy. You know, he wants to give a gift, but Elisha refuses it. You know, I don't want your your money. As the Lord lives, I'll take nothing from you. And uh Gehazi convinces himself that it's right to go and take advantage of this guy and actually brings the Lord into it. In 2 Kings chapter 5, in verse 20, listen to what he says. He says, Behold, my master has spared this name in the Aramean by not receiving from his hands what he brought. As the Lord lives, you know, as he's making this vow before God, as the Lord lives, I will run after him and take something from him. It's totally wrong. What he's doing is absolutely wrong. It's criminal. But he convinces himself that what I'm doing is actually right. Because he's looking at the dollar signs. He's looking at what he can achieve, what he can get. So he convinces himself that what's wrong is actually right and that the Lord is actually on my side. Convinces himself of that. And there's people, even today, you know, right now on the corners in Baltimore, convincing themselves that what they're doing is actually right. They they like to think of themselves as you know providing a service to the community, right? By selling drugs. It's their product and they're just out there trying to serve their customers. Trying to convince themselves that, you know, hey, I'm doing it for my family. Convincing themselves that what's wrong is actually right. The gauges are broken. The gauges are broken because of money. Money can lie to you. Money deceives you. And Jesus says, if what's light to you is really dark, how great is the darkness? If what you think is light is actually dark, now how great is the darkness that you're willing to go down to, right? Like I said, if you're going 60 and you think you're going 30, what are you actually doing when you're going 60? You know, when the gauges say 60, how fast are you actually going? Darkness leads to more darkness, leads to more darkness. And there's no telling where you can go once you play those games in your mind. Money's a deceiver. Tricks you to thinking it will be there for you, tricks you into thinking that what's wrong is really right. Here's another lie. Money can trick you into thinking that God is okay with sharing his throne Money can convince you that God is okay with sharing his throne, and that's a lie. Look at verse 24. No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and wealth. And think about the deceitfulness in that statement. The lie is not that God is okay with giving up his throne, right? I mean that would be too obvious. You know, it's that God is okay with sharing his throne. You can have two masters. You know, God doesn't have to be the only master. You can have another master alongside of him. We're not telling you to get rid of God. We're not telling you not to follow God, not to serve God. We're just saying serve God and money. Serve God in your own selfish desires. You don't have to give up on God, church, religion. All that's fine. And there's no need to worry about God because God is actually fine with you pursuing wealth with you pursuing, you know, just just uh living it up and and loving loving your your material possessions. God's okay with that. But the the the scriptures say that nobody Nobody. No, there's no exceptions to this. Nobody can serve two masters. It's a lie. It's a lie. And there's there's many pastors today who are desperately trying to convince their people that they can serve two masters and it's okay with God. That God is actually behind you if you're trying to serve two masters. Some of you heard about the prosperity preacher Creflo Dollars fundraiser for a $65 million jet. You guys heard about that one? What you may not know is that it looks like he's actually raised the money to get it Sixty-five to seventy million dollar jet that he, you know, got from his uh contributors, his people In a defense against those who uh question his desire for uh for a jet, this is what he says. The devil is aggressively trying to discredit my voice. The enemy has got to discredit the voices of faith and grace and truth because he doesn't want you to know that you can walk on water if you can look at Jesus And what what does he mean by that? He means that you can be prosperous as I am by looking at Jesus. You know, Jesus is like the key to your financial prosperity. If you can look at Jesus, you know, you can walk on water. And then he says this, you know, about the people who said it he shouldn't be thinking about a jet. He says, I can dream as long as I want to. I can believe God as long as I want to. If I want to believe God for a $65 million plan, you can't stop me from dreaming. And if you thought, and this is just where it gets ridiculous. Like I said, darkness leads to more darkness. If you thought a $65 million plane was too much, if they discover life on Mars, I'm going to have to believe God for a billion-dollar space shuttle because we've got to preach the gospel on Mars. With God all things are possible. So dream on, baby. Dream on. Dream for the best. Dream for the best healing. Dream for the best deliverance. Dream for the best house. Dream for the best You are the children of the Almighty God. Dream on baby And one of the saddest things when I watched that, it wasn't what he said. It was the applause that he received after he said it. Thousands of people filling a stadium and everybody's applauding them. That this this is it, this is what we're after. Dream on, baby. You can have it all, you can have it all. The deception out there is thick. It's deception. The Bible teaches us, on the other hand, in 1 Timothy 6 9, but those who want to get rich, those who desire riches, if you want to get rich. You will fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction If you have a desire, I just want to be rich. I'm just dreaming that I can be rich. The Bible says that it plunges you into foolish and harmful desires that bring men to ruin and destruction. And teachers like Cruffalo are plunging thousands right into ruin and destruction under the guise that God is behind you. God wants you to dream big and have the best of everything. It's not what the Bible teaches us. God is not okay with sharing his throne with your riches. He's not. He's not And there's can only be one who's seated on the throne and God won't share that position with anyone or anything. There's only there there can only be one number one, right? You guys get that? There can only be one number one. And that's really the point of this verse, and that's what uh What it goes on to say in the beginning of the verse, no one can serve two masters. It gives the principle there, and then it gives the particular masters that can't be seated on the throne at the same time. You cannot serve God and wealth. That's the main point. And then in the the middle of the verse, that main point is supported by two arguments. The word for introduces the reason that undergirds the main point. The reasons you can't have two masters is because You can't love two masters and you can't be devoted to two masters. We can't serve two masters because we can't love two masters or be devoted to two masters. So let's look at the main point together. We cannot serve two masters. You can't serve two masters. And the uh the the language that Jesus uses here, his disciples would have been very familiar with it. He uses the words kurias. and dulas. Curios is Lord. Dulas is slave. Curios and Dulas. And this helps us understand why Jesus says you can't serve two masters. If uh Jesus was talking about uh service as an employee, you know, you're just kind of paid as a contractor for service, it's it's totally possible to have you know two contracts going on at the same time, you know, I'll go here today, go there tomorrow. But Jesus has a very particular relationship in mind. The word for service is the word that's used for slave service. Slave service One commentator put it, men can work for two employers, but no slave can be the property of two owners. For single ownership and full-time service are the essence of slavery. So you you you don't you don't clock out as a slave, right? You know, hey, I'm I'm done with you today, I'm you know gonna clock out, I'm gonna go serve somebody. That's not how it works. That's not how it works. You're your full-time service. You don't clock out If you're an employee, there's a time of the day that belongs to you as a slave. No part of your day belongs to you. And even in rare cases where you had a joint ownership of a slave It was clear that two masters couldn't have completely equal authority and responsibility over a slave. It just didn't work. If there were two, only one was the real master, right? Only one is the real master. The other one's just a master and name only. But only one is the real master. Only one is uh number one. That's true in the physical relationship with earthly masters, and it's true spiritually as well. We can't have two masters with complete equal authority and responsibility And the two opposing masters are identified in this verse as God and wealth or God and mammon. And uh true Christians have always recognized that the God is the Lord and Master, right? God is Lord. He's the master. The primary word for master again is curios. It's the word that was used for the master of a house, for the owner of a slave. uh came to be used for ul uh an ultimate title of allegiance uh that was given to the Roman Caesar. Uh in the Roman Empire that was a title that was given to the Roman Caesar and Romans actually forced people to recognize Caesar as Curios, you know, to recognize him as Lord with ultimate power, authority. And uh Christians, you know, were the ones that refused to call Caesar Lord. It's like, I can't call Caesar Lord. You know, there's only one Lord. We we we bow to Jesus Christ is Lord. And uh Romans used that as a reason to execute uh Christians uh during the the first century But uh the Lord is God. The Lord alone is God, and uh everybody else is an imposter. And uh to be a slave of of God, uh to be considered a slave of God is really a privilege, isn't it? It's a privilege to be considered a a slave of God. Not all slavery is to be despised. Um and our view of of slavery has been uh tainted by the uh American and and British slave trade. You know, because that's usually how we hear about slavery. We automatically think of, you know, somebody's carried off on a boat, ripped off off of their land. The Bible had a different word for that. You know, flip over to Exodus chapter 21, just so you can see this. Exodus chapter 21. Like I said, we tend to think of uh slavery as uh you know being ripped off of your land and being sent overseas somewhere. But uh the Bible has another word for that. The word for that is kidnapping. Okay? The word for that is kidnapping. Exodus chapter 21, look at verse verse 16. It says, He who kidnaps a man Whether he sells him or he is found in his possession, shall surely be put to death. If if people really follow the Bible, Slave trade would have ended a long time ago, right? You know, anybody who's found taking a slave, selling a slave, in possession of a slave, kidnapping somebody from their land, you are to be put to death. You know, and people uh say you know they they use the Bible to promote slavery. Yeah, that's true that people use the Bible to promote slavery, but if they read their Bibles in context, they wanted to use the Bible to promote slavery. Not the kind of slavery that they were uh engaged in anyway. It would have put slavery to to to bed a long time ago. Uh all slavery wasn't wasn't man stealing, wasn't kidnapping. Some slavery was was actually considered a privilege depending on who your master was, right? It all depends on who your master is. In uh Genesis chapter uh fifteen, if you remember uh Eliezer Uh he was the slave of of Abraham, and um he was treated so well. Uh Abraham's uh slave Eliezer was treated so well. that Abraham considered him as a son and planned on giving him the entire inheritance. His entire inheritance was going to go over to this Eliezer of Damascus, a slave in his house. He treated him like a like a son. He had responsibilities that he had to carry out for Abraham, but Abraham treated him like his own flesh and blood. That was the kind of slavery where it was a privilege to be considered a slave. I'm a slave to Abraham. I belong to Abraham. Abraham takes care of me, and he's actually planning on giving me everything after he dies. It was like a a son kind of relationship. And as believers, we have a benevolent master. A master who cares for us, a master who who listened to this purchased you with the blood of his son. You can't get any closer than that You don't have any greater affection than the affection that God has for us. He purchased us with the blood of his own son in order to buy us for himself. This is the kind of master that we have in God. But uh mammon, on the other hand, wealth is a is a ruthless, impersonal, and abusive master. The the word mammon uh that you'll find in some of your translations there um uh the word mammon or or wealth. It's a it's an Aramaic word that's uh uh referred to property, possessions, or or money. It's uh reference to material wealth and it's kind of personified here, portrayed as a false god. And uh just like the the the idols of of the Israelites, they're made out of wood and stone and you know metal and things like that. Um It's impersonal, you know. It doesn't have any feelings, right? There's there's nothing, no personality to to money. There's no personality to wealth. And uh Psalm 115 and Talks about the the false gods that you know the Israelites created. Says they have mouths but they can't speak. They have eyes but they can't see have ears but they can't hear, they have noses but they can't smell, they have hands but can't feel Feet but can't walk, they can't make a sound with their throat, and the one who makes them will become like them. Everyone who trusts in them would be like their their gods and uh Wealth is a is a is a master that doesn't care about anybody. Wealth doesn't care who it hurts, you know, to satisfy itself. Over in uh in Proverbs chapter one, if you uh want to flip over there in Proverbs chapter one. It talks about the pursuit of wealth and the enticement of young men, much like the gang activity of today in Proverbs chapter 1 over in verse 11. Talks about this pursuit of wealth and just how ruthless it is. Says uh my son in verse 10, if sinners entice you, don't consent. If they say, Come with us, let us lie and wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause, let us swallow them alive like shale, even whole as those who go down to the pit. We will find all kinds of precious wealth We will fill our houses with spoil. Throw in your lot with us. We shall all have one purse. You know, so here's this pursuit of wealth, and it doesn't care who it hurts. Innocent people killed, murdered. But we're going to get paid, you know, making this kind of uh uh the deception in the mind, you know, takes them into even um the corruption of murder Money's the master that can't hear or answer your prayers. Can't hear or answer your prayers. In Jeremiah 2, 27 and 28, God addresses the people who made gods for themselves. Listen to what he says. Those of you say to a tree, you're my father, and to a stone you gave me birth, for they have turned their back to me and not their faces, but in time, in the time of their trouble, They will say, arise and save us, you know, talking to their false deities. Arise, save us, we're in trouble now. Then they turn to God, you know, God save me. But look at what God says. But where are your gods which you've made for yourself? Let them arise if they can save you. You know, you trusted in these false guys all this time. Why not why are you gonna try to turn to me now? Go go to your false guys, see if they're gonna hear you. Let them arise if they can save you in the time of trouble, for according to the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah. If you're going to have a master, you need to make sure you have a master that cares for you. You need to have a master that can actually hear and answer your prayers when you cry out when you're in trouble. Money's a master that can't help you. And as much as people trust in it, money can't save them. Matthew chapter 16 and verse 26 it says, For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? What does it gain a man if he gets everything? You get everything you ever hoped for, ever dreamed for. You know, dream on, baby, and I got everything. What will that profit you? When you finally face God, what will a man give in exchange for his soul? Riches in Proverbs 11, verse 4, it says, Riches do not profit in the day of wrath. And that in the day of wrath, your riches won't do you a bit of good. Riches don't help you. Doesn't matter what kind of money you have when it's time to pay for your sins. You can't buy your way out. Money's a God that doesn't care, it doesn't hear, and it can't save. And who would who would spend the their life serving a master like that? I had a a friend of mine who just lost his grandfather. His grandfather uh did well uh during his uh his lifetime, uh, but wanted nothing to do with the gospel. And uh had a couple brothers that uh that went to his uh bedside. Um, you know, while he's on his on his deathbed, he was in the the ICU, uh actually right here in Baltimore. And a couple brothers went over to go and try to share the gospel with them, and he rejected every offer. Every offer of the gospel he rejected. You know, it was rude to the people that that came, rejected every offer of the gospel, and died a week ago. Died a week ago. What use is the money to you now? What use is the money? Money doesn't care for you. Money doesn't hear you when you pray. Money can't save you when it's the day of wrath. There's nothing you can do. Short-term benefits aren't worth the long-term losses. It's just not worth it. And the frightening thing about this verse is Jesus is not addressing the outright rejection of God. You know, that's not what he's addressing here. He's addressing people who in their mind would say, you know, I believe in God. I believe in God. More than that, they'd say, I serve God. I believe in God. I serve God. They'd even say that God is my master. He's my master. But in their affections and their actions, they actually betray who their real master is. You know, so so what we're talking about is people who say, I believe in God, I I serve God, He's my master, I love God. But their their true affection is over here for their physical, material wealth. That's where their true affection is. And there's two questions that you can use to diagnose your own heart. Number one, what am I willing to sacrifice everything to get? What am I willing to sacrifice everything to get? In uh verse 24 it says, he will either hate the one and love the other. The word uh love, it's the word uh agapa, uh we uh familiar with the term agape uh for love. It's a word that speaks of a self-sacrificing kind of love for the benefit of another. When we speak of God's love for us, we often think about this, that uh God so loved the world that he gave, you know, he sacrificed to purchase us for himself. And the question that you need to think about is, is when you think about what you're willing to make tremendous sacrifice for, what do you fill the blank-in with? What am I willing to make tremendous sacrifice for? Or let me put it another way. Would you be willing to do something for a paycheck that you wouldn't be willing to do for God alone? If I get paid for it, I'll do it. But uh you know beyond that, you know, I'm just not too sure about about that. One of my professors, uh, he used to remind us, uh he says, uh gentlemen, gentlemen, listen, listen to me. Says, gentlemen, we don't get paid to preach. We would pay to preach. It's not a career, it's a calling. It's a calling. Whether I get paid, don't get paid, it doesn't matter to me. You know, it's it's about the fulfilling my calling before the Lord. When you have people that say, oh, I'm not really interested in ministry if uh if there's not a paycheck attached to it, you know, I won't go over there and preach or go to this church and preach if you know the honorarium's not right, and you have pastors all over the place. that that operate like that. You need to start questioning, you know, who who who do I really love? Who is this really about? Who am I really here serving? Many of the the brothers that I went through a seminary with, they they made tremendous sacrifices because they believed that this is what the master wanted them to do You know, people gave up uh you know uprooted their families, gave up their careers, sold their businesses so they could spend four years in seminary training for you know full-time ministry to do what the Lord has called them to do. And for the love of the Master, we should be willing to give up our time, our energy, our resources, temporary pleasures, you know, finances if we believe that this is what the Master wants me to do. I should be willing to make a sacrifice because of the love of the master. I love the master. You know, that's where you should be. I love the master. That's contrasted with the hatred for the wrong master, which is material wealth here. You know, he will hate the one and love the other. And uh when we think about this uh these you know contrasting ideas of of love and hatred, it might be uh more helpful to think about higher and lower affections, okay? Higher and lower affection. Just to give you an example of that, if you flip over to uh Luke chapter 14. Jesus uses this idea of love and hatred and uh you know talks about uh uh this call to discipleship in Luke chapter 14 is the context here Luke chapter 14 talks about the call to discipleship, and he makes a pretty s pretty startling statement, you know, a statement that uh can bother some people, uh, but not if you understand what he's what he's getting at. Luke chapter 14, uh look what he said in verse 25. He says, now large crowds were going along with him, and he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate His own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me, he cannot be my disciple. And people scratch their heads like, what in the world is going on here? You know, isn't Jesus' message about love? You know, love one another, sacrifice yourself for one another. What is he doing here saying, hate your mother, hate your father, hate your own life, brothers, sisters, everybody? You know, what is he doing here? Was he uh you know contradicting the second greatest commandment to love your neighbor as yourself? And the the answer is of course not. It's not some kind of memory lapse, temporary amnesia. You know, what Jesus is saying here is uh By comparison, I require supreme loyalty and dedication to myself. If you're going to come after me, if you're really going to follow me, I want your supreme loyalty. And if if mother and father say, Don't come, and I've said come, I want you to come. If if even everything within you says, I don't want to go, but I say go, what do you do? You go. Because your supreme loyalty and affection is given to Jesus Christ. And this is what he's saying by comparison, the love that you should have for me, everything else in comparison is hatred. That I'm willing to do what God wants over what anybody else says, what anybody else desires for my life. Jesus Christ is number one. That's what he calls for those who are going to be his disciples. So we have to understand that that context. And uh Jesus is really saying the same thing back over in Matthew chapter 6 In 24 where he talks about money, this is not a call for us to just hate money and everything associated with it. You know, uh the Bible says that the God's the one that gives us the ability to make wealth in uh Deuteronomy 8, verse 18. You know, God's the one that gives us the power, the ability to make wealth. We understand from uh Ecclesiastes chapter five that uh the money, the wealth that God gives us is a gift from God. Uh so we're not to look at these blessings from God as now, you know, I I I hate this, you know. Every time we get a paycheck. Well, they they did it again. I can't believe they did this. You know? I hate this money. You know, somebody gives you a gift for your birthday at Christmas time. What in the world are you doing? You know, you look in your wallet, there's money left in there. What are you still doing in there? You know what I mean? That's that's not the kind of uh hatred that uh God wants us to have. He's not saying that we hate having an income, you know. Rather, it's saying that money does not pose a threat to my love and affection for God. That's what he's saying. That this money does not stand in the way of me following God's will for my life. I'm willing to get rid of my money. If if this money is going to come in between me and my God, I'm willing to get rid of it, to throw it away. If it's going to stand in between me and my relationship to God, God is your master, not your your wallet, right? Highest affection is reserved for God alone. It's been said that uh money is a is a great servant, but a terrible master. You know, so so that's the way that you look at it. This money is my servant. This this money is my slave, and it's a slave to God. And if God wants it, God can take it. It's a slave to God. I'm a slave to God and everything that I own is a slave to God. This money does not rule me. That's the way we're supposed to look at it. We use money to serve God. We don't use God to serve our money, our fleshly desires. And some of the questions you might want to ask yourself in regard to this, regard to your affection, is uh What do you think about most often? What do you think about most often? God or money? What do you rejoice over most? You know, are you willing to rejoice over, you know, getting a fat check, but not willing to rejoice over God's will being done? Hey, I got a chance to witness, to share the gospel with somebody. You know, look, this brother was encouraged by my words, you know, rejoicing over teaching of of God's truth. You know, do you rejoice over that In Psalm 119, it talks about rejoicing in the Word of God as much as in all riches. I rejoice in the Word of God. I just can't wait to lay awake at night and the night watches so I can think about the Word of God. Or do you lay awake in the night watches to think about your money and how you're going to protect it and keep it and gain more? What do you think about most often? What do you rejoice over? What do you dream about? When when Crufflow says, Dream on, baby, what's what's the kind of dream that you have? Is it a dream about more stuff? And and here's what's so dangerous about the the prosperity teaching is that None of your desires have to change in order to believe it. As an unbeliever. As an unbeliever, you already want health and wealth and success, don't you? I mean, that's what I wanted before I was saved, right? Health, wealth, success. And now I come over to Christianity and they're promising me the same things. Nothing has to change fundamentally about who I am in order to believe the prosperity gospel. It's just attaching a name to it now. Well, I want health, wealth, success, and Jesus is going to give me health, wealth, and success. This is it. Your master has not changed. Jesus saying those who come after me, your master's got to change. Your master has to change Where's the evidence of the grace of God when all you wanted is what you've always wanted? Where's the attitude that Paul had when he spoke in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 8 He says, more than that, I count all things to be loss in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I've suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. Jesus Christ is everything. Everything else is rubbish compared to knowing Jesus Christ. And in many cases, like I said, you just have unconverted people clinging on to their idols, but they've just slapped the Jesus sticker on it. Now Jesus wants me to be healthy and wealthy and successful and have all of my desires fulfilled. I'm going to dream on because God's going to give it to me. So you need to ask yourself, where are my highest affections? What am I willing to sacrifice everything to get? And then here's the other question on the opposite side: what am I willing to sacrifice everything to keep? What am I willing to sacrifice everything to keep when for those of you know a little bit about uh Southern uh California, uh there there are winds that blow mostly In the fall, they're known as the Santa Ana winds. Sometimes they're called the Devil Winds because it's this hot, dry air that it brings into the area. And uh if a fire catches during the season where the Santa Ana winds are are blowing, it just takes this fire and just spreads it, you know, like mad. And uh, you know, so it's just a very dangerous time. Sometimes even teenagers will light a fire during the Santa Anna winds uh just to see the fire, you know, burn. And um and a lot of their their little pranks can can burn entire neighborhoods and sometimes even cause death. I had a friend at Grace Community Church who uh whose house caught fire along with uh several others in his uh neighborhood, you know, the like a whole black was uh burnt out. And uh all he could do was just like stand there and watch his house get burnt down to the ground. It was it was just over. You know, there's nothing he could do. He couldn't go back in for for anything. Uh he and his wife were spared, but everything that he had in his uh in his house was lost. And I I remember uh uh asking him, I said, you know, if you if you could have gone back for for one thing, you know, if you had the opportunity to go back for one thing, you know, what would you have uh gone back for? And he told me, he says, you know, if I had the opportunity to go back, I would have gone back for my family pictures. You know, ever everything else, you know. I can replace that, you know. But I I would have gone back for my my family pictures. I'm fine with losing everything else. And when you know you can only keep one thing It kind of kind of focuses you on what's really important, right? If you can only keep one. And uh the word that's used for devotion here in uh verse twenty-four, he will either be devoted to the one and despise the other. The word devotion means to hold firmly onto, to hold fast, to be unwilling to let go of. When you have two masters and there's only one that you say, I can't lose this one. Which which one is it? Which one is it? The second reason why you can't have two masters is because there's only one that you'd rather hold on to if you had to lose one. And uh the question is, is if I lost if I lost everything but I gained Christ, would I consider myself blessed or cursed? If everything else was gone, but I still held on to Christ. But I consider myself fortunate, blessed, because I'm holding on to what really matters. Or if Christ is gone, but you you still got your money at the end. Oh wow. You know, I'm so blessed that I've got these greenbacks. The choice seems obvious, right? Uh John Stott said that when the choice is seen for what it is, a choice between creator and creature. Between the glorious personal God and a miserable thing called money, between worship and idolatry, it seems inconceivable that anybody could make the wrong choice. But you know what the reality is is that people are making the wrong choice every day. Every day people are making the wrong choice. And I want to be clear that God is not against you having wealth, okay? God is not against you having treasures. It's not a sin to have material possessions. It's a sin to be deceived by your material possessions. And it's a a sin for your your treasures to have you. Instead of you having your treasures, your treasures have you. So uh we need to make sure we're informed by the word of God, right? We need to to make sure that we know that our money will not be there for us. That's not what we need to hold on to. Your money will rot, rust, be robbed, or you will die and leave it all. You know, that's not what what was going to be there for you. A solution is to trust God alone with all that you have, and uh while you have it, use it for the kingdom. Do you do you own a car? That's fantastic. How are you gonna use that for the kingdom of God You own a house? That's great. How are you going to use it for the kingdom this week? Or did you think you remodeled it for yourself? How are you going to use it for the kingdom of God? Do you own possessions? How are you gonna gonna allow your possessions to be useful for the kingdom of God? Maybe it's inviting somebody over to share it with you You know, maybe it's uh uh if you can't use it, you know, maybe it's giving it away, selling it, so you can transfer that money to kingdom purposes. But everything that we have, it's a stewardship, right? How are we going to use those resources that God has given us? Our houses, our cars, you know, everything that we own. How am I going to use this for the kingdom to build up somebody else? It's not about me. It's not about me. In uh in uh uh the the parable of the the the rich fool. Why is he called a fool? Because he started it all up for himself. You know, he uh learned about the prodigal son. Why is he called the prodigal? Because he wasted it all on himself He wouldn't be called a prodigal if he was using that money for others and trying to benefit other people. The rich man wouldn't be called a fool if he was sharing what he had with others. But he stored it all up for himself. It's all about me What you have is not for you. See how you can use the things that God has given you for it for others. God's not saying get rid of it all. He's just saying use it for the kingdom. Put the kingdom first in your life. You also need to know that what's wrong is wrong no matter what we can gain by it, right? What's wrong is wrong. You never make an excuse for sin no matter what the benefit is In Proverbs chapter, in Psalms chapter 15, it speaks of those who abide with God. Who are those who abide with God? Who are those who are in his holy tent? Those who don't put out money at interest don't take a bribe against the innocent, and those who do these things will never be shaken. You don't take advantage of other people. Have a clean hands, pure heart before the Lord. I'm gonna do what's right even if it hurts. Even if it hurts me, I'm gonna still do the right thing. What's wrong is wrong. Doesn't matter what I gain by it And number three, God is not okay with sharing his throne with anyone or anything. You need to believe that, right? God's not okay with sharing his throne. But to be a slave of God is more than enough for any of us, right? You know, we only have a choice of one master, and uh God is uh is is master enough for any of us. And as believers, we have a master who loves us, a master who cares for us, a master who purchased us for himself with the blood of his own son. Why wouldn't you want to serve a master like that? The material wealth that we have is no competition for our master and the one that we serve. Amen? Let's pray Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you, God, uh, so much for this opportunity that we uh we have to uh take a look at your word, to consider what it means to have one master who's God. Now Father, I pray for any who are here who don't have a supreme affection for Jesus Christ, that don't have a supreme affection for God, that whether it comes to money or or anything else, that they would have a hard time choosing who they would serve. My Father, I pray that there's nobody here like that. My Father, that it's not the direction of any of our lives to have a love for money over a love for you. My father, I pray that we would be willing to to lay down uh anything, Lord, uh, for your sake, for your kingdom, uh, because we put your kingdom first, we put you first. Uh we belong to you, we're purchased by you, and uh it it It gives us no greater pleasure than to know that we're serving and honoring you, God. So, Father, I pray that it would be our ambition to please you. Father, we pray that uh that you would uh decrease, Lord, and eliminate the any love for wealth, material possessions that still remains within our own hearts. Father, that uh that the supreme uh attention and devotion would be given uh uh to you because you're worthy of it. Uh Father, we thank you that uh you give eternal life to those that are willing to turn away from their old masters. And to give allegiance to you. And uh Father, we uh know that that's possible because of the the life, the perfect life of Jesus Christ and his death. on the cross that that paid uh for our pardon and for our entrance into eternal life. My father, we uh pray that you alone would be glorified and honored in our lives personally and in in us corporately as abiding. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.