The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, let's open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 5. We'll continue our examination of a passage that's really examining us. Uh one of the joys of uh preaching expositionally is that the the text itself uh creates the structure and the the content uh for the the messages and Only have a general idea of uh where I'll be from week to week, but my goal is really to to do all I can to to try to get out of the way and allow the Word of God to speak and What we learn as we examine this book together is that the book is really examining us. And that was my experience as I began to consider the passage for this morning, Matthew chapter 5, verses 33 to 37. And I understand um a lot of you weren't here last week for uh the message on marriage, but it opened up a whole lot of questions and uh just pastorally we want to make sure we uh we go back to that so probably next week we'll a return uh to the uh preceding verses and uh and try to uh walk through that a little bit more together. So uh but today Matthew chapter five thirty three to thirty seven listen what Our Lord says, Again, you have heard that the ancients were told, you shall not make false vows, but shall fulfill your vows to the Lord. But I say to you, make no oath at all, either by heaven for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Nor shall you make an oath by your head, for ye cannot make one hair white or black, but let your statement be yes, yes, or no, no Anything beyond these is of evil. Oh, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for you know your word Uh Father, we thank you for uh revealing your truth to us and uh allowing us to examine it together and uh examining our hearts through it. Uh Father, I pray that you'd use uh my words and that I would be uh an instrument in your hands for your glory. In Jesus praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well the text today kind of seems harmless enough, doesn't it? Uh on the surface it would appear that the statement from Christ is a fairly easy one to kind of check off the list and move on to something more challenging like trying to answer the questions about divorce and remarriage that I left unanswered last week. You know, maybe we can Spend our time doing that instead. But uh by God's grace, uh like I said, we'll return to some of those uh questions from last week, but doesn't seem to be too much difficulty about understanding this one. As long as we don't make a vow We haven't disobeyed the intent of the statement, right? Uh but if that's as far as we went, we wouldn't understand just how penetrating the words of Christ really were. And uh you have to remember that uh Jesus was completely overturning the current thinking of his day and his words penetrated far beneath the kind of surface morality that they were used to. And uh anyone can avoid Using a vow, but what Jesus was desiring here was truth in the inward parts. Truth in the inward parts. In Psalm 15, David asked the question, O Lord, who may abide in your tent? Who may dwell on your holy hill? And listen to his answer in verse two of Psalm 15. He who walks with integrity of heart and works righteousness and speaks truth in his heart. Speaks truth in his heart. And what Jesus is saying here is that the kind of righteousness that characterizes his followers and describes those who are part of his kingdom is a heart of honesty. And I really hope to to make that clear as we uh continue to look at this passage together. And there's really three commitments that we must have if we're to maintain a heart of honesty. We must give up any false appearances of respect. Get rid of any false assurances of honesty and get used to speaking without any false affirmations of integrity. And we'll talk about what that means. Number one, we must give up any false appearances of respect. Look at verse 33 It says again you have heard that the ancients were told, You shall not make false vows, but shall fulfill your vows to the Lord And that seems right, doesn't it? Fulfill your vows to the Lord. And it's right that any vow made to the Lord was to be fulfilled. God made that clear numerous times in the Old Testament. In Numbers 30, verse 2, it says If a man makes a vow to the Lord or takes an oath to bind himself with a binding obligation, he shall not violate his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth. In Deuteronomy twenty-three, in verse twenty-one, it says, When you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay to pay it, for it would be sin in you, and the Lord your God will surely require it of you. And then later down in verse twenty-three It says, You shall be careful to perform what goes out from your lips, just as you have voluntarily vowed to the Lord your God what you have promised. And uh we understand from scripture that God took the vows that men made seriously. Uh why don't you flip back to the book of Ecclesiastes? Ecclesiastes Chapter 5. Let's us know that God is not a God to be trifled with. If a vow was made to the Lord, a full payment was expected. And if full payment was not made, consequences were expected. And that's what people were calling for, whether they made that explicit or not. Look at uh Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 2, starting at verse 2. It says, do not be hasty in word or impulsive in thought to bring up a matter in the presence of God. For God is in heaven and you are on the earth. Therefore let your words be few. For the dream comes through much effort and the voice of a fool through many words. You understand what I say? The voice of a fool through many words. You keep talking and foolishness is mound to come out, right? The voice of a fool through many words, verse four, when you make a vow to God, do not be late in paying it, for he takes no delight in fools. Pay what you vow, for it is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay. Do not let your speech cause you to sin, and do not say in the presence of the messenger of God that it was a mistake Why should God be angry on account of your voice and destroy the works of your hands? A vow was a solemn promise to fulfill a pledge, but it also included the idea of, listen to this, self-cursing Self-cursing. That if you made a vow to the Lord, that what you were also saying is if I don't fulfill this vow, Lord, I want you to curse me. I'm calling down the cursing of God if I'm not speaking the truth. When a vow is taken, the person who is not not only calling on the Lord as a witness, but also calling on the Lord to inflict punishment if he did not fulfill the terms of the vow. And sometimes that was made explicit. Like in the vow that uh uh Jonathan gave to David when Jonathan uh promised David, uh who was later to be king, uh safety from his father Saul. Remember, Saul was after uh David's life. In 1 Samuel chapter 20 and verse 13 it says, If it please my father, this is Jonathan talking, if it please my father to do you harm, may the Lord do so to Jonathan and more also. If I do not make it known to you and send you away, that you may go in safety, and may the Lord be with you as he has been with my father. So he's saying, If my father intends to do you harm, may more than that come to me if I don't warn you about it. So it was calling down this cursing from God, and that was the idea that was involved in every vow that was made. There was this self-cursing that was included. May God strike me dead if I do not fulfill whatever the terms of this this vow is. God is the witness and the idea behind God being the witness is that God knows what the truth is. He knows whether or not I'm lying, and it's God who inflicts the punishment if I don't carry out the terms of this vow. To invoke the name of the Lord, and a vow was a serious matter. And it's serious for a couple things. First of all, like I said, because God knows everything. God knows everything. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 13, it says, There is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare before the eyes of him with whom we have to do. In Isaiah 29, verse 15, it says, Woe to those who deeply hide their plans from the Lord and whose deeds are done in a dark place, and they say, Who sees us? Who knows? People that get into little corners in the dark and say, nobody knows. Nobody knows what's going on. God sees just as well in the dark as he does in the light. You're not hiding anything from the Lord. In Job 34, verse 22, it says, There is no darkness or deep shadow where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. God sees everything. And second, there's no place that you can run from his presence. Not only does he see everything, but he's actually right there present with you. He's right there present with you. Psalm 139, verse 7. Where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? Jeremiah 23, 24 says, Can a man hide himself in hiding places so I do not see him? declares the Lord. Do I not fill the heavens and the earth? I'm everywhere. I'm everywhere. This is what the Lord declares. And then third, and what makes this so scary is that there is no limit to the consequences that God could bring. No limit. God has infinite ways to make us pay for our deceit. So vows were only to be reserved. For the most solemn occasions and were to be done only in the name of the Lord, to be done in the name of the Lord in Deuteronomy chapter six Verses thirteen to fifteen it says, You shall fear only the Lord your God. You shall worship him and swear by his name. You shall not follow other gods or any of the gods of the peoples whom surround you. For the Lord your God in the midst of you is a jealous God, otherwise the anger of the Lord your God will be kindled against you, and he will wipe you off the face of the earth. So what it was saying is that if you're going to make a solemn vow You're going to do it in the presence of God, and you're only going to do it in the name of God. Because only God is the one who can actually ensure that the terms of this vow are going to be carried out. Don't make any vows to a false God. That would be to give them the the uh the affirmation or the the credibility of being the God who can inflict punishment. No other God can inflict punishment. Only the God of all the earth. So it says to swear by any other God would be to acknowledge them as the God who sees all and knows all. Only the God of the earth does that. God says, that's me, and don't let anybody else take my place. And on the surface, back in Matthew chapter It would seem that the religious teachers that Jesus referred to had a good understanding of that. They were teaching people, you shall fulfill your vows to the Lord. Seems like like there's this fear of God that's that's present. Over in uh Psalm 60 uh seventy-six, verse eleven, it says, Make vows to the Lord your God and fulfill them. Let all who are around bring him gifts to him who is to be feared. So it would appear on the surface that these people have a respect for God. They fear God. They don't want anybody to make any vows that they wouldn't actually keep. Like they have some kind of reverence for God. But what's demonstrated from the context is that this was really a false appearance of respect. Really a false appearance of respect because it was not accompanied by obedience. And again, it's important to point out that Jesus is not attempting to overthrow the Old Testament law that talked about these vows being made to the Lord. He agreed with what the law said and upheld that. What Jesus opposed was their superficial understanding of the law and the hypocritical acknowledgement of the law while ignoring its spiritual intent. And it was true that they avoided using the name of God when they made vows, but that wasn't really a big accomplishment because they avoided using the name of God altogether. If you remember, the first century Jews avoided using the name of God, period. Listen to this. In the first century Jewish law, It only allowed the high priest performing the atoning rituals of the Day of Atonement in the Holy of Holies, or the priests of Jerusalem, who pronounced the priestly blessing of Numbers 6, 24 -26. to utter the divine name. They were the only people that could pronounce the name of God. First century Jews viewed all other utterances of the divine name as blasphemy. So when an oath was made in the first century, Jewish persons abstained from using the name for God and used a substitute instead. But but listen to this, in the the complicated rulings of the rabbis, only certain substitutions for the name of God actually were worthy of binding your oath. So they c they could use all kinds of adjectives and attributes of God or even different objects to represent God. But if it wasn't a close enough association with God They didn't consider what they said really binding. It didn't bind them to the oath that they promised. So really the system was a man-made attempt to avoid punishment. I don't want to vow anything in the name of the Lord, so I'll just vow something in the name of Jerusalem, or vow something in the name of the temple, or vow something in the name of the heav Because then if I don't fulfill it, guess what? God can't hold me responsible. That was their their their thinking. Turn over to Matthew chapter 23. I want to point this out to you. Matthew chapter 23. Jesus deals with this same idea again. In Matthew 23, he uh utters some of the harshest statements that he ever made. They're all directed to the religious leaders. Eight times Jesus pronounces woe to the scribes and the Pharisees. Was the the word of uh judgment woe was this word of judgment or cursing? Uh look at uh verse sixteen in uh Matthew chapter twenty-three It says, Woe to you blind guides, who say, Whoever swears by the temple, that is nothing. But whoever swears by the gold of the temple, that he is obligated. You fools and blind men, which is more important? The gold or the temple that sanctified the gold? And whoever swears by the altar, that is nothing. But whoever swears by the offering on it, he is obligated. You blind men, which is more important, the offering or the altar that sanctifies the offering. Therefore, whoever swears by the altar swears both by the altar and by everything on it. And whoever swears by the temple swears both by the temple and by him who dwells within it. And whoever swears by heaven swears both by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it. So what you find out here is that what they attempted to do was to leave themselves a loophole, an escape hatch. They wanted to avoid condemnation, so they say, well, we really won't swear in the name of the Lord. We'll swear by something else so that we can escape and get free in case we don't fulfill the terms of our vow. They wanted to get off on a technicality. It's like when when people use all kinds of uh filthy language, lewd expressions, but then they say, but but you know, I don't use the name of the Lord in vain now. I don't use the Lord's name. But they can use everything else. You know, on the one hand you want to say, you know, I appreciate that, but uh God is concerned with everything else that you say too. Not just about using the Lord's name in vain. And today we're thankful for whatever vestiges and traces of respect still remain in our culture for God, but it's important to make a distinction between the external signs and the internal reality. Let me give you a couple examples. Um when I grew up uh people had a certain level of respect for church buildings. Remember that? Sometimes people still do. You know, respect for the for the church building. A lot of public buildings in the neighborhood that that I grew up in would be tagged, you know, with graffiti. But, you know, you don't touch the church building now. Right? You can graffiti the building next to it. But don't graffiti on the church building. If it has, you know, stained glass and a cross on it, you know, you better not see your name on the side tagging that that building. Why? Because it was considered disrespectful. I remember riding around town with guys who, you know, kind of bump their music, but it's like they get to a church and it's like, oh, let me let me turn it down real quick. You know, why? Because they want to show some kind of sign of respect for the place of place of worship, as if God had problems hearing what you were playing a block earlier, right? Used to be uh certain activities people would avoid on a on a Sunday. In uh Arkansas, uh spent spent a couple years down there in a number of other states, uh retailers are prohibited from selling what Alcohol. Can't sell alcohol on a on a Sunday morning. And the idea behind that was to to respect the time of the day when people are worshiping. You know, you should be out worshiping instead of uh you know trying to get get boozed up You know, you're you're free to get wasted any other day of the week. Just don't do it on a Sunday, especially not on a Sunday morning. You know, most states are repealing those laws, but I kind of like the reminder that it gives gives people. In a similar way, uh, we still make an attempt to There's people that still make an attempt to change the conversation when they know somebody uh who's considered holy is around. Uh just recently I had uh some work being done on my house. And uh the the guy that I was uh you know there with I had an opportunity to to share the gospel and uh at the end I you know I was able to pass him a a card and one of the CDs from church and he took a look at the the C D and he said You're a pastor? I was like, yeah, yeah, I'm a pastor. And you could just see like the expression on his face, like, wow, I shouldn't have been saying what I was just saying. You know what I mean? And I I usually like to remind people like that, you know, I'm I'm not the one that you have to answer to, you know, but you know, you kind of appreciate it, you know, for for the most part. It's like, you know, I appreciate that you you want to respect that, but uh, you know, God knows what you're thinking. And God knows what you say when you're you're not around me. It's not just about showing some kind of respect towards me. And then there's uh some amount of respect that's still shown towards the Bible today, right? Uh just this month in uh the Washington Times there was a an article about the official opening of the 114th Congress where all the members of the House and one-third of the uh Senate was sworn into office and many of them used Bibles to swear swear into to office. Uh there's a a secular coalition for America that asked members of Congress to reject using religious texts Such as the Bible to swear into office, urging them instead to use the Constitution or nothing at all. But for uh for many people they still want to show some respect for God and for the for the scriptures. And we're thankful for that even though for the for the most part it's uh it's external. I I I used to do uh HVAC work and uh I remember one day during lunch I was uh you know I had my Bible out, kind of studying my Bible, highlighting a couple of passages. And uh there was this guy that I was working with and he says, What are you doing? It's like I'm reading my Bible. You know, I'm studying my Bible. He says, Well, don't don't be marking in that No, don't write in the Bible. And this is a guy that I knew that, you know, I mean the conversation was filthy every other word, you know And he says, don't be marking in that Bible. You know, you've got to get some respect to the Word of God. And I actually asked him, I said, well have you ever read it? He said, no. It's like, you know what? I think it's it's God is much more concerned that we get into it and live it out rather than that we don't mark in it. You know, this is just the way I I study. I want to try to get the word of God in me. It's much more important to get it in. And I think he's much more concerned about that than whether or not I have a verse that's highlighted because I'm trying to memorize it, you know. Worried about showing disrespect. So God is not pleased with some external display of reverence for sanctuary, for a Sabbath day, for a supposed saint, for the scriptures. Or even the words that that we say, you know, saying that I'm I'm not going to say certain words if it doesn't reflect the attitude of our hearts God's worried about the attitude of our hearts, and it's all external and the final estimation is all worthless if there's not truth in the inward parts So you had these people, they they wanted to make the sign of respect, saying, Hey, we don't we don't swear, we don't use the Lord's name, but but they still weren't having truth in the inward parts, and that's what God is concerned about. Psalm 51 verse 6 Behold, you desire truth in the innermost being, and in the hidden part you will make me know wisdom. God is not interested in false displays of respect. False appearances of respect. If we're to have a heart of honesty, we need to give up the false appearances of respect. Number two, we must get rid of any false assurances of of honesty. Look back at uh chapter five again Matthew chapter 5, look at verse 34. Either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet. Or by Jerusalem for it is the city of the great king, nor shall you make an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black And these words here Jesus is basically doing away with the whole rabbinic system of teaching regarding Oaths. According to the rabbinic ruling of the first century, none of the formulas Jesus mentioned approved as substitutions for the name of God. So you could you could swear by the heaven, the earth, Jerusalem, your head It didn't matter because that's not really a binding oath. Because you haven't yet sworn by the name of God. You couldn't really be held to it. Rabbi Maemonides, a great respected rabbi of the twelfth century, said this. If any swerve by heaven, by earth, by the sun, etcetera Although the mind of the swearer be under these words to swear by him who created them, in other words, even though in his mind he might be thinking about God, yet this is not an oath. Or if any swear by some of the prophets or by some of the books of Scripture, although the sense of the swearer be to swear by him that sent the prophet, namely God. Or who gave that book? Again, you know, thinking about God. Nevertheless, this is not an oath. So you you could use all these different terms and still not be bound to that as an oath. There was a another teacher who said, an oath made by Jerusalem was not binding, but an oath made toward Jerusalem, since you were facing the place where God was, was binding. You know, so if I turn in this direction, I'm good. If I turn in this direction, I'm I'm doomed. Because I'm not facing towards Jerusalem. And there are many similar kinds of rulings, and what all this amounted to was just a convenient escape clause. If somebody wanted to hold you accountable for what you said, you could say, you know, hey, I was facing the wrong way. I wasn't facing towards Jerusalem when I said it. You could get out of it. Proverbs 26, 18 and 19, it says, like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death, so is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, Was I not joking? I didn't really mean it. But there was this desire to continue with this practice of O's anyway. The Jewish people of this time, one commentator says, were remarkable for their frequent use of O's in ordinary conversation. Swearing by the temple, by the altar, by the lamb, by the dishes, by the law, by Moses, by the prophets, by the life of the rabbis, as well as the oaths here mentioned and countless others. And what Jesus was saying is just do away with the whole system Just forget about it. These oaths that were supposed to boost other people's confidence and what you said was was actually a way to deceive people. To say that, you know, well, if I didn't say it in the right way, it's not really binding on me. And first of all, it's just unnecessary if you just tell the truth in the first place. You don't have to make an oath Uh Josephus quoted a group known as the Essenes of his day. They were religious and social separatists. They lived separated lives from the rest of society in order to maintain their religious purity. And one of the things that they said was, one who has not believed without an appeal to God stands condemned already. Basically is is if the only time I can believe you is when you're saying, Well, I swear to God, if that's the only time I can believe you, you're already a liar. You're already stand condemned. If I can't believe you unless you you put something you know against it to to try to give me some kind of confidence. in what you say. Second, it was unhelpful because people had to sort through whether or not you were facing in the right direction, whether the term that you used was close enough to an attribute of God in order to be really binding. So this whole process of using O's Like I said, it just became a way to shade the truth, confuse the truth, rather than to make the truth more clear. And uh third, it was just misguided What they they thought they were able to do by introducing these other forms of oaths instead of using the the name of God that kind of let them off the hook, Jesus points out that what you're failing to realize is that When you use the attributes of God, you're really talking about God. When you you you can't get off the hook just because you use some kind of substitute. If they understood what Who God was, his omnipresence, his sovereignty, they wouldn't have imagined that they could get away by using some less binding form or a weaker form of a vow. And this is what Jesus points out to them. First of all, there's no place that you can turn in heaven or on earth where God is not present, right? Like I mentioned, if you're not facing towards Jerusalem, you know, they thought that you know that you could get away. That's the problem. You think that God's only there? You think if you face in the other direction that he's not there, too? Jesus points that out. It doesn't matter what direction you face, God is everywhere present. The heaven belongs to God, it's where God rules. So there's no reference that you can make to the heaven without referring to God. In Psalm eleven, verse four, it says, The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes behold, his eyelids test the sons of men. He's in the temple and he's in heaven. Same time, everywhere present. Psalm 103, verse 19, the Lord has established his throne in the heavens, his sovereignty rules over all. And when the Hebrews spoke of heaven, they actually spoke about heaven in a plural form, the heavens, heavens. And what they recognized was uh An atmospheric heaven where the birds flew, where the clouds formed. That was kind of like the heavens of the atmosphere. They recognized a stellar heaven. where the the um the uh the stars were or the planets were they recognized that it's like the second heavens and then they refer to the highest heaven or what they called the heavens of heaven the heaven of heavens Uh what Paul referred to in uh second Corinthians uh twelve is the the third heaven. Remember that? The third heaven, which is a reference to the spiritual domain where where God dwelt. And the reality is it didn't matter what heaven you were referring to. God's in all of them, right? He's in all of them. Sovereign over everyone. Deuteronomy 10 verse 14, it says, Behold, to the Lord your God belong heaven and the highest heavens, the earth and all that is in it. 2 Chronicles 6. 18, but will God indeed dwell with mankind on the earth? In other words, do you think he can just contain them here on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you. How much less this house which I have built? Solomon referring to the to the temple that he built. He says, I I know this can't contain you. Even the heavens of heavens can't contain you. You're everywhere. So there was no reference to the heavens that did not include God, and the association between God and the heaven would have been automatic and undeniable. But there's also a connection between God and the earth. Swearing by the earth didn't excuse anybody, because the earth also belongs to God, and God fills the earth as well. Psalm twenty-four, verse one. The earth is the Lord's and all that it contains Or the fullness thereof, the world, and those who dwell in it. Jeremiah 23, verse 24. Can a man hide himself in hiding places so I do not see him? declares the Lord, Do I not fill the heavens and the earth? I filled the heavens and the earth. So even though the earth wouldn't naturally be associated with the dwelling place for God, God tells , I dwell in the earth. I'm here on the earth too You can't refer to any place on this planet and exclude God at the same time. He made it all, he owns it all, he fills it all. God's everywhere. But God is not only present in every place, his sovereignty ex extends to every place. Psalm 103 has his sovereignty rules over all. Psalm 103, verse 19. Any reference to Jerusalem was a reference to the dominion of God, God's sovereign rule. Why don't you flip back to Psalm 48? Psalm 48. Psalm 48, it makes a special reference to the The significance of Jerusalem. And as we know, there's an eschatological significance for Jerusalem as well. And in the end times, Christ will physically return and reign from Jerusalem. In Isaiah chapter 2, verses 2 to 3 it says, Now it will come about that in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established. As the chief of the mountains, and will be raised above the hills, and all the nations will stream to it. And many peoples will come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain, Jerusalem. of the Lord to the house of the God of Jacob that he may teach us concerning his ways, that we may walk in his path. For the law will go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. That's talking about the future time when Christ will reign from Jerusalem and people will come to a physical location to hear from Christ. And we look forward to that day. But listen to what it says here in the Psalms, Psalm 48, verses 1 and 2. It says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. In the city of our God, his holy mountain. Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion in the far north, the city of the great King. The city of the great king, and this is what Jesus uh makes reference to over in uh in Matthew chapter five, referring back to this. section of of scripture that if you refer to Jerusalem, you're referring to the city of the Great King. Where where the king will rule, where the king does rule. Jerusalem was considered that city. And then lastly, he addresses even the hairs of your head as underneath the sovereign control of God. You ever think about that? Matthew chapter 10, verse 30, it says, But the the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Not one falls to the ground without the Lord's permission. And some of you are saying, you know, Lord, please tell my hair no. Tell them no, all right? Not one falls to the ground without the permission from from from from the Lord. If you remember in uh Acts chapter 27, before Paul was shipwrecked, the Lord promised him that not one hair would be missing for many of those that were uh were in the the on board the ship. And uh Acts twenty seven thirty four, not a hair from the head of any of you will perish. God was in sovereign control of making sure the hair stuck to the head Nothing fell off even in the midst of the shipwreck. He says, not one hair is going to be lost. I'm going to keep it all. And Jesus reminds the disciples that you don't even have the power to turn one hair white or black. It doesn't it doesn't matter how much dye you use, you're not changing the property underneath. It's still gray, it's still white, you know, you might color it a different color. But it's still the same color underneath. He says, you can't change it. When it grows back, it's going to come out that same gray. Come out that same white. And how can you make a vow on your head, which is really to make a vow on your life, and you don't even have the power to change one hair color? And you're going to make a vow on your head? I mean, talk about arrogance, right? Even swearing by your head, God says, is to swear by me because who's in control of your head? I am. You can't even swear by your head and not refer to me. Because I'm the one who's sovereign. There's no way out. John Scott says this about the religious leaders. It says they shifted people's attention away from the vow itself and the need to keep it to the formula used to make it. A preoccupation with the formula was not the point of the law at all. A vow is binding irrespective of its accompanying formula. It doesn't matter what formula you use. God is still holding you responsible. Still holding you accountable. Why? Because everything in the heavens and the earth find their reference point in God. Everything eventually comes back to Him. He's the one who rules it all. He's sovereign over everything. Something to think about. I love uh this one quote by uh Barclitz. He says this He says here is a great eternal truth Life cannot be divided into compartments, in some of which God is involved and others of which He is not involved. There cannot be one kind of language in the church and another kind of language in the shipyard or the factory or the office There cannot be one kind of conduct in the church and another kind of conduct in the business world. The fact is that God does not need to be invited into certain departments of life and kept out of others. He is everywhere, all through life, in all every activity of life. He hears not only the words which are spoken in his name, he hears all words There cannot be any such thing as a form of words which evades bringing God into any transaction. We will regard all promises as sacred if we remember that all promises are made in the presence of God. Every time you utter something, there's somebody else that's sitting there listening. This God. God listens to every word we say And what Christ does is he uncovers the foolishness of imagining that there's some escape clause, that somehow we can escape the gaze and the ear of God because we just haven't used his name yet. Like God's not really paying attention. If we're to maintain a heart of honesty, we have to give up any false appearances of respect, get rid of any false assurances of honesty. And get used to speaking without any false affirmations of our integrity. Look at verse 37 back in Matthew chapter 5 again. It says, But let your statement be yes, yes, or no, no. Anything beyond these is of evil. And this is where we really need to examine our hearts, right? The question is, how good is your word? How good is your word? Does it need something else to prop it up, to hold it up, because it's uh unable to stand up on its own? How good is your word Did people know that when you say something, that unless there's extenuating circumstances that prevent you from doing what you've said that you're going to do and the in the Bible recognize that there are extenuating circumstances where we can't fulfill certain obligations. That's why in uh James it says uh uh when you make plans that you should include this phrase that if the Lord wills, right? Because there's there's certain i you don't even have control like I said, you don't have control over the hairs of your head. How do I have control over what else will happen, right? If if God wills, this is what I'm gonna do. But But besides that, if there's no other circumstances that prevent you from doing what you said that you're going to do, can people trust your word? Is your word good? Are you a person of integrity? Is your yes, yes, and is your no no? Because you shouldn't need anything else In James chapter 5, verse 12, it says, But above all, my brethren, do not swear either by heaven or by earth, with any other oath, but your yes is to be yes, your no is to be no, so that you may not fall under judgment And there's some groups that would take that statement from Jesus, from James, it's like this absolute prohibition against any kind of oaths whatsoever. Um there's Christian groups like the Anabaptists in the past, the Quakers and even uh uh false religions like the Jehovah's Witnesses who teach that you should never take an oath for any reason, you know, whatsoever. Even for legal proceedings, you can't take a uh an oath in court. But that's really not the context of what Jesus is talking about here. The context was personal communication, ordinary conversation. And in addition to that, Jesus would have been doing away with the Old Testament scriptures that did talk about giving oaths. And furthermore, Jesus himself was placed under the oath. In Matthew chapter 26. Verse 63, when Jesus stood before the high priest, and the high priest said this, he says, I adjure you by the living God that you tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. What was that? It was an oath. I jur you by the living God. Jesus said to him, you've said it yourself. Are you the Christ? He said, Yeah. I'm the Christ. You've said it yourself. Paul, on several occasions, he uh called on God as his witness to a solemn truth that he would give in Scripture. God is my witness. I'm not lying, I'm telling him the truth Talked about that in um Romans chapter 9, verse 1, 2 Corinthians 11, 31, Galatians 1 20, 1 Timothy 2 7. Paul called on God as his witness to certain things that he would say, but it was a solemn truth that he wanted to get across. When Paul charged Timothy to preach the word, he placed him under a solemn obligation called God in as a witness. 2 Timothy 4. 1. I solemnly charge you in the presence of God And of Christ Jesus who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom to do what? Preach the word. What is he doing? I'm calling God in as a witness to what I'm about to tell you. You don't fulfill this obligation to preach the word. God is the one who's going to inflict the punishment. Calling God in as a witness. And probably the most common form of vow that we're used to today is uh what we talked about talked about last week, the wedding vow. God views marriage as a binding covenant. When you say I do, God is there listening. Listening to the words that you say, whether you wanted to acknowledge them or not. God is there. He listened. And God views marriage as a binding covenant. Malachi 2 14 it says, The Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth against whom you have dealt treacherously, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. You made a solemn agreement, a solemn covenant, you made a vow. And God says, I'm going to hold you to it. I'm going to hold you to it. So there are clearly places where a formal solemn vow was permitted and expected. But there was no place at all for these kind of halfway covenants, halfway agreements, where God is sort of called in as a witness, but not really. I'm going to, you know, give reference to something that's, you know, an attribute of God, but I really don't want him to hold me to it. God had no place for that. No place for that. Cross my heart, hope to die, stick a needle in my eye, you know. People should be able to take you at your word, and and we need to be careful with uh with what we say. I remember uh one time when the Lord really impressed this on me. It was a number of years ago when um I was volunteering for a church church event. And it was uh me and a couple other uh volunteers that were uh you know preparing for the for the week and there's this one volunteer that said, you know, hey I'm you know I want to be here on this day but I I I don't have any transportation. You know, um can anybody give me a ride? You know, me trying to be a the kind hearted individual I am, you know. Say, hey, I'll got you covered, man. I'll I'll take care of you. Are you sure? I said I said, Yeah, I'll I can take care of you. It's gonna be a problem I remember when the the day came, I don't remember all the the the circumstances around the day, but I just knew that one thing I found out is that he lived clear across town. And I really didn't feel like driving clear across town. Uh the day was already kind of crunch for me as far as my schedule and um so I I picked up the phone, you know, probably about an hour or so before I was supposed to get 'em and just said, you know, hey, uh And when I when I called, I got the voicemail, which I was really happy for because I didn't want to have to tell them in person. It's just like, ah, got the voicemail. Hey, hey, I'm really sorry, but uh but I won't be able to make it, you know. Won't be able to make it to to pick you up. You know, kinda hunk up the phone and you know kind of hey I uh took care of that Consol myself that you know it's it's the right thing to do. I got got a lot going on Restaffer 's position anyway. You know, all this excuses. You guys you guys have the same excuses, aren't you? Mix stuff up. You know, you should be happy I offered him a ride in the first place, you know But I remember uh seeing him at church on Sunday and he confronted me and he said, you know, hey, uh, you know, I appreciate you uh offering me a ride, but if you you didn't think you could do it, you should have just let me know. Um, you really need to be a person of your word. And that killed me. That killed me. 'Cause he was right. You know, there's there was a way I could have done it, right? I I I could've I I mean if I really wanted to, I'd you know, just fight traffic and just deal with it and you know, whatever I had to do I can push it around or Just kind of, you know, hey brother, just just can't do it today. So you need to be a person of your word, and that that stings even today, as I think about it. MacArthur writes this, he says, truth is so scarce that nearly everyone is suspect. Business people, advertisers, commentators, clerks, salesmen, lawyers, doctors, tradesmen, teachers Writers, politicians, and even many, if not most, preachers are suspect. Our whole society is largely built on a network of fabrication. Of manufactured truth. We shade the truth. We cheat. We exaggerate. We misrepresent income tax deductions. We have we make promises we have no intention of keeping. We make up excuses. We betray confidence. All is a matter of normal, everyday living. But what Christ lets us know is that kingdom people are supposed to be different than that. If the world is going to find truth anywhere, it's supposed to be here in the church with God's people, right? God is the God of what? Truth. God's kingdom is a kingdom of truth. The gospel that we preach is a gospel of truth. If there's anywhere that we should find truth, it should be in us. Psalm 15 says again, says, O Lord, who may abide in your tent, who may dwell in your holy hill? He who walks with integrity and works righteousness and speaks truth in his heart. He does not slander with his tongue, nor does evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend. And whose eyes a reprobate is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, he swears to his own hurt and does not change. You know what that means? You make a commitment, even if it hurts you. You fulfill it. You carry it out. Why? Because you want to be a person of integrity. You want to be a person of truth. And that's who God's called us to be. Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh the opportunity to look at your word again. Uh Father, we thank you for the conviction that your word brings us, and uh we pray that uh you Father would um Make us people of truth. Make us people who, if we make a commitment, Lord, that even if it hurts us to follow through, that we'll follow through with it because we want to be people that are filled with integrity. That speak truth in the inward parts. Father, I pray that that would be true of us. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.