The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and uh let's return to the book of Romans if you remember where that is. Uh you can open up to the book of Romans And uh uh we we haven't forgotten about about Paul. We haven't left him uh so we're going to uh to jump back into Romans chapter two, and I'm excited to jump back into the study of Romans uh together with you And uh just to remind us of where we've been, the overarching theme of the book of Romans is the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God And if you don't keep the overarching theme of the Book of Romans in mind, the framework of the Book of Romans, it'll be difficult for you to connect all of the pieces that we find in the Book of Romans together. Sometimes we think about the book of Romans, and immediately we think about the gospel of God. And that's right to think about the gospel of God because the gospel is a major theme of the book of Romans. And a good portion of the book of Romans speaks about the gospel of God. But there's also a lot of Romans that does not speak about the Gospel of God. It speaks about the righteousness of God and even the condemnation of men. Not the salvation of men, but the condemnation of men. That's the section that we're in today. In Romans chapter 1 and 2, and a good portion of chapter 3, Paul talks about those who won't be saved, those who will be condemned, but even the condemnation of men. Still demonstrates the righteousness of God. In Romans chapter 3 and verse 5, it says, But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? Even the wrath of God demonstrates the righteousness of God. And what Romans teaches us is that whether we accept the gospel or reject the gospel, the righteousness of God will ultimately be vindicated. And today we find ourselves in a section of scripture that teaches us that God's judgment is righteous. We're in Romans chapter 2. And I'll start at verse 11 and uh we'll read down to verse 16. Romans chapter 2, starting at verse 11. It says, For there is no partiality with God. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. For when Gentiles who do not have the law Do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law to themselves, and that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience, bearing witness and their thoughts. Alternately accusing or else defending them on the day when according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Jesus Christ. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are grateful for your word. Father, we pray that you would open up your word to us, help us to understand the things that we read. Now, Father, I pray that we wouldn't skip lightly, tread lightly on these passages. Now, Father, that we would uh consider , that we would stop and ponder what we're reading. That we would understand what we're reading, that we would apply these things for our lives. And Father, I pray that you would use your word, that your word would go forth. That your word would do what it 's set out to do. Lord, that it would accomplish that work which it's intended to do. Father, I pray that you would convict hearts. Father, that you would draw people to yourself, that you would strengthen our faith, give us a hope for glory, and Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know, as a church, I think we do a fairly good job of warning our congregation about the dangers of false doctrine. In Ephesians chapter 4, we're reminded that the Lord has given spiritual leaders to the church to equip the church, and as a result, we're no longer to be children. tossed to and fro by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, craftiness and deceitful scheming You know, we'll actually be reminded of that as Justin Peters comes here because that's a lot of what he deals with, the trickery of men and craftiness and deceitful scheming. First Timothy six verse three says, If anyone advocates a different doctrine and does not agree with sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with the doctrine conforming to godliness, he is conceited and understands nothing. And we warn people about that. We warn people about dangerous doctrines. First Timothy 4, verse 1 says, But the Spirit explicitly says that in later times some will fall away from the faith. Paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. And aren't we living in those kinds of times today? Deceitful spirits, doctrines of demons. And I think we do a fairly good job of warning our congregation about false doctrine, but I wonder if we do enough to warn the congregation about sound doctrine. How often do you think about the danger of sound doctrine? Because it's not just false doctrine that's dangerous. False doctrine is dangerous if you accept it. But sound doctrine is dangerous if you reject it, if you pay no attention to it, if you deny it, if you refuse to follow it, sound doctrine can be dangerous. Jesus puts it this way, Luke chapter 12, 47. He says, And that slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will. Will receive many lashes. But the one who did not know it and committed deeds worthy of a flogging will receive but few For every one who has been given much, much will be required, and to whom they entrusted much of him they will ask all the more. The author of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 10. He says this in verse 29. He says, how much severer punishment Do you think he will deserve, who has trampled underfoot the Son of God, and has regarded as unclean the blood of the covenant? By which he was sanctified and has insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, and again the Lord will judge his people. It's a severe thing to listen to the truth and to do nothing with it. And sadly, there are a lot of people who attend Sound teaching churches like ours who are just satisfied that they're hearing sound doctrine. But there's a danger associated with merely hearing sound doctrine And the temptation is to believe that just hearing is enough. Matthew chapter 7, and these are the words of our Lord, Matthew 7, 26. Jesus says, everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. You can end up perishing while listening to the words of Jesus Christ. You can end up perishing while listening to the words of sound doctrine. People perish listening to Jesus Matthew chapter 7, verse 28, Jesus says it says that when Jesus finished these words, the crowds were amazed by his teaching. But how many of the people who were amazed by his teaching actually followed him? Many people listened. Many people were amazed. But that's not all that the Lord requires of us. We're not just to hear. We're not just to be amazed. We're to actually follow the words that we're hearing. Being amazed is not enough. You can be amazed by the teaching of Scripture You can show an interest in Bible study. You can point out the errors, the false teaching. You can be familiar with all of the theological terms, hold right doctrinal positions, and still be lost and on your way to hell. And God would be absolutely righteous if he sent you there. And that's the point that Romans 2, 12-16 is making. Because God is going to be demonstrated as righteous, whether that's in your salvation or in your condemnation. And no one will be able to point a finger at God and say, God, you're unjust. You're an unjust judge. This is not right. Because God will show himself to be an impartial judge. And no one is going to have an unfair advantage on the day of judgment. Your privileges won't help you out because God doesn't show partiality. Your family heritage won't help you out Jesus says, do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father, for I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children for Abraham. Your riches will not help you on the day of judgment. Proverbs 11 verse 4 says, Riches do not profit in the day of wrath. Your knowledge of the truth will not help you on the day of judgment, and neither will your ignorance give you an excuse Romans chapter 2 verse 12 says, For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. And when God makes his final ruling, you will have no choice but to acknowledge that the ruling is right. No one will be able to charge God with the miscarriage of justice. There are not going to be any innocent people who pay for a crime they didn't commit. God doesn't make any wrongful convictions. There's not going to be any new evidence that comes to light to overturn his initial ruling. There's going to be no appeal to any court. You're at the highest court when you're before God. And verses 12 to 16 of Romans 2 helps us understand why God's judgment is righteous and impartial. Why is God's judgment righteous and impartial? Number one, because all who sin are judged. Why is God's judgment righteous and impartial? Because all who are judged are judged by law. And number three, why is God's judgment righteous and impartial? Because all who are judged are judged according to knowledge. Let's take a look at number one. All who sin are judged. Look at verses 12 and 13 It says, for all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. Verse 12 opens up with the word for, which points us back to the previous context. So we have to know what for is there for as well as what therefore is there for. What's the for there for? Points us back to verse eleven, which lets us know there's no partiality with God. And that was part of this previous discussion where where Paul was letting the Romans know that being Jewish didn't give anyone an unfair advantage on the day of judgment. Look back at verse nine. It says, For there will be tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first and also of the Greek. But glory and honor and peace to everyone who does good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. What's he saying here? Your ancestry doesn't give you an automatic pass on the day of judgment. There are both Jews and Greeks who will receive tribulation, distress, eternal damnation. Your Jewish heritage will not prevent you from entering hell. Being a Hebrew Israelite does not benefit you on the day of judgment, regardless of what you want to call yourself There are some rabbis who taught that Abraham stood watch at the gates of hell to make sure that none of his descendants entered there by mistake. As if being a descendant of Abraham was enough. You know, all you have to do is be connected to Abraham. All you have to do is prove that you're an Israelite, that you're part of the Hebrew nation. And now I'm safe because I'm part of the Hebrew nation. But in Luke chapter 16, do you remember that Jesus told the account of the rich man and Lazarus? And there was a son of Abraham who lifted up his eyes in the flames. Do you remember what he cried out? Luke chapter 16, verse 24. He cried out and said, Father Abraham. Have mercy on me and send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue, for I am in agony in this flame. That's a son of Abraham who's calling out like that. I'm in agony in this flame. Just being connected to Abraham was not enough to keep him out of the flames. And neither will it be enough for you. And neither will it be enough to be connected to the law of God. In fact, the law of God actually adds more fuel to the fire Look at verse 12. For all who have sinned without the law will perish without the law. That's the part of the verse that many of the Jewish listeners would have had no objection to. Yeah, they perish without the law. You know, but we have the law. But what does it say next? And all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. And the law that Paul is referring to here is the Mosaic Law, the law of Moses This is one of the privileges that was given to the Jewish people. Flip over to Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9, real quick. In Romans chapter 9, it lets us know about the privileges that were given to the Jewish people. Verse 4 it says, those who are Israelites, to whom belongs the adoption of sons, the glory and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the temple service and the promises. Who's are the fathers, and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh who is over all God bless forever? Amen. But then what does Paul say at the beginning of the chapter? I'm telling the truth in Christ, I'm not lying, my conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit that I have a great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart for who? For my fellow Israelites. Because there are so many who are not going to make it. But they had the law, they had the prophets, from them came the Christ, but that wasn't enough to keep them from condemnation All who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. And to be judged under the law is to be judged as a sinner. It meant that you received the penalty of being a sinner. And what's the penalty for being a sinner? The wages of sin is death. That's the penalty. The soul who sins will die? So both Jews and Gentiles, both considered sinners, both Jews and Gentiles both received a penalty for being sinners. And how does that demonstrate the impartiality of God? It shows that God was not giving an unfair advantage to those who had the law, because the law alone did not save you. Which is what verse thirteen makes clear. For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. Hearing alone did not declare you to be righteous in the sight of God And in the same way, your exposure to truth, to sound doctrine, does not say anything about your spiritual condition. You can be exposed to the truth all day long. And it changes nothing about who you are. I mean, if if anybody was exposed to the truth, it was Lucifer, wasn't it? Exposed to the glories of heaven, but it only added to his condemnation? Isaiah 14, verse 12, How have you fallen from heaven, O star of the morning, son of the dawn? You've been cut down to the earth, you have weakened the nations, but you said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven, I will raise my throne above the stars of God, I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the recesses of the north, and he was cut down. Truth didn't help him. Judas was exposed to the glories of the Son of God and still betrayed him. Jesus answered, Did I myself not choose you the twelve? And yet one of you is a devil? Exposure to the truth, did it help Judas? The Pharisees, Jesus said they occupy the seat of Moses. They're the ones that are proclaiming the words of Moses. But then in Matthew 23, 13, Jesus says, you shut off the kingdom of heaven from people, for you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. Cities of Galilee, exposed to the miracles of Christ, the power of Jesus, but it did not benefit them for eternity. It actually made their judgment worse Exposed to the beauty, the glory, the power of Christ. And then Jesus says to them, Matthew 11, 21, Woe to you, Corazon, woe to you, Besidah. For if the miracles had occurred in Tyre and Sidon, which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. There's one of the indications that God knows what would have happened if things were different. They would have repented long ago and sat cloth and ashes. Nevertheless, I say it will be more tolerable for them, for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment, than for you. Because you receive more, now you're responsible for more. And this introduces us to the idea that the more you know is just the more that you're accountable for. And the same thing is explained over in Luke chapter 12, we read it already, that the slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready or act in accord with his will will receive many lashes. There's a distinction made in Scripture between the sins of ignorance and the sins of defiance. Leviticus chapter 5 and verse 17, it says, Now if a person sins, and does any of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done, though he is was unaware, still he is guilty and shall bear his punishment, and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his error, in which he sinned unintentionally and did not know it. And it will be forgiven him. But there is a distinction made between those kinds of sins and the sins that you did with the high hand in defiance against God. Numbers 15, verse 30 says, But the person who does anything defiantly, whether he is a native or an alien, that one is blaspheming the Lord, and that person shall be cut off. The more they knew, the worse it was. And hell is going to be worse for those who know better. That's why I say that sound doctrine is dangerous. It's dangerous if you choose to ignore it, if you don't pay heed, because it only makes your judgment worse. Hebrews chapter 3, verse 15 says, Today, if you hear his voice, don't harden your hearts. Don't harden your hearts. It's not the hearers of the law who are just before God. Hearing the law alone is not an advantage because the law requires that you obey it. The doers of the law will be justified. And this raises the question, is Paul suggesting that we can actually be saved by obeying the law? Is that what he's talking about? Because he just said the doers of the law will be justified. Does that mean we can be saved by our good works? If that's the conclusion that you reach, you haven't paid attention to the context. Because what's Paul's point? He he's trying to show us why God is righteous to condemn us That's the point. And all you'd have to do to prove that point is just go back a verse earlier, verse 12. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. What's the point? That you sinned. He said it twice, you know, so you so you don't miss it. All who have sinned, and who is that? All of us We all deserve condemnation because we've sinned. And Paul makes that point clear later on in Romans chapter 3 and verse 9. If you want to flip over there, Romans chapter 3 and verse 9. He says, What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. Drop down to verse 20. It says, Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. You cannot be justified based on the works of the law. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. So what is Paul doing back in chapter 2? He's not showing us how we can be saved by the law. He's trying to show us why we can't be saved by the law. Because if you were saved by the law, what would you have to do? You'd have to keep it. You'd have to keep it James chapter 2 verse 10 says, for whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he's become guilty of all. So Paul is not telling us that you have to match this impossible standard. But what he is trying to say is for those of you who receive the law and you're just comfortable because you've received it, don't think that you're safe. Because I've heard it. I've received the law. I've heard the law. And you think that you're safe because you've received it. Paul says, don't think that. Because it's not just those who hear it, it's those who do it. Hearing is not enough. And did you notice here that those without the law are still perishing? So it's those who hear it, those who don't hear it. Everybody's perishing. Everybody's perishing, but for those of you who have the law, you're going to be judged with a stricter standard. Because you know better. Because it's the law that should lead you to Christ. So you you have you have a higher accountability. So don't be satisfied because you know I'm hearing it, I'm listening to it, I've listened to the truth, I know the truth. Well, what are you doing with it? What are you doing with the truth But all who sin perish. All who sin are judged. And this answers the question that you've probably heard before. You know, what happens to the innocent native Who's never had a Bible, he's never heard the gospel. Are you telling me that that innocent native Is going to die and be condemned by God, that God is going to send him to hell because he's never heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. No, we don't believe that. We don't believe that people go to hell because they don't hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's because they're sinners It's not because they don't hear the message. It's because they've sinned against what they do know. That's the message here. If you listen to what Paul is saying, he's arguing that there are no innocent people to begin with. You know, so it's a faulty premise. You know, that innocent person actually I just heard recently that they found, you know, a group of people that they didn't know existed in South America somewhere. Anybody hear that? You know, they they found this unreached group that you know nobody had any contact with before. You know, and then the question comes up: well, what about them? What about them? I mean, surely God's just gonna give them a pass. Are they sinners? Are they sinners? Those who sin without the law perish without the law. And I'm sure you've heard that argument before You know, and and the the usually you know the one of the ways that people respond is, you know, as long as they just respond to the light that they have. As long as they just respond to whatever whatever they know, you know, if they live up to that light, they'll be okay. But but here's the problem. Nobody lives up to the light that they have. So it's not just the native in the deep jungle who doesn't live up to the light that he has. It's the person who's sitting up with an open Bible who doesn't live up to the light that he has. Nobody's living up to the light that they have. And the Gentiles are no more capable of living up to the light than the Jewish people were capable of living up to their light. Both Jews and Greeks all under sin. And if they were to live up to the light that they had. It would include more than what you think it does. Romans chapter 1, verse 21 says, For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. So part of living up to the light that you have is honoring God and giving him thanks. That's part of what it looks like to live up to the life that you have. And the first and great commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind. So that innocent native would be required to love the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, and mind. Because he's Has enough to know that there is a God that he needs to honor and to give thanks to. Right? So it includes more than just like, well, he treated his neighbors nice. You know, shouldn't that be enough? No. And if Gentiles could be saved by living up to the life that they had that they had, why in the world did Jesus come down to die? Matthew chapter 26, verse 39, when Jesus prayed, he's crying out to his father, and he says, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Father, if there's any other way, if there's any other way, let this cup pass from me. If there's any way possible, Father, don't let me have to drink this cup of wrath. And the father didn't respond and say, all they have to do is live up to the light that they have. There's no other way. There's no other way. The only way that we could be saved was through the death of Jesus Christ. Not one of us is going to be declared innocent based on our law keeping. Our salvation is not based on what we do. It's based on the finished work of Jesus Christ. And Jesus is the only way, the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father except through him. He's the only way, the only satisfaction of righteousness before God. So all who sin are judged. Number two, all who are judged are judged by law. Look at verse 14. All who are judged are judged by law. It says, For when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law. To themselves, and that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them. And the objection that could have possibly been raised is that it's not right for God to judge the Jews based on the law, but not the Gentiles according to the law. And Paul answers that objection here. The Gentiles are judged based on law, but it's not the written law of the Mosaic system. It's the law that's written on their hearts. And verse 14 is the explanation of the judgment for the Gentiles. Back in verse 12, we learn that all who have sinned without the law perish without the law. But but how does judgment work if there's nothing no kind of standard to judge them by? On what basis will God judge those who don't have the Mosaic Law? He judges them by the law written on their hearts. And back in Romans 1, we learn that all men are accountable to God, and why is that? Verse 19, chapter 1, verse 19. Because That which is known about God is evident within them. That there's something that's been placed within man that he's now accountable for. It's evident within them. For God made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, divine nature have been clearly seen. being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse. No excuses. Part of what it means to be human, you know, people talk a lot about humanity today, you know. My humanity. What it means to be human. What does it mean to be human? Part of what it means to be human is to be a rational creature created in the image of God. That's what it means to be human. And it's to recognize that there is one who is holy and just and good. It's what theologians refer to as the law of creation. Or the law of nature, or the moral law. It's a law based on the eternal nature and character of God. So will it always be wrong to lie? Because God is a God of truth? It'll always be wrong to commit adultery because God is a God of faithfulness. There's laws like, you know, the Sabbath keeping and circumcision that aren't eternal. They're connected to a specific covenant You know, so we don't look at the Sabbath as an eternal law, something that was always true of God. You know, the Sabbath wasn't made for you know uh uh uh made for man, but man what the other way You know, with the with the Sabbath, the Sabbath wasn't um uh man was made wasn't made for the Sabbath, the Sabbath was made for man. Right? Yeah. Don't confuse me out there, don't confuse me. But Sabbath was made for man to give him a day of rest. It's not because God needed a day of rest, right? God isn't diminishing in his power. You know, it's like, whoo, six days, I'm tired, you know. Got to take a break on the seventh day. You know, it's not it's not because God is tired. He made the Sabbath for for man. You know, so it's not something that's eternal for the person of God. One author, James Cahun, he writes this in his book, The Law and the Gospel. He says, although this natural law inscribed on the heart of Adam was much defaced by the fall, yet it was not wholly obliterated. Some faint impressions or small relics of it still remains in the minds of men. And all the evidence that we have is that this law here, introduced in verse 14, is a law that's been placed in mankind. When it says 4 in verse 14, when Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law, these not having the law are a law to themselves. This right here is an admission in Scripture that even Gentiles who do not have the law and are doing the things instinctively of the law, it shows that they actually know that there's a law. When they're doing instinctively the things of the law. So here's the answer to the question: why do bad people do good things? You know, we've all heard the question, you know, why do bad things happen to good people? A better question would be, why do good things happen to bad people? Because there's none who are good, but a related question could be, why do bad people happen to do good things? James Montgomery Boyce, in his commentary, he reminds his readers of C. S. Lewis in his classic Defense of the Faith, Mere Christianity, where C. S. Lewis observes that When people argue with one another, you know, even unbelievers, there's almost always an appeal to some basic standard of behavior that the other person is assumed to recognize. Think about this. C. S. Lewis writes, they say things like How'd you like it if somebody did the same thing to you? Or that's my seat, I was here first. Or leave him alone, he's not doing you any harm. Or why should you butt in line first? Or you should share with me, I shared with you. Or come on, you should do this because you promised, right? People say things like that every day, educated, non-educated, children, adults. And what interested C. S. Lewis about these remarks is that the people making them are not merely saying that I don't like that or that that behavior doesn't suit me. But they're rather saying that no, what you're doing is actually wrong. What you're doing is wrong. C. S. Lewis goes on to say this. He says the man who makes these remarks is appealing to some kind of standard of behavior. Which he expects the other man to know about. And the other man very seldom replies, Well, there is no standard of right and wrong Nearly always he tries to make out that what he has been doing is not really against the standard, or that if he is against the standard, that there's a special excuse for it. It looks in fact very much as if both parties had in mind the same standard, the same law, the same rule of fair play, decent behavior, of morality, whatever you like to call it, about which they all agreed There would be no sense in trying to quarrel about what's right and wrong unless there were some sort of agreement about right and wrong. Just as there would be no sense in saying that a football player committed a foul unless there was some agreement about the rules of football. There exists a law within us. And we recognize it. Even in our conversations with other people, we recognize that there's a standard. And and some say that, you know, some kinds of behavior seem to work better or that I like certain behaviors and other, but when you work it your way down, it's no certain things are right and certain things are wrong. You know, some some things are just not right. And that's the law of Romans chapter 2 and verse 14. It's also why many people say that, you know, all religions are basically the same. You ever hear anybody say that? All religions basically teach the same thing. It's not that all religions are the same. It's that all people recognize that there's a standard. So even people with different religions, they say, no, it's wrong to lie, it's wrong to steal, it's wrong to commit adultery, like they recognize that, but that's just because we're human. That we recognize these things. But the the religions themselves aren't the same. It's just that we recognize there's a similar standard that's over all of us And because of this internal law, Gentiles who do not have the Ten Commandments or the Law of God, have never read the Bible a day in their lives, they instinctively do the things of the law, not perfectly, not consistently. But they still recognize that there is a standard. So you don't need a Bible to be able to tell the difference between right and wrong. You don't need a Bible to know that it's right to honor your parents. Or to condemn stealing, or to be content with what you have, or to show self-control, to hold back from hurting others, to be faithful to your spouse. You don't need the Bible in order to determine that. I remember uh one day I was sitting next to a A gentleman, he claimed to be an atheist. I told him I don't believe it because atheists don't exist. I don't believe in you. Atheists don't exist. He says he didn't believe in God. I said, I don't believe in you. You know, atheists don't exist. But he went on to tell me that he didn't need to believe in God in order to be good. He says, I don't I don't need God to be good. You know, atheists can tell the truth. That's what he's telling me. Atheists know how to tell the truth. They know how to be faithful. They know how to not steal and not murder and all those things. You don't need to believe believe in God in order to do what's right. And I said, well that's that's kind of interesting. You talked about what's right. How do you define what's right? Because without God, you don't have a standard of what's right. Like like that's my term. You know, you're you're you're taking from from God and now you're trying to borrow it as if it's yours. No, you come up with your own stuff. You know, this belongs to God. Right and wrong belong to God. Now you go ahead and tell me what you got to say now. Like like there 's no standard of right and wrong. What is good? What is right If there is no God, you can't define good without God. The Bible says God is good. Psalm 119, verse 68. Without God, you don't have good. And even though he denied God, he was instinctively doing the things of the law. So so even in his denial of God, he's still acknowledging that there is a God. You know, with his mouth he's denying it, but with his actions, he's proving it. You're proving that there's a God because you're acknowledging that these things are right. And even without the formal written law, even atheists, those who claim to be atheists, Gentiles who never read the Bible, they become a law to themselves. They recognize that certain things are right, certain things are wrong. And God will judge them based on what they know. They're going to be judged based on what they know. They will perish even without the written law And how do we know that they have this law? Number one, they're doing the things of the law instinctively, by nature they're doing it. And also their conscience is bearing witness. Look again at chapter two. Verse 15. It says, In that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience alternately, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them. Again, this is why God is absolutely righteous to condemn the sinner because he's violating a law that he knows about. And if there was no law, there would be nothing for your conscience to accuse or defend. The word conscience in Greek and also in English have a similar background. uh the the Greek word uh synadesis is from uh two words soon meaning with and oida meaning to know. In English, you know, uh conscience comes from con meaning with, and science meaning knowledge. So it literally means with. knowledge. They they they have knowledge or or actually knowledge that's shared. It's it's a a knowledge that you share with yourself. Like you know within yourself What's right and wrong? You know it. Like there 's something in you that that says, yes, that's right. It refers to this self-awareness, an inner consciousness that judges whether or not an act is acceptable or unacceptable. It's like the the inner umpire that stands over you and tells you you're out or you're safe. There's something within you that calls that. And when you do what's wrong, it says, Nope, that you're out. You're out of line. Even if nobody else can see it. Even if the crowd around you is telling you, no, you're safe, you're safe. No, I'm out. I'm out. You know it. Because it searches the innermost being. Proverbs 20, verse 27, the spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord searching the innermost part of his being. And your spirit within you will condemn you even before you face any formal kind of judgment. That's why after Adam and Eve sinned, they made themselves loin coverings to hide from one another and then ran into the trees when God came, right? Because there was something within them that says, No, I'm wrong. I need to hide myself. Even before there was a formal judgment, they they knew that something was wrong within themselves. I remember uh back in in high school, the the first time I tried to cheat on a quiz. I slipped a piece of paper underneath my quiz and uh you know kind of pressed down the paper so I could try to read through the the sheet on the top so I could see what's on the bottom. And on this day, I don't remember my teacher ever doing this, but on this day, she walks down the the aisle, like in between all the desks. And like while she's walking back to me, it's like I start sweating. It's like, oh my goodness, why is she coming back here? Is she gonna stop? But she keeps walking back all the way back. I was I was in the back of a class, walks all the way to the back, and then she looks down at my paper. And then she taps it. That's all she did. She just tapped it. And I'm just like, okay, it's it's over with. You know, it's like, you know, all the energy just left my body, you know. And then she says she forgot to put your name down on the paper. I never tried to cheat again. It's like I don't ever want to have that kind of experience again. This out of body experience, you know. I'm looking at myself die over here. But the conscience is given as this warning system. You know you're wrong. You know, she was just telling me my name wasn't on the paper, but I thought like the you know the the world is crashing in, you know. The sky is falling. It's that warning device that says, no, you're wrong. And it doesn't mean that the conscience is perfect, just like every other part of the humanity, it's been impacted by the fall. But our conscience should not be rejected. God has given that to you as a warning device. Our conscience can be misinformed. It can be uh uninformed, our conscience can be weak, it can be too sensitive, our conscience can be wounded, can be seared if you continue to ignore it. We can make decisions and have a conscience that's callous. I mean the Bible speaks about all these things. And when we appear to have no conscience, people say, you don't even seem human anymore, right? People that seem to have no conscience. It's dangerous to ignore the conscience. It's the warning device that God has given us to protect ourselves and to protect those around us. MacArthur tells the story about a flight that crashed into the side of a mountain, and uh when they recovered the wreckage of the flight, they found a little black box with a recording on it. And they were listening to the recording, like, hey, what happened to this flight? And on the the recording they heard the the words that came from uh you know a a system alarm that says, pull up, pull up, pull up. And the pilot shut it off and said, shut up. Turn the turn the device off and moments later crash right into the mountain. The conscience is like that, warning device. Saying like you need to stop. You're doing wrong. Pull up, pull up. You ignore that to your own destruction. But thank God we can appeal to God to have a clean conscience, to have a conscience that's sprinkled clean and washed. And we can do the right thing. Paul said that they always maintain a blameless conscience both before God and before men. Protect your conscience. Protect your conscience. Your conscience will save you from shipwrecking your life. Protect your family. Protect your testimony. Teach your children not to ignore their conscience. Because they can get away from you, they can't get away from their conscience. Right? Teach them not to ignore their conscience. Your conscience is more important than your life. You know, it's like like I'd rather die than live with a dirty conscience. David was willing to risk his life for a clear conscience. Remember back in 1 Samuel 24? You know, David arose, cut off the edge of Saul's robe secretly. Remember that? Then it came about afterward that David's conscience bothered him because he had cut off the edge of Saul's robe. And what did he do? Verse 8, 1 Samuel 24, verse 8. Now afterward, David arose and went out of the cave and called after Saul. Think about that. Saul is after his life. He's been looking for him in the cave. He's out to kill him. Saul David cut off the edge of this robe, and his his conscience bothered him so badly that he came out and exposed himself. Hey Saul, I'm right over here. Cut off the edge of your robe. He bowed with his face to the ground and prostrated himself. That shows how much he valued his conscience. I'm willing to expose myself. In order to protect my conscience. Think about that one. Do you protect your conscience? What's the price that you're willing to pay for your conscience? Powerful. Verse 15 says Then that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts, alternately accusing or else defending them. Like I said, it's like the umpire that says you're out or you're safe. And it's a legal word here, bringing the charge against, accusing them, bringing a charge against them, or else excusing them. But the conscience is at work. Something that you can remember when you're sharing the gospel that the conscience is actually your partner in evangelism. When you talk about sin and guilt before an all-holy and all-knowing God, it's not like the person you're talking to doesn't know what you're talking about. Their conscience is actually your partner. You already have a partner in evangelism. Their conscience is your partner as you're sharing the gospel with them. Because they know exactly what you're talking about. And it's the kindness of God that can lead them to repentance. But for many, their conscience will just be another witness on the day of judgment. So how do we know that God's judgment is righteous and impartial impartial? Number one, all who sin are judged. Number two, all who jud who are judged are judged by law, whether it's the written law or the law of the conscience The law that's within the mind that's been placed on the heart and that your conscience reacts to. And finally, how do we know that God's judgment is righteous and impartial? Number three, because all who are judged are judged according to knowledge. According to knowledge. Verse 16. On the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus, your conscience will not be the final judge. It will be a witness, it'll be a prosecutor, but it will not be the final judge. The final judge for your life is going to be God He will judge you, and he will judge the secrets of men. The secret things. The things that you think nobody else knows about. All that's going to be brought up. God knows everything about you. Psalm 139, verse 1 says, O Lord, you've searched me and known me. You know when I sit down, when I rise up, you understand my thought from afar. You scrutinize my past, my lying down, you're intimately acquainted with all my ways. Even before there's a word on my tongue, oh Lord, you know it all. Jeremiah 17, 10 says, I, the Lord, search the heart and test the mind, even to give each man according to his ways, according to the results of his deeds. Hebrews 4. 13 says, there is no creature hidden from his sight. You can't hide from God. You can't hide from God. But all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. So when God judges, like I said, there's going to be no wrongful convictions. No innocent people who pay for a crime they don't commit. No new evidence. God knows everything infinitely. Infinitely. You can't hide. Where are you going to go to hide from somebody who's everywhere? Where are you going to go? The words of Charles Spurgeon are really penetrating here. Listen to this. I love this. He says, by the secrets of men, the scripture means those secret crimes which hide themselves away by their own infamy. Listen to this. He says, those those sins which are too vile to be spoken of, which cause a shudder to go through a nation if they would be dragged out. As they ought to be into the daylight. Secret offenses shall be brought into judgment, the deeds of the night of the closed room, the acts which require the finger to be laid upon the lip. A conspiracy of silence to be sworn, revolting and shameless sins which must never be mentioned, lest the man who committed them should be excluded from his fellows as an outcast, abhorred even above other sinners. As these shall be revealed, all that you have done or are doing, if you are bearing the name Christian and yet practicing secret sin, shall be laid bare before the universal gaze. If you sit here amongst the people of God, and yet where no eye sees you, if you are living in dishonesty, untruthfulness, or uncleanness, it shall all be known And shame and confusion of face shall eternally cover you. Contempt shall be the inheritance to which you shall awake, when hypocrisy shall be no more possible. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, but he will bring the secrets of men into judgment. And then he continues with this. He says, oh thank what it will be to have your motives all brought out to the light. To have it proven that you were godly for the sake of gain, that you were generous out of ostentation, that you were zealous for the love of praise. That you were careful in public to maintain a religious reputation, but that all the while everything was done for self and for self only. What a strong light will that be when God shall turn upon our lives, when the darkest chambers of the human desire and motive shall be manifest as public acts. What a day it will be when the secrets of men Shall be set in the full blaze of the noonday. And when that day comes, nobody's going to be charging God to say, oh God, you're not righteous. This judgment is unfair. It's too much. It's too much, Lord. There's a day that's fixed. Verse 16 says, on the day. What day are we talking about? It's the day of the great white throne judgment. Revelation chapter 20, if you want to flip over there, Revelation chapter 20, verse 11. Says, Then I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it. From whose presence earth and heaven fled away. They're looking for a place to hide, just like they did in the garden. They're looking for another crack or crevice. Give me a tree somewhere, somebody. From whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. No place to hide And I saw the dead, the great, and the small standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books, according to their deeds. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them, according to their deeds. And as Spurgeon says, every sinner shall then hear the story of his life published with to his everlasting shame. You know, you want your story published. How about this story? And there's nothing you can do to wipe the record clean. And as much as it's appointed to men to die once, and after that comes the judgment. And then this judgment, Paul says, is according to my gospel. It's my gospel. You know, this is the gospel that he's been given to give to the nations. He says this this is my gospel and they're going to be judged according to my gospel. What does he mean that they'll be judged according to my gospel? What does he mean by that? Because it wasn't news That God would judge, I mean, that's something that the Old Testament says, that God's going to judge, right? We all know that. Psalm 96, before the Lord, he's coming, he's coming to judge the earth. I mean, we all know that. Even general revelation is enough to know that there's a God above us and I'll have to reckon with him at some point. So so what does he mean? It's according to my gospel that God will judge the secrets of the heart. What's new about this judgment? What's new about this judgment is that this is a judgment that comes through Jesus Christ. God will judge the secrets of men how? Through Jesus Christ. The new information that's provided in the gospel is that Jesus is the judge. And when Paul shared the gospel, the judgment of Christ was actually part of the proclamation. Flip over to Acts chapter 17. Acts chapter 17. Don't worry, I'm almost done. Acts 17. Take a look at verse 30. Look at what Paul says. This is Paul. This is his gospel proclamation. He says, therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. Why? Why do you need to repent? Repent, turn from the wrath to come. Why? Because he has fixed a day. There's a day. There's a day that's fixed. There's coming that day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. There's coming a day, that's a day of judgment, and guess who's going to judge you on that day? It's going to be Jesus Christ. And according to the gospel, all judgment will come through Jesus Christ. You might not want to have anything to do with Christians. You might not want to have anything to do with Jesus Christ, but you're still going to face Him. You're still going to face him. Jesus says in John 5, not even the Father judges anyone, but he's given all judgment to the Son. So that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father. God's going to judge. And he's going to judge through Jesus Christ. He's going to be the one who you have to stand before on the last day, which is actually another evidence that Jesus is God. Because how in the world can he judge everybody infinitely, the secrets of their hearts, if he's not God? Jesus is God, and he's going to be the one to give this judgment. So what we find in this passage is all the reasons why God would be righteous to condemn us God 's righteous to condemn us because we've all sinned. God's righteous to condemn us because we've all broken the law, whether it's the law that's written and the tablets of stone or the law that's written on our hearts. And God is right to judge us because he knows everything about us infinitely. And what's the hope in all of this? What is the hope? I mean, after reading all this, it should be mercy, mercy, Lord. And that's what you should be crying out for. Is the mercy of God. In Psalm 19, as David was examined by the Word of God, he says this at the end of Psalm 19. He says, who can discern his errors? Like if I were to count up my errors, Lord, I like who would be able to count them up? Like i if if I have to stand before a God who knows me infinitely everything that I've ever said, done, thought In the secret places where nobody else knows? Lord, who 's able to discern his errors? So what does he ask? Acquit me. What does that mean? Forgive me. That's what we need to be crying out for the Lord to forgive us. Jesus says, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. But there's some out there that might not yet recognize that they're sinners. And that's the purpose of Romans. To let you know, nope, we're talking about you. Don't don't look to your neighbor. You know, don't turn to your neighbor. Turn to yourself. We're we're talking about you. And what's the cry? Flip over to Luke 18 really quick. Luke 18. We'll end here. Luke 18. Starting at verse 9, Luke 18 at verse 9. It says, and he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves. That they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. And that was often the attitude of the Jewish people. They viewed themselves as righteous. You know, we have the law, we have the prophets, we have the promises, and they looked down on others. Verse 10 says, Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee, and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself. Notice who he's praying to. Praying this to himself. God, I thank you that I am not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers. And then he looks to the side, or even like this tax collector, this one I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven But was beating his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Why did the tax collector go away justified? Was it because he kept the law? No. It's because he recognized that he didn't. That he was a sinner in the sight of a holy God. And all he did was reach out to God for mercy. Like the thief on the cross, remember me when you enter into your kingdom, right? May God have mercy on us. I pray that there's no one who thinks that somehow I can pass the bar of God's righteous standard. The only hope that we have is that we cling to Christ. Cling to Christ, that we cry out for the mercy of God, that God would have mercy on our lives. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you, our Lord, that Our justification is not by law, that we're not saved because of what we do, that nobody will be saved because of the works of the law, that no flesh will be justified in your sight because of our law-keeping. Because it's through the law that comes the knowledge of sin. And even through this passage, Lord, we're just reminded over and over and over again that we fall short of the glory of God. That we are sinners, that we've disobeyed the law. And that your knowledge, which knows us infinitely, Lord, that you know everything that we've done, we can't hide, we can't run, we can't hide. And one day we'll have to stand before you. And Father, we're grateful that when we stand before you, that we don't say look to us, that we say, look to Christ. Look to Christ. There is my righteousness. He's the one who satisfied the righteous standard that you demand. And it's because of him, Lord, that we can stand before you with our sins completely wiped away. And having righteousness in its place. It's only through trusting in him, the one who came, who lived, who died, who rose again for our justification, who's at the right hand of the Father even now, interceding for us. Now, Father, we thank you for the sacrifice of the Savior, which we'll even think about today as we celebrate the Lord's table together. Now, Father, you are a great and awesome and a merciful God. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files