The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Matthew? The book of Matthew. Gonna continue our uh study through The Sermon on the The Mount, the greatest sermon in existence, and uh the more I study is the more that I'm convinced of that The content that our Lord is able to pack into such a short amount of space is absolutely amazing. Before we get into it, Matthew chapter 5, I want you to think about something with me. What comes to your mind when you think about God? When you think about God, what do you think about? I love what A. W. Tozer said in his book, Knowledge of the Holy. He says, what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. The history of mankind will probably show that no people has ever risen above its religion, and man's spiritual history will positively demonstrate that no religion has ever been greater than its idea of God. For this reason the gravest question before the church is always God Himself, and the most portentous or significant fact about any man is not what he at a given time may say or do, but what he in his deep heart conceives God to be like. And then he goes on to say this, without doubt, the mightiest thought the mind can entertain is the thought of God, and the weightiest word in any language is its word for God. And that's that's true. Uh to think of God is to think of the the sum of all beauty, perfection, power, and authority when we think about God Uh the Webster's uh dictionary defined God as a being conceived of as supernatural, immortal, having special powers over the lives and affairs of people and monotheistic religions, the creator and ruler of the universe Regarded as eternal, infinite, all-powerful, all-knowing, the supreme being. That's pretty good. God is the apex of all existence. He is in a class all by himself There's no place beside him. There's no category beyond him. There's no rank above him. To think about God is to reach the absolute zenith, the furthest and highest point that can be reached. There is no comparison to God Which is really the the primary meaning of the word holy. When we uh think about that word holy, the the primary meaning of that word holy is uh uh usually we think about uh holiness um in relationship to uh righteousness or purity, but the primary meaning in scripture is otherness, separateness, uniqueness. When the angels Cry out in Isaiah chapter 6, and they say the God is holy, holy, holy, they're not only saying the God is pure, that's true, but even holy angels, the elect angels are morally pure What they are saying is that God is in a category all by himself. They're saying that he is other, other, other. There's nobody like him Nobody's like him. Nobody compares to him. He's singularly without equal. In Exodus chapter 15, verse 11, it says, Who is like thee among the gods, O Lord? Who is like thee? Majestic in holiness, awesome in praises, working wonders. Psalm 86, verse 8 says, There is no one like you among the gods of the Lord, nor are there any works like yours. Isaiah 40:18, To whom then will you liken God, or what likeness will you compare with him? Or in 1 Samuel chapter 2 and verse 2 it says, There is no one holy like the Lord. Indeed, there is no one besides you, nor is there any rock like our God. God is other, other, other. No competition No comparison, no equal. Nobody's in God's category. But one of the first temptations recorded on the pages of Scripture is the enticement to do what? To be like God, right? Be like God. In Genesis chapter 3, verses 4 and 5, it says that the serpent said to the women, You surely will not die. First lie. For God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil evil. Why would Satan think that being like God would be attractive to Eve. Why do you think? He'd think that being like God would be something that would be a temptation. Why would he imagine that Eve might like to fill in for a as a sub for God It's because that was the same evil idea that he dreamt of. In Isaiah chapter 14, it gives us a clear description of what filled the heart of Satan. who is ultimately behind the king of uh Babylon that was mentioned there. Isaiah chapter 14 verses uh 12 to 14 it says how you have fallen from heaven oh star of the morning son of the dawn you have been cut down to the earth You who have weakened the nations, but said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven, I will raise my throne above the stars, and I will sit on the Mount of Assembly in the recesses of the north, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will make myself like the Most High. That was uh Satan's corruption. The thought that a created being could somehow occupy the supreme place of authority, wield infinite power of the universe, receive worship of all creation, that was the first evil thought in existence First evil thought ever in the universe. When people think about being like God, that's the kind of idea that comes to mind. You know, power and authority, supremacy, being worshipped. You know, that's what they think of when they think about God But seldom do passages like Matthew chapter 5 come to mind where God actually invites us to be like him. There's a lot of ways that the scripture lets us know that we can't be like God Matthew chapter 5 is one of the ways that it lets us know that we can be like God. Look at Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 43. It says, you have heard that it was said, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good. And sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Therefore you are to be perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for your word. Your word is is rich, your word is true, your word is inerrant, your word is authoritative, your word is necessary for all of life, your word is efficient. And Father, I just pray that as we uh contemplate your word this morning, Father, that you would uh allow us to think great thoughts of you, uh Father, that you would uh use me as a weak instrument to uh be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Like I said, when people think about being like God, this is seldom the picture that that comes to mind. These is seldom the verses that come to mind. Theologians uh talk about uh what are known as communicable and incommunicable attributes of of God. Uh an incommunicable attribute is uh something that is true about God that cannot be shared in common with anybody else In creation, like his Trinitarian nature, nobody else shares that. His omnipresence, nobody else shares that. His omniscience, nobody else shares that To commune means to share in common, to uh to have some kind of uh um affinity with, and there are things that the God does not and cannot share with us. God cannot share certain of his attributes with us. But then there are attributes to some degree that we actually can share with God. God expects us all to tell the truth, right? Why? Because he is the God who cannot lie God expects us to do good to others. Why? Because He is a God who is good and does good. He expects us to imitate Him. God expects us to love. Why? Because God is love. 1 John 4 8. And the the kind of love that is characteristic of God. Even extends to those who are his enemies. This is the love of God that's expressed in this passage in Matthew chapter 5. He's a God who feeds and sustains men Who use that same strength that they gain by that sustaining work of God to attack God? He gives men minds that use those minds to argue against them. He gives men the same breath that they used to curse him with, and the very hearts that reject him He's like the father that supports a child on his lap, who uh that child who only uses that lap so he can get high enough so he can slap the father in the face. That's not the picture that comes to mind when we think about what it would be like to be God. But that is the portrait that Christ paints for us. here. And uh just to remind you, this is a section that focuses on the righteousness of the kingdom, the kind of righteousness that we're to have. It answers the question, how do kingdom people live? And verses 1 through 12 appoints us to the character of the kingdom citizens, 13 to 16, the influence of kingdom citizens, and then 17 to 48, uh the righteousness of the kingdom, how do uh citizens of the kingdom live And in verse 43, it brings us to the final example of the righteousness of the kingdom in verses 43 to 48. And this can be broken down into three main sections. You have two contrasting beliefs about love in verses 43 and 44. You have three convicting commands about love in verse 44 and 48. And then you have four compelling benefits of of love. And uh if that's not complicated enough, I've got like, you know, sub you know, categories for you guys. So uh you can tell by the outline that we're just not gonna get through this today. So I just want to give you a heads up, all right Two conceptions or two contrasting beliefs about love, three commands, convicting commands about love, and uh four uh compelling benefits of of love. But let's take a look at the first one. Two contrasting beliefs about love. Look at verses 43 and 44 again It says you have heard that it was said you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you This is the last of six antithetical statements, six times Jesus cites popular teaching of his day, and six times Jesus has to correct it. Six times. Many of the the Jewish people misread, misinterpreted, misapplied the law of of God in order to uh justify ungodly attitudes, sinful actions that were completely contradictory to the heart and the intent of the law And what Jesus is doing here is he's elevating the law and placing it back into its rightful place. The law was not meant to be a servant to comfort and affirm them in their sins It was rather to be the master that convicted them and commanded them in righteousness. And there are two competing or contrasting views of what it meant to love. First of all, there's the the popular or the dominant view about loving your neighbor that suggested that you were only required to love your perceived neighbor. In other words, your your neighbor was limited to who you determined your neighbor to be But they believed that they had justification from the Old Testament law to do this. The command to love your neighbor is found in the Old Testament book of Leviticus. If you want to turn over there, Leviticus chapter 19. Leviticus 19, verse 18 The book of Leviticus, the great theme of uh of that book of Leviticus is the holiness of God. In uh chapters 1 through 17 it speaks of the the way to a holy God, which involves sacrifice. There had to be a sacrifice for sins in order for you to approach God And then in chapters 18 to 27, it uh describes what it means to walk with God, to live a life of sanctification. And in Leviticus chapter 19, what we have here is a list of laws regarding the way the Israelites were supposed to treat one another. Leviticus 19, we'll start at verse 17 here. It says, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You may surely reprove your neighbor, but shall not incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself, I am the Lord. Now there were at least two ways that this scripture was misapplied. When they read Leviticus 19, there was at least two ways they misapplied the scripture. First of all, it was assumed that the primary focus was on who they were to love. Rather than on how they were to love. They made the focus about who they're to love rather than how they're to love. There's a subtle omission in Matthew that you might not pick up if you're not careful. Two words Two words that Leviticus records that Matthew doesn't record. Look again in verse 18. What does it say? What does it say in verse 18? It says, uh, you shall not take vengeance nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people, but ye shall love your neighbor how? As yourself. Those are the two words that were omitted in the popular teaching. They just said you shall love your your neighbor They totally omitted as yourself. You're to love your neighbor as yourself. These words were uh not included in the popular saying, and there's this subtle shift away from Who they were to love, excuse me, from how they were to love to who they were to love. The intent of Leviticus was not to limit the sphere of love As if the Lord was afraid that their love was just going out of control. You're loving too many people. You know, only love your neighbor. You know, that's not what uh what Leviticus is trying to get at. Actually in Galatians chapter 5, in verses 22 and 23, it lets us know that there's no law against any aspect of the fruit of the Spirit. There's no law against love. You know, love can be something that you can just freely distribute. There's no law against love. The emphasis in Leviticus is not about how they're to restrict their love to their neighbors. Rather, the the Lord is not constraining their love, but not saying that they need to love less, you know, just love less people, you know, only love your neighbor. He's actually pushing them and encouraging them to love more You're loving your neighbor, but you're not loving your neighbor the way that you should be loving your neighbor. You need more love for your neighbor. You need to love your neighbor even as you love yourself. That's what what 's trying to get across here. They need to love their neighbors more, not love less or have a restricted sphere of who they're to love. It's about loving more It was also assumed that the term neighbor only covered their countrymen. When it says you shall love your neighbor as yourself, they they restricted that to only speak of their countrymen It's true that the term neighbor in Leviticus is primarily, uh the connotation primarily is about the fellow Israelite. If you look at a Verse 17, it makes that connection in uh Leviticus 19. It says, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. It's speaking about Israelites. There's also a distinction made between the neighbor and the stranger throughout the rest of uh chapter 19. Uh but this same context also makes it clear that the stranger or foreigner among them was to be treated in the same way that their neighbor was. Look at verse 33 in Leviticus nineteen. It says, When a stranger resides with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong The stranger who resides with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself. For you were aliens in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. He says you're supposed to love the stranger, the alien among you, just as you love yourself. Why? Because you know what it's like to be a foreigner in a foreign land You know what it's like to be in a place where you don't belong, where you don't feel like you fit in. Love even the stranger among you as you love yourself. Not only love your neighbor as yourself, love the stranger as you love yourself And right here the Lord expanded the category of who were to be considered their neighbors. Not only the people that were their fellow countrymen, but even people that were strangers People that were foreigners, they're supposed to include them in this category of of neighbors. And obviously this was a debated topic because in uh Luke chapter ten there was a lawyer who was considered an expert in the the law of of God Who asked this question, who is my neighbor? Right? Remember that? Luke chapter 10? He was expecting Jesus to limit the scope of who his neighbors were to be considered and keep the neighbor population to a minimum You know, I if if I'm supposed to be held accountable to this law, you know, let me only have like a certain number of people that I have to be held accountable for. You know, who is my neighbor? Who am I really accountable for And Jesus turns the question around on him and says, well, who can you be a neighbor to, right? Who can you be a neighbor to? This Samaritan, you know, who came across this Jewish person on the road? He says, who is a neighbor to him? You know, the guy that actually reached out to help, saw somebody in need and reached out to help. He's asking the question, who can you be a neighbor to, not limiting the scope of who your neighbor is In addition to that, the Jewish people were explicitly commanded to do good toward their enemies. Flip back to Exodus chapter 23 Exodus 23, there's a an important comparison I want you to see here. Context of uh Exodus 23 is the giving of the law at Sinai. Not only did God address how Israel as a new nation was to treat their fellow countrymen, but also about how they were to treat even their enemies. Look at uh Exodus 23 and starting at verse 4 What it says here. If you meet your enemy's axe or his donkey wandering away, ye shall surely return it to him If you see the donkey of one who hates you, lying helpless under its load, you shall refrain from leaving it to him. You shall surely release it with him. Alright, keep that in mind and flip over to Deuteronomy chapter 22 Deuteronomy uh twenty-two, look at uh verse one. Deuteronomy twenty-two It says, you shall not see your countrymen's ox or a sheep straying away, and pay no attention to them. You shall certainly bring them back to your countrymen. And then again in verse four, you shall not see your countryman's donkey or his ox falling down on the way and pay no attention to them. You shall certainly help him to raise them up. There was an identical treatment For both the countrymen and the enemy, the one who hates them. He says you're still supposed to do the same thing. There's this love that was supposed to be expressed even between An Israelite and an enemy. But the common belief was that it was not only permitted, but it was expected that you would hate your enemies. It was assumed that the positive command to love your neighbor was to be matched by the ex uh the opposite uh expression of hatred for your enemy. If you love your neighbor, you hate your enemy is actually uh repeated in a form that made it even sound more biblical. And uh Matthew, the the verb form that was used for this command, the popular saying of Jesus' day is uh what's known as an imperatival future. Uh it's the same form that's used in the Ten Commandments, thou shalt not, thou shalt not. So they they use that same kind of form to match this expression. You know, thou shalt Hate thine enemy. You know, just to make it sound more, you know, pious and biblical, thou shalt hate thine enemy. According to Josephus, the Jewish historian. There was a group of Jewish separatists known as the Essenes who actually made this part of their vows. Like this is how you joined the Essene community. You had to make this vow. You had to vow always to hate the wicked and assist the righteous That was a vow that they made. And there are other Jewish interpreters who agreed with that. One source quotes a medieval scholar named Maimonides, a Jewish medieval scholar Maimonides He said about Leviticus 19, 18, that he is thy neighbor if he is good, but not if he is wicked, as it is written, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, and by that he meant to hate evil people. You know, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, talking about that the people that you hate evil people. He even went so far as to say this about the Gentiles. Listen to this. He says, Do not plot their death, you know, don't go out and murder anybody. But it is forbidden them to deliver them from death if they are in danger of it For instance, if you sees one of them falling into the sea, let him by no means lift him out. For it is written, Thou shalt not rise up against the blood of thy neighbor. But this is not thy neighbor. You know, basically saying like if a Gentile's out there drowning you, just let him drown. Because he's not your neighbor, and you know, there's no blood guiltiness on your part You know, don't kill them, but don't save them either. This is a common belief in Roman historians like uh Tacitus and Juvenile actually believed that it was part of the Jewish religion To hate non-Jews. They just believe that, you know, hey, that's just kind of part of what they are what they believe. That's part of their religion. But the truth is that it was never stated in the Old Testament as a command to hate anybody. Never stated as a command. It's very interesting and a telling observation considering that all that the Old Testament says about enemies. The Old Testament has a lot to say about enemies If you know anything about the Old Testament, it's pretty obvious, even from a quick and passing overview of Israel's history, that there were times when under the direction of God that Israel was to carry out judgment On behalf of God, they were instructed to battle their enemies, defeat their enemies, not spare their enemies. But what is interesting is that they're never instructed to hate their enemies. Kind of interesting When God called on Israel to cast out a nation, it was because the iniquity of that nation was filled to the brim. Filled to the brim. And when the iniquity of a nation became so great that it was saturated with its own sin, they were a ripe candidate for judgment And there were some times when God would bring this judgment himself. In uh Genesis chapter 18, we have a case of where uh God brought judgment personally and directly. There's an illustration of of a land that reached the saturation point, saturation of sin, in Genesis 18, 20 and 21, it says, And the Lord said, The outcry of Sodom and Gomorrah is indeed great. And their sin is exceedingly grave. I will go down now and see if they have done entirely according to its outcry, which has come to me, and if not, I will now. And you'll remember that that city had become so wicked that there weren't even ten righteous people in it. They had become so saturated with iniquity, he couldn't even find ten people that were following after the Lord. It was filled with iniquity. It was time for judgment. Time for judgment You know, one time the in the entire world kind of pushed the needle past the breaking point before the worldwide flood. Remember that? Genesis chapter 6, verse 5, it says, Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth That every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and it reached the breaking point. Reached the saturation point. It was time for judgment. Later on, Nineveh. 40 days away from judgment. It's like you're you're right there. The needle is pushing. You're right on the edge And because of uh Jonah's preaching they returned. But this is not an isolated event. It's not an isolated event. And and and these are the cases where God acted directly and personally against a nation or a a city, but in some cases God acts indirectly through a designated agent. In Genesis chapter 15, you have Abraham. He's waiting on the promise of God to be fulfilled Uh one of the things that he had been promised was land, you know, back in uh Genesis chapter twelve, but a few la years later in uh chapter fifteen, he's still dwelling in the land as a as a guest in uh Canaan. And uh God lets him know part of the reason he won't see the fulfillment of that promise for the land in his lifetime is because of what it says in Genesis fifteen. It says, As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace, basically saying, You're gonna die You will be buried at a good old age. Then in the fourth generation they will return here. Why? For the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet complete. They're not yet at a point where I can judge them. They haven't reached that saturation point of sin. I'm not going to judge them now. I'm going to give them an opportunity. I'm a long-suffering God. I'm going to give them opportunity to repent. It means that the people of this land had not reached the point where they were saturated with sin, but in Deuteronomy chapter 20, the case is different. Deuteronomy 20 verse 17, God says But you shall utterly destroy them, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hibite, the Jebusite, as the Lord your God has commanded you So that they may not teach you to do according to all their detestable things which they have done for their gods, so that you would sin against the Lord your God. Now he's saying at this point the saturation point is reached, and the land is going to vomit them out In Leviticus 18, it adds these words in 24 and 25. It says, do not defile yourself by any of these things. And it's talking about sexual sin in this case. Do not defile yourself by any of these things, for by all these the nations which I am casting out before you have become defiled, for the land has become defiled, therefore I have brought its punishment upon it So the land has spewed out its inhabitants. Literally, it's vomit. The land has vomited them out. Many of the the wars that uh Israel fought in the Old Testament were under this kind of direction from God, that they've reached that point where they need to be judged. It wasn't a personal hatred that Israel had against these other nations It was carrying out God's judgment. And in Psalms, where the writers speak often about the hatred of the Lord for evildoers, hatred for God's enemies, the Psalms never speaks about hatred for one's own enemies. Never Never speaks about personal hatred for uh for their own personal enemies. There's this this call for judgment and vengeance, but never an unbridled hatred. And Jesus commands love even for those who would be considered enemies. Back in Matthew chapter 5. Jesus commands love Even for enemies. There's different groups of people that the Jewish people would have considered their their enemies, different classes of people. There are people who were not their fellow countrymen. They consider those people enemies. Ethnic enemies. There were people who didn't share their same ethnic background. Uh God chose the descendants of Abraham as his people. The Gentiles were the rejected ones in the Jewish mind. They're considered unclean. Acts chapter 11, verse 3 says that they would not even eat with the uncircumcised, and I'm not even going to have a meal with you Samaritans who are physically related but had intermarried with Gentiles were completely avoided. In uh John chapter four verse nine it says that the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. They'd go out of their way, so they won't even touch on the ground. You know, I don't even want to touch on the defiled ground of the Samaritans. So they had ethnic enemies. They had uh people who didn't share the same religious upbringing, considered enemies, religious enemies. You know, Gentiles who didn't believe in in God revealed in the scriptures were the enemies of the faith When Rome conquered Israel in 63 A. D. the Roman general Pompeii and invaded Jerusalem, profaned the temple by walking into the Holy of Holies. They hated that. Hated the Romans. Worship false gods, idols, hailed Caesar as Lord. Even those who were fellow countrymen, but who did not follow the law were despised. You know, they're sinners. We don't relate to anybody that's a sinner Anybody who worships anything that's false, who doesn't follow the law of our God, they're enemies. People who didn't share the same political perspective. political enemies. Zechariah spoke for the Jewish people when he longed for the salvation from our enemies, from the hand of all who hate us. He was speaking here of that time of the Romans that were oppressing them Jews reluctantly paid their taxes, submitted to Roman rule, but they always thought of the Romans as enemies. People who were disloyal to Israel were enemies, social enemies. Jews who cooperated with Rome and aided their oppression were enemies to tax collectors. They were despised, the most despised creatures in Israel, because they betrayed their own people, helped the Romans to oppress their own people. How could you do that? I mean, come on, you know us. You know what we've been through. How could you help the enemy? Hated the tax collectors. To be a tax collector was to be a traitor and in most cases a liar and a thief because they'd always kind of jack up their prices and get more than What they would do. You also have people that were persecuted. Personal enemies. They had personal enemies because they were persecuted by people, people who attacked them. were considered their enemies. The word persecute that's used in in verse 44 here in Matthew, it's the a word that means to pursue or to go after. It's uh the only kind of attack that's mentioned in in Matthew here, in uh verse 44, actually, if you're you're reading a King James or a New King James. It kind of fills in some details that are actually stated over in Luke. Why don't you flip over to Luke real quick? Luke chapter 6 Luke six, twenty-seven and and twenty-eight kind of fills in. What else Jesus had to say? It says, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. Those that hate, those that curse, those that mistreat, those that persecute, over in Matthew. Matthew only mentions persecute, but And the earlier manuscripts only mention Persecute, some of the later manuscripts fill in the portion in Luke. But here it gets personal. The enemy now has moved from, you know, coming at other people and around, you know, other people. You can see that what they're doing, you know, ethnically or socially. Now it's coming to me. Now it's personal. They're actually attacking me. Personal hatred, cursing, mistreatment, spitefully being used. Calculated moves against you And when you add all these up, you discover that this enemy is uh opposed to all that you believe, all that you stand for, all that you hold precious. These are the enemies that they faced. Ethnically, religiously, politically, socially, personally. And these were the kinds of enemies in in view here, but what's to be the response to people like this? What 's to be our response to to enemies? Whether it's ethnic or religious or political and you know, hot buttons today, right? Social, personal. How are you to respond to our enemies? And the temptation here is just to check out because everybody already knows the answer, right? Oh, you're supposed to love them. You know, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. We already kind of know that, right? We already kind of know what the convicting commands are. We're you know we know the standard of love. The command of love is a present imperative Which demands a continuous or habitual practice. Those that belong to the kingdom of Christ are to have a love that will not let people go, even in the face of abuse, even in the face of persecution, I'm still supposed to love you The kind of love we're to have is love that seeks their benefit even if they never return the favor, which is so hard to do. So hard to do. You just you expect something back. Can't you see how hard I'm trying? And you get nothing. It's a love without conditions. This is the the way we most often understand that uh Greek word agapa 'o. It's a love that is not layered with conditions that have to be met first. You know, you do this first and then I'll I'll love. You know, that's not the kind of love we're talking about. It's a love of intention, because your intention is not to be self-serving, and uh 1 Corinthians 13 talks about, you know, loving with your actions, but you can love with your actions without having the right intention behind it. You know, people would even give themselves up to be burned, right? Give my body up to be burned if I'm gonna get my name somewhere, right? They they had the self-serving motivation, and here it's not about serving yourself Just about the benefit of the other person, not secretly hoping that you gain some kind of glory. We're to love our enemies without conditions and action and the right intention We're also familiar with the standard of prayer, which is really just an extension of love for our enemies. We love them not only by seeking them good, but also praying for their good. I love what John Stott says. He says, if intercessory prayer is an expression of what love we have, it is a means to increase our love as well. It is impossible to pray for someone without loving him. And impossible to go on praying without discovering that our love for him grows and matures. We must not therefore wait before praying for an enemy. Listen to this. We must not wait before praying for an enemy. Until we feel some love for him in our heart. You know, wait for the love and then I'll pray. You know, that's that's not the way it works. We must begin to pray for him before we are conscious of loving him, and we shall find our love first break in the bud and then in the blossom. You know, even if you don't feel it, you're still doing the love and act, right? By praying for him. I don't feel anything for this guy. But I'm gonna pray for him anyway. It's still an act of love. And then you just pray that your feelings will just kind of come along, right? This point is even made uh more clear by the tense of the participle used in for prayer. It's a present participle which describes an action that happens at the same time as the main verb. Okay, listen to this. It's an action that happens at the same time as the main verb. What does that mean? It means that Jesus commanded his followers to pray blessings on their persecutors even while they were being persecuted. You get that? Pray for blessings for your persecutors while they're persecuting you. Not like wait for it to kind of heal and afterwards, you know, lick my wounds and say, okay, now you know turn back. No, he's saying do it while you're being persecuted. In the moment. If that's not a tall order, I don't know what is, right? This is a high standard. This is a high standard. Impossible standard. We all know that our Lord was a perfect example of this kind of love, don't we? In Luke chapter 22, 33 and 34, it says, when they came to the place called the Skull. There they crucified him. And the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left. But Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them. While he's being persecuted. Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they're doing. And they cast lots dividing up his garments among themselves Like what Scott says again, he says, if the cruel torture of crucifixion could not silence our Lord's prayers for his enemies, what pain, pride, prejudice, or sloth could justify the silencing of ours? If the Lord can pray while he's being crucified, what justification do you have for failing to pray for your enemies? What justification do you have? But sometimes I'm afraid that we can look at Christ and His incarnation and be tempted to think, well, that's you know, that's what he had to do, right? He had to do that. I mean, he's submitting to the Father. He's fulfilling prophecy. There's no other way to redeem the world. I mean, what choice did he have? I mean, he had to go through that, right? And we think about ourselves and we think, you know, you know, I I'm here suffering and persecution, you know, I just gotta grip my teeth and bear it. You know, what else can I do? I have no control over my circumstances There's no way out of this. I can't do anything about it. We kind of reluctantly pray for our enemies because it's like, what else am I going to do? I can't get out of it anyway But if I were God, I wouldn't put up with this. If I were God, I wouldn't put up with any of this. If I were the infinite, all-powerful, all-knowing supreme being, I wouldn't tolerate any of this. Enough of this nonsense. But that would be to divorce the greatness of God from the goodness of God. And that was Satan's call Satan's temptation because God has not called us to imitate his greatness. He's not called you to imitate his supremacy, his all-sufficiency, his infinite power, knowledge. God hasn't called you to imitate him like that The thought that a created being could somehow occupy the supreme place of authority, will the power of the universe, receive worship. That was the wicked thought, the first evil thought ever conceived, right? When we think about people being like God, that's the thought that comes to mind. Power, authority, supremacy, worship, having powers over people to do what I want them to do. God is not meant for us to imitate him like that. What we find God calling us to imitate him in is his love. The kind of God that we worship is a God who has infinite power, infinite supremacy, can do whatever he wants to do. And you know what he chooses to do? He chooses to allow enemies to continue to attack him. If you don't have place in your theology for that, you've got the wrong God. The Bible describes God as being loving by nature. God is love. Leon Morris writes, God's love is not a response to man's attractiveness, nor the result of man's obedience to God, nor does anything else in man's extract love from an unwilling deity Men do not persuade God to be loving and gracious. He is loving and gracious by nature. He loves because he is a loving God. And God is long-suffering even with wicked men. Even with wicked men. Psalm 86, 15, but you, O Lord our God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness and truth. Why hasn't God destroyed the nations already? Why not? Because He's a God that's long suffering He continues to allow men to curse him, continues to allow men to argue against him, continues to allow men to rebel against him. He's the king of the universe. 2 Peter 3. 9, the Lord is not slow about his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient toward you. Not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. Why does he wait? Because he's a merciful God. He's a long-suffering God. He's a God who supports the child on his lap, who knows that the only intention that this child has is to climb up on the lap high enough so that they can strike him in his face. That's the kind of God we worship He's a great supreme God, but he's also God of infinite compassion. And if it wasn't for his compassion, he wouldn't be here today. None of us would be here today. Why? Because we're all enemies of God. But even while we were enemies, God demonstrated his own love toward us, and that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity to consider you, to consider not only your greatness, but also your goodness. My father, you haven't called us to imitate you and your greatness. There's no way that we can even come close. We can't compare to you. You are other, other, other. But there are ways that you've commanded us to be sons of the Father. And one of those ways that you've called us to imitate you is in your love even for vile and wretched enemies. Father, I pray that we would be imitators of you, that we would be followers of you, that we would learn from you, learn from our Savior, learn from the examples of others. That you would be honored and glorified in Jesus' name, praise you, thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files