The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Deavenly Father, we're so thankful for how you bless your church. The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. It doesn't matter if it's in Rome, Baltimore, or any part of the world. You bless your church and you help it grow. When your word is preached. And we thankful, we're so thankful to partner with a church like Baltimore where the word is preached, where the word is sung, where it's uh preached even in the Sunday schools and on the streets and and And everywhere. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for your grace. And I pray that we would be men and women whose goal is to give glory to you alone. In Jesus' name. Amen. I showed you the picture of the door that was opening and the Pope was opening these doors. And this year in Rome it's a very uh interesting time. In uh just a few months ago, the Pope died suddenly. And a new pope was instituted and as you guys know, I'm sure you've heard, it's an American pope for the first time A few months earlier, on December 24th, 2024, Pope Francis opened up a door and four others that are walled shut for 25 years at a time. These doors are in five major basilicas of Rome And that one that you saw there was in St. Peter's. I'm sure you've heard of St. Peter's in the Vatican. Uh St. Peter's has a door that's called the Holy Door, that for twenty-five years at a time, not only is it shut and locked, but a wall is built behind it. And they build the wall to symbolize the fact that it's that you can't go through it. And every 25 years, in the year of Jubilee, they call it They knock down the wall, they open up these doors, and they declare it the year of Jubilee, and so anybody who walks through these doors can have all their sins forgiven. And so this year, like every twenty-five years, and if you can tell it's 2025, the doors were open, and people from all over the world are making the trip to Rome. Three times more visitors than usual. And Rome is one of the biggest tourist cities on earth. It's getting three times more visitors than usual to come and to have their sins forgiven by walking through this door. A week before this um this happened I was I was preaching through John and I got to John chapter ten, verses seven through ten. And I would like to uh focus on this passage this morning. And I would like to talk about what it means that Jesus is the door. In 2016 the Pope became Pope. I don't know if you guys follow much Roman Catholicism. I know Maryland is called Maryland because it's the land of Mary, so I know that there's a lot more Catholicism here than other states in America. So I know that you guys deal with uh Roman Roman Catholicism, maybe more than the average state in America, but uh in 2016 the Pope became Pope and did uh a special year of Jubilee So picture this, in 2016, he had the doors opened for a special year. What does that tell you? That the Pope has the power to open up this door anytime he wants. If I had a door that could save people from their sin by walking through it, I would Figure out a way they figured out a way to bring those steps over from Jerusalem. I'd figure out a way to bring those this door around the world and Force people to beg people to walk through it. I don't know what you need to put on the other side, pizza. I would do anything I can to get a person to walk through this door so they can have all their sins forgiven And if I had the power, at the very least, I wouldn't shut it for 16 years, 25 years at a time. I would leave it open and let people be saved any time that they want. But it's a money-making business. And we see in John chapter 10, Jesus condemned Very similarly, the Pharisees. Look at what it says in verse 7. So Jesus said to them again, Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved And we'll go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I want to divide this message into three parts, and the first one is simply the depravity of false teachers. I want to look at the depravity of false teachers. Before we can get to the exclusivity of Christ and the generosity of Christ, Christ decides to compare himself to false Christ. And he used this false Christ to show the difference between what he offers and what they offer. And the question here is: when he talks about thieves and robbers, who's he talking about? In Italian you say conquicce la Gesù, which is a way of saying, who does he have it with? Who's bothering Jesus with what they believe and what they do? Obviously, it's not Moses. He says, all who have come before me. Obviously, he's not talking about Moses. Moses was a believer in God. He's not talking about Abraham. He's not talking about King David. Who's he talking about? I think that the immediate context is that he's talking about the Pharisees and especially the Pharisees who dealt with the blind man in John chapter 9. I'm sure you're familiar with this story. It's probably my favorite story in the Bible, which my wife jokes that I am able to put it in every sermon because I love this story so much of this blind man who If you guys remember, I mean in verse 1, Jesus sees this man blind from birth, and the disciples see a question. Jesus sees a soul And so all of a sudden Jesus tells him to go and wash at the pool of Saloon. So never sees Jesus. He goes off to the pool, he he washes his face, he j he gets on his knees to wash his face, and then all of a sudden he sees. And he starts running. Instead of enjoying the fact that he sees, he's not thinking about the birds and the bees, and he's not thinking about the the flowers and the trees. He's not thinking about the stuff that's around him that he's seeing for the first time. What's he doing? He's running back to the temple because he's got to go and show the Pharisees that he sees that a miracle has happened And so he's running back and he sees his friends who were there with him for the first time, and he tells them that he's the man who was born blind, and now he's no longer blind. And immediately there's a discussion about it. He knows he's the guy, but they're com they're confused about it. They're saying, actually I don't think it's him. Actually maybe it is him. We don't know. Let's go take them to the Pharisees. And what should be the best Day of his life becomes the worst day of his life because now all of a sudden there's a bunch of Pharisees around him accusing him. He's in a tribunal setting. And this man who should be enjoying For the first time seen, all of a sudden, what happens? He's being questioned. He's being yelled at. And then the craziest thing of all happens. Look at what it says in verse 18. Look at what it says. There's an incredible word here. The Jews did not then did not believe it of him that he had been blind. And had received this sight. Look at that word, the next word. Until. Until. What does that mean? They did not believe it that he had been born blind until What does that until tell you? That the Pharisees, at the end of this discussion, at the end of this session with this poor blind guy, they're gonna walk away believing That Jesus healed this man. But they don't walk away believing in Christ. They don't walk away encouraging everyone to follow Christ. They walk away what? Doubling down, and now they've decided for sure they're gonna kill Jesus. That's the opposite reaction that you should have. And the the the passage tells us that the parents, the parents walk in. And I don't know if you many of you probably have held the baby when it was firstborn. There's nothing more beautiful than seeing a mother look at her baby for the first time. And the mother realizing that the baby sees her. Imagine a mother of a blind child. And as joyful as it may be to hold a baby, there's that realization that my baby will never see me. He'll never see me. And it should be sad. Imagine the excitement in being seen by your child for the first time. And here comes the mother, and she walks in a room where she knows her child is. And who he can see for the first time and he looks at his mother for the first time. Now in Italy, mothers are a big deal. It's a joke that men stay in home till their their late thirties because they love being with their mother Just imagine seeing your mother for the first time. And this is what she says And they questioned them, saying, look at verse 19, is this your son who you say was born blind? Then how does he now see? His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind, but how he now sees we do not know, or who opened his eyes we do not know. Ask him, he is of age, he will speak for himself. What is he saying? What are the parents saying? We don't want to come close to him. Verse 22 says his parents said this because they were afraid of the Jews. For the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed him to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. What are they saying? What should be the most beautiful moment in this mother's life has become a fearful moment. She will not go near her son because what? Because or else she might get kicked out. of this false religion. Imagine now Jesus talking about this situation just the next day or just a few days later. And he saw these Pharisees steal what could have been what was an incredible moment in the life of this blind man and this family. But due to their false religion, due to the fact that they are thieves and robbers, all of a sudden, they Ruin everything. If you go to Luke chapter twenty, Luke chapter twenty, verse forty-seven Jesus has some other words for these Pharisees, and he accuses them in verse 47 of devouring widows' houses. It says who devour widows' houses and for appearance's sake offer long prayers, these will receive greater condemnation. So he accuses them of of of taking advantage of widows. Okay? Look at verse 21 And he looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the treasury. And he saw a poor widow Putting in two small copper coins. And maybe you heard this taught in Sunday school and and they commend give they the Sunday school teacher commends this lady who gives her money And it says that Jesus said, Truly I say to you that this poor widow put in more than all of them, for they all out of their surplus put into the offering, but she out of her poverty put in all that she had to live on. But if you read the context, he's not happy about this poor lady putting in her last two pieces of silver or copper who now has to go home and die because she can't buy food. It's not a good thing, right? He just said that these Pharisees devour widows' houses and then he looks up and he says, Look at this. This is exactly what I'm talking about. And he looks at this poor lady who has given her last two coins and she goes home to die. And it's a incredible description and depiction of what Jesus is talking about in John chapter 10, where these thieves come and steal and rob these thieves and robbers steal and destroy. Kill and destroy. And if you go to John chapter 9 and you try to understand what Jesus is really saying here. What is it that got them to the point where they were looking at this poor blind man who was given sight and they know the miracle happened and they will not believe What is their concern? Why are the parents of the kid not embracing him and not celebrating? What's their concern? The false teachers, the Pharisees, what are they concerned with? They're concerned with keeping glory upon themselves. What do they want? They want the people to depend on them. They want people to look at a beautiful moment and the mom say, Absolutely no, I don't want to come close to you because I need to keep my salvation. I gotta I gotta do what these guys say That's an incredible example of false teaching to the point where you open up doors, you wall them shut for 25 years at a time, and then you open them suddenly all of a sudden now people can come and get salvation, and then you wall them shut again But you take their money for for that year and you boost the economy and then you send them on their way. And people are dependent upon these false teachers for their salvation. And so one word, one way to describe these false Christs, these false teachers, is glory thieves. They want to steal glory. Isn't that at the heart and goal of every false religion? Think about it. They want you to depend on them. Whether it's you need to come to this city once in your lifetime, like Mecca, or whether it's every twenty-five years you must come here, or whether it's you must give me money And God will give and exchange houses and cars, whatever it is, what do they want? They want you to depend on them. They want to steal the glory that only Christ deserves. They're not praying what George prayed earlier, that the only famous person in this building must be Jesus Christ. They don't care about that. What do they want? They want all the fame on themselves. They want all the dependence on themselves. They're glory thieves. And so you can see this on Judgment Day, what they teach about Judgment Day. Because whether it's Islam Who teaches that on judgment day, God is literally gonna take out a scale and he's gonna start pouring all the good things you do on one side and all the bad things on the other, and he's gonna let you in based on which one weighs more It's in the Quran. You can read it for yourself. Who gets the glory in that situation? Well If I did enough good works to make the skill weigh more on the good side than the bad side, and the God of the universe looks at Jordan and says, Jordan , Good job. You got it. You were yeah, it was uh scary for a second there, but good job, you did it Well what am I gonna think when I step into heaven? The door opens and I walk in, my first step in, I'm in. What am I gonna think to myself? I'm a pretty big deal. My my head by step three my head is gonna explode from how big it's gonna become My shoulder from all the patting on my back will just be dislocated. Why? This is exactly what Paul says in Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, right? It's by grace you have been saved through faith. It's not of yourself. It's the gift of God, not of works, that any man should boast. Why? Because if I get to heaven through works, even one work. If I get to heaven through works, even if it's one work What's gonna happen? I'm gonna steal glory from God. And I Ephesians 2 Seven sees that Jesus says that God saves us to make us a first fruits among his creatures to show us off for eternity. Okay So I can picture an angel coming by and seeing me in heaven. Imagine if I got there and the God of the universe, whom these angels Serve 24-7, right? They're constantly just thinking, they're covering their eyes to not look at this God of the universe because He's too holy. All of a sudden, the corner of their eye they see me. They maybe they heard God say to Jordan, you've got there yourself here. The skill weighed more there was more good than bad. What would an angel think? Good job, Jordan Even if it's just a split second, even if it's just a it's so blasphemous to even say this out loud. Why? Because the angel should see me and be propelled to more worship of God. To think, wow, Jordan should not have been able to get here. Therefore, God was able to save a wretch like Jordan. And And therefore the angel would be propelled to more worship, right? But the false religion is opposite. They train you and teach you to steal glory from God. Why? Because they're glory thieves, and so the whole system is directed towards stealing glory from God because it's all directed from the God of this world, the devil, right? Who who's Only objective in life is to steal glory from God, and he will not be able to. The God who created you from nothing And who created every tree on earth? Who can make, who makes the doors that we walk through. He cannot share his glory with anybody. The Pharisees, the Pope, Imams They steal glory from God themselves by usurping the sheep that are among them, but then they also teach the sheep to then steal glory from God and how they are saved. And that's how depraved it is. And now Jesus is looking at his disciples. And he can't help but care for his sheep. He looks at everything and says, I'm different. I'm different. And you should be different disciples as you minister to the sheep that God gives entrusts to you one day. And he teaches them in John chapter 13 to wash the feet of the disciples. One another. And to wash The people sphere of the churches that they will pastor. And he talks about abiding in the branch and to in the vine and to be like Christ With their actions. And he talks about loving one another as I have loved you in John 15. And he's going to go on to teach how to be a faithful shepherd in contrast with these false shepherds. And Jesus is completely different. And one thing that we must believe, and it's very important, maybe a little controversial, but I want to say it anyways, is that Of all the depravity on earth that there is, of all the horrible things humans do, stealing glory from God is the worst. And I know that there are horrible things that you can do to someone's body. Stuff that makes our skin crawl when we hear it, that makes us cry, that makes us scream, in anger, righteous anger. But false religion and false Christ are worse. Because the former are doing something to the body, but the latter are doing something to the soul. And there's nothing worse than that. But I was thinking as I was preparing this message that every one of us is tempted to steal glory from God. So we walk into a church building like this, and we have all agendas. We have all feelings, I guess I should say not agendas, but we have feelings, we have emotions. It can be very tempting to walk into a place and to want to steal what is only Christ, right? So definitely a missionary can have this temptation, right? I was talking to real estate agents who were who were saying that they have to work hard to not see people as dollar signs Because they you know they sell houses for a living and so if they hear a friend sold a bought or sold a house not with them, it can be a temptation for them to be angry, right? Whether you're an insurance agent, lawyer, a pastor, anyone can struggle with this You come into church, you think about it as the place where you get fill in the blank, and very quickly it can turn into a glory-thief situation. So let me ask you, do you steal from God's glory? If you're a believer, you can struggle with this. Let me ask you, does it bother you when others steal from God's glory? Does it bother you when you hear of false religions to steal from God's glory? The goal of life is to live for God's glory. Paul says, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain. And the nest a way to remember this is probably the second point is the exclusivity of Christ. So we saw the depravity of Christ of the false Christ. Now we can see the exclusivity of Christ. Look at what it says in verse nine. He says, I am the door, if anyone enters through me, he will be saved. And will go in and out And find pasture. Notice what he says. He says, I am the door. And he says, if anyone enters through me, he will be safe. He will be saved. It's an instantaneous act that God does on the soul of a man. He declares him righteous, and the man, upon walking through the door, that is Christ, he will be saved instantaneously. And only us humans can take a verse about the exclusivity of Christ and make it into some kind of works-based thing, right? That's our depraved mind, right? We see a verse that's so clearly about belief and we make it about an actual door you gotta walk through every 25 years Now, Bible interpretation, you go to seminary to interpret the Bible better, right? So the Bible is hard to interpret. And so there's pastors they go to seminary and they study and they study even after seminary to make sure they get a passage right. I studied many hours to get this passage right. Why? Why? Because I care about Bible interpretation. I care about making sure if I say thus say saith the Lord, then I am saying what the Lord wants me to say, right? Typically, Baltimore Bible Church, I'm sure, will be criticized by others for being too literal. Right? Taking passages that are meant to be literal literally bothers people. Okay? It's rare though that we take as metaphorical something a false religion will take literally But one rule of thumb is that a lot of times it's interesting that false teachers take uh take literal something when they want to steal glory from God. But metaphorical with everything else. The Gospel of John, if you're familiar with the Gospel of John, we we should be, by this point, instructed by Jesus to realize that we need to take Some of the things he's saying as spiritually and not literally. For example, I'll give you some examples. In John chapter 2. John chapter 2, he's walking by the temple, right? You guys know this story? Verse 19. Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. Right? The people will use these words against him On the day that he's crucified, why? To prove that he wanted to destroy the temple. Okay? That's how literally they take it Here it says the Jews then said it took 46 years to build this temple and will you raise it up in three days? He can raise it up in three seconds or three milliseconds, right? He could destroy it and then raise it up anytime anytime he wants But he wasn't speaking about that. Look at what it says. He was speaking of the temple of his body. A few verses later. John 3. 3. Look at what it says. Jesus said to Nicodemus, truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus takes it. Literally, right? What does he say? How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born, can he? He takes literally what he's supposed to take spiritually. Look at chapter 4, verse 10. Jesus answered and said to her, Now we're at the woman at the well. He says, if you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. What does the woman at the well say? You don't have a bucket. You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Again, Jesus is speaking metaphorically and she takes it literally. In the same chapter, the lady is talking to Jesus, and the disciples see him at a distance. And they're already weirded out by that. She jumps up and as she's running towards town, she's declaring all the sins that she's ever done, the Bible says. So the disciples see this woman talk to Jesus from a distance and they're talking about it. They're like, why is he talking to a woman? She jumps up, runs away sharing the gospel with everybody she encounters. And then Samaria has a revival of some kind here. And look at verse 32. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. And look what it says. So the disciples were saying to one another, No one brought him anything to eat, did he? Even the disciples who've lived with him and seen all these examples of him taking, talking about spiritually, taking people taking it literally, they still take it literally and they're wrong. And Jesus says, My food is to do the will of the of him who sent me and accomplished his work. And finally, if we go to chapter 6, verse 51, we have an incredible verse that to this day In my country people take out of context and misunderstand. And it says this, I am the living bread, John 6, 51, that came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread also Which I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. And the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? And my the religion of my country instituted understands the Lord's Supper as Jesus re-sacrificing his body over and over again so that they can eat his flesh on a daily basis if they want. It's the heart of man to take, to find a verse and immediately think of it and works based, especially a verse where Jesus is calling for your heart. And you, in order to keep them away from your heart, you make up some sort of outward works-based system. Not too long ago, a pastor named Greg Laurie lamented the fact that Pope Francis said, all religions are pathways to reach God. Which is which he should have, you know, been uh been aware that he was saying things like this because he wrote a book called Fratelli tutti, which is brothers everyone, and in which he argues that everybody goes to heaven. That's some some form of universalism at the end of the day. What does it mean that Jesus is the door? Another another bishop named Robert Baron in an interview with um Ben Shapiro, which he did a few a few weeks I think after John MacArthur. And it was fascinating. I wrote an article comparing the answers of John MacArthur and and Robert um Bishop Robert Barron. He looks at Ben Shapiro And he tells him, Ben Shapiro asks him, do I have to become a Christian? He's a Jew. And he says, no. Jesus is the privileged pathway to God. You don't have to convert. But if you want the privilege pathway, you can do it. Mother Teresa said this. We never try to convert those who receive aid from missionaries of charity to Christianity But in our work we bear witness to the love of God's presence, and if Catholics, Protestant, Buddhists or agnostics become for this better men, simply better. We will be satisfied. It matters to the individual what the church what church he belongs to. If that individual thinks and believes that this is the only way to God for her or him, this is the way God comes into their life, his life. If he does not know any other way, and if he has no doubt so that he does not need to search, then this is his way to salvation. That's not Christianity. That's not what Jesus is saying here in verse in John chapter 10. He says, I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved. This is exclusivity. He says later in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through me. John 3, 16 says that God so loved the world that he gave his one and only begotten Son. That whoever believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. If you don't believe in him, you will perish. If you do believe in him, you have everlasting life. Peter will say, There is salvation in no one else, for there is no name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. We don't have time for this, but it's clear throughout the book of John that what he means when he says these things, even these metaphorical things. He is talking about belief in him. Let me show you. John 6. He talks about the flesh. Right? You might meet some Roman Catholic who says, well, Jesus says to eat his flesh, and that's what we're doing Look at the context of John 6. Quickly. I'll try to be quicker. Sorry, am I already over time? I hope not. I have one more point. Sorry. Sorry, you guys have a celebration. I'm ruining the party. I'm sorry. He says in verse 26, he says Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate the loaves and were filled. Jesus had just done a miracle in John chapter 6. We know the multiplication of the bread. Five thousand men were were fed, probably twenty thousand people. They wanted to make him king they wanted to snatch him up and make him king immediately. Why? Because he could feed people. That's what they were carrying. That's what they cared about. In fact he tells them You don't you're not following me because you saw the signs. You follow me because you eat. You can eat with with me. You're like an Italian who comes to the free party. And then he says, this do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you, for on him the Father God has set his seal. What is this food that leads to eternal life? I want to eat it, right? So they say, What shall we do? So that we may work the works of God. Look at what Jesus says to them This is the work of God. Do you believe in Him who He has sent? So, what does eating the food mean in this context? He says it. The work is to believe. Verse 35. Look what it says. Chapter 6. He says, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who Believes in me, will never thirst. What is he saying? It's believing in him that saves you. But I say to you that you have seen me and yet you do not believe Verse 40. For this is the will of my father that anyone everyone who beholds the Son and believes in him will have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. What does it mean to eat of Christ? Eat of his flesh. It means to believe in him. Verse 47. Truly, truly I say to you , He who believes has eternal life. He doesn't say he who flies to Rome and walks through a door has eternal life. He doesn't say he who Praise a certain memorized prayer many times in a row gets eternal life. He doesn't say he who gives the most in church does gets eternal life. He whose skill weighs more good than bad gets eternal life. He says he who believes has eternal life. He said it four times in this chapter, and by the time you get to 51, that should be in your mind And then in verse 64, he says, but there are some of you who do not believe. And he's lamenting the fact That these people, upon hearing that it takes belief to go to heaven, they're saying, This is too hard for me. And they walk away. They stop being his disciples. Why? Because an outward action is easier than an inward faith. Because opening up your heart to Jesus means that he sees everything that's in there. He sees the sin that is deep in there. That's why the the woman at the well was was playing goalkeeper on Jesus. It takes a long time before she even lets Jesus into her heart. Why? Because we do not want to be judged. In verse 69, beautiful verse. Jesus looks in verse 67 to the disciples and he says, do you want to go away too? Simon Peter said, To whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And then he says, This, we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Salvation is simple. It's belief. It's belief. It's not a continual progressive act that you must do and keep For all your life and hope that by the end of your life, at the end of your life, that God you have done more good than bad. You've done more more enough of these good works that who knows what they are and how many they are It's not treks around the world or good works that we do. It's believing in Christ. Believing that only he can save you, believing him in such a way that when I get to heaven, it's clear that the only reason I'm there is because Jesus did it. You need to believe. Do you believe in Christ? Do you believe the way Jesus is asking you to believe? In a way that Jesus gets all the glory for your salvation? Even if there's one work you're trusting in, whether it's baptism, whether it's some money you gave or some some action you did in your life. Then if you were to be saved through that thing, you would be stealing from God's glory. But salvation comes exclusively through Jesus Christ. He's the only way. And so that leads us to our third point. And that's the generosity of Christ. Look at what it says. Verse 10. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. Greatest motivation for evangelism is not even necessarily the fact that our friends and our loved ones go to hell, which is a great motivation. It's a great motivation to share the gospel, but it's not the greatest motivation. The greatest motivation for sharing the gospel is the glory of Christ. And the reason you want Christ to get all the glory is because he has been not only Not only has you saved you, but he has been incredibly generous with you. You've experienced the peace that passes all under surpasses all understanding. You've eaten of Christ And you need don't need to eat again. You drank of him. And you never have to be thirsty again. You've learned the incredible lesson that Jesus taught. The woman at the well Who kept trying to fill her Christ-shaped hole in her heart with men, with sinful and dirty men, right? Jesus looks at her and says That she's been married five times and the man who she's with is not her husband. Therefore, declaring that this woman was trying to fill, be satisfied through The love and attention of men. And they they just can't do it. Ask my wife. I I cannot satisfy it. And Jesus is the only one who can not only save you, but satisfy you eternally, abundantly. He uses the word abundantly here. It's so much, it's like a flowing fountain. When you contrast Christ and false teachers, you start to notice the incredible difference. Just picture the man, the blind man, John chapter 9. Parents walk in the room, they disown him practically. discussing with these Pharisees who keep accusing him, even though they know he's born blind and he's been healed, all of a sudden they declare him false and they kick him out. They kick him out of the building, pretty much saying you're excommunicated from the Jewish religion and practically saying you're done in this life, buddy. You can't be in Israel anymore You are you are not welcome. You might as well be a leper. In fact, lepers are better than you right now Can you just imagine this man being at the bottom steps of the temple He's seen for the first time. He saw his mom for the first time. He saw the temple for the first time. He saw birds and trees for the first time. And he's like, man, seeing is not all that it's cracked up to be, right? Imagine his discouragement, imagine his depression He's been taken, he's been stolen everything. They've stolen everything from him. And Jesus comes in in verse 35. He looks for him He heard that they put him out. He looks for him. He's never seen Jesus. And he says, and he says this, do you believe in the Son of Man? And the man says, Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him? And Jesus said to him, You have both seen him, and he is the one who is talking with you. And he said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. And in an instant this man was saved from his sin. What's the greatest miracle in John chapter 9? It's not when he kneeled down to go and put water in his face to reveal to m to remove the mud to see for the first time, it's when he got on his knees and worshipped Jesus Christ. Because the the eyes go bad in time. Even this guy, even though he had the best eyes probably in the history of the universe, he had 40 20 vision, I don't even know what it but those eyes would grow old again and he would get m stuff in his eyes, something would happen, dust, it was very dusty. You would get you would ruin his eyes over time And by the time he's dead, his eyes would not be working as much anymore. That miracle lasted only a few years. It's a great miracle. I'm not I'm not saying it's not a good miracle. It's a great miracle. But it only lasted a few years. But what about his soul His soul will live forever and ever and ever. And Jesus takes a man who had lost everything and gives him everything And that's incredible when you think about false religion. They take, they want your money, they want to control you, they want your power, they want power, they want you to depend on them, and ultimately they want you to worship them. They teach a religion of works where ultimately they are glory thieves. They teach you to follow in their greedy ways. And they teach you then to then steal from God yourself as you think about your salvation and the things you do If you think about some religions, their God calls them to kill for him. When Jesus says, I die for you. Mormons teach you that you're gonna have a planet and be a God if you do enough good works. And God will reward you with this planet. Where you're the God of this planet. You get all the glory there. And they're motivated by this idea. Jesus, on the other hand, gives. Gives his own life so that you may live. God demonstrated his own love towards us in this that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 10, 9 2 Corinthians 5 21, he made him who knew no sin to become sin on our behalf, that we might become the righteousness of God in him in a moment of incredible compassion on the cross. Jesus does a great exchange where for all those who believe in him, he gives them his righteousness, and he takes upon himself the sin of all who would believe in him Think about it. Literally, humans cannot give. They have nothing to give. The only thing a human can do to you is steal from you. Jesus cannot steal. He owns everything. The only thing he can do is give. And yet we go about our lives looking for everything but Christ to satisfy us. And the things that He gives us as gifts, then we take and we try to worship. When they cannot satisfy us, when instead we should be worshiping the Creator. We seek it in the opposite sex We seek it in relationships with people. We seek it with power. We seek it with respect. We seek it with in avoiding embarrassment. We seek it in clothes, money, rest, comfort. But only Jesus can satisfy you. In John 1 16 he says, For out of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace. Let me read you a quo I read the other day from Thomas Brooks. Listen to what it says. There is in Jesus not only a sufficiency of grace, but an all-sufficiency. He is enough to supply all our needs, and not only enough for us, but for all the saints who have ever lived or shall live. Jesus is a fountain of mercy and grace. From his fullness, as from an overflowing fountain, streams every spiritual blessing. He fills our empty vessels again and again, and still the fountain overflows. The more grace we draw from Jesus, the more is still in him. The sun is nevertheless bright after all the light we receive from him. In the same way, Jesus is nevertheless full after all the grace we receive from him. Jesus is the great storehouse of all heavenly treasures. In him are laid up all the riches of divine grace. From him all believers receive grace, not only at their first conversion, but all along their pilgrim way. His blessings do not come occasionally, but one after another, ceaseless, boundless, sufficient for every step of the Christian life. And I will just add, I can't add to that, but I will add for all of eternity We will receive incredible blessings from the Lord. Have you found this to be true? Then I encourage you to run to Jesus each day I encourage you to trust him even more. Trust him when you're sad, happy, empty, doubtful, tired, joyful. Because only he can give satisfaction that lasts. And run away from false teachers. And run to Jesus. He's the only one that saves. He's the only one that satisfies. Let's pray. You are thankful for your grace in our lives because Through your grace we have found the truth. By your grace, you have blessed the church with faithful preachers like Peter, John, and the apostles. Whose desire was to make you famous, not themselves. To give you glory, not give glory to themselves. Thankful for Bible, Baltimore Bible Church And the leadership here, thank you that they want to do the same, that they seek to give glory to you and not themselves. Lord, protect this church from people who want to steal glory for themselves. Protect us in Rome in a small little church where we even are Under threat of people coming and also wanting to steal glory from you. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for salvation. Thank you that it's all up to you and not up to ourselves. In Jesus' name. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.