The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and let's open back to the book of Romans. We're back in Romans chapter 3 today in our congregation. has been working through the uh the book of Romans, through Paul's epistle to the Romans, and Romans chapter 3. In Romans chapter 3, Paul answers the most important question that anybody can ask. And that's the question, how am I, as a sinful human being, going to be able to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? And we've walked through this before, but It's the most important question to be asked, and it's been asked in all sorts of ways in Scripture. In Job chapter 9 and verse 2, Job asks, how can a man be right before God? Psalm 130, verse 3, the Psalms has a similar question. He asks, if you Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? In Proverbs 20 and verse 9, it says, Who can say, I have cleansed my heart, I am pure from my sin? We find the same kind of question in the New Testament in Mark chapter 10, verse 17, as Jesus was setting out on a journey, and a man ran up to him and knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And in Luke chapter 10 and verse 25, a lawyer asked a similar question, and this is a professional student of the law and an authority on the law of God. And he asked Jesus, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? There's this nagging feeling that I'm approaching the end and I'm not sure if I'm going to cross the finish line into eternity I'm not sure if I'll cross into the gates of the presence of God. Is there something that I can do to inherit eternal life? That's why Nicodemus came to Jesus at night, John 3 and verse 4. How can a man be born when he's old? All just different ways of asking the same question. How can I as a sinful human being going to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? And that's the question that Romans has been leading us up to. And it's the obvious question at the end of three chapters where Paul has been telling the whole world that we're all condemned. All of us are condemned. Chapters 1, 2, and 3, there's this description of the universal problem of sin. Chapter 1, Paul lets us know that even if we never read the Bible a day in our lives. God's invisible attributes, his eternal power, his divine nature have all been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made so that we are without excuse. I don't care if you've never been to Iwana. I don't care if you've never been to Sunday school. You still know that there's a God and you're accountable to Him. You still know within your heart that you sinned against the God of all the universe. Chapter 1 lets us know that we're accountable. Chapter 2, he speaks to the person who has the law of God, who passes judgment on others. And he says that you have no excuse for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. Because you who judge practice the same things. You have a Bible in front of you, and you know that you break it every day. You're accountable. And then in chapter 3, he places the entire world under condemnation. In verse 3, verse 10 of chapter 3, it says, there's none righteous, no, not even one. And in verse 19 it says that every mouth may be closed, that all the world may become accountable to God, because by the works of the flesh By the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Everybody is accountable before God. Everybody is condemned before God. And the obvious question, after you've walked through chapters one, two, and three, is like, what's the way out? If we're all condemned, if there's nothing that I can do, again, how am I, as a sinful human being, going to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? Is there some other way? And what Paul does is he leads us to the question without asking the question. It's like it's the question in your mind as you're walking through chapters 1, 2, and 3. Well, what's the solution then? If we're all condemned, what is the solution? The doors, the doors to heaven have been effectively shut by our sin. We know that we've sinned, we know that we've fallen short of the glory of God, but there has to be some way for me to get from here to heaven And Paul leads us to the question by first giving us the bad news that you're not going to get there from here. You're not going to get there from the life that you live. And I know that this isn't the day four evangelism training, but I'll give you a little bit of a preview before you get there. If you're going to share the gospel, it's important that you share the bad news first. There's not a lot of you sharing a solution for a problem that people don't know that they have. The evangelist Ray Comfort says it's like telling somebody they have to strap on a parachute before telling them that the plane is going down. And the vain thinking of the American gospel, as one author said, is that we preach a God without wrath, who brings humans without sin into a kingdom without judgment through a Christ without a cross. And part of the work that we have to do in evangelism is remind people of the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man. No, no, you have a problem here. There's a differential that you can't make up. God is holy and you're not. And there's nothing that you can do to make up for your sin. We have to let people know that there's a problem before we try to offer the solution. We have to let them know that the plane is going down. Peter in his first sermon on the day of Pentecost spends 24 verses laying out the nation of Israel before they're finally pierced to the heart and they cry out, brothers, what can we do? What must we do? The Ninevites first had to hear the word of judgment before they repented. And Paul spends three chapters in the book of Romans. Laying out the condemnation before he finally opens up the solution at the end of chapter 3. Chapter 3, verse 21. He says, But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. That's the solution. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. The theological term for that word is justification. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. And that's what we receive when we trust in Jesus. We receive the righteousness of God. That's what it means to be declared righteous in his sight. And that's all review. But there are important implications or conclusions that we should reach as a result of what we understand about justification. Paul doesn't just draw a smiley face on the top of your quiz, you know, hey, you answered the question right about justification. Good job. Pat you on the back and send you on your way. He says, no, there's implications to this. There's application that you need to make to your life because of this. There's conclusions that you need to draw from this. And here's the result of understanding justification. I'll just go ahead and give it to you now. Number one, if you truly understand justification, it eliminates boasting in yourself. You can't boast in yourself in the face of knowing that you can't do anything to save yourself. It eliminates boasting in yourself. Number two, it eliminates partiality towards others. Eliminates partiality towards others. And number three, it eliminates indifference towards the law of God. And we'll take a look at each of these in turn. But first of all, let's just go ahead and read the text. So we can have it in our minds. Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 27. Actually, I start at verse. I'll start at verse 26. Actually I'll start at verse 25. Might as well start at verse 21. Let's just go back. But now, apart from the law of the righteousness of God, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus Where then is boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law of works? No, but by a law of faith. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the law Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. Since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one. Do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are just so grateful that we can come to this text of Scripture, that we can remind ourselves Of our justification, that we receive righteousness, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ Father, I pray that we would be looking for no other way to be saved other than through the righteousness of God through Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that we would not offer up any of our own works, thinking that there's some other solution other than the solution that you've provided So Father, I pray that we would understand these things, but not only that we would understand these things, but rather that we would make application to our lives as well. Well, Father, we thank you, Lord, that you've given us all that we need for life and for godliness. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's take a look at our first heading. Justification eliminates boasting in yourself. Justification eliminates boasting in yourself. And I know I've titled this the Inspired Q<unk>A on justification, and that's not because I'm preaching it. It's because you have an inspired Q<unk>A in the text itself. The text itself, I mean, you have these questions. Where is boasting? Verse 27. By what kind of law, verse 27? Is God the God of the Jews only? Verse 29. Do we then nullify the law through faith? Verse 31. These are all inspired within the text of Scripture questions that Paul himself answers And that's what we're going to walk through, these questions inspired by the Spirit of the Living God, to put these questions in here to cause us to think more deeply about this doctrine of justification. Don't get fooled by the title. It's not saying I'm inspired. The scriptures are the inspired word of God. And these questions and answers are found in the text itself. First question. Where then is boasting? Understanding justification eliminates boasting in yourself. The Bible warns us over and over again about thinking too much of ourselves. The great problem that we have is not that we think too low of ourselves. It's that we can't think low enough. We don't think low enough about ourselves In Romans chapter twelve and verse three it says, I say to every one among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. Galatians six and verse three. For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 3, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with the with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourselves. And what these exhortations, and and that's just a sampling of what we could just cover the scriptures with, what these exhortations are are really sad in a way, because Christians should actually be the most humble group of people on the planet. But we still have to be exhorted. Don't think too much of yourself. We as Christians have to be reminded not to think too highly of ourselves For those of us who believe and trust in Christ, who understand that God is worthy of all worship, as Revelation 4 and verse 11 says, worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. We understand that only God is to be worshipped. You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Christian knows that. Christian also knows that God alone is the uh the one who gives to all people life and breath and all things, every second of our existence. We owe to the Lord, to the Creator, to the sustainer of whole life. You can't keep your body alive one minute more than God chooses You're dependent on him for the next beat of your heart. Your life is a gift from God, and you owe God thanks for that. And for the Christian who understands that God is the creator, he's the sustainer of life, and also that he's the savior. You have no excuse not to have an appropriate understanding of who you are. And especially for those of us who believe in the doctrines of grace, right? Because we say that we understand that we come to the table of salvation with absolutely nothing to offer. God not only brings us to the table, but he makes the table to bring us to. We understand that we've done nothing. So where do we get the courage to think highly of ourselves? To elevate ourselves. And where pride seems the most out of place is among Christians, right? Among Christians. Ephesians chapter 1 verse 4 says, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, what did you have to do with that decision? We're the Christians who argue that God is the one who grants repentance that leads to the knowledge of the truth. We're those who understand that God even gives us the faith to believe. Philippians 1 verse 29 says, For to you it has been granted for Christ's sake to believe in him. That's even a gift that you've been given. But the very people who should be the most aware that God has done it all, that we deserve no credit, can oftentimes be the most arrogant. They even have a term for people who first come to understand the doctrines of grace. They call it the cage stage. Almost like you need to be behind bars until you calm yourself down and figure out how to talk to people. Until you understand that these things should humble us. These things don't lift us up in pride. But it's like we know that we deserve nothing, but then we're lifted up in pride because we know that we don't deserve anything, right? And then look down on others who don't understand what we do. But Paul says our justification should teach us humility. He says, where is boasting? Where does that come from? The word then that he uses here in verse 27, he says, where then is boasting? It's a word that connects us to the previous context. It could be translated therefore. Where therefore does boasting come from? Where's that? Paul informs us that God is both just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And based on that truth, you should be humble. God is the one who is just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ, and you had nothing to do with that. The word excluded, that boasting should be excluded. Verse 27, where he says, where then is boasting? It is excluded. It could be literally translated, it should be shut out. Josephus, a Jewish historian, used the same word to speak about residents of Japha in Galilee who locked the city gates to prevent the Roman army from coming in. And he says that should be how how you are. It should be shut. You should have the door shut to any kind of boasting. If God has justified you, that ought to teach you to keep your mouth shut from any kind of boasting pertaining to your salvation. And what I find interesting is that the word for boasting can actually be used in a positive way in Scripture. Same word is used for The boasting in uh Romans chapter 15 and verse 17, therefore in Christ Jesus I have found reason for boasting in things pertaining to God. Over in 2 Corinthians, Paul boasted about having a clean conscience, but it's by the grace of God. He boasted in the Corinthian church, he says, I have great confidence in you. Great is my boasting on your behalf. He boasted of his fellow workers like Titus in 2 Corinthians 7 and 14. He says, For if in anything I've boasted to him About you I was not put to shame, but as we speak uh spoke all thanks to you in truth, so our boasting also proved before Titus to be the truth. We're boasting Great is our boasting. Great is our boasting about you. Great is our boasting about the fellow servants. And in each of these examples you could understand boasting to be glorying in God for the work that He has accomplished. It's boasting in God. But any, boasting in ourselves, James 4, 16 says is arrogance. You're not saved because you're smarter than somebody else. Because you had a good heart. Because you were more sensitive to the Lord. Salvation is completely a result of the grace of God. And if you've received everything as a gift by his grace, it would be an end to all pride. If you truly understood that everything that you have is a gift from God, it would be an end to pride. 1 Corinthians 4 7 says, For who regards you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Everything I have is a gift of God. And God has designed salvation in such a way that he receives all the glory. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 1 really quick. Ephesians chapter 1. I'll refrain from reading the whole thing, don't worry. But in Ephesians chapter 1, there is this repeated refrain that shows up, and it's to the praise of the glory of his grace. And it reminds us that our salvation, the glory for our salvation, is directed to God. Look at Ephesians chapter 1, look at verse 5. It says he predestined us to adoption of sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. Drop down to verse 11. It says, also, we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to his purpose, who works all things after the counsel of his will, to the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ would be to the praise of his glory. Drop down to verse 13. It says, In him you also, after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, you were sealed in him with this Holy Spirit of promise. who was given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the what? To the praise of his glory. When you think about your salvation, all glory is directed back to God. When you arrive in heaven, it's going to be obvious who gets the credit for you being there Nobody's going to look at you and say, man, look at what a great job you've done. Way to go. You know, like Jordan talked about, you know, you you dislocate your shoulder, patting yourself on the back, but you made it there. No nobody's gonna get to heaven and think that you're the one that got yourself there. It's like you're a a trophy on the shelf. You're a plaque on the wall. And the plaque on the wall is not there to show off itself. It's to show off the glory of the one who earned it. The trophy is there to show off the glory of the one who earned it. And when we show up in heaven, it's like we're a trophy of his grace to show off the glory of the one who got us there. It's all glory to Jesus Christ. He is the champion of heaven. And all of us show up as these trophies of his grace. There's not going to be anybody that shows up in heaven with a proud smile With boastful arrogance. What do you think got Satan kicked out of heaven in the first place? Pride. Pride. So now do you think that God is going to allow People who come in who are satisfied with their own accomplishments for being there. God is opposed to the proud. Opposed to the proud. He will not allow anyone to boast before him. And that's one of the reasons that God chooses the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. That's why you're here, okay? That's why I'm here. To shame shame those who would boast in themselves. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Just flip over there real quick. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Look at verse 26 Says for consider your calling, brethren, that there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong. And the base things of the world and the despised God has chosen. The things that are not So that he may nullify the things that are. Why? Why does he do that? So that no man may boast before God. Nobody's going to boast before me. You're not here because of yourself. All boasting is excluded. And how does that happen? Back to Romans chapter 3. How does that happen? Verse 27 again. How does it happen? By what kind of law? Of works? No, but by a law of faith. It's going to be obvious. It's made obvious by Scripture that it's not because of anything that we do. And this this law, it's this principle, you know, this kind of governing principle or rule of life. How are we excluded from boasting? It's because of what governs us. It's not the law of works, it's the law of faith. That's the operating principle of the Christian life. We live by faith. And what's made obvious is that it's not because of anything that we've contributed. It's not the law of works, it's the principle of faith. Because if it was by my obedience that I entered into heaven, then I'd have something to boast about. That's why Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works. Why? So that no one may boast. It's all of grace so that it could be all of Christ. And it's all of Christ so that it could be all to the glory of his grace It's the same thing that Paul points out in the next chapter, in chapter 4 and verse 2, where he says, For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. There's nobody that's going to boast before God. Nobody's going to boast in this presence, which is why salvation has to be of faith. And again, faith is just the empty hand that receives God's grace. It's simply the link that connects us to the saving power of God. It's like a tow hitch on the back of a vehicle. I remember when I traveled to California to get some additional training at the Master Seminary. Uh we decided that it was worth it to to pay the money to attach this tow hitch assembly to our van and tow a trailer across the country instead of trying to ship everything. We we towed a trailer across the country. And that toe hitch assembly did none of the work on its own. It was nothing but a metal bar by itself. But when it was attached to the vehicle, it could pull weight clear across the country. And that's what our faith is. Our faith is just what connects us to the power that moves us from here to heaven. It's not the the metal bar by itself isn't going to do anything. But it's because of who we're attached to. So it's faith that's placed in Christ that does the work. It's not just faith and faith. It's not just believing. It's our faith that's placed in Christ, which attaches us to the power that takes us from here to glory. So again, where's the boasting? The boasting's not in the toe hitch. The boasting's not in the metal bar. The boasting is in the power that moves us. So the boasting is not in us, the boasting's not in our faith. The boasting is in Christ. The boasting is in God. He's the one that does the work. And it's our faith that attaches. ourselves to that divine work. Verse 28 repeats the same thing. Paul's already stated before. He says, For we maintain that a man is justified By faith apart from works of the law. That means apart from your own effort. There's nothing that you can do. Paul's already stated that back in verse 20. Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in the sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. All the law is able to do is to condemn you. Can't be justified by it, which is why we can never boast in it. We heard it earlier in the testimony, right? You know, you know, trying to make these promises of Lord I'll do this, Lord I'll do that, and pretty soon you find out, Lord, I can't do it. I've made all these promises, I've made all these commitments, but Lord, that can't come from me. And that's what the law shows us. Lord, I can't do it. The law shows me my sin. The law shows me that I'm condemned, that I can never be justified by my own effort, which is why you can never boast in it. So what's the result of a proper understanding of justification? Number one, it eliminates boasting in yourself. And I can never use my salvation as a pillar to elevate myself above anybody else. Justification should humble me. Should humble me. When I surveyed the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gain I count but loss And do what? I pour contempt on all my pride. That's what salvation teaches me. That I have no excuse for pride in my life. Help us from boasting, Lord. Guard us from boasting. Number two, a proper understanding of justification should eliminate partiality. Should eliminate partiality. Take a look at verse 29. Paul says, or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. Since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one If we understand that righteousness, the righteousness of God, comes through faith in Jesus Christ, it should also eliminate partiality One of the issues that they faced in Rome, and Paul is addressing this throughout the book of Romans, was a tension that existed between Jews and Gentiles. If you remember back in the introduction, however long that was ago when we introduced the book of Romans, we mentioned that the best explanation for the the church, how it started in Rome, is that the Jews from Jerusalem who converted to Christianity migrated there and started to spread the word. Acts chapter 8 and verse 4 says, Therefore those who had been scattered from Jerusalem went about preaching the word. Actually, if you ever wonder where that term scatter that we use for our evangelism comes from, it's Acts chapter 8 and verse 4. That's where we got it from, okay? Those who have been scattered went about preaching the word. And you'll remember that there were converts in Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. On the day of Pentecost, you have those gathered from all these different nations, Phrygia and Pamphylia and Egypt and the districts of Libya and Cyrene. And visitors from Rome. And these Jewish converts would have brought the message back to where they came from And as they head back to Rome, they form these congregations, so the church began in Rome almost exclusively with Jewish members. But in 49 A. D. and this is historical, and it's a matter of history. 49 A. D. there was something that changed the makeup of the church in Rome. The Roman Emperor Claudius, who was the fourth emperor. uh who reigned from 41 A. D. to 54 A. D. he banished all the Jews from the city of Rome. We actually have a reference to that in scripture. In Acts chapter 18 and verse 2, it says, He Paul found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontius, having recently come from Italy, that would be Rome, with his wife Priscilla. Because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. So you have these Christians who were in Rome. having these congregations, you know, this this this congregation of of those that had left from Jerusalem came down and formed these churches, and now they have to go back. They have to scatter from Rome. What happened? According to Setonius, a Greek historian, the Emperor Claudius banished all the Jews from Rome because of one called Crestus. The difference between Christus and Christus, the word for Christ is only one letter, the Roman word for Christ. And uh what many believe is that it's because of you know some of the stir because of Jesus. uh that he's telling all these these Jews to to leave Rome, you know, thinking that like this is just a Jewish sect and we kind of need to eliminate any of the you know uh the the tension and the you know some of the the the riots that might have formed because of Christianity So, these Jewish people have to leave Rome, and what's left in the church? Gentiles. So now you have a church that's just completely Gentile makeup for five years from 49 A. D. to 54 A. D. And just imagine all of one ethnicity or nationality being kicked out of a church for five years. Five years we're not going to play anything but gospel music now. And the users are going to march down the aisle with the white outfits with a little bit of soul to it, you know? And there's going to be fish fries and chicken dinners every week now with the collard grains and don't forget the ham hocks in it. So what was the major concern when the Jews finally come back? It's like like hey we don't we don't even belong here anymore. Now there's a tension between this all-Gentile church and the Jewish people who would have returned And Paul is addressing this concern for division within the church. And Paul has to remind these Jewish Christians, do you think that God was just the God of the Jewish people? You don't think he's the God of the Gentiles also? And this is one of the places in Scripture where your theology has a direct impact on your practice. If you believe that God is one, we should strive for unity within the church. For example, in 1 Corinthians 14, where your doctrine affects your practice, 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 33, Paul gives an argument for You know, against these charismatic churches where everybody's speaking in tongues. From theology, what does he say? 1 Corinthians 14, 33. For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. The character of God should actually have something to say about how the church functions and operates. God is the God of peace, so why would there be in the church all this confusion? God is a God of peace. And in a similar way, Paul makes a theological argument. God is one God. So therefore, because God is one God, there should also be unity within the church. There should not be partiality. And nobody should look down on anybody else, because God is one. One of the most fundamental theological doctrines of Judaism was that God is one. You know, the the Shema, the the the Hebrew uh word for for here. It's the first word of Deuteronomy 6. 4, was recited three times a day by a faithful uh Jewish people, uh hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. No recognition of any other gods. There's only only one God Isaiah 45, verse 5, I the Lord, I am the Lord, and there is no other. Besides me, there is no God. And even though other nations might have recognized other gods, Israel understood that those gods were nothing. Not a true God. So what Paul is saying here is that there's only one God, and if Gentiles have been justified, there's only one God who can do that There's only one God who can bring them into the church, and that's the same God that you serve. There's only one entrance into the kingdom, and it's all through faith. Romans 3 verse 30 says since in g indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one. There's no difference between faith by faith and through faith that's mentioned here, the the the God who uh uh uh indeed will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is just saying different ways of saying the same thing. And what Paul is saying is if the church is going to be a beachhead for ministering, you guys are going to have to keep it together Do you recognize that regardless of your brothers or sisters background, supposed class, social status, financial status, occupation, ethnicity, culture, you're all one? Shows up in virtually every chapter of the book of Romans. Romans 1. 16. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. For it's the power of God for salvation. Whoever believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek, get it together. Romans chapter 2 verse 11 says there is no partiality with God. Get it together. Romans chapter 3 verse 29, is God the God of the Jews only? Is he not the God of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also. Get it together. Romans chapter 4, verse 16, for this reason it is by faith, in order that it may be in accordance with grace, so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants Not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. Get it together. And whether you're circumcised, uncircumcised, meaning Jew or Gentile, nobody can boast, nobody's superior, nobody has a superior status in salvation. We're all justified in the same way, and we can't look down our nose on anybody. Leave all that prejudice and division to the world where it belongs. It doesn't belong in the church. Doesn't belong in the church. It's nothing but the plot of the evil one. And we're not here to empower any particular group. That's not why the church exists. Leviticus 19 verse 15 says, You shall do no injustice in judgment, you shall not be partial to the poor, nor defer to the great. Whether you f believe you're privileged or underprivileged, we're not here to try to empower anybody. We're just here to do what's right. Don't defer to the great, don't be partial to the poor. You're to judge your neighbor fairly. Our citizenship is in heaven. We're not of this world. And and the the thing that disturbs me so much about you know so much of like these discussions that people have about division is that the the world should be able to look to the church for the solution. But instead the church is looking to the world as if they have the answers. We have the answers here. We're one in Jesus Christ. And it's our justification that teaches us to eliminate partiality within the church. We're not of this world. We have Christ privilege. And Jesus life Jesus life matters. You can hashtag that. Go ahead. Finally, finally, a proper understanding of justification should eliminate indifference to the law. Take a look at verse 31. He says, do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. And there's an interpretive issue here. What does Paul mean when he says that we do not nullify the law? On the contrary, we establish it. What is he talking about here? And what's the connection between justification and the Mosaic law? And there are some who would argue that the law remains unchanged. And Paul is simply saying that we're to remain underneath the law. But, later on in the same book of Romans, Romans chapter 10 and verse 4, he says that Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. And there's a number of biblical illustrations that really help us begin to think through exactly what this means biblically. What does this mean? First of all, flip over to Romans chapter 7 since we're in the same book here. Romans chapter 7. Take a look at verse 1 Paul here says, Do you not know, brethren, for I'm speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives? For the married woman is bound by the law to her husband while he is living. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another. To him who was raised from the dead in order that we might bear fruit for God when you enter the bond of marriage. That's a permanent union, right? It's not a game show. It's not a TV series. It's a union that's honored by God. You don't take a leap of faith and walk down an aisle and then several weeks later decide whether or not you want to divorce the person that you got united with. It's not entertainment. It's a lifelong bond. Till death does us part. Or as long as you both shall live. But if one spouse dies, and I would add this from 1 Corinthians 7, or commits uh adultery or abandons the relationship, you're set free from that commitment. But that bond is a permanent bond, otherwise, until you die. And what Paul is saying is that, brethren, you were made to die to the law Through the body of Christ. And now that you've died to the law, now you can be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. When you entered into a relationship with Jesus Christ, you died. You died. And now we've been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we can serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. But the law is like a widowed spouse. And you've died to that law, and now you can be joined and bound to another, and that one that you're bound to now is Jesus Christ. And there's so many pictures of this. I'll just show you one more. I could show you a number of them, but I'll I'll show you one more. Galatians chapter Galatians chapter three. Flip over to Galatians chapter three. I'll start at verse 21. It says, is the law, Galatians chapter 3, verse 21, is the law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be For if a law had been given which was able to impart life, then righteousness would indeed have been based on law. But the scripture has shut up everyone under sin. Sounds a lot like Romans, doesn't it? So that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. So that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. For you are all sons of God through faith in Jesus Christ, or faith in Christ Jesus. What is that saying? It's saying that the law was a temporary guardian until you came to Christ. That word for tutor uh that's used there in uh verse 24, therefore the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. It's the the Greek word uh paide gogas. It's the the word that was used for a a household servant who took care of a child while the parents were away. They'd accompany the child from school back to home. They had the responsibility to tutor the child, to discipline the child, to care for the child, to be in charge of that child in the absence of the parents. Uh one of the best English equivalents might be a a word for like a nanny or a guardian, maybe even foster parents, you know, responsible for all things that pertain to that child. A couple years ago, uh Jennifer and I, we uh had an international student, and uh we were told by the agency, she lived in our home for a while, we were told by the agency that while she's with you, she's your child. So we had the authority over over her while she was there. We told her when to get up, when to go to bed, what she could eat, what she couldn't eat, and then when we sent her back. to her country back to Taiwan, that authority ended. Why? Because we weren't the real parents. When she she was with us for a while and we watched over her while she was with us, but as soon as she was connected back to her real parents, that authority ended. Same thing pertaining to the law. The law is like a tutor to lead us to Christ. And once we're with Christ, that authority of the law ends. And there's so many other illustrations that are discussed. In Galatians chapter 4, the law is like a maidservant. It's not the mother. It speaks about that. Also talks about how the law Let's see if I can find it here. Is the old covenant? Again, the law is the old covenant, not the new covenant. There's a new covenant which makes the old covenant obsolete And we could keep going with this, but the law does not have this continued jurisdiction over us once we're found in Christ. So back to Romans chapter three, where he says, Do we then nullify the law through faith? Does that mean that the law just has has has no importance at all? Do we just like do away with the law completely? Is that what we're saying? The law, is it still in force in some way? Another interpretation understands that the law is not nullified because the law itself points us to salvation in Christ. And actually, we can look at Romans chapter 4 and we can take a look at this in Romans chapter 4 and verse 1. It says, What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, is found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness Now to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor but as what is due. But to the one who does not work but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. And what some would point out is that, you know, hey, you have right here in the following chapter where it shows that justification by faith is actually verified by the Old Testament scriptures. It's verified by the law. There's only one problem with that. Abraham was not under the law. The Mosaic Law didn't come until 430 years after Abraham, as Galatians points out So in what sense is Abraham an illustration of establishing the law? Because he existed before the law. There's another way to understand Paul's statement, and it's this, that justification by faith is the only position that takes God's law seriously. The only position that takes God's law seriously. Think about the context of what Paul is saying. All of chapters 1, 2, and 3 have been saying that you're condemned, you're condemned, you're condemned, right? You're condemned because of the law that's written on your heart. You're condemned because of the law that's written in the Scripture. You're condemned by the law. So then, those who understand that we're justified by faith, we take that seriously. We take that condemnation seriously. And that's why we're justified by faith. Because we understand that we cannot be justified by keeping the law. The only solution is found in justification by faith It's only through him that we find peace. It's only through trust in Jesus Christ. So we don't nullify the law. We take the law seriously. We say that we can't be justified by that law. That law has condemned me, and I understand that. The purpose of the law has been fulfilled in our lives as Christians. Because the law drives us to Christ. It shows us that there's no way that you're going to get to heaven this way. You have to go another there's got to be another option. I can't go to heaven based on my keeping of the law. It has to be through faith in Jesus Christ. So the law, the purpose of the law is fulfilled in the Christian because the law leads us to Jesus Christ so that we can be justified by faith. So do we nullify the law? No. The purpose of the law has actually been fulfilled in our lives because we've been brought to Jesus Christ. So do we nullify the law, Paul says? May it never be. May never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. Actually, I would argue that Christians take the law of God more seriously than those people who believe that they're still under it. We take the law of God more seriously than people who still believe that, hey, I'm under all the ceremonial and all the other requirements of the law. We're still trying to follow that. The Christian actually takes those laws more seriously than the people who think they're obeying them do. Because we understand that we can't do that. There's no way that you can get to heaven through there. So again, the question is, how am I, as a sinful human human being, going to be able to pass the judgment of a perfectly holy God? How does God take care of the problem of sin without setting aside his character and his holy law? The only solution is found in justification. And how does that work? Galatians chapter 4, verse 4, when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, and Jesus fulfills the demands of the law in every thought, word, and deed. Matthew 5 verse 17 says, Jesus says, do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to do what? To fulfill. I have come to fulfill the law. Jesus Himself is the fulfillment of the law in every detail. And having fulfilled the law, what happens? Romans chapter 10 and verse 4, Christ now becomes the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. Jesus fulfilled the law because we could not. There was no path to heaven through obedience to the law. And like I said, the Christians are the only ones who take the law of God seriously. Tom Leake, my mentor, wrote this. He says, The law of God is shown to be true if justification is by faith alone. The law has done its job of showing sin and the law. And has testified to the truthfulness of the gospel and justification by faith. Charles Hodges wrote this. Charles Hodge wrote this. A theologian wrote this. He says, No moral obligation is weakened, no penal sanction is disregarded, the precepts are enforced by new and stronger motives, and the penalty is answered in him who bore our sins on the tree. Jesus Christ takes the penalty, born under the law, received the curse from the law, so that now we could be set free. And these are the questions that are answered in this text. Where is boasting? There's no boasting in us. There's no boasting in yourself. The only boast that we have is in Jesus Christ. Is there any partiality between us because of our justification? No, we understand that we all come the same way We all had to get on our knees, right? Humble ourselves before the throne of God. We all came to the foot of the cross. And do we have indifference for the law of God? By no means. Through the Christian and his faith in Jesus Christ, we actually uphold the law because we take the law of God seriously. The law of God has become the tutor that drives us to Christ because it's only in Him that we can find salvation. Amen. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for just this time that we've had in your word, and my Father, we thank you for just the application of This doctrine of justification. Father, we know that it's not just a uh a doctrine that's to be left, uh Lord, in the on the shelf in the books. It's a doctrine that's supposed to be applied to our lives. And Father, I pray that we would apply these truths to our lives, Lord. Father, that it would have application for us, Lord, as we think about our interaction with others As we think about the way that we think about ourselves, the way that we think about you, the way that we think about your word. Father, I pray that we would uphold your word, that we would understand the holiness of your word. Father, that we would understand the union that we have with our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, that we would not look down on anyone. And Father, I pray that we would never boast except in the cross of Jesus Christ. That he would be our boast, that he would be our glory, that he would be our joy. Father, I pray these things for the sake of your holy and righteous name In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.