The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. Pastor and Bible Teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, I want you to take your Bibles with me and uh let's turn back to the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 5 again. And uh just as a reminder, and this is just going to orient us uh to where we were in Romans, uh Romans is a book that defends The righteousness of God in a book that describes how unrighteous men can be declared righteous in the sight of a holy God. And chapter five introduces us to what I call the benefits. Or the benefit package of salvation. This is the the treasury of justification. And guess what is in this treasury of justification? This is all review, but it's it's helpful for us to count our blessings and name them one by one, right? And here we have the blessings within our salvation. The first blessing that's listed here is we have the blessing of peace, Romans chapter 5 and verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace. We have peace with God. And again, what does that mean? That means that the war between us and God is over. We're no longer enemies of God. We've been reconciled to God, and that peace with God is more than a feeling, as we said before. It's not uh something that's just internal and subjective. It's external, it's objective, it's a fact that we have peace with God. And that reality does not depend on my feelings. That reality is something that's happened outside of me. And how did it happen? It happened through our Lord Jesus Christ. Without Jesus Christ, we don't have peace with God. You can imagine that you have peace with God, but without Jesus Christ you don't actually have peace with God. The only way that uh the war and the hostility between us and God could be turned to peace. is that we've been reconciled to God by the blood of Jesus' cross. But not only do we have peace with God, we also have grace from God. In verse 2 it says, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. So not only do we have peace, we also have grace. And we stand in grace. It's not just that we enter by grace, we continue to stand by grace. I mentioned before that I was taught as a new believer that Christians enter salvation by grace, but then you have to keep yourself by your effort And that's nothing that you can you can rest in. Because now my salvation is dependent on who? On me. I might have got through the door, but but Lord help me, how am I going to stay here? The only way that we can stay is because God is continuing to be gracious to us. The grace extends throughout our Life with Jesus Christ, Paul says it this way in Galatians chapter 3. He says, are you so foolish having begun by the Spirit? Are you now perfected by the flesh? Did you think that God had to save you from your sins to get you in the door, but then you're going to have to keep yourself safe to get you into heaven? You've entered by grace and you stand by that same grace. Your security is an established But there's more. There's a third benefit of our salvation, and that that that benefit that we have is hope. In verse 2 again, at the end of the verse, it says, We exult in hope of the glory of God. And the word hope here could be translated as an expectation. There's no uncertainty about our future hope In Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 19 it speaks about hope as an anchor of the soul that's sure and steadfast. It's not a hope-so kind of hope. It's a it's I know-so kind of hope. I know that it's going to happen, and I have an anticipation, an expectation based on the promises of God. And that's what Romans chapter 8 goes on to describe for us. What is this hope? What are we hoping for? Speaks about this hope as the glory of God. But what does Paul mean by this? Is it that, you know, I hope that God will one day be glorious? No, because God is already glorious That's not what we're hoping for. What we're hoping for is that one day that we too will be glorified. That this this this sinful, wretched body of mine will one day be transformed. And I will be in the image of Christ, the one that I've striven all of my life to be like. The goal of our Christianity is to be like Christ. that we would be conformed into the image of Christ, and that's what we will one day receive. Romans chapter 8, verses 16 and 17 says the Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, so that we may be glorified with him. One day we will be glorified. We'll be perfected in our spirits when we enter into heaven. And one day when our bodies catch up, our bodies will be glorified as well. But there's more. We also have joy. In verse 3. Verse 3 it says, and not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations. We glory, we joy even in tribulations. Faith in Jesus Christ doesn't give you a hall pass from the difficulties in life. We still experience tribulation. It's the Greek word flipsis, it's a crushing pressure. We still experience the crushing pressure of life, but even though we're underneath the crushing pressure of life, we're not crushed by it. We're not crushed by the crushing pressures of life. In 2 Corinthians, Paul puts it this way. He says, we are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. We're perplexed, but not despairing. We're persecuted, but not forsaken. We're struck down, but not destroyed. Even though I experience the crushing crushes of life, I'm not crushed by them. I'm actually formed by them. I'm formed by them. It's actually the same way when you think about the way the diamonds are developed. Diamonds are developed deep in the earth. Why? Because in order to be developed, it takes a massive amount of pressure and heat in order to form the diamond. The carbon atoms need to be subjected to massive amounts of heat and pressure, and it's under that heat and pressure that the diamond is formed. The Christian can rejoice because underneath the pressures of life, the tribulations of life, underneath that heat of the weight of trials, God is forming us into what He wants us to be. You know, we come out as diamonds. We come out, as Scripture says, as pure gold. There's something that God is doing. in the crucible of life to transform you, to form you into what he wants you to be. And verse 3 goes on to say that our tribulation brings about perseverance. That word brings about is a word that means to work for. It works for something in your life. Your tribulations can work for you, not against you. You can put them to work for you instead of against you. I I said it's like like judo. You know, you use the same force that's coming at you to actually turn it against the enemy. And and the things that life throws at us can actually work for our benefit if we're looking to Christ. If we understand that God is doing something in my life. Those tribulations can bring about perseverance. Also It can bring the perseverance can bring about something else as we continue to look. It says the perseverance, proven character. There's something that God is proving in our life. He's proving that we are genuine believers. There's a lot of people who may seem like they're believers until the trials hit. Until the storms of life start blowing in their life. Then you find out who's a real believer or not. That there's often it's in those times that we discover who we really are. Are we real gold or are we fools gold We find that out often in the trials of life. It's the crucible of life as it's heated up that we understand that we're really genuine believers. Proof and character, hope. And what happens is like it just kind of comes back around to the beginning because we looked at hope in verse 2. And then hope comes back around in verse 4. The proven character brings about hope. And it's like we keep going through this cycle. Almost like a screw with every turn we keep going deeper and deeper into our understanding of who God is. The trials prove us And it's because of those trials that we understand that we're genuine Christians and it reinforces our hope. And because of our hope, we endure our tribulations. And because we endure tribulations, it brings about perseverance. Perseverance shows my proven character. My proven character Gives me hope. And because I have hope, I endure my tribulations. Stop stop me if you've heard this before. It's it's we keep going around and around. We're reinforced By the trials, the tribulations, the perseverance, the proven character, it brings about hope, and it just keeps going. And that's why you see that You know, for some saints as they've been walking with the Lord for decades, it's like there 's something that's stable about their life. Like this screw has been turned quite a few times. I'm kind of deep down in there right now, right? Because I've trusted in God and I've seen him work in my life over time, and I'm not going anywhere. It's like the life the the trials of life keep knocking me down but I keep popping back up. You know, some sometimes you know you see those uh you know advertisements outside of the stores with the the balloons, they they blow up and the guy falls down and then he pops back up. Then he falls back down and he pops back up. And that's you as a believer. It's like you keep on popping back up. It's like, hey, I thought he was down. Now he's back up again. Because we're really anchored. We're anchored in Christ. And there's something about our life that's genuine. And it's through the trials of life that we discover that. There's two more benefits of our salvation that Paul's going to get into in this passage in verses 9 to 10. We have the benefit of our salvation from future wrath. We're going to get into that. Verse 9. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. But not only that, verse 11. We also have the benefit of present reconciliation with God. Look at verse 11. And not only this. But we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom now we have received the reconciliation. That's where we're going. But we're not going there today. And the reason why is because before Paul gets there, he takes this short detour, okay? Pulls off on the side of the road to enjoy the view before getting back on the road again. I know it drives my wife crazy, but sometimes when we're on a road trip and we have enough time, and even sometimes when we don't have enough time, I'll pull over on the side of the road when I see a a view, it's like, hey, we gotta pull over and see this. Actually happened uh just recently. We were uh in Deep Creek and as we're we're coming back home, you know, there's this little spot where you can turn off the road and see the view and it's like it was j the sun was just setting. You could see for miles, it's like we gotta pull over and and take some pictures here. You know, so we pull over on the side of the road and it's just beautiful, just seeing this, you know, just for miles and the rolling hills and the the sun setting and the the sky changing colors. It's like we just gotta enjoy this for a minute. I know this wasn't part of the trip But it's now part of the trip, right? And this is what Paul is doing. It's like, before I go on to talk about these other benefits that we have in our salvation, I've just got to Pull the car over and take a look and take in this view. And the view that he's taking in is of our hope. And this is something that we find really at the end of verse 5, actually the end of verse 4, it says, proven character, hope, and then he brings it up again in verse 5, and hope does not disappoint. I know we've talked about this hope before, but we've got to pull over and just take a view of this hope before we move on to the other benefits that we have. So what he's going to do. is he pulls off in a detour so he could just take in the view of hope and help us to understand why is this hope so important for us. This hope is something that does not disappoint. Take a look at verse five It says, and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who is given to us. For while we were still helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will hardly die for a righteous man, though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord. We're just so grateful for every opportunity that we have to open up the word of life. Every time we have an opportunity to break the bread of life , to look into the scriptures, to understand what it means by what it says, to apply these truths to our lives. Now, Father, I pray that we would never tire of coming to your word. It's in the word that we find life. It's life-giving. It's sanctifying. And it's in the pages of Scripture that we see Jesus So Father, I pray that we would see our Savior and that you would help me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Like I said, the concern that Paul has here is to show us why our hope is not a disappointing hope. Hope does not disappoint. And we've already mentioned the idea of hope as not, you know, crossing my fingers and wishing upon a star, kind of hope. It's not we can only hope so or keep hope alive, kind of hope. The word hope that's often used in the scripture is used to speak about that which we're certain of. It's not something that we're unsure about. The idea of hope in Scripture is much more solid than that. It's a confident expectation that something promised will actually come to pass. And that's why we're able to exult and to have joy in our hope. How can you rejoice and boast in a hope that you don't know is actually going to come about? But the scriptures talk about this hope is something that you can be confident in, that you can boast in, and this is a hope that will not disappoint you The word for disappoint here, it's the Greek word katai skuno. It's a word that means to put to shame. You will not be put to shame if you trust in the words of Scripture. And this is more than just a a disappointment. It's not like, you know, I was just hoping that this would happen and it didn't happen, so now I'm disappointed. The idea of disappointment has has to do with something that I've announced is going to happen, and now I'm being put to shame because of my hope that I've now declared to everybody else. You know, so so it may be one thing to say that, you know, well I hoped I was going to get married and it didn't happen. It's another thing after you, you know, write out all the invitations and invite all your friends and you know you order the cake and you know your dress or your tuxedo and and then it doesn't happen. You know, now now I've been put to shame because I've actually announced it. I've told everybody that this is what was going to take place, and now it's not happening. And that's the idea here, that our hope is not just some kind of quiet hope that we hold in our hearts This is a hope that we've declared to everybody. We we've told the world, I believe in Jesus Christ, He's coming back. That that what I've what I've given to Him that I I've entrusted to Him until that day and He can He can keep that safe until that day. That I've given my life to Jesus Christ and every sacrifice that I make on this side of eternity is absolutely worth it. That's the kind of hope that we have. It's a public hope. It's a hope that we've declared. It's a hope that we've exalted in. We boast in it. It's a hope that we rejoice in three times. It's said in this section in verse 2 we exalt in the hope of the glory of God. In verse 3, we exult even in our tribulations. In verse 11, down to verse 11 it says, we exult in God there's there's a a a joy and a boasting that we have uh uh being loud about it. That's actually what the word means. It was a word that you use when you wanted to let everybody know what you had what has been accomplished for you. It's associated with boasting. And the idea behind it is that the Christian has made their hope public. But if everything that we've believed in, if all the eggs that we've put into this basket are going to come crashing down, what we've believed in was a lie. What we believed in was a hoax. It's like what we read in 1 Corinthians 15. If Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You're still in your sins. All that we glory in would be reason to be ashamed. And those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished, like it says in 1 Corinthians 15. But that's not the kind of hope that we have. We have a hope that's that's guaranteed, and that's why you find people like David in Psalm 25, he says, Oh my God, I in you I trust. Do not let me be ashamed. Lord, I've put my trust in you. Don't let me be ashamed. I've declared to others that I trust in you. Don't let me be ashamed. Psalm 31, verse 1, and you, O Lord, I have taken refuge. Let me never be ashamed. In your righteousness, deliver me. Psalm 71, verse 1, in you, O Lord, I have taken refuge. Let me never be ashamed. God, don't let me down. That's what he's he's praying. He's saying, Lord, I've put all my hope in you. Lord, Lord, if you don't come through, I have nothing left. Because I've put everything on you. We have a reason to boast. We don't need to be those who hang our heads low in shame Apostle Paul, 2 Timothy 1 and verse 10. He says our Savior Jesus Christ abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And then in verse 12 he says, For this reason I also suffer these things, but I'm not ashamed. I'm not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I'm convinced that he's able to guard what I've trusted to him until that day I've trusted my entire life on Jesus Christ. I've trusted him with everything. And I trust that he can guard what I've entrusted to him. But there's the question that Paul addresses in the verses before us, and it's what has the Lord done to give us assurance of that hope? We have this hope, but is there anything that the Lord has done to assure us of that hope? Is there anything that God has given to us that we can hang on today for that future glory? And that's where verses five to eight come in. The assurances of hope. How do we know that our hope won't disappoint us? Number one, because of the generosity of the Father's love. That's been poured out by the giving of the Spirit. The strength of the Father's love is displayed in Christ's death for helpless sinners, and also in the depth of the Father's love is demonstrated by Christ's death for unrighteous sinners. Let's take a look at the first point here, the generosity of the Father's love that's been poured out in the giving of the Spirit. Take a look at verse 5. It says, and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. We know that the hope that we have is secure because God has already poured out his love within our hearts. And what does Paul mean by this love of God poured out within our hearts? First of all, this is not talking about our love for God that's been poured out within our hearts. It's not God's love for others that has been poured out within our hearts. And that's how some people have understood this phrase. But what he's talking about here is God's love that is directed to us. It's God's love for us that's been poured out into our hearts. Actually, verse 8 makes it explicit. It's talking about a love from God directed toward us. In verse 8, it says, But God demonstrates his own love. Toward us. That's the context. It's God's love toward us. And how is God demonstrating his love toward us? Verse 5 again. Hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. How? Through the Holy Spirit, who was given to us. How is God demonstrating his love toward us? Is it just, you know, this feeling that I have? You know, do I need to have that loving feeling You know, is there anything concrete that I can point to as an evidence of God's love for me? Paul says that the evidence of God's love for us is the Holy Spirit who was given to us. That's the evidence of God's love. As MacArthur writes, the very fact that God gives his Holy Spirit to indwell believers is itself a marvelous testimony to his love for us, because he would hardly indwell those who he did not love. God demonstrates his love for us by giving us his Holy Spirit. The generosity of God's love toward us is demonstrated in the giving of the Spirit. Think about this It's the Father's love that's being demonstrated by the Holy Spirit being given. And this is really one of those Trinitarian sections of Scripture, the Spirit of God. who is called the Spirit of the Father, who proceeds from the Father, who is the good gift of the Father, through whom we have access to the Father. It's the demonstration of God's love for us. It's the good gift of the Father to receive the Holy Spirit. I mean, that's what we read about in Luke chapter 11. That that just like a son when it comes to a father and you know asks him for a fish and he gives him a snake, or he comes and he asks for bread, you know, or or or an egg and he gives him a scorpion. He says, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask? It's a demonstration of the Father's love for us that he would give us the Holy Spirit. The Spirit is the gift of love from the Father. He is given to us in a lavish way. He's poured out into our hearts And that's language that's consistently used throughout the scriptures. In Acts chapter 2, verse 17. It says, And it shall be in the last days, God says, that I will pour forth of my spirit on all mankind. Acts chapter 2, verse 33. It says, Therefore having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, receiving From the Father, the promise of the Holy Spirit, this Spirit comes from the Father. He has poured forth this which you both see and hear Acts chapter 10, verse 45. All the circumcised believers who came with Peter were amazed because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles. And one more and flip over to Titus chapter 3. I think this is the the clearest connection to speak about this. But over in Titus chapter 3 We learn here about our salvation, and there's a connection that's made here between our salvation and the Holy Spirit who's been poured out upon us ritually. Look at Titus chapter 3 and verse 5. It says, He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. whom he poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. There's this pouring forth of the Spirit into our hearts that's a demonstration of the Father's love for us. And not only is the Spirit of God an evidence of his love, it's an evidence of our future hope. It's the guarantee of a future redemption. The guarantee of our hope is so secure. that God has given us his Holy Spirit as a as a down payment of future glory over in the book of Ephesians in Ephesians chapter 1. In verse 14, it speaks about the Spirit of God being given to us as a pledge. That word for pledge in the Greek is Arabone. If you walk away from that house, what are you also walking away from? Your down payment. Actually, in modern Greek they they use the term arabone for the wet the engagement ring You know, basically what you know a bachelor is doing when he puts a a ring on the finger of somebody that he intends to marry, he's investing some money into this ring with the little rack on it. And he puts it on her finger and basically saying, I'm telling you that I'm going to marry you. And I'm so certain about me following through on this commitment that I'm investing some money that I'm putting on your finger If he breaks that commitment, guess what you keep? You keep the ring. And then you hear about ladies throwing it into a river or a lake. No, keep that thing, you know. Get some money off of that. But the Holy Spirit becomes our pledge. He's the down payment of future glory. So if God breaks his promise and he doesn't take us all the way to future glory, guess what you get to keep? You get to keep the Holy Spirit. There would be a rupture in the Trinity if God did not follow through on his commitment. God is so certain That he's going to take you all the way to glory. That he will give you his Holy Spirit as a down payment to let you know that I will not walk away from this commitment to you. That you're going all the way to glory, and I'm giving you the Holy Spirit as a pledge of a future redemption. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30 says, Do you not grieve the Holy Spirit of God? by whom you were sealed. It's a mark of authenticity, a mark of security, a guarantee for the day of redemption. So it's the Spirit who guarantees our hope. Isn't that what we think about? You know, the Spirit guarantees our hope until redemption's done. Like this is something that's shown in Scripture that we're sealed. that we've been given the pledge of the Holy Spirit and He's been personally given to us. This is very personal. He is within our hearts. The Spirit of God dwells in you, Romans chapter 8, verse 9 says. The Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, Romans chapter 8, verse 11. And that's the evidence of our future hope. Do you see the fruit of the Spirit in your life? Have you seen any evidence of the Spirit's work in your life? Do you know what that's an evidence of? That I belong to Him That I belong to God. Because the fruit of the Spirit does not take place in the life of an unbeliever. It doesn't take place the fruit of we just Did the memory verse today, didn't we? What's the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control? That's not self-generated. That's generated by the Spirit of God. It's a work of the Spirit of God. And it testifies that you belong to Him. When I see the evidence of the Spirit of God in my life, it's a testament that I have this hope of future glory. Romans chapter 8, verse 16, it says the Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are the children of God. He confirms that we're part of the family of God and gives us the assurance of a future hope. So God doesn't just give us the promise, he also gives us the assurance of that future promise. The assurance of hope, and part of that assurance is the Spirit of God. The generosity of the Father's love is demonstrated to us by the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. Number two, the strength of the Father's love is displayed in Christ's death for the helpless. The strength of the Father's love is displayed in Christ's death for the helpless. Look at verse 6. For why while we were still helpless, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. I'm not sure who came up with the saying God helps those who help themselves, but it's not in the Bible. It's not I don't know how many times I've heard people come to me, you know what the good book says. You know, I don't know what good book they're talking about, but you know, like the good book says, God helps those who help themselves. You know, you just want to give them the Bible and say, can you show me that It's not in the Bible, and it's actually anti -Bible. The Bible doesn't say God helps those who help themselves. What does the scripture say? While we were still helpless, you could not help yourself. And that's the people that God helps. It's not in the Bible. It was popularized by an almanac written by Benjamin Franklin called the Poor Richards Almanac. collection of practical moral guidance, but it's not biblical. The Bible says that God doesn't help those who help themselves. He helps the helpless. Because we couldn't help ourselves. We couldn't do it. Bible lets us know that we were stuck in our sins. We had a bent towards evil. Genesis 8:21, the intent of man's heart is evil from his youth. This is the judgment John 3 says, 19, 3:19. This is the judgment that the light has come into the world, and men love darkness. rather than the light. We we don't naturally gravitate towards the light. We don't want the light. It's like like we're like the roaches that you know scatter as soon as the light comes on, right? We we don't want the light Ephesians 4. 18, being darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God. That's how we are naturally. We run from the light. And we're slaves to our sins. John 8. 34, Jesus answered them, truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin And that's an ongoing practice of it. Everybody who commits sin is a slave of it. It's like you can't break free from it. You run from the light and you gravitate towards your sin and then you're bound to it It's like, yes, yes, the master, right? You love your sin and you obey your sins. Those who commit sin, those who practice it, they're slaves of it. 2 Timothy 2. 26 says, We were in the snare of the devil held captive by him to do his will. And we're sick in our sins, not spiritually healthy. We're sick. Mark 217 says, it is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. I did not come to call the righteous Jesus as, but the sinners We were born in iniquity. We're sick in our sins. We're separated by our sins. Psalm 58, verse 3 says, the wicked are estranged or separated from the womb. Colossians 1. 21 says, You were formerly alienated, you were separated from God, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. And not only that, we were sentenced by our sins. What do I mean by that? We were spiritually dead. Spiritually dead. Dead in our sins. Romans 3. 11 says there's none who seeks for God. Ephesians 2. 1 says you were dead in your train trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. Colossians 2. 13 says, You were dead in your transgressions, the uncircumcision of your flesh. So how does how does knowing that we were helpless provide hope to the believer? How does this help us, knowing that we're helpless? What is the guarantee of hope that's found in this passage? You know what the guarantee is? You know why this passage is encouraging? It's that God doesn't need your help to save you. God does not need your help to save you. Salvation is not a partnership between you and God. You know, it's not that God does 90% of the work and you know expects you to do your 10%. You know, I've done the heavy lifting over here. Can you help me out, please? Right? That's not what God has done in your salvation. God has done it all. I've heard you know some Mormon missionaries argue that you know God does 90 and we do our ten. Salvation is not synergistic to use a technical term. It's not a partnership between you and God where you both are working towards your salvation. We're helpless. The Greek term is asthanase. It means to be without strength, to be weight weak, to be sickly. Same word that was used in Acts chapter 5 for the sick who are carried out into the streets to be healed by Peter And why were they carried out? It's because they couldn't come themselves. They had to be carried out. Because they couldn't come out. There were not those who could come themselves. They couldn't help themselves, and that's us. We were the helpless. If nobody carried us, we could not come. So God did not wait for us to initiate any kind of movement towards him. It was while we were still helpless that God took the initiative toward us. He looked upon my helpless estate. And brought me to the cross. And would you also notice that this is also a Trinitarian plan? It's the Father that does this? Take a look again at verse 6. It says four. You didn't think that was important, but it is. For while we were still helpless. Four is a word of explanation. What is he explaining? He's explaining the Father's love that he's just talked about in the previous verse. Hope does not disappoint because of the love of God, the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. And it's the same love of God that's demonstrated towards us, and that while we were helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly, it's connected back to the Father's love for us. It's a work of the entire Trinity. No member of the Trinity is working against any other member of the Trinity. They're all working together for our salvation. And it was a sovereign plan while we were still helpless at the right time. And on the one hand, we could say that it was at the right time on the calendar, all the events that surrounded Jesus' life, his death, his resurrection, all perfectly timed according to the divine schedule. Like Galatians chapter 4, verse 4, says, but when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. But the word for time could also be used to speak of the right season or the right opportunity. It's the same word that's used over in Galatians 6 and verse 10, where it says, So then while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people. And it couldn't have the meaning while there was while there was still opportunity for you, Christ died. The Christ came and did what couldn't be done by anybody else. That Christ stepped in when nobody else could help you. That Christ took that opportunity to step in and help you. And the timing could just be a way to say that like when it looked like all hope was lost, Jesus did what nobody else could do You were helpless, you could do nothing, and Christ took that opportunity in your helpless estate to come and to give you help. This is why we have hope. Our helpless estate does not kill our hope. Like I said, God doesn't need your help to save you. It's God who guarantees this future redemption and Christ helps the helpless. Have you admitted that you're helpless? Have you gotten to the point where you admitted that I have a need that I cannot meet? There's nothing that I can do to pull myself up by my bootstraps and work my way to God. I 've I've talked to so many people, you know, you try to share the gospel sometimes and Sometimes people say, well, you know, when I get my act together, I'm coming around. What are you talking about? You're never going to get your act together. You know, as soon as I clean myself up, you know, I'll give my life to Christ. As if you could do that. No, no, the reason that I'm sharing this message with you is because you can't You can't help yourself. You can't clean up your act. There's nothing that you can do to kind of clean yourself up enough to the point where you can present yourself to God. All that we have to give to God are filthy rags. Filthy rags of unrighteousness. That's all that you have to offer to Him. Have you admitted your need? Again, Christ says, I did not come to call the righteous but the sinners. John 9, 41, Jesus said to them, If you were blind, you would have no sin, but because you say, we see, your sin remains. You think you're okay, then you know there's nothing I can do for you. I need to wait until you know that you need help. You know, come come back when you admit that you need help. You know, then you need the physician. But until you admit that you until you admit that you have a problem, like there's nothing I can do for you. I I only help helpless people. This is what Jesus does. He helps helpless people. And finally, this is the third one. The depth of the Father's love is demonstrated by Christ's death for the unrighteous. Take a look at verse 7. It says, for one will hardly die for a righteous man, though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Verse 7 introduces us to a human analogy in order to show the supremacy of the love of God. And in this human analogy, Paul imagines someone who is righteous. And when we say righteous, we mean righteous by human standards. Okay? This is what we're talking about. You know, back in Romans 3 verse 10 it says that there's there's none righteous, no not one. So so here we're talking about on a human level, human standards Somebody is righteous. So we're not talking about a sinless individual, but we're talking about somebody who's not guilty of crime. Okay? He's an innocent person by human standards. And Paul admits that there are cases where someone would die for an innocent person. And the analogy doesn't describe any. kind of relationship between you and this individual. You know, of course we know that the people, you know, I I die for my children or I die for my my mother or I die for my brother or something like that. He's just saying, would you die for a man? You know, just for a man who's righteous, just for an innocent person, would you be willing to die for that person? And Paul says it's rare to find people who would be willing to make that kind of sacrifice. You know, we do find it, and we call men and women who sacrifice themselves for the lives of people they don't even know. We call them what? We call them heroes I've shared with you before, I went to the Ground Zero, there was a museum there in New York where the World Trade Towers uh once sat. And there's uh displayed pictures of men and women who who sacrificed their lives to rescue those that they didn't know. There's a particular picture that that stood out to me. It was of a a young firefighter, probably in his early twenties Who's going up the staircase and you know he's just rescued one or two people and he's going back up again. And as people are coming down past him, they said that there's nothing that you can do. You're not going to be able to save anybody else. The people who are up there are trapped, they're lost. And he just kind of turns around, doesn't say anything, just turns over his shoulder as if to say, I know. But I'm going in anyway. And there's a picture that snapped of this guy going back up the staircase, going to his death. And there's people who are like that. That I'm willing to give up my life for somebody that I I don't even know. Head towards my death. Firefighters, police, military, even citizens who are willing to risk their lives for people they don't know. Dom McGray Barnhouse tells the story, he uses this illustration. Tells the story of two men who were trapped in a mine that was caved in and poisonous gas was starting to escape and One of the men had a wife and three children, but his gas mask had been torn in the underground explosion, and he would have perished apart from the act of another man who was trapped with him. And the second man took off his own mask and forced it on the man whose mask was torn. And he says, You have Mary and the children. They need you, I'm alone, I can go. And he puts his own mask on the the mask the the the face of a of a friend and we hear acts like that, you know Those who are in emergency situations in the heat of a moment, you know, take a take a bullet, dive on a on a mine. But how many of us would be willing to Give our lives apart from these kinds of situations to people that we don't know. Would you be willing to donate your organs to somebody that you don't know? If there was a chance that you could die in the process, even if they were an innocent person, the Bible says that hardly takes place But what if it's a good person? It's not just an innocent person. He's a good person. The word that's used for good is a morally good person Paul imagined someone who might be known for good deeds. The word that was used for good were uh was used for those who were of benefit to society. They had admirable qualities about them. So again, we're talking about from a human perspective because again, Romans 3. 12 says there's none who does good. But from a human perspective, we recognize that there are people who do good for society. And Paul says, would you be willing to die for a good person? Not just an innocent person, but for somebody who's who's a good person, a good man? It's like some would dare to die for a good man. There might be somebody that you believe is of such a benefit to society that you'd be willing to take the bullet for them. I remember I was at Grace Community Church and uh the security team there, I was talking to one of the the security team And he says, you know what? I'd be willing to take a bullet for MacArthur. And I believed him. You know, I'd I'd be willing to take a bullet, you know, for him. You know, that I I love him so much, I value him so much, I'd be willing to take a bullet for him But the list of people that you'd dare to take a bullet for would be pretty short. Perhaps for the good man someone would dare to die. But what does the scripture say? But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. There might be those who are willing to take a bullet for the a righteous man or a good man, but how many people would be willing to take the bullet for the guy who pulled the trigger? How many people would be willing to to take the the death penalty for the assassin? Like that's what we're talking about here It's the depth of God's love demonstrated in that while we were yet sinners, not after we became saints, but while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know, there might have been people who were willing to take a bullet for Charlie Kirk, but who was willing to take a bullet for the assassin? Take the death penalty for the assassin Overwhelming, incomprehensible demonstration of love. That God is willing to send his son to die for the sinner. And there's a number of observations to make in this text, which is really one of the greatest verses in Scripture, that God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But first of all, I want to notice that this is the love of God the Father. That God demonstrated his love toward us. Again, it's a fully Trinitarian plan. The Father loves us. The Son died for us. The Spirit indwells us. All members of the Trinity are mentioned here in our salvation. Every person of the Trinity is involved in this hope of salvation. And what makes this so incredible is that God is the one who has been offended by your sins. He's the one who's been sinned against. So so again, like how many people have uh you know you know sitting in a courtroom you know because somebody attempted to murder them and they're willing to take the sentence for the guilty party But this is God who has been offended by our sins, and he's the one who's willing to sacrifice for the sinner. According to Romans chapter 1, verse 18, it's his wrath that's revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. And unrighteousness of men. It's against God whom we've sinned. Our sins are against God. It's in his face. We've rebelled against his authority. We hated the light. Our deeds were evil. He's the target of our animosity. But he's the one who shows his love toward us. And look at all the terms that are used to describe us. You want to know what your resume is? You were helpless. Verse 6. Without strength, nothing you could do, nothing you had to offer to God. Verse 6 also says you were ungodly. At the right time Christ died for the ungodly. It's a word that means unholy, profane, sacrilegious. All that God is, we were not. We had no desire or respect for that which was holy. Not only were we helpless, ungodly, were also sinners. Her martalas, it's a word for those who miss the mark. We fall short of his glory, we're not just missing the mark, we're actually aiming in the wrong direction. We're like sheep who've gone astray. Verse ten says we are enemies, we're rebels in an armed conflict against the Creator, we've rejected his right to rule over us. We're like the vine growers who who tend the vineyard, and when the owner sends the messengers to collect the produce, we kill the messengers. That's who we are. And the question is, what kind of king in his right mind sends his son to die for those who hate him? God does. An immense sacrifice to die for the righteous person. It's out of question to die for the wicked person. But this is what God does for us And this is what was necessary to guarantee our hope. It took the death of his son to guarantee our hope. And the substitution of Christ is found in that little word for. That he died for us. Christ died for us. It's the Greek word huper, which means as a substitute in the place of. He's the one who died in our place. Died for us, sealed our pardon with his blood. Hallelujah. What a savior, right? Charles Spurgeon in a sermon entitled Love's Commendation, he says this. He says, if I might be allowed to picture in my imagination and market, it's nothing more than imagination. But he says, I can almost conceive a parliament in heaven. The angels are assembled, the question is proposed to them. Cherubim and Seraphim, cohorts of the glorified, ye spirits. that like flames of fire swift at my bidding fly. You happy beings whom I've created for my honor, here's a question which I condescend to offer for your consideration. Man has sinned. There's no way for his pardon, but someone suffering and paying blood for blood. Who shall it be? I can conceive that there was silence throughout the August assembly. Gabriel spoke not. He would have stretched his wings and flapped the ether in a moment if the deed had been possible, but he felt that he could never bear the guilt of a world upon his shoulders. And therefore still he sat. And they're the mightiest of the mighty, those who could shake a world if God should will that sat still because they felt all powerless to accomplish redemption. I do not conceive that one of them would have venture to hope that God Himself would assume flesh and die. I do not think it could have entered even into the angelic thought to conceive that the mighty maker of the skies should bow his awful head and sink into the grave. I can't cannot imagine that the brightest and most seraphic of these glorified ones would for an instant have suffered such a thought to abide with them. And when the Son of God, upstarting from his throne, spoke to them and said, Principalities and powers, I will become flesh. I will veil this Godhead of mine in robes of mortal clay. I will die. I think I see the angels for once astonished. They had seen worlds created, they had beheld the earth like a spark from the mass of unformed matter, hammered with the anvil of omnipotence, smitten off into space, and yet they had not wondered, but on this occasion I conceive that they ceased not to marvel. What? Wilt thou die? A word? Creator? Master? Infinite? Almighty? Will you become man and die? Yes, says the Savior, I will. And are you not astonished, mortal men? He says. Do you not wonder? Will you not marvel? The hosts of heaven are still wondering. They're still wondering. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 12 says that we have what we have by grace that the angels are longing to look into. It's like they're bending down, stooping down to look into the grace that we have. The angels don't know forgiveness. When the angel sins, they're out You know, it's like you know the Satan and the third of the angels, it's like, you know, okay, they sinned, they're gone. And now the angels are looking down at mankind. Mankind sins, and the angels say, Well, hey, we we already seen this story before. You know, when when you sin, you you get the judgment. I mean that that's what we've seen. But then instead of mankind getting the judgment God robes himself in flesh and comes down to save them and to die for them? The angels are still wondering. They're still stooping in to look. I don't get this. I don't understand this. That God would come and die for his creation. That sat in his face. What grace we have. What grace we have. Hallelujah, what a savior. Are you not astonished Do you not wonder? Will you not wonder? And all of this is behind Paul's declaration that our hope will not disappoint us. That if if you've placed your hope in Christ, this is a hope that will not disappoint. With all that He's given to us, this is a hope that will not disappoint. No wonder Paul pulled over to the side of the road to say, we've got to take this in for a minute. We've just got to glory in this. The view is breathtaking. Right in the middle of this list of the benefits of our salvation, he takes this excursion. And there's these repeated parallels. I just want to show you this before we before we uh we close here, but there's these repeated parallels in this section that really shows us that this is a self-contained unit. Just real quick, verse five. Take a look at verse five. In verse 5, it lets us know that the love of God, middle of the verse, the love of God has been poured out within our hearts, right? Love of God has been poured out within our hearts. Verse 8, but God demonstrates his own love toward us. Verse 5, it says that this love is poured out within our hearts. In verse 8, it says that his love is toward us. Again, the direction of this love within our hearts toward us. Verse 6, it says that this love came to us while we were still helpless. Verse 6. Verse 8, it says that this love came to us while we were what? Verse 8? Sinners. How did this love come towards us? Christ died, verse 6, for who? For the ungodly. And then in verse 8, it says that Christ died for us. There's these parallels that just draw the section together. It's all a unit, and all of it gives us an assurance of our hope. Your hope will not fail. If you've placed your trust in Jesus Christ, if you have a hope and expectancy that's built on Jesus Christ, your hope will not fail. How can my hope fail when the Father's love has been poured out into my heart in the giving of the Holy Spirit. God has given to me the most precious gift of His Spirit as a down payment of my future redemption. How can he separate from the gift that he's given to me that guarantees the future redemption that I have. How can he separate from this promise? I have hope. Why would my hope fail? When the strength of the Father's love is displayed in Christ's death for the helpless. I had nothing to offer when Jesus saved me. Like, why would I think that anything that I have to offer now is going to keep me? No, no, he saved me when I had nothing. Why would I be cast away now that he finds some kind of lack in me No, everything that he needs, he's found in Jesus Christ. He does not need your help to save you. Why would my hope fail when the depth of the Father's love is demonstrated by Christ's death for unrighteous sinners? And we'll get there soon enough, but over in Romans chapter 8, you can flip over there really quick. Romans chapter 8, verse 31. He says this, verse 31. He says, what then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died. Yes, rather, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. He's the one who died for you. Why wouldn't he not follow follow through on that commitment? He's given you his son. Why wouldn't he take you all the way to glory? And this all is just wrapped up in this this hope that we have, and it's a demonstration of the love of God. There was a songwriter who was asked, you know, what do you believe is the best lyric ever penned? And without hesitation, he referred to the love of God. The love of God. The love of God is greater far than tongue or pen can ever tell. It goes beyond the highest star and reaches to the lowest hell. The guilty pair bowed down with care God gave his son to win, His erring child he reconciled and pardoned from his sin And then particularly this line, could we with ink the ocean fill, and were the skies of parchment made? Were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade? To write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry, nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. O love of God, how rich and pure, how measureless and strong, it shall forevermore endure the saints and the angel song. Do you understand the love of God that He's given to you that guarantees your future redemption? We have a hope that is secure. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this love that you've given to us, the guarantees, our hope. Now, Father, we're those who have been given the Holy Spirit. The love of God that's been poured out within our hearts, this demonstration of your love towards us. Father, even while we were helpless Lord, you gave us Jesus Christ, the one who died for the ungodly, those who had turned away from you, those who were ungodly, that you gave Christ to die for us. And Father, we're those who sinned against you. We're those who are hostile towards you. We're enemies of God. But yet you've demonstrated your love toward us that even while we are yet sinners, that Christ died for us. Now, Father, I pray that meditating on these things, Lord, would give us a great confidence in the future. the future day of redemption, and knowing that you'll bring us all the way home because of all that you've invested in us for your own glory. May ye be glorified in all that we do, in all that we think. Lord, even in our meditations, the hope that we have, Father, may ye be glorified in all of it. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.