The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Oh praise the Lord, what a blessing it is to be here with you undeserved, but Grateful as I am. I love your pastor. You know that already. I love him dearly, and when I heard he was going to be traveling and he asked if I could come and Serve you, serve him by serving you. I said, George, you don't need to ask. Just give me an opportunity. It is a blessing to serve this body this church that I love so dearly and your pastor who is so close to me and so dear to me and so I'm grateful. George asked what I was preaching this Sunday at Belcroft. I said, well, this Sunday is the Sanctity of Human Life Sunday in our nation, and we will have a representative from one of our uh local uh pregnancy clinics come who's actually a member of our church and she'll give an update on where things stand in that reality in our community and then I'll preach a sermon on a biblical defense for the sanctity of human life. And George says, that sounds like that will be perfect for Baltimore Bible Church. So just know your pastor requested this. And so that's why we're here. But I do think it's important for us to consider these matters in part because we live in an extremely wicked world. I'm in the process of expositionally working with our congregation preaching through 1 John. And we spent the last few sermons talking about the world. As John gives the first command in 1 John to not love the world. And he commands us to not love the world because this world is an evil place. And believe it or not, you may not know this, but you need to be reminded of it, that this world, according to 1 John 5. 19, is under the power of the evil one. This world is designed To incite your flesh. Satan has designed it that way. He empowers it to do that. And so you and I have to live in this world. We have to do business in this world. We learn in this world. We live in this world. And this world is a place under the power of the devil, by the sovereign hand of God, as a place that he organizes. He establishes governments and schools and protocols and lies. He is the father of lies. And all of these things, and myriads more, are designed to provoke our flesh. And John makes that clear, right? The lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. And it's a summary of how the world works and how the world is structured. And one thing we need to guard against is losing sight of the world in which we live in. I know for a fact as a pastor that it doesn't take too long for us to live in the world or the world to begin living in us. It doesn't take too long for us to walk through this world and start carrying the world with us and we don't even know it. Especially in the ideologies, the philosophies, and the thought process. of this world, especially as it pertains to life. How quickly and how subtly this world has infected the church with a diminished view of life That minimizes the sanctity, the sacredness, the preciousness of human life This world is constantly downplaying it, constantly mocking it, constantly belittling how precious human life is, whether that's pre-born life in the womb, or whether that's aged life in a nursing home or your home, and everywhere in between. Life, according to the world, is meaningless. We've all evolved from apes. It doesn't really matter. We live in a circle of life. No, we don't John tells us we live in a direction headed toward destruction. We live in a one-way path. The world is on a one-way path. But Disney and this philosophy of this world says, no, we're just all in an endless cycle. We all die and become part of one another, and we're and we come back again. That's not true. That's a lie. That minimizes That diminishes God's plan and the reality of life. But for us who live in this state called Maryland, it's even worse And I'm not here to shed any negative light upon our state other than just tell you the truth. We live in an evil state as it pertains to life. This state hates life. This state is wicked as compared to what God's Word says about life. The right to an abortion, which is nothing more than murder in the eyes of God, the right to murder, innocent life. was enshrined in our state's constitution on November 5th, 2024, in large part in reaction to the Dobbs decision that we all know about, where Roe v. Wade was overturned. And what that did now for our state was it made our state a, in many ways, a sanctuary state for those who want abortions. So people as far away as Texas and beyond will travel here to Maryland because, believe it or not, In our state, it is legal to have an abortion up and through the ninth month. This is the world in which we live, this is the state in which we live in. But it's worse than that because Though the Dobbs decision and the reversal of Roe v. Wade was a good thing by way of governmental policy, yet abortions are on the rise like never before. Because now it's no longer surgical abortions that serve as primary, it's the abortion pill. 67 % of abortions are not now by seeing a doctor, it's by popping a pill. Something you can do in the quietness of your home, something that a woman can have mailed to her in the mail and never even see a doctor. And that's why abortions are rising, not lessening. Because now women are choosing to do this And they never see a doctor, and some of them die from this. How tragic is that? They never see a doctor, they don't have to see a pharmacist, they just put in a request, and these life-taking pills are mailed to them and they can take him. Mm this is our state and it's it's so sad so sad Approximately in this state, almost 40% of pregnancies in Maryland end in abortion. See, we don't think about it in our world, right, of the church, because we kind of inoculate ourselves from the world we live in, and part of that is a protective measure, because we're to be in the world, but not of the world. But if we're not careful, we forget that while the world is a wicked place, the world is the mission field in which we're sent. And we're to love, and we're to be the light of Christ, and we're to bring the gospel to the lost, who are enshrined as we once were into the lies. of the flesh and the evil one. And so I bring this sermon of sorts today Not because I don't believe that you believe these things. I know you do, because you're taught so well. But I bring it as I did to Belcroft because we need to be reminded of these things. And we often forget how critical it is. And we forget, do not forget this, we forget how easily we're pulled away. And how quickly the subtleties of Satan, the lies of the world, and the appeal of my flesh can begin to cloud my convictions. And it's so important that we be rooted and grounded in truth, but also ready, as the Apostle Peter says, ready to give an answer for the hope that we have in Christ. So I ask you, are you ready if someone comes to you? Even this week, as many will be discussing this and newscasters will be bringing it out in different ways. And someone of your co-workers or even a sibling or a child or whoever might say, why are you so convinced about the sanctity of life? Or what is the sanctity of life? Or why does it matter? Can a woman just choose? Are you ready to give a biblical defense? Not an emotional one that's driven by your own desires or even past experience, whatever that may be, but a biblical one. That points them to the truth and to the scriptures. That's what I pray the time before us will equip us in as I give you a number of passages of Scripture that will help prepare us and equip us for having a biblical defense. for the sanctity of life. Now before I give you my proposition, let me say this right now A sermon isn't really a sermon, it's more or less a theology of the sanctity of life. It's more topical and thematic. But a sermon like this No doubt touches upon the lives right here within us who have been touched by abortion. No doubt in a s in a in a congregation, in a gathering this size. Some people have been touched by it. Either they've they've been a part of it, either they've paid for it, or they know someone who has. And I want you to know right now, whoever you are, wherever you are that if your life history is one in which you've had an abortion, you paid for an abortion, you were you were complicit in this sin, you need to know not only as you'll hear, is that an evil act, but you need to know that God is mercy. I want to say it right from the beginning that yes, abortion is evil. It is murder in the eyes of God. But all sin, if repented of, will be forgiven. There is no sin, none whatsoever, greater than the mercy of God. And so this is the place to be if you've taken life. This is the place to be if you've cursed Your brother or sister made in the image of God, which is tantamount to murder in the eyes of God. This is the place to be if you're a sinner, because welcome to the club. All of us are sinners And we are here because Christ is our Savior. And God is patient and forgiving with all who humble themselves and ask for forgiveness. So I pray, if that is you, that even this moment and this day, this will not be a time for false guilt, but it'll be a time for you to bring your guilt before God and have it taken away. I pray that the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ will grip your heart because He is the only answer to your sin, my sin, our sin. No one else other than Jesus Christ. So as this goes forward, may any of you, all of you, whoever you are, may you turn to the Lord and find, there you go, peace and rest in forgiveness. So today I want to give us essentially two points, and I keep it short and sweet for quick memory, for retention. for hopefully help as you think of this. I'm going to give us essentially two defenses, two biblical defenses for the sanctity of human life. Here's two words that will help you track through this with me. Number one, declaration. Declaration. And number two, design. Design. Greatest way to defend the sanctity of human life. Is as your pastor likes to say, open the scriptures and let them loose, right? Like let the lion out of the cage. That's the first point. The declarations of God The best way to defend the sanctity of human life is just let God speak. He will defend it. His word declares that life is sacred. and what he thinks about it. We'll look at that. And then the second is by pointing people and helping people, reminding people that life is precious because human life Human life is made, only human life is made in the image of God. That's the design. Those are the two biblical, insurmountable, unchangeable biblical defenses. for the sanctity of human life. Now I'm going to give you a number of scriptures. I'll I'll I'll read a number of them to you, but you will be writing them down, no doubt, for your records and for your own research and as you continue this study. And so here you go. The first place to go in a biblical defense of the sanctity of human life is the direct declaration of God in Exodus chapter 20, verse 13. You'll know this passage well. Exodus chapter 20, verse 13 reads, and you shall not murder. Unquote. Here we have a clear prohibition by God against Murder. The term murder in this context deals both with the premeditated murder of an individual as well as the accidental causing of another person's death. Thus, this prohibition by God covers the taking of life at its early stages, meaning pre-born, still in the womb, as well as taking of life. Killing of life, murdering of life in the latter stages of life, whether that be 80, 90, 100 years old or whatever. No matter what spectrum life is on, God demands that it be protected, that life be not taken. That's what murder is. That both young and old and everyone in between that they be protected. You can also look over later in 2 Samuel. chapter one, verses one to sixteen, where we see this interesting story where this uh, shall we say Lying Amalekite shows up to David with a concocted story that he actually killed Saul, and he comes bearing Saul's crown and amulet, and he comes to David and he says While Saul was bent over on his spear, he asked me to kill him and put him out of misery because he was in so much pain, and I did. And now I bring you, O King David, his crown and his amulet. Well, we we know from 1 Samuel 31, 3 to 6, that that was a lie of the Amalekite, but David went with the lie. And says, okay, so you killed Saul in his misery. Yes. Thinking he's ingratiating himself to King David thinking this is going to go well for him. Well, you know the story, David has this man killed for killing Saul. Even there you see a picture that even King Saul in his misery should have been shown mercy. And he wasn't. And David says, what are you doing? Killing the Lord's anointed. Just interesting as you put that in context even here in this biblical defense for the sanctity. Now there's another passage, just one page over in Exodus 21, that I believe is a paramount passage, not Readily known to many Christians, but should be known by all Christians. Anybody that reads the scripture needs to know this, especially in a defense for the sanctity of human life. Here you go, especially pre-born life in the womb. Exodus 21, verses 22 to 25 reads, and I quote, When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out. But there is no harm. The one who hid her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and he shall pay as the judges determine If there is harm, then you shall pay life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for womb, stripe for stripe. This, unquote, this is a profound passage regarding the sanctity of human life, especially pre-born life. Here we can see that God values pre-born life so much that even if death comes accidentally , to pre-born baby, to a pre-born baby, then capital punishment was required. Notice the text is so clear. Life, did you pick up on it? Life for life. You don't have to wonder whether or not that is life in the womb. Right here, God's word is clear. It is life for life. No question about it. We don't need a debate, and we don't need a panel, and we surely don't need a biologist We just need God's word. It's clear. So clear I do not want any of us to miss this. As I believe this passage, this passage profoundly teaches that God values pre-born life in a very special way. Now notice the text is clearly talking about accidental death as a m as two men are fighting each other and in this battle, in this wrestling, in this fight A pregnant woman in somehow, in some way, is hit and her baby dies. Clearly It wasn't their intention, clearly an accidental death. Well, for accidental death, God provided cities of refuge. Where those causing the unintentional death, what we would call in our day and age, involuntary manslaughter God designed a place where these individuals could flee, where they could le live. It's called cities of refuge. And they could live there until the high priest died, and they would live there. In this basic house arrest living in these cities of sorts. You could read about that in Exodus 21, 13, and Deuteronomy 19 verses 1. To 13. But did you get our text? That's not so in this case. No option for the city of refuge for those who kill. A baby in the womb, even if it's accidental. If by accident the baby dies, then the one causing the accident must also die life for life. This is clearly, here you go, a higher standard. You could even say a greater value that God placed in the protect in the proactive protection of the pre-born life. And why would he not? That's the most vulnerable person on the planet is in is a baby in the womb of the mother. And God knows that, and he does all he can to protect it in the scope of what he designed for Israel under the law. Now, if God demanded capital punishment for the accidental death of pre-born life, then what did He demand for those who would willingly intentionally, voluntarily, kill pre-born life. Now we move from what God demanded No murder, and if murder happens, capital punishment must follow, because life is precious and to be valued, the life of the pre-born in particular, to be valued above all. And as we have seen in the case of the unborn, if it's an unintentional killing, capital punishment under the law of God was demanded. Those declarations are clear in pointing out how serious and how valuable God sees human life to be. But now let's hear from God himself. Let's hear how God describes the pre-born, because one of the lies of the world The lies of the father of lies who is over this world, Satan, is this lie that that which grows inside the womb of a woman, and that's part of what makes a woman, by the way But that which grows in the woman is not really a baby. It's just a massive stuff. It's just a fetus, just a gathering of material, not really a living human being. And so this is one of the subtleties, this is one of the ways in which the evil father of this world seeks to subtly seduce. The people who live in this world. Well, is it true? And what does God say about what grows in the womb? Genesis 25, verses 21 to 24. You know this story well, but I'll read it nonetheless. Here we have the reality of Isaac and Rebekah. Genesis 25, 21 to 24 says, and I quote, And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife because she was barren. And the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebecca his wife conceived. Watch, watch. The children struggled together within her And she said , If it is thus, why is this happening to me? So she went to inquire of the Lord. And the Lord said to her, Two nations. are in your womb. Two peoples from within you shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other. The older shall serve the younger. When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb. Here we have the wife, obviously, of Isaac, Rebekah, who was barren, and Isaac prayed To Yahweh that she might conceive, and God granted her life. Did you notice in the text? God is the giver of life. We're going to talk about that again in a moment. All life in every womb comes from God. God gave her this life in her womb. She conceived twins. Now look at how God through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit describes these twins. Verse 22 calls them children, even when they're in the womb. The Hebrew word used here is used some 4,000 times throughout the Old Testament, and it means son or child. The text goes on and is very clear that these children are actually the beginnings of two nations, two peoples, verse 23. The text gives personality to these human beings as they struggled together clearly, showing active life within the womb. Clearly described with order and physicality as one is older. than the other and even stronger than the other. They both are described as persons. Hosea chapter 12, verse 3, speaking of Jacob and Esau and the twins being described here. Hosea 12. 3 says, Jacob took his brother by the heel while he was in the womb. Notice, brother. Notice the ability. He's a living person. He has a hand. He has an ability. He has an understanding. He was clearly a person. He was clearly a sibling in the womb with the ability to grab his brother's heel. You can also see This reality in the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 9, verses 10 to 13, when he speaks of this reality of Jacob and Esau as children before they were born. What about Judges chapter 13 verse 5 or Judges chapter 16 verse 17? There we have the reality, a story of Samson. This speaks of Samson and describes him as a Nazarite from the womb, meaning since the time he was a child in the womb, God had set him apart. What about Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 5, that says the same exact thing about Jeremiah, that he was known and chosen by God while still in the womb? All of this is a clear declaration by God, defining that which grows in the womb as a person, a person who can be known by God, called by God, and set apart. By God. God's word is clear. The womb does not house a fetus, meaning a blob of material, not yet a person. Not at all. The Bible is clear. That which is in the womb is seen and declared by God to be a living person created and cared for by God Himself. What about Job 31, verse 15? Psalm 22, verse 10, Psalm 51, verse 5, and thankfully, as we already had read. Today, Psalm 139, especially verse 13, all of these passages, they further drive the point that conception, not birth, conception Is the defining point of personhood. David is clear that he sees himself as a sinful person at the point of conception, Psalm 51:5. Thus David does not think of himself in any other terms than as an actual living person, even while he's in the womb. This point is further clarified in Psalm 139, verses 13 to 16, where David describes himself. Here you go, should study the personal pronouns of the Bible, not the world. That's a whole nother sermon for another day. How the Bible uses personal pronouns will help instruct us how we should use them And here we are in Psalm 139, and you'll watch David use personal pronouns regarding himself, describing himself in the womb. It's very clear. Very helpful. Consider again verses 13 to 16 and how David is so clear. In describing himself and giving all credit to the glory and amazing work of God creating him in the womb of his mother. Verse 13, Psalm 139, for you formed my inward parts. You knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Implication by you. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you. When I was being made, notice he said when it was being made, Is that what he says? When the fetus was being made, when the blob of whatever is being made, when the concoction was happening. Not at all. He's speaking of himself in the womb with personality, with understanding, with identity. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret. Again, implication by you. You were making me Intricately woven in the depths of the earth, again, by you. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me. By you. The implication is when as yet there were none of them. The Bible is clear, dear loved ones. And I know you know this, but it's so important to be reminded of it. Lest we forget. We already heard about it already at the beginning of the service in Psalm 50. Did you see it? Oh forgetful people. This is the problem with the people of God down through the ages. We are a forgetful people. One of the reasons why we do the Lord's Supper regularly. Because we are forgetful people. One of the reasons why you want expositional preaching week in and week out, we are forgetful people. And one of the reasons why it's so good to have the Word of God confront us week in and week out, because we are forgetful people. And so we see so clearly that life is created in the womb at conception, and it's always the sovereign work of holy God. Psalm 127, 3 is clear that children are a gift. They are a gift given, not by mom and dad, but they're given to mom and dad by God. They are a heritage. They they are his treasure. They are his gift. They are his children on loan to every parent. And it is clear in Ezekiel 16, 21, where God calls his people, Israel, to account. For the evil of the abortion of their day, which was pagan idolatry, where they would kill their children, some of them burning them alive at the altar of a pagan god. And they were slaughtering their children. And God calls them to account through the prophet Ezekiel. And he makes it very clear that those that he had killed were his children. Meaning they were all created by him, as Psalm 139 says. He's the giver of life Psalm 100, verse 3, and Colossians 1:16 is clear that God, through Christ, is the creator of everything and everyone, including every single human being. That life which grows in the womb of a woman is not ultimately hers, but it has graciously been given to her by God. Therefore, no man or woman has the right to kill in the womb that life which God Himself created Man should be very careful in how he treats that which is owned by God. Yeah, Pastor, but all of these are the Old Testament, you know, it's like under the law and you know we're New Covenant people. Don't you have anything from the New Testament? We could be here all day and do this. I wish we could. How about Luke chapter 1? We're just coming off of Christmas. You ought to know this well. You ought to be primed for this amazing story. What about Luke chapter 1, verses 41 to 44? Here we see these this this amazing story. You know it well. John the Baptist in the womb of Elizabeth and Mary, who is now carrying within her by divine intervention through the Holy Spirit, the life of Jesus Christ in her womb. You understand? You remember this The Bible in this passage is clear. It describes and defines the life in the womb as a child, as a person, as extremely precious Notice verse 41, it is the baby in her womb. The Greek term brefos used here is the same exact Greek term used for baby or for child after being born. And yet here it's being described as the pre-born baby. You can also look over at Luke chapter 2, verse 16, where the same Greek word is used of Jesus himself. Notice again, not just how the child is described, but what the child in the womb does. Luke 1. 44 says the baby heard Mary's voice. And when it did, this child in the womb jumped for joy. Ability? Emotion. You see it? That's person. Again, clearly demonstrating how that baby which lives inside the womb is not an it. It's not a fetus. It's not a blob of disconnected material that does not matter to God. That which grows inside every womb, every pregnant woman, is precious because it's a precious gift from God that He has given life To himself. So you can see clearly by God's own declarations in Scripture that he sees the womb as housing life He sees the womb as the dwelling of a real person with real rights, even some in some ways the rights Of more than the born, as we saw already back in Exodus 21. Thus he demands the womb be protected by his people. Israel under the law. And he demanded capital punishment when any pre-born life was killed by another, either by accident or by intention. Furthermore, when you see the declarations of Scripture in how God describes the womb and the life He Himself places there, you realize you are confronted without question with that which grows in the womb as a living person. A child that is precious to God, being formed and fashioned by his own very hands. Our world may want to suppress this truth Our world may want to troop twist this truth. Our world will constantly deny this truth. Our world will mock this truth. But God's word is undeniable, that life Personhood begins at conception as declared by God himself. Therefore, as God demands in Exodus twenty thirteen, which is repeated, I remind you, in Matthew nineteen, eighteen, man shall not murder any person. including the young, the pre-born, the very old, or anyone else in between, to kill life in the womb through abortion is murder. Now, if that was all we had, we would have all we need to defend life and declare the sanctity of all human life. But we have so much more. We not only have the clear declarations of God, but we also have the cosmic design of God in making every human being. In his own image. The Imago Day. It's glorious. It's so important. So we move from the declarations of God to the design of God. Turn again in your copy of God's word to Genesis 1, where I would like to read verses 26 to 31. I'll read actually through verse 27 and I'll Explain through verse 31. You follow along. Genesis 1, verses 26 to 27. And I quote, Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. Here you can see without question how the last day, day six, of creation, where God created, not the day of rest, but the last day he worked in creation. was not only his last act of creation, but his greatest. Meaning this is without any doubt, this moment here in the creation account is the pinnacle of God's creative work. And in every way you could say, God saved the best for last. And this is so helpful because our world wants you to believe that you are really nothing more than an evolved animal. Which means you're really not that special. But the Bible says directly the opposite. We're looking at it right here. Now I don't say this in some man -centered pride, but in honest exegetical clarity. The Bible is making this point clear that man is God's ultimate creation. Not only that, do not miss this, as it is important in combating the nonstop lies of our world regarding this planet. What we see here is that God has actually made everything up to this moment for man The Bible is crystal clear that man was not made for the planet, but rather by divine design, the planet and all that it houses was made for man. The point is so clearly made in verses 28 to 31, where man is to what? Fill the planet Where man is to be sustained by the planet. Where man is to enjoy the planet. Where man is to subdue and rule over the planet. where man is always, according to God's design, to be reigning over the planet and never to be subservient to the planet. Man is to always be subservient to God, but the planet, by God's design, is to always be subservient to man. Because God made man to be his viceroys over the earth he created. This is massive on so many levels because it shows that man is distinct. Very unique, very different from the planet, and beyond all the other creatures He is distinct. Man has a greater value, a greater priority, a greater preeminence in the mind and plan of God. Listen, I'm not downplaying the majesty and the glory and the that is displayed through the vastness and the wonder of our planet. I get to go out on the Chesapeake Bay from time to time. As a matter of fact, I was out there on Saturday morning simply to watch the sunrise. My phone has so many pictures of sunrises, it's hilarious Why? Because I'm just I'm just in awe of the beauty. I was out there with a guy I'm discipling, a state police officer that just got saved and so excited and taking him out there just so I could spend time with them and I'm literally trying to read Psalm 19 while the sun 's coming up, and we're getting interrupted by all these other things that are happening. And he's like, look at this, look at this, look at that. It's just I'm not denying the beauty of our creation. I'm not minimizing the glory of God that goes forward, not at all. I'm just putting it in its proper place, as the scripture does. It's glorious for sure, but it cannot. The glory of creation cannot be compared to the glory of man. In no way. It's amazing. Psalm eight makes that clear. If you read Psalm eight later, it makes it crystal clear. He the Psalmist talks about the amazing glory of the planet and the cre creatures and the creation and how wonderful it is. But it's only man that God has given this to. It's only man that he made a little bit lower than the heavenly beings. For only man, not animals, only man, not stars, only man, not the moon, or the sun, only man, not the sea or the sea creatures, only man, not even angels. Only man. Isn't it interesting? It's only man that even redeems. The angels get no redemption. God has a special plan for man. And that special plan, here you go, is tethered to his image. Angels weren't made in the image of God. Animals aren't made in the image of God. Trees aren't made in the image of God. Whales aren't made in the image of God. But man and man alone. bears the image of God. It goes all together to his design and his plan for man. Fascinating. Did you notice in Genesis 1 when God created the planet and all the non-human creatures, the non-human life, if you will, that fills it, he said, Let there be. The life of the planets and all the non-human creatures that fill it was created with life, if you will, by the simple word and declaration of Yahweh. But not so with humans. With man, God was so intimately and personally involved, demonstrating very clearly That mankind is very different and utterly distinct from all non-human forms of life. God did not simply speak and man was created, but God made it clear that He had a special design. in creating man. And this design was making man after the image of God Himself. Did you notice? All creation let there be. But when it came to man, let us, let us make man in our image Don't ever buy the lie that you're an animal. You are not an animal. Satan wants you to think. The world wants you to think. You are not a higher form of any animal. You are the highest form of all creation. You are a man or a woman, and God made you with his image. Nothing can be compared to us in the creation of God. It's glorious, because only we bear his image. God does something very unique when he makes man. Something very personal. Do you notice it there in Genesis 2, especially verses 7 and 8? He personally doesn't do this with any any other creature, any other life form. Just speaks it and it happens. It has life innate within the created declarative act. But with man Do you notice it? Genesis 2. 7, what does it say? He takes the ground, the dust, and he forms it. And the term there in Hebrew speaks like a it speaks of a master craftsman. who takes his time and intricately weaves all the pieces together with great tender loving care. That's how God like he just didn't kick up some dust and say, let's make a man. Maybe some of you wives think that's what he did with your husband. I don't know. But No, it says literally he like a master craftsman, he forms him, he shapes him. And we could spend all day talking about this. Man, you're made from dust, but woman, you're made from the rib of man. There's no dust. I've always found that fascinating. Men we're dirt, but not our wives. Thank you And some man says, but yeah, we're dirt. She's made from us, or she's dirt. I'll let you deal with that. You dug your own hole. That's your problem No, I think about it, right? Like think about it. He what divine anesthesia is this? Puts Adam to sleep. Cuts the side of him open, pulls out a rib. How does he take a rib? You talk about artistry? You talk about craftsmanship? You talk about amazing touch and personality, and God takes this rib, and he forms the beauty of this woman so that when Adam finally comes back out of his divine anesthesia He looks at what was once his rib and goes, ho ho ho, who is this? Uh come on now, God. Really? He had been staring at animals, right? Naming them all. He wasn't confused. Oh yeah, that's that chimpanzee that just had a good day. He wasn't thinking that at all. It's like, come on. The the point that can't be missed here. The point that we can never forget is that God Himself crafted us. This is what Psalm 139 says. Listen, this hit me so hard this week meditating on this. That holy God, the sovereign creator of all the earth, who knows everything, controls everything, and knows everything about me, He Himself in loving care. He shaped me. He formed me. And you know what it says right there in Genesis 2. Do not miss it. Genesis 2, 7 to 8. Even after Adam is formed and shaped, he has no life until God does what? Breathe into his nostrils the breath of life. Whoo! He doesn't do that for anyone else This is special. This is unique. This is speaking to the reality of the beauty and the preciousness of human life from all other life. And it's a picture, isn't it? It's a picture of the gospel, is it not? Where we're dead, we have form, there we are, but we have no life. We're separated from God. Ephesians 2. We're once dead in our transgressions and sins. Separated from God. We're like walking zombies, spiritually speaking, in relationship with Him. We have no life. But God does something in the gospel. When the word of God is preached and the gospel is going forward through the power of the Holy Spirit, regeneration happens. And what is regeneration? God breathing life into us. What he does physically here in Genesis 2 is what he does, according to Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, with every person that's been born again, as 1 John says. All of life comes from God. Physical life, spiritual life. It's glorious. It's huge. There's many implications, many for this. For the sake of time, I want to move quickly here, but the image of God, what I've been doing is building and showing you the preciousness, the uniqueness, the distinction of man and the personal, intimate Here's the key word, connection that God has with humanity, that he doesn't have with the animal world in the way in which he treats and cares. And the way in which he creates. There's a connection, and that's part of what the image of God is. The image of God, you can understand it in three specific ways. It deals with our unique connection to God. It deals with our representation of God, and it deals with our reflection of God. The image of God is is amazing and mysterious. But there's one thing I don't want to leave this pulpit without clarifying to you. The image of God is marvelous Because only we get it by God's design. But the image of God is mysterious as it should be because it's his image. It's not ours. And just as God is incomprehensible in his full nature, so are so many aspects of God. And so when you study this out in Scripture, there's much for us to learn. as I'll even teach you now, but there's some things where we don't fully understand all of this. And why would we? Because it's the image of God. But the image of God is clear in Scripture, and please do not miss this. Because this is a part where historically the church And many evildoers have abused the image of God. The image of God is above all things something God Himself stamps upon every human being. The image of God cannot be lost, the image of God cannot be taken, the image of God is innate. The image of God, here you go, the image of God is part, a foundational part to being a human being. As we've already seen. This is a direct connection where God takes humanity, takes man, takes woman, and by extension, everyone, and he stamps, he places his image on them Therefore, the image of God is something structural. It's something that's innate within the heart, within the person, within the life of every single human being, no matter what. The image of God, be careful when you trace the image of God and make it something man does rather than something man is. Down through the corridors of history, false teachers have twisted the truth of the image of God and turned it into something that man does. And they've and they've it's a half-truth, and I'm going to show this to you. It's a half-truth when you focus on the volition, the intellect, the relations. You focus on the ability. Man's creative and God's creative, so therefore that's the image of God. Listen, you cannot start there. Adolf Hitler started there. Adolf Hitler took this, as did the KKK and many racist groups. Down through history. They would take the image of God and they would define it around what man is able to do And then they would classify a group of people like the Jews and say this group is they're lesser in their ability to think. They're lesser in their ability to act. They're lesser in the image of God. See? We therefore need to purge them out of society and have a purer image of God That was foundational to Hitler's whole movement. So be careful of defining the image of God solely by what man does. We've already seen it. In Genesis chapter 1, God says, I will make man in my image. Before Adam and Eve do anything, before they're moving, breathing, and actually serving as They're commanded and created to do. He already says, they're made in my image. Very clear. Very clear. You can see this reality also in the prohibitions to not murder and not curse. You see that in Genesis chapter 9, verse 6, where the prohibition to not murder somebody isn't based upon what the person does. It's based upon who the person is. They're made in the image of God. That's the whole reason we don't murder. That's why we don't even murder an evildoer. Now the government has the right to bring capital punishment by God. They have that right. Praise the Lord and God established it. But you and I don't have that right. And we don't because they're made in the image of God. Just like you don't have the right to take the life of an old person that's lost their mind and their ability to retain themselves. and be a part of society. We have no right to purge them out. Why? Because even in that difficult state, they are sh just as much the image of God as when they were the clearest, sharpest thinkers. The image of God is innate, stamped upon humanity, unbeliever and believer, intelligent and non-intelligent, wealthy and poor, black and white Every description and category of humanity bears the same image of God and therefore should be protected and preserved no matter what. including the life of the unborn in the womb. And yet there's a functional reality to the image of God. This reality that that the image of God is structurally what man is, but it then as a consequence as a ramification of who I am stamped by God as his image-bearer, now that drives me to do things And this is the reality of creation and the ruling and reigning and all that Adam and Eve were to do. And this is the functional. This is how the image of God then functions in man. Structurally, it's innate. Functionally, it comes out in what man does. These are the ramifications. Or the consequences of the structural reality of the image of God. The Bible declares man to be made in the image of God. We've seen that already in Genesis 1, 26 -27. And then God demands that man function or live out this reality as his representative, as his vice regent upon the earth. And you see that in verses 28 to 31 of Genesis 1. So you are, you are made in the image of God, and now you are to live out as image-bearers in this way. Thus man reflects or man represents God upon earth as he lives relationally in a righteous union with God, his fellow man. And the world. And this is, we see this so clearly in the Ten Commandments in Exodus 20, in that reality of our relationship with God and our relationship with man. We see it in Matthew 22, where we're to love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love our neighbor as ourself. And we see it in Psalm 8, verses 5 to 8, even in how we relate. To creation. And then we see it right here in Genesis 1 and 2, where how Adam and Eve was to relate to creation. Furthermore, I see the image of God functionally through man's intellect and volitional ability as he reasons and he Critically chooses and he artistically creates. That's a function, that's part of man's subduing and having dominion and all these things that God created and commanded of us. as human beings, as image bearers, where we fill the earth and subdue it for his glory. Yet, the greatest way to see and understand this preciousness of life in God's design and his image is to look to Christ. Christ is the ultimate image of God. Now, don't have much time, but let me tell you this. When you study this out, the image of God in man, did you hear the preposition I just used? In man. Every time in Scripture, you're going to see a preposition used Very interesting. The Bible is very clear that we are made in the image of God, meaning mankind. But Christ is the image of God. Massive distinction between us and Christ. We are made in the image of God, but Christ is the image of God. But in the gospel, we are being renewed, transformed into the image of Christ, so that we can then, for all eternity, rightfully image God as his image bears, as we reflect. Christ. It's huge. It's a massive truth that drives us. So what is Christ demonstrate as the ultimate image bearer that helps us. Well, in his connection to the Father, he offers what? Obedient worship To the Father, as he reflected and represented the Father upon earth. As the ultimate image-bearer, he demonstrated sacrificial service to his neighbor As he cared and protected the other image bearers around him. And as the ultimate image bearers, what did Christ? Show absolute and thoughtful dominion over the planet. These three realities are intertwined into being an image-bearer My relationship with God, my relationship with one another, and my relationship to the planet. This all goes back to Genesis chapters 1 and 2. And this Christ displays for us in such clarity, and this is the work of God being done within us through the gospel as we become more like Christ, we what? We grow in our relationship with the Father, we grow in our relationship with one another, and we grow in a right understanding of our stewardship and care of the planet. And that's why ruling and reigning Together under the worship of Yahweh on a planet is the bookends of the Bible. In Genesis 1 and 2, God created man as an image-bearer to have sweet communion with him. while they ruled and reigned together over the planet in a loving relationship. Guess how the Bible ends in Revelation 21 and 22. Where we, true believers, will be in sweet communion with Yahweh, worshiping Him for all eternity Not playing harps and floating on clouds, but working and carrying and tending and ruling and reigning upon a planet as we do that together with one another. This is image bearers. So if you're tracking, the image of God directly tethers you to God, the image of God directly tethers you with one another, and the image of God directly tethers you to the planet. By God's design. And so isn't it interesting? We don't curse our neighbor or those around us because they're made in the image of God. We don't kill those around us because they're made in the image of God. And because we are made in the image of God. We are absolutely, completely, as we heard already in the song, surrendered to God Because I owe him everything. I have no life, I have no breath, I have nothing. So I'm deeply connected and deeply dependent on him because I have no life apart from him. And he's placed me on this planet to serve And to care and to love. I pray that this biblical defense for the sanctity of life, both the declarations Of God in his word and the design of God in the people, humanity that he has made will equip you to love your neighbor. To live in this wicked world as lights with the gospel of Jesus Christ, proclaiming the truth in the darkness. Amen. Father God, I thank you for your word, and I pray that you will continue to grow all of us in it as your image bears. Thank you Thank you, O Lord, for the gospel as you renew us, as you transform us, as Colossians 3. 10 says, we are being renewed after the image of our Creator. Thank you, Father, that though the image of God is clouded and even marred in us fallen creatures, it is not lost. And you are transforming us believers day by day, moment by moment, to be more like Christ, that we might more reflect and represent. And really understand and enjoy you, which has been your plan all along. Help us in this, O Lord. For the glory of your name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.