The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 2? Second chapter of uh Matthew, and uh as we've pointed out in our previous studies in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew is primarily writing to a Jewish audience, and the great aim of his gospel is to proclaim And to defend the truth that Jesus is the long anticipated Messiah. Jesus is the long anticipated Messiah. Back in chapter 1, verses one down to seventeen, Jesus' connection to the Davidic throne was verified, his right to rule was established, and uh verses eighteen down to twenty five of chapter one, the reality of the virgin birth of Jesus was made abundantly clear and his power to save was demonstrated. But the the big question uh that the Jews would have been asking at this point was this if if Jesus And his connection to David was so verifiable, and his miraculous birth was so well attested, then where is the official recognition? Where's the official recognition for Jesus Christ? I mean, this this birth should have been the most publicly recognized birth in all of Jewish history, right? This birth right here. Every square inch of Bethlehem should have been just jam-packed with with people trying to get a glimpse of the the king. We're all the faithful Old Testament Believers. We're all the people that are so excited about His promise. We're the elders of the people. We're all the religious leaders who should have been the most excited about seeing uh the scriptures fulfilled. Where was the offici official recognition of Jesus Christ? And that's a that's a good question. And that's the question that Matthew is concerned to answer for us today in uh Matthew chapter two and uh we'll take a look at it. Uh we'll read verses uh one uh down to uh uh to twelve uh verses one down to twelve I actually don't don't think we're we're going to be able to cover all that today, but uh one down to twelve, we'll go ahead and read it. It says now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea In the days of Herod the king, Magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we saw his star on the east and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. Gathering together all the chief priests and the scribes of the people, he inquired of them, where the Messiah was to be born. They said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For this is what has been written by the prophet, and you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, are by no means least among the leaders of Judah. For out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel Then Herod secretly called the Magi and determined from them the exact time the star appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search carefully for the child, and when you have found him, report to me. So that I too may come and worship him. After hearing the king, they went their way, and the star which they had seen in the east went on before them until it came and stood over the place where the child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. After coming into the house, they saw the child with Mary 's mother, and they fell to the ground and worshipped him. Then opening their treasures they presented to him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh, and having been warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, the Magi left for their own country by another way. Heavenly Father, we come before you again as we approach your word. We pray that you, Lord, would speak to us. This is your word. We pray that you'd Use your word to have an impact on our lives, to change our thinking, to redirect us, to refocus us, to convict us of sin Father, I pray that you've used me as a weak instrument in your hands to communicate to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well this account is uh really shocking when you when you think about it, because everything you expect to happen doesn't happen. And I'll explain what I mean. Maybe you have a might have a high school gearbook and uh might have had like the most likely list Most likely, maybe most likely to succeed, most likely to become president, most likely to become a millionaire, most likely to become a comedian. Actually I heard of uh one high school that voted a kid most likely to go to prison. And uh he almost got the the school almost got sued by the parents, so they had to change their their yearbook. Most likely to go to prison. And it's uh interesting to look back and take a look at uh those yearbooks and and see where you are wrong in in most cases. You know, what you think people are gonna be or most likely to do, uh they don't end up up doing and and this is exactly what you have going on in in this passage. Because the people that you you expect, the people that should have been the most likely to identify the Messiah are the ones who don't get it. And a group of people who are nowhere on the radar Or the people that show up. I mean ev everything just seems confused and backwards when you when you really think about this this passage. If anybody would have been voted the most likely to recognize the Messiah, it would have been the chief priests and the scribes. And when you think through this account, it seems like uh there should have been no way that they they should have missed this one. They shouldn't have missed this. They had to know something was going on in verse 2 when it says that uh the magi We're asking this question in verse 2. It says, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? The verb tense implies that they were continually asking this question. Everywhere all over Jerusalem. They kept asking the same question. Where is he when born came to the Jews? Where is he who's been born and came to the Jews? Jerusalem was The chief priests and scribes territory. This is where they would have been. They would have heard this question, you know, circulating around Jerusalem. Where is he who's been born king of the Jews? Jerusalem's the religious center of the nation. This was their territory. There's no way they wouldn't have noticed this. And then Herod calls The leader's in for a private consultation, and they're asked a direct question about the place of Messiah's birth in uh verse four Gathering all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born. They were put on high alert. There's these magi that are going all over asking where's the king? And I want to know from you where where is he to be born? There's no way they wouldn't have known what was going on. And if you add to this account the narrative of Luke, and why don't you flip over to Luke chapter 2 real quick? Luke chapter 2. Just want to show you that this didn't happen in a corner. Luke chapter 2, look at verse 25. Luke chapter 2, starting at verse 25. It says, And there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was upon him, and it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. And he came in the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to carry out for him the custom of the law, then he took him into his arms and blessed God. And said, Now, Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. Which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people. And just as this was happening, look at what else happened further down in verse 38. There's this old widow named Anna who never left the temple. Look what it says. Verse 38. It says, At that very moment she came up and began giving thanks to God and continued to speak of him to all those who were looking for the redemption. Jerusalem. She continually spoke to everybody about the birth of Messiah. Anybody who would listen. He's here. He's here. I've seen him. Right? All this didn't happen in the corner. There's no way all this would have escaped the notice of the Jewish leader. So when we come to this passage, and the only official greeting that Jesus gets is from out of town. We should be shocked. Just like every indication from the subtle clues to the blaring sirens that screamed out that Jesus was born, the King of the Jews is here. Every sign was ignored, silenced, and rejected. And what we read in John 1. 11 is proven true. He came to his own, to his own, and to those who were his own did not receive him. Or as it says in the King James, his own received him not. And that rejection began as early as his birth, but Jesus was not to be left without any official recognition, and uh, even though it came from an unexpected source, Jesus would be recognized. Jesus would be recognized. And there's three very different reactions to the birth of the king documented in Matthew chapter 2. Three different reactions. Jesus is worshipped by those least expected to perceive He's feared by the one least expected to believe, and he's ignored by those most expected to receive. Three reactions. To Jesus. And these are some of the same reactions that we see in our day as well. Number one, he was worshipped by the Magi, those who were least expected to perceive it. Look at verses one and two. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, Magi from the east arrived in Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born, king of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east and have come to worship him. And that the Magi are some of the most fascinating and mysterious characters. And in all of the Bible. I mean, in all kinds of myths and legends have been built up around the Magi. Often people say there were three. But the text doesn't say that. That's just a tradition. Actually, the Eastern Church believed there were twelve wise men. The Western Church believed there were three. Uh the Eastern Church believed there were twelve because of the Bible's use of twelve often, and uh Western church believed there were three because there's three gifts, you know, so I guess there's three guys. I mean that's just how they they came to their conclusion. The Bible never says that and never gives us a a number of the magi that came. Most likely they they came in a greater number than three or twelve, uh, because as they're traveling across the desert, they would have wanted to protect uh this treasure that they're they're bringing. So so likely there's there's a large company of Magi the king. Often people say that these uh magi were kings. We three kings of Orion are, uh, but the text never says that either. Uh the tradition that they were kings rose out of Old Testament texts that prophesy that kings would pay honor to the Messiah in uh Psalm chapter 72, verses uh ten and eleven. It says this, let the kings of Tarshus and of the islands bring presents, the kings of Sheba and Sheba offer gifts, and let all kings bow down before him, all nations Serve him. And that's true, but that will happen in the millennium. That's not not here. Okay? These aren't aren't the kings. And often people picture these wise men as showing up on the night of Christ's birth, but uh but that's also a tradition. The text says that they came after Jesus was born in verse one. It also says in verse eleven that they arrived at a house after coming into the house. We we see that on the night Jesus was born he was in a stable, right? They also saw that the child with uh Mary's mother in verse eleven again in the the Greek word that it uses for for child is uh uh Python, which uh more naturally speaks of a toddler. So Jesus was was likely older by the time that the Magi arrived. And those are just some of the myths. But what do we know about the Magi? Honestly, not a whole lot. This this is I mean there's no way to remove the mystery out of this. There's no way to remove the mystery. Who who are these magi? Like I said, there's there's really not a whole lot that we know for sure, and that's really the point. There's uh Nothing that would make anyone anticipate that these guys would show up. Nothing. These are some of the last people we would expect to see in the text. The word uh magi Originally referred to the members of a priestly caste or a priestly tribe among a people known as the Medes and Persians. They were recognized as teachers of religion, teachers of science. They specialized in interpreting dreams, and because of their reputation for superior knowledge, they would often be used as advisors to kings. One historian comments, they were royal advisors to the courts of the East Believing the affairs of history were reflected in the movement of the stars and other phenomena, Herodotus suggests that rulers of the East commonly utilized the magi 's knowledge of astrology and dream interpretation to determine affairs of the state. So the the Magi, these men were considered an important part of the king's cabinet. These were his advisors, his counselors, and interestingly uh enough, uh they were often used in helping to identify the next king. Interesting. That's how much influence they had. But we don't know exactly where in the East they came from. During this period, uh wise men were kind of spread all throughout the East. Some suggest from Babylon, others from Asia or Arabia, others from Persia. But wherever they came from, they were clearly Gentiles. Gentiles, outside of the people of God. Like I said, these are the last people you'd expect to see to come and welcome the Jewish king. And uh you're expected to kind of scratch your head on this when it's like, really? What what are these guys doing showing up? In this story. But somehow the Gentile priests are able to perceive from afar what the leader should have been able to figure out was going on in their own backyard. They were able to figure it out. They recognized, first of all, the prophecy of Messiah was being fulfilled. The prophecy of Messiah was being fulfilled. It's interesting to note that There's actually a widespread messianic expectation at this time. One historian uh notes this. He says, uh, we are informed by uh Tacitus, Tetonius, and Josephus that there prevailed throughout the entire East at this time an intense conviction, derived from ancient prophecies, that before long a powerful monarch would arise in Judea and gain dominion over the world. There's ample proof both in Jewish and in pagan writings that a guilty, weary world was dimly expecting a deliverer. And uh, as I mentioned, uh the Magi were known to be teachers of religion. Uh so there's every reason to believe that they were familiar with this kind of messianic expectation. In addition to that, there were uh Jewish people who currently live throughout the East during this time as well. And there was one very prominent Jew. Who was once known as the master of the magi. Once known as the master of the magi. And for that, let's turn back to Daniel chapter 4. Pull back in your Bibles to Daniel chapter 4. Ezekiel Daniel. Daniel chapter four starting at verse verse four here. Says I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and flourishing in my palace. I saw a dream, and it made me fearful in these fantasies as I lay on my bed and the visions. in my mind kept alarming me. So I gave orders to bring into my presence all the wise men of Babylon, that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dreams. Then the magicians, the conjurers, the Chaldeans, and the diviners came in, and I related the dream to them, but they could not make its interpretation known to me. But finally Daniel came in before me, whose name is Belteshazzar, according to the name of my God, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods, and I related the dream to him, saying, O Beltashazzar, chief of the magicians. That's uh we get the word magicians from the word magi. Chief of the magicians or chief of the magi. Since I know that a spirit of the holy god is in you and no mystery baffles you, tell me the visions of my dream which I have seen, along with its interpretation. Daniel uh gained a reputation for being ex having an extraordinary ability to interpret dreams like the Magi were known for. And uh he was also known as the the master of the magi, master of the magicians. Yeah, even in uh uh in Babylon and later on in Persia as Persia took over uh Babylon, Daniel was still known as this master of the magi. It's interesting to think that Daniel could have been responsible in part for the interest among the Magi in the coming Messiah. But whether it's through through Daniel or the Jewish people that lived among the time of these magi here, they knew about this prophecy and they believed it. They knew about the prophecy of the coming Messiah. So they had a recognition of the prophecy of Messiah. But not only that, they had a recognition of the authority of Messiah. Look back at uh in Matthew chapter two again. They had this recognition of the authority of Messiah. It says, where in verse 2, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? They ask for the one who's been born king, not the one who will be king, the one who's born king, who's already king. The Jewish people haven't had one who is legitimately born as king in over 600 years. At this point they're like, what do you what do you mean born king? We we don't have anybody born king. Six hundred years we haven't one had one that's born king. They they they understand that there's been one one born with the right to rule, one who is legitimately born with the right to rule. And this would have been in contrast to Herod, whose servant is king at this time. who really gained his kingship as a result of uh crafty manipulation. Uh they recognize that one's been born with a legitimate authority uh through. So they recognize his prophecy, his authority, and also his his glory. They say, For for we have seen a star in the east. And that word uh that she's for star, it's uh in verse two it's the word a stare, it's uh but it's obviously not an ordinary star Uh when it says in verse 2 that they saw his star in the east, it could be more accurately translated, they saw his rising in the east. The word for the east there can actually be translated in its rising. The star apparently rose up into the sky, you know, unlike any star that we know about. We also know that it's unlike any other star because of its unnatural movements. This this star uh it appears, it disappears, it moves ahead, it stands still. This star isn't is unlike anything else that they they've ever seen, right? And many interpreters would uh see in this guiding light a New Testament appearance of the glory of God. That that what we have here is actually uh similar to to the Shekinah glory that was represented in the Old Testament that kind of led the children of Israel through the wilderness. That this is the same kind of light that uh that these magi saw in the east. And uh they point out that this word, this Greek word Aster, can also mean a shining, a shining. We also know that it's unlike any other star because it was able to specify a specific dwelling place, standing over a house and indicating where the house was. What other star does that? Stands over a particular house and says, This is this is the the spot. No no other star that we we know of uh does that. One uh popular Christmas carol says, uh Do you see what I see? A star, a star dancing in the night with a tail as big as a kite? I think that's that's pretty close to what we might have had. It was like the the the light from the star just flowed all the way down until it touched this this singular house where the child was was uh located. We have this this heavenly body that actually fell on a particular place. And they understood that this star was not just like any star because they they call it his star. We s we saw his star in the in the east. Some point to uh uh Numbers chapter twenty-four verse seventeen, it's a messianic passage that says, uh, I see him now, but uh I see him but not now, I behold him but not near, a star shall come forth from Jacob. A scepter shall rise from Israel and shall crush through the forehead of Moab and tear down all the sons of of Sheath. And some say, well, maybe they they read this passage and understood that there was a star that was supposed to identify the the king that was coming, but uh Numbers 24 seems to say that the Messiah is the star, not that the star would indicate his his birth. So like I said, you're left at the end of this scratching your head saying, how in the world did they know this? How d how do they know where to go? How do they know that this indicated the birth of Messiah? We don't know. Whether it was some kind of revelation, maybe it's a dream, maybe they were just extremely perceptive and understood this through the scriptures. We have no idea. How did they know this? Like I said, they were the most, they were the least likely people to perceive what was going on in Judea. The least likely people. But not only did they seem to recognize the prophecy, Messiah, the authority of Messiah, the glory of Messiah, they also recognized the deity of Messiah. The deity of Messiah. What does it say they came to do in verse 2? We've come to worship him. Uses the Greek word proskanao. It's a word that Greeks use for the reverent adoration of the gods. Reverent adoration of the gods, which was often expressed by bowing down to kiss the earth. And uh standard lexicon says in the New Testament, It's only used in relation to a divine object. The person who's giving reverence is attempting to give reverence to God And this is more than a gesture of respect. This is an act of worship that's properly directed to God alone. And Jesus makes that clear in Matthew chapter 4. Remember when Satan acts to be worshipped? by Jesus in return for the nations. Hey, I'll give you all the nations if you bow down and worship me. What does Jesus say? Jesus said in Matthew chapter 4 verse 10, Go, Satan. Like get thee hence, Satan. For it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Only God is worthy of worship. Nobody else. So worship is properly directed to God alone, and here the Magi make it clear that this is how they intend to recognize this child. This child is deity. Recognizes prophecy, authority, glory, his deity. And they must have been at a loss for words to discover when they came into Jerusalem that nobody knows what they're talking about. Does nobody know? Where's the one who's born king of the Jews? I mean, they expected to just kind of show up and join in on the party. It's like they expected a celebration to be going, and we're just coming to bring our guests and join in, but it's like nobody knows. Nobody knows. They assumed that the capital city was already celebrating. Kept asking people everywhere they go. Where is he who's been born? And they're just getting these blank stares. What do you mean you don't know? We 've traveled from all this distance to come and greet them. And you don't know? The people that we deem the least likely to perceive are often the ones That are the most likely, right? And this is this is kind of common through scripture. Later on, Jesus will pray in this way in Matthew chapter 11, verses 25 and 26. It says that at that time Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and have revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. The Father delights to reveal himself to the least likely people. The least likely people. Those that were considered the most astute, the most educated, especially in the Jewish religion, missed it. Totally missed it. Totally missed it. These Magi would have been considered the infants in their sight, right? You know, we're we're the ones with all the law and the prophets and everything else. You know, what are you guys? Who who do you guys think you're informing here? We're the ones with the information. Also, those that were the most righteous in man's estimation missed it. The Pharisees were considered the most righteous people of the day, right? But later on, uh Jesus speaks to the religious elite and he says this Matthew 21, verse 31. Truly I say to you that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you. And the same is uh true in in our day, the the ones that are that seem like they're the the most likely to miss out. Most likely not to perceive it, or the ones that get it. Like what it says in 1 Corinthians 1, 26 to 29, he says, for consider your calling, brethren. That there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise God has chosen the weak things of the world, to shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world, and to despise God has chosen, the things that are not, so that He may nullify the things that are, so that no man may boast before God. Like I said, these uh wise men would have been the least likely to perceive it. But God says these are the people that I've chosen. These Gentile people to come and honor the king. These are the ones that God chose to recognize his son. He's worshipped by those that are least expected to perceive. But he's also feared by the one least expected to believe. Look at uh verses three and four here. Says when Herod the king heard this, he was troubled. News finally reached him. And all Jerusalem with him. Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Messiah was to be born Like I said, finally uh Herod gets the news and it sends him into a panic. Uh the word that's used here for uh he was troubled, it's actually a word that that's uh that means to be terrified. The Greek word uh tarrasso was used in uh in Matthew 14 and verse 26 when the disciples saw Jesus walking on the sea. Towards them in their little boat. They think it's a ghost and they are terrified. When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified and said, It's a ghost. And they cried out in fear. All these grown men just crying out, you know, they'll just imagine the scene. They were terrified. It's that kind of fear And to understand this, you need to know a little bit about who Herod was. He's the first of actually several Herods that we see in Scripture, but this Herod is called Herod the Great. Herod the Great. He became king of the Jews basically by scheming, conniving, clawing his way to the throne. He was not born a king of the Jews. He wasn't of the Davidic line. He wasn't even Jewish. His father was an Idemean, a descendant of Esau. If you remember Esau, he rejected the birthright and the blessings of God. His mother was an Arabian, but he tried to pass himself off as somebody who really understood the Jewish people and could keep them under control. And he was able to convince the Roman Empire that, you know, I'm your man. You know, if you want somebody to be king of the Jews, I'm I'm the man for the job. By the age of uh twenty-five, he was appointed the governor of Galilee. After his success there, he was uh he and his brother were both jointly appointed over Judea. And uh not too long after he was appointed over Judea with his uh brother, uh Jerusalem was attacked by these invaders from uh uh Parthia, which is modern-day Iran And uh he escaped to Rome, but his brother didn't make it out. His uh brother was actually uh uh killed either by poisoning or or suicide. When Herod made it to Rome, he convinced the Romans that if they made him king of Judea, he could he could settle everything. He could fix their problems. Just supply me with some Roman troops. I'll go back to Judea and your problems are solved. I'm the man for the job. And uh the Romans trusted him. They gave him some troops, and it took him three years before he was able to actually conquer Judea again. But he was never really recognized as the legitimate heir to the throne. The Jewish people never really accepted him. Even though he did plenty of things to try to appease him. He he married a Jewish girl called uh Mariomni. who was part of an old Jewish dynasty that used to rule over Judea. So we thought, you know, hey, if I marry this girl, Mariami, that's from this old Jewish dynasty, they'll they'll accept me too. They didn't He began construction on a Jewish temple, which was considered by many to be the greatest achievement of Herod. Even rabbinic literature agreed. It says he who has not seen the temple of Herod has never seen a beautiful building. If you remember, Jesus and his disciples are looking at Herod's temple and saying, you know, hey, did you check out this temple? You know, talking to Jesus, and Jesus says not one stone's going to be left on another, right? And if you go there today, there's there's not. He was known as Herod the Great primarily because he was a great builder. He was also a great politician, but he was also a great builder. And some of his uh structures still stand today, not the temple, but uh there's other structures in Israel that that still stand today, and uh Jennifer and I actually had an opportunity uh to go to Israel and see some of the buildings that that Herod built. I mean massive stones. Incredible. But along with the Jewish temple, he also built theaters for the Roman plays, amphitheaters for the Roman games, and temples for the Roman gods. So it became impossible for him to pass himself off as uh somebody who was really a a Jewish Jewish king. He was he was odious to the Jewish people. And he was also helplessly suspicious of everybody, and that meant everybody. He appointed his brother-in-law to be the high priest in Judea, but after hostility developed between him and his brother-in-law, he had them drowned and made it look like an accident. He was convinced his wife was unfaithful, so he had her killed. He never really cared for his wife's mother, so he had her executed He had two favorite sons, Alexander and Aristobulus. He planned to make one of them his heir, the King Afrim. But when it looked like they wanted the throne prematurely, he had both of his sons strangled In the same place where he married their mother. One commentator notes that a few days before his death he ordered that all of the most distinguished citizens of Jerusalem be arrested and prison, and he gave orders that the moment I die, kill them all. Because he he wanted there to be mourning on the day of his death, and he knew that nobody was going to mourn for him. So said gather up all the people that the people respect, and when I die, kill them too. So there can be mourning when I when I die. His wishes weren't carried out, but this is the kind of man that he was, okay? He was cruel. He was a bloodthirsty tyrant. The Emperor Augustus once remarked that I would prefer to be one of Herod's pigs than one of Herod's sons, because I'd have a better chance of survival. And this was just his family. I mean, I'm just talking telling about his family. Anybody who posed a threat to his claim to be king wasn't expected to live long. So when Herod heard that there were these visitors in town. Asking, you know, where is he who has been born king of the Jews? And he knows that that's not me. Herod, uh, you can better you can better believe that Herod was troubled. And everybody in Jerusalem is troubled with them because they knew that there was going to be blood. Somebody is going to die. There's nothing that he feared more than a competitor for his throne, and what he does next is really shocking. He gathers all the chief priests and scribes, and he asks them, where 's the Messiah to be born? I say it's shocking because this isn't this isn't a guy that that seems like he's terribly interested in what the Bible has to say. You know, what do the Holy Scriptures have to say? Part of a small group and uh accountability, right? What's he doing calling a Bible study together? He doesn't know his Bible well enough to know where the Messiah is to be born But that was actually considered common knowledge. You know, where the Messiah is born in John 7. 42. Says that the people knew this. You didn't really need a scribe or a Pharisee for this. It says the people knew it. John 7. 42. That's not the scripture said That the Christ comes with the descendants of David and from Bethlehem, the village where David was. He doesn't know his Bible well enough to know that, but he does know that whoever this one who is born king is, it's the Messiah. Interesting, the the Magi when they come to the to Jerusalem, they never say, Where's the Messiah? Where is the Messiah born? They don't say that. They say, Where is the one born king of the Jews? And Herod says, I know who they're talking about. They're talking about the Messiah. Found that interesting. He puts the puzzle together, interprets the one-born king as the expected Messiah. And uh what this tells me is that Herod actually believed the Magi 's report. He actually believed the prophecy. A Messiah is going to be born. I believe that. But somehow Herod thought that he could outmaneuver God. He calls in the experts to see if he can pinpoint, you know, where is the Messiah going to be born? Can you give me a city? A location? What a fool. Fool. He asks questions about the scriptures to see how I can get around the scriptures. That's why he's asking questions. And you know what? There's people who do the same thing today, right? Want to know more information about the Bible, but it's not so I can obey it. It's not so I can submit to it. It's it's is there a way around this? Is there some kind of loophole Some kind of way that I can kind of navigate my way through this without really really sinning or something like that, right? You've got people that that do that kind of thing even today. They're they believe in the facts of Scripture, but somehow they think they're going to escape the judgment of it. Remember 9-11 rolled around? I remember the next day I'm at uh at work with a bunch of guys that I was working with doing construction downtown DC. All of a sudden, everybody wanted to ask me questions about the Bible. Hey, hey, uh, hey, George, uh um doesn't does the Bible have anything to say about uh what just happened yesterday? Want to get some information. How how long do you think we have before uh Jesus comes back? Wow, you you ready to repent? No. They want to know how how long do I have? This this thing is on the clock, right I mean this can can you give me the like the an exact time so I know that that that's the time that they they weren't concerned about really following the Bible. They just wanted to know, is there some way around this People want to know about end times, you know, you know, so how long, like if I'm in the tribulation, how long do I have again? Why do you want to know that? If you're really concerned about Scripture, obey it now. Don't worry about how long do I have. Herod believed. Herod believed and he trembled. But there was no room for repentance in his heart. He wasn't interested in understanding so as to obey, but understanding so as to avoid. I want to avoid the Messiah. Somehow he thought God could be outwitted like the Romans that he worked for. He was deceived. God will not be played for the fool. Will not. He can't be outwitted, outsmarted, outmaneuvered. And the lesson for us is don't be deceived, right? Galatians chapter 6, verse 7 says, don't be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this will he also reap. 1 Corinthians 6 says the same thing. Verse 9 and 10. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators nor idolaters, nor adulterers, no effeminate, nor homosexuals Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Don't be deceived. Romans 2, verse 3 adds this, Do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God? Don't be deceived. And this is the terrifying reality that you can believe everything that we say about Jesus is absolutely true. You can believe it all. Believe everything we say about Jesus is absolutely true. You can believe to the point that you have an emotional response over it. You can tremble in fear because you believe so much. But you could be no more saved than Herod and the demons who believe and shudder. James chapter 2, verse 19, you believe the God is one, you do well. The demons also believe and shudder. Herod believed and he was terrified by the Messiah. Terrified. But he wasn't about to give up his throne for anybody. Anybody. Where are you at? What a fool Herod was, right? It's good to be interested in Bible, but if it's not for the purpose of application and obedience In submission to Christ, you're adding to your own condemnation. Adding to your own condemnation. Christ is worshiped by those least expected to perceive it. He's feared by one who's the least expected to believe it. And then he's uh ignored by those who are most expected to receive it. The Messiah was ignored by those who are expected to receive him. Look at this. Verse 5 and 6 again, it says, uh they said to him, these are the chief priests and the scribes, they said to him, In Bethlehem of Judea. For this is what has been written by the prophet in you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, by no means least among the leaders of Judah. For out of you shall come forth a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. The chief priests and the scribes, along with the uh the elders, constituted the religious leadership of Israel. The chief priests and scribes specifically would have been considered the religious professionals. The high priest would have been at the top of the leadership structure. He served in the highest position among the priests. He alone was permitted to enter into the Holy of Holies once a year, Day of Atonement, to atone for the sins of the entire nation. He also served as the head of the Jewish Supreme Court, known as the Sanhedrin. The high priest was considered the real leader of the Jewish nation until the Messiah came. The high priest was considered the the real leader. They they could call people kings or whatever else they wanted to, but According to the Jewish people, they looked at the high priest as the leader of their nation. High priests were supposed to serve for for life, but because of uh politics during this time, uh high priests were often retired and uh became known as chief priests So that's where these chief priests come from. There are many lower priests in Israel, but the chief priests would have been the highest-ranking priests, had the most authority, well respected. And uh the scribes, they were this class of scholars who taught and copied and interpreted the law for the Jewish people. They were respected theologians of the time. Uh the religious scribes uh arose during the the time of uh restoration under Ezra and Nehemiah, if you remember uh the children of Israel coming out of exile. A lot of them don't even know how to speak Hebrew anymore. And uh they had these uh scribes that would uh interpret the law for them so that they can understand what does the Bible actually have to say. They didn't necessarily come from a priestly tribe. But they were respected as the teachers of Israel, and uh a lot of them were included in this uh ruling body known as the Sanhedrin uh scribes, tended to be literalists. Uh often known as the Pharisees, priests tended to be liberal, uh rejecting supernatural ideas like angels and resurrection. They're known as Sadducees. And uh we'll see more about that as we go along in Matthew. But what's What's important for you to understand about this is that Herod is assembling the leading authorities on the Jewish scriptures. I'm assembling the authorities right here. He was a wicked man, but he wasn't dumb. I I want the real authoritative word on where this Messiah is supposed to be born. He did his research. He knew where to go for information And while the Pharisees and Sadducees disagreed on many points, they all agreed where the Messiah was to come from. In Matthew 2, verse 6, and you, Bethlehem, land of Judah, they knew exactly where the Messiah was to be born. Bethlehem It comes from Micah chapter five and and verse two and this was the common understanding of the Jews that uh the Messiah was to be born In Bethlehem. And we'll actually learn a little bit more about that the next time we get together. But they knew exactly what this prophecy meant. They knew where the Messiah was to be born. And in most cases, you shouldn't make too much about what's not said in the scripture, but in this case the silence is deafening. Deafening. Chief priests and scribes were to be trusted to shepherd Israel until the Messiah came. That was the purpose, one of their purposes. You know, I'm here to kind of shepherd Israel until the Messiah comes, and then I'm gonna hand Israel off. Right? This is what they were supposed to do. This is their job. People are counting on them to point the way to Messiah. They're expected as leaders to point out the Messiah for the people. In John chapter 4, verse 29, you have the women at the well. Remember she's uh confronted by Jesus there and she goes back to the men of her city, most likely the elders, and said, Come see a man who told me all things for that I have done. This is not the Christ, is he? What's she trying to do? I'm trying to get somebody to to help me out, identify him. Right? When the crowd saw the miracles that Jesus did, they proclaimed in the hearing of the Pharisees in John chapter 7 and verse 31, When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than This man will he? What are they saying to the Pharisees? Is this the one? I mean, you got are you guys paying attention here? Are you doing your job? This guy is performing some amazing miracles. Could this be the one? They're waiting for their leadership to respond. Tell me, is this the Messiah or not? They were looking for their religious leaders to affirm him, to validate his ministry, to verify that he was the Christ. They wanted to follow him. But here, as the Messiah is being born, there's not even one scratch of evidence in this entire narrative that they even blinked over this. Here it is, it's been the buzz of the city. These magi came from out of town. What are these guys doing here? Herod's asking them, where's the Messiah to be born? Where did that question come from? You've got this widow Anna that's going all over the temple saying, he's here, he's here, he's here. Where are the leaders? Nothing. Not a visit, not a letter, not a phone call, not a text message, nothing? Facebook posts? I mean something. Tweet! Right? Nothing. When Jesus came to receive the fruit of his kingdom, those who were taking care of the vineyard were were too busy enjoying the produce for themselves. When Jesus came to take a look at the condition of his lost sheep of the house of Israel, he found his sheep shepherdless. Shepherdless. Mark chapter 6, verse 34, it says, When Jesus went ashore, he saw a large crowd and he felt compassion for them. Why? Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. You guys haven't been led at all. You haven't been shepherded. Nobody's giving you any direction. You need to be taught. Israel had no real spiritual leadership at this time that they could count on. Chief priests and Pharisees can be trusted to do the job they were supposed to do? In 140 B. C. the people of Israel gathered together to formally proclaim a man named Simon as their high priest. When they proclaimed him and his family as a high priest forever, they said, it was to be that way until a trustworthy prophet should arise. They're saying until the Messiah comes, you know, you're you're the high priest, you're in charge, but but we're really looking for the one to come. They were looking for Messiah. They counted on the priesthood to point him out. But the religious leaders ignored the signs that were just down the road. Bethlehem was five to six miles away from Jerusalem. Five to six mile walk? And nobody shows up? And Magi from the east makes a trek across the desert to give them gold, frankincense, and myrrh? Something doesn't seem right with this picture. Surprising. So when the the Jews begin to ask, Where's the official recognition from the people most likely to identify the Messiah? Here's the answer. The elders of the people were slow to believe, and the religious leaders who should have been the most excited about seeing the scriptures fulfilled ignored it. But that doesn't mean that the Messiah was without official recognition. He will receive glory. Even if it comes from the most unlikely of places, the Messiah will receive glory. These mysterious Gentile king identifiers from the East make an unexpected appearance because this king will be recognized. It's inevitable. And if we fast forward a number of years later into Luke chapter 19, and we'll end with this. Luke chapter 19, flip over here. I want you to see this This is great. Luke chapter nineteen. Remember uh Jesus is In Luke chapter 19, he's making his triumphal entry. He's entering into Jerusalem, if you want to call it triumphal or not. But he's entering into Jerusalem. Look at verse 37, Luke chapter 19. As soon as he was approaching near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole crowd of the disciples began to praise God joyfully. With a loud voice for all the miracles which they had seen, shouting, Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Don't let them give you this kind of recognition. Rebuke your disciples. But Jesus answered, I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out. I will be recognized. I will be recognized. Even if it comes from the most unlikely of places, this king will receive recognition. And the question is, are are you willing to recognize him as your king? Or are you like Herod clutching so tightly to your throne that it doesn't matter who he is? He's the king. You need to bow before him and worship him, kiss the ground. Worship this king. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for this text. And to discover that your son will be recognized. He's worthy of our recognition. He's worthy of our praise. We should adore him. We should worship him. We should honor him. And Father, I pray that you'd forgive us for the times when we don't. There's times that even as Christians that we keep our mouths shut. Why, Lord? When you've given your son, though the one who is worthy of all honor and adoration, the one who is worthy of worship Father, I pray that you'd uh help us to recognize your son for who he truly is, and that you'd help us to uh prepare others. To understand who this king is who's worthy of worship. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website. Website and includes instructions for and limitations on, duplicating CDs and all digital files.