The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. Today is a special day for us at Baltimore Bible Church because we have uh the opportunity to highlight a new ministry. new ministry partnership with uh sister and like-minded uh churches in our region, as you already know. We have a fellowship of uh like-minded churches in our area We pray for them regularly here from the pulpit, a fellowship that was known as Grace Advance Mid-Atlantic. We're now calling it the Masters Fellowship. uh Mid-Atlantic just to show solidarity with uh other uh fellowships and groups uh uh nationally and internationally uh they're doing the same thing that we are and uh To put it simply, it's a fellowship of churches helping churches. And uh and that's what we are. We're a fellowship of uh local churches uh committed to the exposition of God's word in every congregation and the sufficiency of Scripture in every ministry, and we exist to uh to strengthen uh local churches in our region, encourage like-minded pastors, and promote a biblical philosophy of ministry. So Today we have the uh the privilege, the great privilege of uh uh having a couple friends here uh with us. We have uh Paul Shirley from Grace Community Church, Wilmington. And uh Pastor uh Matt White uh from Belcroft Bible Church, uh dear friends of mine, and I'm thankful for both of these brothers and uh just the encouragement uh that they give to me and uh just being encouraged even uh this morning uh at the the fellowship that we had at uh Belcroft Bible. Uh like I said these are men that uh that hold me accountable And uh men that understand the priority of ministry. We're all cut from the same cloth and uh we're all rowing in the same direction. So uh very grateful uh to have these brothers here today One of our common convictions as a fellowship of churches is that the church needs to be involved in the development and training of men for ministry, for future leadership. In uh 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 2, it says, The things which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust these to faithful men. who will be able to teach others also. That's a mandate for those that would have any spiritual leadership within the church, those who would be pastors, shepherds. of God's flock, uh one of the uh demandates for for those men is that they would find faithful men that they can entrust these things to And we all understand that there's a small window of opportunity to be able to pass that time of ministry on to faithful men, and uh uh that's what we're hoping to do together. Ministry is a relay race. It's not just a sprint that you just kind of cut across the finish line and you're done. You're really not done until you pass that baton of faithful ministry on to the generation behind you. uh which has really led to a new ministry partnership uh called the Shepherd's Institute, uh which was uh really started by uh Pastor Paul Shirley at uh Grace Community Church Wilmington uh but it's something that we all share the the desire for for training men uh within our ministries and uh just decided that would it would be better to do that together. uh then separately that we can uh uh cover more ground uh if we share that load and burden together. And uh what the Shepherd's Institute does is it uh provides ministry equipping and theological education within the context of the local church And uh the primary uh goal of the Shepherd's uh Institute is uh to provide uh seminary-level training uh that equips men for ministry now. and prepares them for the option of seminary uh in the future. And I know you've heard me uh talk about that in the past. And it's our uh conviction also that it's uh best to to train and equip leaders within the church first uh before they're ever sent off uh anywhere else. Um and to borrow the Apostle Paul's uh metaphor it's like the uh the hardworking farmer uh who ought to be the first to receive the share of his crops and the the hard work that we do today in training men will be able to share in the the benefit of that in the future. So upfront, it's hard work, uh, but according to scripture, it's also uh necessary work. And uh the Shepherd's Institute is just uh one tool that we're deciding to use. uh to help us uh do that necessary work. So uh today you'll be hearing three messages, uh which uh is a dangerous thing if you have three expositors all together in the same place to say, you know, hey, we want you all to give you know, uh an expository message uh on the same in the same service. Uh but you'll be hearing from me on the sufficiency of scripture, uh from Pastor Paul Shirley on the centrality of the local church, and from Pastor Matt White on the priority of personal godliness for for shepherding. So uh love these men, looking forward to hearing from all of them. And we'll also have a short time of Q<unk>A. uh following the the service so you can stick around uh for that as well. We'll uh give a a brief break and then we'll uh join together for uh just a brief time of of QA. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org.