The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Luke? We're in the book of Luke this morning, the Gospel of Luke, chapter 2. As we're taking a break from our normal study through the uh the gospel of Matthew and uh the examination of the ministry of the Savior to uh examine the the birth of the Savior, we're in Luke chapter two. And there's a reason uh that A lot of people go to the Gospel of Luke when they uh start to talk about the Christmas story. It's kind of the go-to gospel uh when it's uh time to talk about uh the the Christmas season uh because Luke fills in for us details about Christ's birth in a way that the other gospels don't. Uh he includes uh thoughts and conversations and events that We want to know about any other way. Luke is the only gospel that gives us an extended narrative of the birth of Christ, Mary's prayer of thanksgiving for Christ. The extended uh uh just kind of a description of the uh uh the birth of John the Baptist, the childhood of Jesus, and the blessings of Simeon and Anna are all found in the Gospel of Luke. In addition to that, the book of Luke has a very human description of who Jesus Christ is, which really ties in well uh with the incarnation that we uh give attention to during this season. Uh Matthew emphasizes Jesus as King, uh John emphasizes Jesus as God. Mark emphasizes Jesus as the servant. Uh but in uh the Gospel of Luke we find an emphasis on Jesus as the Son of Man, the one who was 100% God, but also 100% humanity as well. So what Luke does is he shows us that Jesus didn't bypass uh the normal human experiences that we have. He didn't show up fully grown on a weekend, die, and go back to heaven. Jesus actually came and lived a full life a full life as a hundred percent a deity in human flesh. He had a real birth, he had a real family, he had a real childhood, he had a real life, and he had a real death. So Jesus came as the Son of God not just to uh uh to be with us, but actually to be like us. Uh Philippians chapter 2 and verse 7 uh says that he emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, being made in the likeness of men. Romans chapter 8 verse 3 says that God sent his son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15. It says that we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are. yet without zin. And that's one of the truths that that Luke wants to make sure we walk away with because Jesus became like us in order to save us. He had to be made like us in order to bring us. And one of the key verses in the Gospel of Luke is in Luke chapter 19 and verse 10, where it says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. But in order to seek us, he had to be made like us, to come, to live in human flesh, and to seek us in order to bring us into salvation. And that's what Luke focuses on. So why don't you uh uh flip open to the gospel of Luke? We're in chapter two. And just see how Luke kind of fills in some of these details around the infancy of Jesus Christ. Luke chapter 2, we'll start at verse 21. It says, and when the eight days had passed before his circumcision, his name was then called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what was said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, Lord, just uh recognizing uh the birth of Christ, uh realizing that he had to be born in order to seek and to save that which was lost, in order to seek us, in order to save us. And in order to die, Lord, he had to be born. So Father, we pray that we would recognize the significance of that birth and that life, even the early life of Jesus Christ. the significance that it plays into our salvation today. And Father, that we would glorify and honor you. In Jesus' name, praise you and give you thanks. Amen. There's a lot of rich truth inside of these short verses that we won't really have time to fully cover and explain today, but uh I'd encourage you to uh spend some time maybe with your families later on, maybe taking the the bullet in some of the discussion questions and uh taking a look at that uh together maybe uh uh later on today as we think about um the significance of what we find uh right here before us. Uh we have a lot that's talked about uh in the early days of Jesus Christ and uh what we find in uh chapter uh two and verses twenty-one to twenty-four is that Mary and Joseph took care of Jesus in his childhood, even at eight days old, and uh up through uh uh the the time here where they presented him before the temple And everything that they did, they did by the book. Everything that they they did, how they managed uh the life of Christ, how they cared for the life of Christ. Uh this was all done uh by the book. I was uh uh just reminded uh last week we've we've had a number of uh of births. at uh BBC lately even in the in the past year. I think our uh our uh nursery has maybe quadrupled in the last year or something like that. I was uh thinking maybe we can write a new church growth book like uh doubling through diapers or you know something like that. But one of the things that I was reminded of of lately was that that feeling of walking out the hospital for the first time with Caris. You know, the the first time I'm walking out of the hospital and I remember uh the whole time I was in the hospital we had this, you know, around the clock medical care, you know, just to push the button and somebody would come. you know, to your room. Uh we had security doors everywhere. We had a wristband to identify, you know, who the father was, the mother was, the baby was. You know, we had all this security. We had an escort that walked us down, you know, to the to the door to make sure that we got to our car. And then uh after we got to the car, it was like, all right, congratulations. Goodbye. And I remember like just that feeling like like is that it? Like like don't I get some kind of police escort to to make sure I get to my home safely? Like uh You know, what if I lose this wristband? Is somebody gonna you know doubt that this is my child? Or, you know, do I get to carry home one of those buttons so I can push a nurse? You know, anytime I need somebody to come in and check on us, but we had nothing. You know, they didn't even give us a manual, you know, to say, hey, this is how you take care of your child from from this point on. It was just like, hey, congratulations and you're on you're on your own. And I I just remember like Like I wish you had like some kind of book to read, like just a uh you know, go-to manual, step by step, you know, to raise your child. Uh we don't have a have a book like that. And uh Mary and Joseph didn't have a book like that either. Uh but what they did have was the instructions from the Word of God as to how they were to care for this child. There were certain things that were required by the law to care for this infant. And uh what we have and uh really repeated uh several times throughout these uh these three verses or four verses here We have this idea that's repeated three times in different words, but it's the exact same idea. In verse 22, according to the law of Moses, when the days for their purification, according to the law of Moses, were completed. Verse 23. As it is written, in the law of the Lord. Verse 24. According to what was said in the law of the Lord. Three times it's repeated, according to the law of the Lord, according to the law of the Lord, according to the law of M And Luke wants us to know that everything that they did for this child was according to the law that the Lord required to be done for this child. It was all done according to the book. And it was all done according to the book so that we wouldn't be condemned by the book. And that's what I hope to point out to you today. First of all, the circumcision. Circumcision on the eighth day was according to the book. Look at verse 21. And when eight days had passed before a circumcision, his name was then called Jesus. In Genesis chapter 17 and verse 10, the Lord says, This is my covenant. Which ye shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin And it shall be the sign of the covenant between me and you, and every male among you who is eight days old shall be circumcised throughout your generations, a servant who is born in the house or who is bought with money for any foreigner From any foreigner who is not of your descendants, everybody was to be circumcised, everybody that was under the covenant, everybody that was in the community of Israel Circumcision was a minor surgery performed on the eighth day after birth, where a small piece of skin was removed from the male children, and that wasn't just for medical reasons, it was for spiritual reasons. It was a sign of the covenant made between God and Abraham. It was a symbol also of Israel's obligation to obey God. Israel's obligation In Galatians chapter 5 and verse 3, Paul says, And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. Everybody who was to receive circumcision as a right, as a spiritual right, was also under obligation to keep the entire law. We're not obligated to keep this ritual today, but Jesus was born under the law. Galatians chapter 4 and verse 4 says, when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. And this ritual of circumcision was a sign that Jesus was obligated to keep the entire law, just as Jesus was baptized. to identify himself with the sins of his people. Here Jesus is circumcised to identify with the promises for his people and the obligations for his people. And the symbolism here is rich because the fulfillment, the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant was sitting right there. Jesus is the fulfillment of the covenant that was given to Abraham. He was the blessing that was to bless the entire world that was through Jesus Christ. So here you have the fulfillment of that promise right here. And Jesus, the only one who could ever keep the law, was now through the symbol receiving the the the symbol of the obligation to to fulfill it, to actually obey and keep the law of God. And it was only on this uh it was on this day of circumcision that uh Jewish boys were were all also officially given their name According to tradition, on the eighth day they received circumcision as well as receiving a new name for themselves, the name for themselves. And it kind of uh harkens back to uh what happened with Abraham in Genesis chapter 17, when Abraham received the sign of circumcision, he also received a new name. It used to be Abram, now his name became Abraham, the father of the multitudes, the father of nations, the father of the nation, right? And here Jesus is given the name Jesus to indicate that he's now to be the savior of the nation. Abraham was the father of the nation. Jesus is the savior of the nation. the nation. And Jesus received his name as a prediction of what his life would mean. And uh what we find here is that Jesus is the Savior and he receives in himself the sign of his people and the sign of keeping the obligation of the the law of God. Jesus was the only one who could fulfill it, and here he receives the sign of it as well. Another thing that happened, not only did uh Jesus uh receive this sign of circumcision, but there's also this purification that happened as well for his parents. Also happened by the book. Look at verse 22. It says, uh, and when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him before the Lord. In uh Leviticus chapter 12. Verses two to four, a woman was considered ceremonially unclean for forty-one days after the birth of a of a male child. And this said nothing about the mother being morally unclean, about being sinful. There's nothing sinful about childbirth. In uh Psalms 127 and verse 3 it says, Behold, children are a gift. Of the Lord, the fruit of the womb is a reward. So every child here needs to know that, that you're a gift from God, you're a reward from God. And that's how the Lord identifies you as a as a gift from him. But even the most blessed gift is still a reminder of what? The curse. Still a reminder of the curse. As blessed as children are, as joyful as it is to receive new life into the world. It's also a painful experience, right? Painful for for the mother. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 16, it says, To the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth, in pain you will bring forth children. So even the most natural and the most beautiful and most miraculous joy of seeing a new life enter into the world is also, it also comes with this painful reminder of the curse on all mankind. And the same blood that gives life is also the blood that 's shed when giving life. So here God requires a sacrifice to be made in Leviticus. And Mary demonstrated her respect and careful attention to the law of God by her participation in this sacrifice and actually presenting uh this this uh purification uh before the Lord as well. Uh Mary recognized that she needed a Savior. She confessed that by her actions as well as by her words in Luke chapter 1 verse 47. And to think that she held in her arms the one who would remove her curse because he became a curse for us. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, it says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on the tree. So here the one who who reminded her of the curse that was upon her life was also the one who would one day take the curse from her life by becoming a curse for her and for all those that would trust in him. And it's uh part of what we celebrate in some of the the Christmas hymns. And uh one of the the hymns says, uh uh and joy to the world, no more let sins and sorrow grow, nor th thorns infest the ground. He comes to make his blessings flow far as the curse is found, right? So Jesus Christ comes to take on the curse for us. And uh this uh this presentation of uh this this the uh sacrifice, this uh purification, the period of purification uh was also done according to the book as well. Uh number three, the the presentation of Jesus' life was also by the book. Uh why don't you flip back to Exodus chapter 13? I want to show you a connection here. Exodus chapter 13. What we find in Luke chapter 2 and verse 23, we find that Jesus. was presented to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. I just want to show you where that's found. Back in Exodus chapter 3, 13, I'm sorry. Exodus chapter 13, look at verse 2. Actually, I'll start at verse 1. It says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Sanctify to me every firstborn. The first offspring of every womb among the sons of Israel, both of man and beast, it belongs to me. Jesus was the firstborn. son of uh Joseph and Mary. It was uh required by law that the firstborn male offspring be offered to the Lord. But I want you to see the context of this command. Because back in chapter 12, we have the final plague of the plagues that was placed upon Egypt. Remember the last plague? It was a plague to do what? To kill the firstborn. To kill the firstborn. And back in Exodus chapter 12, look at verse 12 where the Lord talks about this. It says, for I will go through the land of Egypt on that night, and will strike down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments. I am the Lord. Look at verse twenty nine. Now it came about at midnight that the Lord struck all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sat on his throne, to the firstborn of the captive who is in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of all the cattle. And then after that, you have in Exodus chapter 13 and verse 2 where God says, Sanctify to me every firstborn from among you. And the connection that God is making for Israel is that I didn't take your firstborn son in death, but you know what? I could have. I didn't take your firstborn son, but I could have. Do you think that you're somehow better than Egypt? Do you think that I didn't take your son because you're you're greater and more uh righteous than Egypt was? That has nothing uh nothing to do with that. And here you have the Lord reminding them that you're not no better than Egypt. I could have taken your firstborn son if I chose to. God says, sanctify to me every firstborn son. And the connection that God was making for Israel is that you were spared in mercy. You were spared because of my mercy. Instead of being sacrificed, you've been redeemed. Exodus chapter 13 and verse 15 it says, It came about when Pharaoh was stubborn about letting us go that the Lord killed every firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of beasts. Therefore I sacrificed to the Lord the males, the first offspring of every room every womb, but every firstborn of my sons I redeem. And actually there was a practice where the firstborn of the animals would be sacrificed. But he says the firstborn of the humans will be redeemed. I'm going to redeem the firstborn of those males, the firstborn males. And here you have Mary and Joseph going through the same ritual of presenting Jesus Christ before the Lord as the firstborn son. Recognizing that God had the right to take the firstborn son, but he chose to redeem the firstborn sons instead. So here you have Jesus, the Redeemer Himself Being presented before the Lord. And all the firstborn sons of Israel were spared from the plague. But this firstborn son, the one that Joseph and Mary presented before God, would not be spared. All of Israel was spared. But here you have the firstborn son of Joseph and Mary who was not spared. And there's just a powerful image in this presentation of Jesus being offered before the Lord. And like I said, it was all according to the book, right? All according to the book. Everything was done according to the book so that we wouldn't have to be condemned by the book. Jesus was circumcised by the book. His parents were purified by the book. He was presented by the book, presented before God, and finally we have the sacrifice that was offered by the book. Look back at Luke chapter 2 and verse 24. Back at Luke. Uh 2 and 24. It says after uh this offering of the firstborn male that opens womb shall be called holy to the Lord. It says that they also went to offer a sacrifice according to what was said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. A pair of uh turtle doves or or two young pigeons. And uh, like I said, all this was done uh according to the to the law of God, according to the to the book. Uh over in uh Leviticus chapter 12. There's a number of details that the scriptures give regarding the sacrifice that Mary and Joseph offered in the temple. But one of the things that the sacrifice also shows us is that uh is the the means of Joseph and Mary. Uh it was actually required according to Leviticus chapter 12. I'll just go ahead and read it for you. It says when the days of purification are completed for a son or for a daughter She shall, the woman who bore the son, she shall bring to the priest at the doorway of the tent of meeting a one-year-old lamb for a burnt offering and a young pigeon or a turtle dove for a sin offering. Then he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her, and she shall be cleansed from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears the child, whether a male or female. But if she cannot afford a lamb, so the lamb was the the required offering. But it says if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtle doves or two young pigeons, the one for a burnt offering and the other for sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her, and she will be clean. And uh what we find over in Luke chapter two is that when Joseph and Mary appeared uh to bring this offering, uh they didn't bring a lamb. They they brought you know two young pigeons, you know, two turtle doves, because they they couldn't afford a lamb. Which is actually another indication that the wise men didn't show up until much later. Because if they had gold, frankincense, and myrrh, they could have, you know, used that to exchange for a lamb. But it shows here they didn't even have enough to buy a lamb. All they could afford was just a a couple birds. uh to offer that uh before the Lord, but the law gave uh a legal substitution for the lamb. If you can't afford a lamb, at least you can bring the birds. You know, allow the birds to be this offering that's made before the Lord. So they offer these two young pigeons instead of the lamb because they they didn't have a lamb, right? Or did they? Did they have a land? We sing that song, you know, Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know, you know, that's your baby boy This this this baby boy that they they brought that you know it's like you know in one hand you know Mary has these you know kind of two young pigeons to offer up but in the other hand she's holding the lamb You know, they didn't offer a lamb because Jesus himself was the lamb that would be offered for the sins of mankind in John chapter 1. In verse 29, it says the next day he saw Jesus coming to him, John the Baptist, and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. A lamb wasn't offered on that day, but it was offered 33 years later, and through this offering, the sins of Mary, the sins of Joseph, the sins of every believer would be paid once and for all. through the the lamb that was slain. But not only did Jesus come to offer the gift of forgiveness, Jesus also came to offer the gift of righteousness. And that's really what I want you to see from this passage that Luke really wants us to see because what he wants us to walk away with is the confidence that everything was done for this child according to the book. Everything. Circumcision, the purification, the presentation, the sacrifice that was offered, everything was done according to the book. So there would be no question at all that this child perfectly fulfilled the law of God for all those who would repent and trust in him. You have everything that you need in Jesus Christ. So he's cared for by the book so that we don't have to be condemned by the book. Everything that needed to be done was done. So if you're going to be accepted by God, if you're going to enter into heaven, if you're going to receive the gift of forgiveness, you also need the gift of righteousness. And Jesus Christ is our righteousness. Everything that needed to be done was done. And think about this. If all Jesus needed to do to save you , You know, was just die and offer forgiveness. What did he spend the first thirty-three years of his life doing? Why didn't he just come on a weekend? You know, come pop in, die, and pop back up to heaven. Why did he have to live this long life? What was the the 30 years before that? You know, and if you say, well, he had to do his ministry, he only ministered for three and a half In the book of Luke, in chapter 3 and 23, it says when he began his ministry, Jesus himself was about 30 years of age. What happened to the first 30 years of his life? What was he doing for 30 years? There are a number of ways you can answer that question. You can say that uh he lived the first thirty years to be an example for us, and that's true. Uh you could say that he uh uh lived his first thirty years that to teach us, you know, uh to sympathize with us, like it says in uh Hebrews chapter four, verse fifteen. But there's another reason that Jesus had to spend thirty years on this earth before his ministry. Jesus lived those those thirty years to be a substitute for it. us, to substitute for us. When we think about Jesus' ministry of substitution, we often think about just his death. But he also had to substitute for us in his life. He had to live a perfect life in our place. Think about it this way. If the only thing Christ provided for us was forgiveness, that wouldn't be sufficient to bring us to heaven. It wouldn't only be sufficient to bring us back to the garden. We'd still have to present before God perfect righteousness. We'd just be in the same predicament that Adam was in, having to prove himself before God. Jesus had to exchange righteousness. Wayne Grudham puts it this way, if Christ had only earned forgiveness of sins for us, our guilt would have been removed. But we would simply be in the position of Adam and Eve before they had done anything good or bad. In order to be established in righteousness forever and to have their fellowship with God made sure forever, Adam and Eve had to obey God perfectly. They had to obey God perfectly. What we need is more than forgiveness. What we need is righteousness. Forgiveness gets us back to the garden. Righteousness gets you to heaven. Righteousness gets you accepted by God, and we need both. It's like the difference between mercy and grace. We often use those terms interchangeably, mercy and grace, but mercy is the word that refers to having compassion or pity on someone. It's uh recognizing the pitiful state that somebody is in and bringing relief. Uh often during the ministry of Christ, the uh the sick, the blind, the lepers, you know, the The parents who had demon-possessed children, they cry out to Jesus, you know, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on us. Have mercy. We need mercy. Bring us relief. Jesus used that same word over in Matthew chapter 18 to picture a slave who owed a huge debt and he couldn't pay back. He used it as a picture of forgiveness. I need mercy. I need forgiveness. You know, wipe my record clean. Grace, on the other hand, is a word that's uh used for a gift. It's not just removing the stain, but it's actually adding righteousness. You know, so some mercy would be like, you know, you uh You took my car out for a spin and you totaled it. You know, mercy would say, you know what, you don't have to pay me back. That would be mercy. You know what grace would be? I'm going to give you a new car instead. That's grace. Mercy from God is saying, you know what, you don't have to pay me back for your sins against me. That's mercy. You know what grace is? I'm going to allow you to enter into my eternal kingdom. That's that's grace. That's grace. And this is what we have we've been saved by, saved by grace, right? Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9, for by grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. Not as result of work so that no one can boast. Something that you don't deserve, you can't earn, you can't pay back for it. It's just a gift Romans chapter 4, uh verse uh uh four and five puts it this way. Now to the one who works, his wage is credited as a favor, but it's uh it's not um Excuse me, not to the one who works, his wage is not credited as a favor, but as what is due. If you work for it, you can say, God owes me. You know, I I lived this kind of righteous life, and now God owes me. Forgiveness, he owes me heaven, he owes me eternal kingdom, like God owes me because of what I've done. But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness And in Romans chapter 5, verse 17, it adds this thought that if by the transgression of the one death reigned, through the one, much more those who received the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness, righteousness comes to you as a gift. The gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one Jesus Christ. And as Christians, we receive this gift, the gift of righteousness which comes by faith. If we only receive forgiveness, we'd be in the same miserable position that Adam and Eve were in trying to justify ourselves, trying to earn righteousness before God. But we haven't just been put back in the garden. We've actually been given the gift of righteousness. And I'm not sure if you ever thought about it this way and just the whole connection with the Christmas story. But before, even before Jesus Was consciously and actively and independently fulfilling the law of God as an adult. Even before that time came, he was perfectly fulfilling the law of God even as an infant. Even as an infant, Jesus was perfectly fulfilling the law of God. In Romans chapter 10 and verse 4, it says, Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to all those who believe. And that's because Christ in all points and at all points of his life, completely fulfilled the law of God from his infancy, his infancy. Matthew chapter 5, verse 18, it says, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest stroke shall pass from the law, until all is accomplished. And you know what that included? His circumcision, his presentation to the uh to the temple, it included it all. And Jesus Christ perfectly fulfilled the law in every part In Colossians chapter 2, verse 10, it says, In him you've been made complete. You have everything that you need in Jesus Christ. And that's followed up in chapter 2, verse 11, where it says, In him you were also circumcised. Even our circumcision, nobody can point to us and say, hey, you weren't circumcised according to the law. You don't have this, you don't have that. All we have to do is point back to Christ. I'm in Christ. I have everything. I've been made complete because I'm in him Jesus Christ is our righteousness and he gains us access into the presence of God. It's because of Jesus Christ. In 1 Corinthians 1 verse 30 says, But by his doing, You are in Christ Jesus who became to us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, redemption. Jesus Christ is your righteousness. Romans 519, for it's through the one man's disobedience that many were made sinners. Even so, through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. Righteousness is a gift. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, so that we might become what? The righteousness of God in who? In him. Our righteousness is found in Jesus Christ. That's where our righteousness is. And the question that I have for you is, do you have righteousness this morning? Do you have righteousness? You know, we might open up a lot of gifts today, maybe. You know, some of you might open up some gifts. Righteousness isn't something that you're going to open up underneath a tree, right? But it's more significant than anything you have. The gift of righteousness. And if you're attempting to satisfy God based on your own righteousness, you need to give it up, right? Because the righteousness that we need before God, the righteousness that God requires, is too holy, it's too perfect, it's too complete for any of us to match it. We don't have the kind of righteousness to present before God. All of us will stand before God one day, and what God will demand from every one of us is righteousness. Be ye perfect as the Father in heaven is what? Perfect. That's what we have to offer to God That's what we have to present before God. And none of us has that gift to give them on our own. We have to be given righteousness as a gift from God A complete and righteous gift. And Galatians chapter 3, verse 10, it says, As many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book. Look, if you're going to try to achieve righteousness any other way, you have to keep all of it. Every bit of it. And there's not one of us that can match that. And do you think, and even if you thought you could, do you think you've done that from infancy? You know how how many mistakes have you made since you were you were a toddler, you know? You know, every time your your parents looked at you and like, no, no, and you went after it anyway, that's just the sin coming out, right? That was every one of us. There's not one of us that escaped, you know, uh childhood without doing something. Every one of us were in the same boat. But here you have The Savior, the Redeemer, the perfect one, completely fulfilling the law of God from childbirth, all the way up through his death on the cross. Never once Disobeying God, never once having a thought that would uh be contrary to the to the will and the plan of of God. And this is the one who was offered up for us. Offered up uh Hebrews 9 14 says, without blemish. There was not one stain on his character. And when you have Joseph and Mary, they're just doing their part, you know, presenting Jesus, this child, offering their sacrifice. You know, on the surface it didn't look any different than anybody else. You know, this child didn't have any neon lights around him. The child didn't look any different from the person who came before him, the child that was circumcised before him, that was offered before him. The child didn't look any different from the one who was offered after him. But what we find in this one is the fulfillment of every promise, the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant, the fulfillment of the firstborn, the offering of the firstborn, the fulfillment of the sa sacrifice found right here the Lamb of God was actually offered up here. The Redeemer. And by one offering he has perfected for all time those who are sanctified. By one offering you have been made complete. And by their caring for this child, according to the book , we've been freed and we escaped the condemnation of the book, the condemnation of the law of God, because perfection has been found in Jesus. Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that we have to uh uh take a look at your word and uh just to to think uh a little bit more carefully about The righteousness that's been offered for us. Father, that the righteousness that Christ has given to us is a complete righteousness. There's nothing that's absent. There's nothing that's missing. We have all that we need inside Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that this morning as we uh unwrap gifts and uh share time with uh family, uh that we would uh remember the greatest gift that's been given to us. to us Jesus Christ, and that we've remembered that the gift that He gives us is righteousness, and that without righteousness no man will see the Lord. Without holiness no man will see the Lord. And it's because of his righteousness that we can stand before you, God. Father, we're grateful, and we give you all glory and honor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.