The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So let's open up to the book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6 is where we are today. And as we continue to examine the scriptures, we find that It's the scriptures that are actually examining us, right? It's the scriptures that are examining us, and that's particularly true in the Sermon on the Mount, the section of Scripture that we're studying. These words are penetrating, they're convicting. And the breadth of this teaching is just incredible. The sermon is both deep and wide. Jesus is able to get deep into the heart of an issue, and he does the same thing on a variety of issues that he touches. The wisdom of Christ is just amazing. And uh this morning as we uh approach the topic of of worry, and uh uh Danny Jr. mentioned it uh just a little uh bit ago, the scripture that we'll be uh talking about today. As we face this uh this topic of of worry, I I'm calling the sermon the uh the war on worry. The war on worry. And uh while I intended to get through the whole section today, uh we'll have to come back to the section for at least One more Sunday and I pray that uh our meditation here will be profitable. Uh but I'll go ahead and start at uh verse uh 24 just to set the context for us and read all the way down to 34. No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve God in wealth For this reason, I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds of the air, but they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith Do not worry then saying, what will we eat, or what will we drink, or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you So do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will take care for itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we Thank you, God, once again, for the opportunity to sit before your word. Father, we pray that we would understand the meaning of it And that it would not only be uh uh words that we understand and comprehend, but words that we actually live out and apply to our lives. Uh help us to be faithful doers of your word and not hearers only. Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. In his book, Respectable Sins, Jerry Bridges. observes that our culture as a whole has seemed to do away with the idea of sin altogether. And it's uh hardly even acknowledged in political settings, you know, the idea of sin, even pastors on national days of prayer. will hesitate and shy away from using the word sin. In academic settings, it's it's mocked and made fun of the idea of sin. Uh D. A. Carson commented that the most frustrating aspect of doing evangelism in universities Is the fact that students generally have no idea of sin. They know how to sin well enough, but they have no idea of what constitutes sin. What is sin? And while it 's in in church hasn't disappeared completely, even though uh there's a number of televangelists that are uh trying to preach a more positive message, you know, don't want to mention sin and you know the the sins that the the scripture talks about, you know, they want to uplift people. You know, on the whole, it seems that uh as a church that we're much more concerned, uh, for those churches that that do acknowledge sin and talk about sin, that we're much more concerned with the sins that are happening outside of the church than the sins that are happening inside the church Uh Bridges made reference to a pastor who gathered a group of men together to to pray, and uh every man without exception prayed about everything that's going on outside in the culture, you know, homosexuality and abortion and you know, and a number of different issues that are affecting the culture. And the pastor wisely closed the prayer as he joined together with these men's with these words, Lord be merciful to me, a sinner. And too often we convince ourselves that the battle is out there. You know, it's out in it's in Hollywood. You know, the battle's in the Supreme Court, it's in the inner city. And then you ignore the battlefield that's uh right in your own kitchen. uh battlefield that's in your living room and the the battlefield that's in your heart. And uh we're ready to stand guard against sins like uh pornography and outbreaks of anger, but uh then we allow sins like worry To roam right through the gate without so much as an ID check. Jesus doesn't give anxiety a pass. Ten verses of the Sermon on the Mount are used to attack anxiety. Ten verses. That's more than what Jesus said here on anger, lust, or divorce. Ten verses on worry, on anxiety. It wasn't a minor issue for Jesus Christ And if his disciples were to put on a display of the character of the kingdom, uh known in the Beatitudes, the influence of the kingdom is salt and light, uh, the internal righteousness of the kingdom that surpasses the scribes and the Pharisees. the proper motivations of the kingdom for heavenly rewards, not earthly rewards. How could they do that and at the same time be gripped by anxiety and fear over their physical protection and provision? How can you do both? It would be inconsistent. Worry is more than just a nuisance. It's a dangerous and deadly enemy of the soul. And many of us are assisting the enemy. And the the word for worry that's used here or anxiety, it's used six times in the passage before us. In the the King James, it uses the phrase, take no thought, which might lead you to think that uh uh Jesus doesn't want us to think about the future at all, but that's not the case. We're commanded in Scripture to think about the future. The Proverbs are filled with admonitions to plan for the future in Proverbs chapter 6, if you remember that, in Proverbs 6. Verses six to eight it says, Go to the anvil sluggard, observe her ways, and be wise, which having no chief officer or ruler, prepares her food in the summer, gathers her provisions in the harvest. Right? So it's it's wise to plan. The Bible talks about planning, planning for the future. But planning for the future is different than worrying about the future, right? The word that's used here for worry, it's the Greek word It actually means to uh to be anxious. It comes from uh uh another word, uh merizzo, which means to be divided, to be separated. to to cut into pieces. So it's a word that's used for a mind that's divided or scattered, you know, just kind of all over the place. When your thoughts are all all over the place, that's that's what happens when you worry, right? You know your thoughts go here and there and what about this and what about that? That's That's how your mind works when you're worrying about things. Thoughts can be so overwhelming that sometimes it's like suffocating. Uh John MacArthur uh points out that the English word for worrying actually comes from a word that means to choke. Or to strangle. You know, just for the feeling that people get when they they start the word, it's like I'm being suffocated. Can't breathe. Can be debil debilitating. And uh Jesus intends for his disciples to live free from that and to demonstrate just how broad and overarching this general command is, you know, not to worry. Jesus picks our most basic needs is his illustration. You know, and and if if you if you don't need to worry about even the most basic needs, why would you have to worry about anything else, right? So he goes to the most basic needs, things that you need to survive, like food. And clothing. He picks those things. And he says, if you if you don't need to worry about this, why would you need to worry about anything else, right? When Jesus says, uh, don't be worried about your life. as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Yeah, you have to understand that in the in the context that it's it's said in. It's not like It's not like us today, you know, you go to a fridge full of food. My daughter did this yesterday. Hey Dad, what what do we have to eat, right? You know, you go to a fridge full of food. What is there to eat? What what will we eat today? You know? It's not like you're just trying to make a decision out of the many, you know, the variety there. You know, or like uh you know some of the ladies when they open up their closet, it's like, what will I wear? You know? It's like a decision I have to make between the many. You know, it's totally different when we're talking about the first century disciple. You know, he's not talking about uh you know there's there's nothing to eat in this house meaning that I don't have anything I can quickly stick in the microwave for two minutes. You know, I I don't feel like getting out the the the contents to to eat. It's it's that uh this might be the last meal I have Where's my next meal coming from? I don't have anything else. I don't have any other options. You know, when he's saying, you know, what shall I wear? He's not saying what shall I wear because, you know, I don't like that style or I have to iron a shirt to wear it. You know, it's like this this is like the last cloak I have, and it's got holes in it. What am I gonna wear? You know, that's the kind of question that's being asked here. Jesus understood that these circumstances were difficult, trying, but never gave his disciples an excuse to worry for their minds to start to be scattered, to feel like they were being strangled. you know, anxiety building up in their hearts because you know they don't know where the next meal is coming from. You know, where are they going to get clothes to to warm themselves during a a cold winter? Our king has given us the weapons to wage war against worry. And we have seven motivations here to engage in the battle. Worry is a indication, I'll go ahead and read them for you. We'll cover probably four today and save the next for the for the next time. Motivations to battle against warrior. One, our loyalty is divided. It's an indication that our loyalty is divided, that our thinking is disordered, that our faith is deficient. that our perception is distorted, that our identity is doubted, that our focus is distracted, and that our present is destroyed. Let's take a look at these one by one. Number one, where it can be an indication that your loyalty, loyalty is divided. And verse 25 again in chapter 6. says for this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life. When he says, for this reason, or therefore, in some of your translations, He's pulling into this discussion everything that he's just said before this, okay? He's pulling into this discussion everything that he said in verses 19 to 24. And while there may be many reasons, you know, as we read in the verse before, to uh uh to have two masters, you know, to have your loyalty divided between uh two masters, you know, certain trying to serve God and serve money at the same time, there may be many reasons. One of the primary reasons that we try to store up treasures for ourselves and serve money is uh because of anxiety over the future. We have anxious thoughts about the future. Who's going to provide for me in the future? And then you end up serving money instead of God. One of the greatest temptations associated with treasure is the temptation to uh to trust in it, to trust in your treasures. And thinking that if I amass a a great amount of treasures, then I can have less to worry about. You know, if I have more money, I have less to worry about. But it's not the truth. Only God alone should be trusted. Worry can be an indication that our treasures are being stored in the wrong places, you know, stored on earth instead of heaven. That our focus may be leading us down the wrong path into darkness instead of into the light, or that we may be trying to serve the wrong master. We're trying to serve mammon, you know, money instead of God. And the point that Jesus is making here is that we're can have a significant role in where a person's loyalty is placed. And our loyalty is often given to the one we believe is going to provide for us. Whoever's going to provide for me, that's all I'll give my loyalty to. And uh sometimes people pick the wrong provider. And there's uh even some so-called disciples that bow down to the Almighty Dollar. Uh if we think about it, we know of at least one of Jesus' disciples that bowed down to the dollar, right? Judas. According to John chapter 12, verse 6, Judas was in charge of the money bags. You remember that? And had a habit of stealing from it. Eventually he sold out his master for 30 pieces of silver. There's uh somebody who had loyalty to another another master, and loyalty to money can can often lead people to do all sorts of things. You know, once you have this this loyalty to money. And uh it's all over that question, you know, who's going to provide for me? And uh Jesus says, because of this reason, you know, don't worry. I don't want your loyalty to be divided between me and something else. You know, don't worry because it can lead you down the wrong path where your your loyalty becomes divided. The second thing that he talks about is our thinking being distorted. Look at verse 25 again. For this reason I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? When when we worry, it tells us that our thinking isn't straight. That we've got things kind of out of order in our minds. And uh twice Jesus here refers to Something being more than the other. Is not life more than food? The body more than clothing? You have to put them in the right order, right? And uh he does this by making this argument from from what's known as the the greater to the to the lesser. Some things are greater than than others. Uh Paul uses a similar kind of argument when he argued for our eternal security. If you want to flip over to Romans chapter 8 real quick. Romans chapter 8, verses 32 and 33 over in Romans, Paul makes an argument for our eternal security based on The crucifixion of the Son of God. Look at verse 32. Actually, I'll start at verse 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. And if you follow Paul's argument here, he's saying that if God delivered over his only son to secure you, you know, to grant you salvation. Don't you think God will do the lesser thing by keeping you saved? You know, if God did the greater thing by saving you, isn't he going to do the lesser thing? By securing you? You know, that's that's the kind of argument that he makes. The guy does the greater thing. So we should expect that he do the lesser thing, right? Same thing is going on over in uh in Matthew chapter 6. Uh what he's saying right here, Jesus is using a similar argument. He's saying, you know, what's greater, your life or your next meal? What's greater? What's greater, your body or the clothes that you put on it? If God did the greater thing by giving you life, don't you think he'll do the lesser thing by giving you food? If God did the greater thing by giving you a body, don't you think he'll do the lesser thing by giving you clothes to put on your body? He's talking about just getting the order right. Isn't that life more than food? The body more than clothing? Life is is more than than about what you eat. And he says it's it's it's it should be expected that God is going to provide the lesser things for us And this is what Jesus is arguing for. He didn't create life and create bodies and then somehow forget that you needed physical things to sustain your life. He didn't forget that. We could also argue that there's uh more to life than your survival, uh like it's more important to know where you go after you die, you know, than that you live. But the context here seems to point to God's care for our basic needs here on on earth. And when we worry about about uh you know uh what we're gonna eat, what we're gonna wear. Uh our thinking is is out of order. We need uh to think that uh life that He's given me is more than the food that has to sustain my life. God is going to do both. So we need to battle our worries because it can indicate that our thinking is disordered. Not only as our loyalty might be divided, but our thinking might be disordered. So Jesus argues here from the greater to the lesser. The life is greater than food. The body is greater than clothing. And then in the verses that follow, he argues from the lesser to the greater. Look at verse verses 26 down to down to 30. Look what he says here. He says, look at the birds of the air, that they do not stun, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? And who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? And why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these But if God is to close the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith This is a great passage here for uh you know some of our friends that you know might think that uh animals and nature are to be placed on the same level as as mankind. You know, Jesus says that's not the case. You're you're more important than a bird You're more important than the grass of the of the field. There's more value on mankind, as we already discussed this morning. We're made in the image of God, Genesis 1. 27. So Jesus here said that you know you're you're more important than the the creatures around you in the in the grass, but there's something that you can learn from the creatures around you in the grass, right? First of all, he talks about the birds of the air as a rebuke for our concern for food. You know, when's the last time you've seen a bird sweat? Right? When's the last time you've seen him out in the fields trying to, you know, plant a garden? You know, it's it it doesn't happen. It doesn't have to He doesn't show, he doesn't reap, he doesn't build barns, and there's one more thing he doesn't do. He doesn't worry. Doesn't worry. And the the idea here isn't that that birds don't work. You know, birds are workers, but they don't lose sleep over tomorrow's worms You know, where am I going to get a worm from tomorrow? You know, they they don't lose sleep over that. When birds go out to hunt for food, they expect to find food somewhere. They have to work for it, but they'll find it. And God makes sure that there's an ample supply. In Job chapter 38, verse 41, he says, Who prepares for the raven its nourishment? When it's young, cry to God and wander about without food. Who provides for them? God does. God does. God provides, and the birds are an example of life that is sustained by God. Birds are life sustained by God, and it's not much of a life. Right? I mean think about the life of a bird, right? You know what what what do they do? They they fly, they eat, they sleep, you know, they bomb your windshield and they do the same thing again the next day, right? You know, we we don't we don't read read books about you know the the the great advances of the bird kingdom, you know, and uh you know the the the contribution to society that that birds make. You know, it's not much of a life It's not much of a life. But God still sustains it. You know, when we want to you know talk about you know somebody's intellect, what do you call 'em? You know, bird brain? It's like, you know, you don't have much up there, right? You know, birds are like insignificant, they're unintelligent. But God still cares for them. God still cares for them. As unintelligent and insignificant as a bird may be, they're still fed by God And here's the question. And it's just so simple, isn't it? What are you saying about the character of God? What are you saying about the character of God when you think that he cares more for a bird than he does for you? What are you saying about God? You think God is going to provide for the birds and not provide for those that are made in his own image? Is that what you're saying? Jesus makes the same point over in Matthew chapter 10, just a few chapters later. He compares the value of birds to his disciples when it comes to their protection. Matthew chapter 10. Look at verse 28. He says, do not fear those who kill the body, but are not, but are unable to kill the soul. But rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell Are not two sparrows sparrows sold for or sent, and yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So do not fear, for you are more valuable than many sparrows Sparrows were were sold as uh food for the poor. You know, there wasn't much meat you could get off of it, but but they sold it. You know, for the little meat that you could get off of it, it's hardly a snack. Some sparrows were sold as a pet, you know, just like a children's play thing, you know, just to watch them fly around. Actually, uh I've read that in near Eastern markets they actually still sell sparrows. They'll tie the the uh the the legs of the the sparrows together so they'll have like maybe four to six of them tiled together on a string. You can kind of like fly them around like a kite, they'll sell them, you know, to to different kids so they can just watch them fly off of the string. It's cheap entertainment, right? Cheap entertainment. In Job 41, verse 5 it says, Will you play with him as with the bird? You know, talking about Leviathan, but it's like it it it shows that you know people just played with birds. You know, they're they're they're they're pets, they're for fun. And if God is keeping track of when a sparrow falls to the ground, don't you think he's going to remember you? Do you think he's forgotten about you? Your life is more important than a bird. And then he moves on to our provision for food in verses 28 to 30, where he talks about the lilies of the of the field. And um It's it's it's important that we don't underestimate the the need for clothing in the in the colder winter months. It was actually a time that was feared by families. You know, if they didn't have the proper clothing to make sure that they were protected during a hard winter, you know, a hard winter could even be deadly. In uh early American history, uh William Bradford, who've uh most of you heard about William Bradford, he served as the governor of the Plymouth Colony in the 1600s. And he wrote this account of the first winner in 1620. Listen to this. He says, in two or three months time, half of the company died. Especially in January and February being the depth of winter, and lacking houses and other comforts being infected with the scurvy and other diseases which this long voyage and their confined condition had brought upon them So as there died sometimes two or three a day, and of one hundred and more persons scarce fifty remained. And of these in the time of most distress there was but six or seven healthy persons. But to their great commendations be it spoken, spared no pains night or day, but with abundance of toil and hazard of their own health, fetched them wood, made them fires, prepared them meat, made their beds, washed their loathsome clothes, clothed and unclothed them. In a word, did all the homely and necessary offices for them which dainty and queasy stomachs cannot endure to hear named. A cold winter is brutal Especially for people who aren't prepared uh for the winter. It could mean sickness, disease, and even death if you weren't prepared. And a home without warm clothing was was open to all these things. And uh in the division of of labor, you know, between uh husbands and and wives, you know, bringing in the food was the husband's responsibility, right? You know, you gotta get the go out and get the food. You know, clothing the family, that was often the the woman's responsibility, the wife's responsibility. And now Proverbs 31, you remember that. The Proverbs 31 women, she's not afraid of the snow. Why? For her household are clothed with scarlet. You know, she's she's got the clothes that they need to prepare them for the snow, you know, for the winter. The winter's coming, but I've got the clothes that my family needs. My family's gonna be warm. But this wasn't an easy task. Listen to this description of the time-consuming work with wool. Listen to this. Once the wool had been sheared from the sheep. It had to be combed to remove the tangles. The individual strands were then spun into thread. The thread was then woven into fabric on a loom. The fabric was softened and made watertight by pounding it with a mallet. Sometimes the fabric was dyed. Only after this time cons consuming process was the wool ready to be made into garments, when a wife was already expected to grind flour, bake bread. daily from scratch, prepare meals, clean the home, wash clothes, tend to children, meet her husband's needs. Concern for finding the time to keep her family clothed could be a source of anxiety. Buying clothes from a tailor or a seamstress was rarely an option. And uh some of you ladies thought you had it tough, right? I mean imagine having to live like this, right? You know, I've got to make my own clothes now to make sure that my family's provided for. But as necessary as clothes were, and as tempted as a wife could be to worry, Jesus doesn't make an excuse for it. You know, not having clothes is not a reason for you to worry He says, don't worry. Don't worry about where your clothes are coming from. Don't worry about where your meals are coming from. And if you're going to wage war against worry, you have to understand that Jesus isn't saying, you know, it's okay to worry if the circumstances are under your control You know, if there was something that she could have done about it, now's the time to worry. Now's the time to panic. You could have done something, there's no help for you. Uh if you could have done something about it, it's it's not okay to worry You know, the time to get these clothes together were your responsibility. You know, here you come to the end of the year. Worry. You know, that's not what Jesus says. Jesus doesn't say, you know, it's uh okay to worry when the circumstances are not within your control, but when they're outside of your control. If they're outside of your control, now you can panic. You know, the harsh winter's coming. You didn't have any idea it was going to be this bad. That's outside of your control. You know, winters in Galilee rarely got this cold, as cold as you know the Plymouth plantation. But if if uh if a brutal winter came, he said, Hey, I have no control over this. Now it's time to work, Jesus says, No. You don't worry just because it's outside of your control. And Jesus isn't saying that it's okay to worry because of the severity of the consequences. You know, what about what might happen? We could get diseased, we could get sick, we could die. Now it's time to worry. Jesus doesn't say it's okay to worry then Whether it's circumstances in your control, out of your control, severe circumstances, you know, consequences, Jesus never gives you a pass to worry Never gives you a pastor worry. It's still not an excuse. And where does Christ go to rebuke us from worrying about clothing? He talks about the way that the fields are dressed with flowers. You know, grass doesn't need flowers to survive. You know, if you didn't know that, right? Grass doesn't need the flowers to survive. It survives well enough on its own. Grass isn't necessary for flowers, it's a luxury And God could have left the fields naked. You know, just just give it grass and forget about the flowers, right? God could have done that. And when the the Bible wants to to give an illustration of um Something that's brief, temporary, it often uses flowers. You know, flowers don't last all year long. It's only for a brief season, you know, that grasses have the flowers Over in 1 Peter 1. 24 it talks about how brief our lives are. In 1 Peter 1. 24 it says, for all flesh is like grass, all its glory like the flower of the grass. The grass withers and the flower falls off. You know, flowers are only there for a specific season. You know, they're fragile, they're temporary, and uh they're also disposable. They're actually used to start fires. You know, the the petals of of flowers were used to start start a fire. Uh one commentator made this observation that in a single day a wildflowers that adorn the grassy hillside could dry up so completely that they're withered crisp petals and stems became highly flammable and served as uh tinder for ovens where Palestinians cooked their food. So uh you know the the flowers they f fell off, they withered, they got dry. All you do is just start a fire with them. You know, it's not going to last, right? It's not meant to last. Pretty much like I said, the the only purpose of the flower was the temporary beauty that it gave to the to the grass. But even Solomon and all of his uh riches, he couldn't compare to a single flower. And all of his all of his riches. I'm told that if you look at an expensive garment underneath a microscope that'll look like just an old bag, you know But if you look at a flower petal underneath the microscope, it just kind of enhances the beauty. You know, you see all the the wonder of what this flower really is. And the point that Jesus is making here is that if if God would use his creative energy To design a flower that's only going to be there temporarily and it's not necessary for the grass to grow, don't you think that he would provide clothing for you when he knows that you need it? Grass doesn't need the flower, but he makes it because it's beautiful. Now, if if God would do that for grass, don't you think he'd do something more for you, knowing that you need the clothes? This is this is what he's saying. It's from from this this argument from what's lesser to what's greater. You know, you're greater than a bird, you're greater than the grass. If God would just deck the fields with flowers for their beauty, don't you think he'd give you clothes when he knows you need it? Because it's necessary for you. So what are you saying about the God you believe in when you worry about your necessities You know, it's not just your temperament. You know, this is this is just my propensity. I I I'm just prone to worry. You know, that's just just who I am It's the the question is what what are you really saying you think about your God when you fall into that circumstance? You telling me the God gives grass more attention than he he gives to you? That's small faith. Our faith is deficient. And it's interesting to note some of the places where Jesus brings up this idea of small faith Because they're usually in these uh life-threatening circumstances. Uh in Matthew chapter 8, if you want to flip over a couple chapters, Matthew chapter 8. Verse 26, Jesus is uh with his disciples, they're crossing the Sea of Galilee. The storm is so severe that these experienced sailors look like they might die. You know, so they're trying to cast water out of the boat to make sure they don't sink. crying out for their f lives in fear for their lives. Matthew chapter eight verse twenty six. What did Jesus say? He said to them, Why are you afraid, you men of little faith? Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and it became perfectly calm. I'm about to die. What are you talking about? Men of little faith. We're about to die out here. We know what the seas are like. But here in this life-threatening circumstance, he says, What's wrong with your faith? Don't you believe? Same thing if you flip over to Matthew chapter 14. You have uh Peter in uh verse verse 31 here, you have uh Peter in Matthew chapter 14 doing the impossible. What's he doing? He's walking on water. People aren't supposed to do that, right? So here he is. He's walking on the water, trying to walk towards Jesus You know, starts getting you know uh distracted by looking at the winds and the waves, and he starts to sink. This is a life-threatening circumstance. He's about to sink out here on the on the sea. Verse 31, immediately Jesus reached out his hand and took hold of him and said to him, You of little faith, why did you doubt? It's like I'm about to die Look at the ways, look at the ways. He says, What's wrong with your faith? Forget about the circumstances. What what are you saying you believe about me? Keep your eyes focused on me. Jesus never makes an excuse for weak faith Doesn't matter what the circumstance is, there is never a reason for it. The size of your circumstances aren't the issue. The size of your God is the issue. You understand that? The size of your circumstance is not the issue. It's the size of your God. And every time you look at a field that's decked out with flowers, you can remind yourself that if God gave thought to this, surely he gives thought to me. I know that he gives thought to me Worry is an enemy. It's an enemy that needs to be defeated because worry can be an indication that your loyalty is divided, that your thinking is disordered. that your faith is deficient and one more, that our perception is distorted. Our perception is distorted. Look back at uh Matthew chapter 6 again at uh verse 27 Matthew chapter 6 verse 27. Look what he says here. He says, and who of you, by being worried, can add a single hour to his life? What we perceive to be true, what we perceive to be reality when we're worrying, actually isn't reality. We think that something's going to be accomplished by our worry. Something's going to be accomplished by us, but the truth is that we can't change a thing. Can't change a thing. Now if uh you have a King James or a New King James that talks about uh you know, changing our our height, you know, which of you by taking uh thought can add one qubit to a stature? And it kind of gives the impression that people were just concerned about, you know, how tall they were. A qubit was a the measurement from the tip of your fingers down to your elbow, about 18 inches. But we don't have any evidence that people were concerned about how tall they were. When you look at the context of this passage, the concern is about survival, you know, not how I look. It's food and drink and clothing, you know, the basic provisions of life. And then finally you have the term that's used here for stature, you know, uh adding a cuba to your stature. Uh the word for stature or or life is the uh the the word Hey, hey Lekia, uh which can refer to either a physical height. You know, uh Zacchaeus and uh Luke uh chapter 19, it talks about his physical height. You know, Zacchaeus was a wee little man, we little man was he, you know, talks about his height. you know being uh short of stature uh but it can also be used for maturity maturity if you um over in john chapter chapter nine you don't have to turn there but over in john chapter nine you remember the man who was born blind remember that When his parents were questioned about the miracle that Jesus performed and how he could see, listen to what they said in John chapter 9 and verse 21. They said, How he now sees, we do not know, or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. That word that he used for age is the same word that was used over in Matthew chapter 6. You know, he's he's of the age, he's of maturity. You know, he's old enough. You can ask him. It's not saying, oh, he's tall enough. Why don't you ask him? You know, it's no, he's he's old enough. You can ask him. You know, he can give me an answer. So the best way to understand this verse in Matthew is in terms of age, not height. So what Jesus is talking about is that you cannot add more time to your life. You cannot add one year to your life. You can't even add a second to your life, much less an hour, right? You can't add anything There's not one fraction of time that you can add to your life. Your life was never yours to begin with, right? Your life is the possession of God. Psalm 139, if you want to flip back over there, Psalm 139. God lets us know that He is the author and the sustainer of life, sovereign over every detail of our lives. In Psalm 139, in verse 16, look at what it says here. It says, Your eyes have seen my unformed substance, and in your book were written, listen to what he says, the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there was not one of them. God has written the number of days ordained for you. It's already been fixed. It's already settled in heaven. The number of days that you have is fixed by God. And Job 14, verse 5, it says, talks about man since his days are determined. The number of his months is with you, and his limits you have set so that he cannot pass. There's a certain date on the calendar that you will not pass. It's already fixed. It's already ordained by God. Deuteronomy 32, verse 39, it says, See now that I, I am He, and there is no God besides me. It is I who put to death and give life. I have wounded and it is I who heal. And there is none who can deliver from my hand. You know what that means? When it comes your time to die, there is nobody that's going to stop it. There is no doctor on earth. That is going to stop you when it's your time. When your time is up, your time is up. Now am I saying, you know, hey, just you know, live a right in life. I mean the quality of your life is, you know, if you're just eating ho-hos every day, you know, don't expect a great life. But the day of your death is dependent on God. It's not on you. God is the one that ordains your days. And some of you might know the story, but um uh all three of our children were were c-sections. Uh Kreese, Micah, Kara, and Kara was the worst You know, uh not for me, for Jennifer. You know, sometimes you uh you know you have these husbands that says, you know, hey, we're pregnant. It's like, no, you're not. She's pregnant. We're pregnant. Oh yeah, that was really hard. And it's like, whatever, just Let's be quiet, all right. So uh so we had we had all all all three of them were uh were C sections and uh car was the the most most difficult one. Uh we're actually uh uh told by the the doctors that um that we could have a baby naturally after two C-sections, which is kind of dangerous, but the doctor felt comfortable with with doing that. So, you know, Jennifer 's progressing along and she's feeling the contractions and You know, she's calling up the the the the doctor to say, hey, you know, this is how you know close they are. And he says, Oh, you know, give it more time, you know, you're you're good. You know, wait till it gets about I forgot what it was, you know, maybe a minute apart or something like that. So we're we're waiting and waiting. And uh the contractions never got to the length of time that you know this doctor told us you know to come in. And then her water broke. So she calls back again, and this doctor says, oh, you don't have to come in yet. So uh we're waiting and waiting and we call back again just to say, you know, we're we're not not sure what's going on. We get a different doctor And this doctor just like flies off the roof. He says, what in the world? He says, you need to get in here right away. And I'm just telling you right now, your baby is either going to be born brain dead or stillborn. This is what he says to my wife. And she just starts bawling. And I I don't even know what's going on at this point. I was like, you know, hey Jen, what's going on? And uh she told me, you know, what the doctor said and um you know, at that point, I mean, you know, what are you what are you gonna do? What are you going to do? So I I remember uh you know we prayed, we uh called our our church, you know, just let them know, you know, hey, can you can you start praying for us? You know, and fill them in with the details. And on the way to the uh uh to the hospital You know, we're singing hymns and praying, and I said, you know, Jen, this was outside of our control from the beginning. You know, none of this was in our control. You know, regardless of what time we got to the doctor or, you know, what doctor we had or what advice we were given. You know, all that is, you know, what happened is happened. We weren't in control of this life. You know, there's there's nothing we could do in the in the first place. So we just trusted in the in the Lord. And um as you can see, you know, Cara was was born, you know, just fine. But uh but our worrying wouldn't have changed whether she lived or died, right? Worry doesn't change anything. You get that? And here's the ugly truth about worry that that the outcome It's never changed by worry. If something good happened, it wasn't because you worried about it. If something bad happened, your worrying wouldn't have prevented it. It's useless. Worry is useless. Doesn't serve a purpose Doesn't do anything good, doesn't do anything. It's just useless. Can't prevent anything bad from happening. Useless. Doesn't mean anything. Your external circumstances are exactly the same both before and after you decide to worry about it. Circumstances haven't changed at all. So why worry? Why worry? Can't add a fraction of time to your life. And Jesus has this thought over in Luke chapter 12 and verse 26. He says, if then you cannot do even a very little thing. Why do you worry about other matters? If you can't add a second to your life, why are you worrying about anything else? You can't even do the small things. Why are you going to worry about anything else? And what worry does is it tries to attribute powers to you that only belong to God. Tries to attribute powers to you that only you're you're really playing guy. Like somehow I can change what's going on. If only I, if only I could have, if only I did this, if only I did that, like things would have been different. Our perception is that we're in control. And God is saying, that is my domain. I'm in control. What are you doing thinking that you're in control for? I'm the one that's in control. So we need to recognize that the Lord is in charge and not us. So instead of using our energy, you know, trying to extend our days, we need to spend our energy making the most of our days, right? That's what uh Psalm 90 says. I love Psalm 90, verse 12. So teach us to number our days, that we may present to you a heart of wisdom. Then in verse 14, O satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness that we may sing for joy and be glad all of our days. If if we have a proper perspective on who God is and his control, we can be glad all of our days instead of worrying about them. You know, Lord, give us wisdom to live our days, to live in the present, not to worry about what could happen, might happen. How many days has gladness been robbed from your life because you allowed worry to cast a shadow over it? Spent your whole day worrying. For what? What good did it do you? Spent the whole day worrying about it. You can't add to your days, but you sure can add a lot of trouble to your days if you worry. Why worry? Just add in this burden to your life, choking yourself, strangling yourself. Why worry? Instead of worrying, we need to spend our energy living with wisdom, and we also need to spend our energy in prayer. You know, translate that energy that you use for worry into prayer. In uh Philippians uh chapter 4 verse 6 and 7. It says, be anxious for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus Instead of talking to yourself about your problems, why don't you talk to God about it? Talk to the only one who could actually do something. You can't do it. Talk to God about it, because God can do something. Why are you going to talk to yourself about? What about, oh if I what's that for? Never did any good. Never's gonna do any good. Talk to God about your problems. And then the third thing is instead of worrying, we need to trust the sovereign plan of God for our lives. I like to quote it, but in James chapter 4. 13 to 15 it says, come now you who say today or tomorrow we'll go to such and such a city, spend a year there, engage in business, make a profit. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You're just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or that. God's in control It's it's his sovereign plan. Proverbs 16 verse 9 says the mind of man plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps. You can plan what you want to plan, right? Make all the the the plan all the details and get your whole life laid out God is the one that's going to direct your steps, not you. Proverbs 19 verse 21. Many plans are in a man's heart, but the counsel of the Lord will stand. Only God's counsel is going to be what's actually carried out, not yours. And could it be that the uh the reason that we worry is not so much that we doubt God's power Or that we doubt God's knowledge, but because we doubt God's goodness? You know, God, you're in control, and I don't know if I really like that. We have a fear that his his plans for us won't match up with our plans for ourselves. That's often where we find ourselves I love what Jerry Bridges shared in his chapter on anxiety. In his book, Respectable Sins, he says regarding his speaking engagements, he used his own speaking engagements as an illustration. He says, so my agenda is to arrive at my destination, city, on time, get comfortably settled before I'm to speak. But what if God's agenda for me is different? What if God's agenda for me is to be late for that meeting or miss it altogether? I've come to the conclusion that my anxiety is triggered not so much by a distrust in God. as by an unwillingness to submit to and cheerfully accept his agenda for me. I tend to think, Lord, it's important that I arrive on time to speak at that meeting. The people in charge are counting on me. What will they do if I don't arrive on time? But I have learned to say to myself, but God, it's your meeting. If you don't want me to be there, that's your business. And what the people are counting on me to be there will do is your business. God, I accept your agenda for this situation, whatever it may be. Whatever it might be, God, what whatever you design is best. It's better than what I could have dreamed of. Whatever you you decide is is okay. And what happens when we worry is somehow we think that uh things might be better if I could be in charge just for this once. Just this time, you know, Lord. Just, you know, leave it to me. I'll take care of it. I've got it all figured out, you know. Lord, I know you mean well. I know you have all things in mind, but you know, just this once, Lord, please. Can't can it just happen my way? You know, that's that's where we often are. So what are you thinking about God when you worry? Do you believe that God doesn't know? Do you believe that God's not able? Do you believe that God doesn't care? Do you believe that God hasn't planned for your your failures and your foolish decisions? You know, God, I just blew that one, right? Do you believe that God didn't plan for all that? You know, even your failures? Or maybe you believe that the God means well, but you know it would work out better if you just had the chance to do things your way. Whatever it may be, the perception is distorted. You've got a wrong perception. And somehow you believe that the energy that you use in worry is is worth it. You know, it was actually worth it to spend this day fretting over these things. You know, somehow I something was figured out. Something well something was accomplished by all this. Nothing's accomplished. So instead of using your your time to worry, you need to to make most of of your time and live your life with wisdom, right? Instead of spending your energy worrying, you need to spend your energy in prayer talking to God about your problems and not talking to yourself about it. Instead of trusting your own plans, you need to trust the plans of our sovereign Father for our lives and believe that his plans are better than ours. So for us, if we were to put the kingdom of God on display, to show the character of the kingdom, to show that that the influence of the kingdom is going to be spread through our lives. The righteousness of the kingdom that surpasses the scribes and the Pharisees and that we're properly motivated, we can't do that and at the same time be gripped by fear and anxiety for our physical protection or for our provision. And anything less than that is inconsistent with what Christ has asked us to do. So the question is, are are you assisting the enemy? We've got an enemy. We've got an enemy. We've got an enemy that we need to do battle with. And the question is, is your loyalty divided or are you devoted to the one master? Is your thinking disordered or do you think straight about God's gift of life? Is your faith deficient or do you trust in God's care for you? And is your perception distorted or are you convinced that God can handle the universe just fine without a backseat driver? It's the truth, right? We've got more to discuss, and we'll talk about that next week. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this opportunity that we have to come before you and to hear the rebuke from Christ. And Father, it is a rebuke. Too often we're we think that uh things are underneath our control and they're not. Uh we think that uh somehow we can do something about our circumstances and we can't. Uh somehow we think that if if we could somehow just this once do things our way that things would turn out better and and things would just be an utter disaster if it was left up to us. So Father, I thank you that you don't put the circumstances into our control, that you don't put other people into our control, uh, that you don't put our lives into our control, Father. It all belongs to you. You've appointed our days. You've already numbered them before we were even born, ordained each one of them. And Father, you know what we'll face. And uh we can face the future knowing who holds the future. Uh so Father, we pray that you help us to grow in our trust of you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.