So we're going to take a few minutes to do some Q<unk>A. So this isn't all just going to be my questions, but I want to want to hear from from you guys as well, but I'll I'll start with a couple questions just to to get the the ball rolling. But um we'll start out with something like uh tell me when did you guys meet and um Like where did you find your greatest examples for your own marriage? Like like did you have people that invested in you early on in your relationship? Was it kind of trial and error? You know, uh uh did it You know, was there a seminar or something that you went to and it's just like the lights came on? It's like, okay, this is what we should be doing. Um so uh first of all tell me how you guys met and then kind of like walk us through like you know what was it like to to learn in those early years of marriage, like where did you find the greatest examples? Okay, yeah, so so we met, uh I'll make this try to make this short. Uh my brother was in the Air Force. I'm from West Virginia, she's from Maryland, she's from Glen Burney, so not she's a homegirl. Uh yep, yep. I'm the alien. I'm the I'm the I'm the outcast. I'm from Moab, but um no, she uh Yeah. But my brother was in the Air Force, he was stationed at Fort Meade. They they were going to the same church that Amy and her family went to, and so my brother My w my my sister in law actually it was more of her b her uh idea. They decided to try to play matchmaker. They did not know Amy. That's the interesting thing apart about this. She played the piano small church, so you knew everybody, but they didn't know her. She was a girl still in high school and I would come to Fort Mead, go over to Fort Mead for the weekend, spend time with my brother and his his wife and they kinda felt like I was a third wheel so I needed they needed somebody else to balance it. We could Get pizza, go bowling, do something. And um I didn't like that idea, so I fought against it for a long time. And uh My sister-in-law just kept hounding it and then eventually she called my dad who I worked for and told him about it. And one day he kept hounding me and I said, Ah, I didn't want to do that. And What underlined that was I was not walking with the Lord. I don't even think I was saved. And I just turned to the Lord, just repented. Lord opened my eyes to my sin, my wickedness, and I didn't I didn't want to jeopardize my walk with Christ. I was I didn't trust myself. And so I just was focused. I was reading Jonathan Evan. Like I was starting to come to life. It was amazing to see the transformation that was happening. Before that I was just totally living for self. And so I just didn't want to be distracted. I wasn't even interested in that sense. And yet all these people are like, no, you gotta do this, you gotta do that. And I'm like, no, I don't I'm just really I'm I'm happy. And then my dad said, Okay, if you don't go visit this girl, I'll fire you. That's what it came down to. And he was serious. I remember the roof we were on And I'm like, really you're gonna fire me? Yes, you need you need you need to get you need to go find a wife. I'm like, alright A lot happened between that all right until I finally met her, but it was a blind setup. No one told me anything about her. I didn't know anything about her, I didn't even know her name. And I lived with my brother growing up. We were very tight. And so we would play practical jokes. So all I kept thinking is, he's this is a practical joke. He's setting me up for the zinger of all zingers. Because I kept saying, what does she look like? What's her name? How old is she? What color hair does she have? Nothing. He'd just say, You 'll know when you see her. You'll know when you see her. So we went to church that day And I walked in and I'm looking at everybody. I'm at church for all the wrong reasons, right? I do not recommend this. But I'm there looking and I'm looking at every girl and I'm trying to figure out and he's just standing back laughing. And there were a couple other people in the Small church. Everybody knew about it. Except Amy and I. We were kinda in the dark. And uh eventually we go through Sunday school, nothing happens. And then I and I walk out of the fellowship hall and I see this girl coming down the steps from the sanctuary and I think, oh, that surely can't be her. And I looked at my brother and he had this big grin And from that moment on I was scared to death. I mean fear just overtook me. And I couldn't talk. I literally could not talk. So they had a cookout planned for us to go to that day after church. We went to the cookout. She brought her sister, praise the Lord. They put us on it was like a game like Outburst or something where you had to talk. I never said a word For like hours. My brother pulls me in the kitchen. He's like, Dude, what's wrong with you? You're making me look bad. He says, They think you're weird. I said, I I don't know what to say. She's out of my league. I'm I'm Scared. He's like, you gotta say something. I'm like, all right, I'm sweating, you know. What am I gonna say? So I go out there and she had to leave to go back to church for choir practice. So I walked her out to the car, and this is all I said A big moment. Big moment, right? I'm all worked up. Can I talk to you after church? That was it. She's like, sure. I walk back in. That was it. It was bad. That's bad. I mean that's awful. But I was scared. And at church I think I didn't say a whole lot other than could I call you that week or something? Right. And that was for my number. Ask for your number and that's how it started For some funny reason, though, I commuted every single weekend, and that church became my church. I was smitten. I was smitten. So about a year and a half later we got married. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So So uh from from both of you, like what what kind of influences did you have early on in your your relationship? Um did you look to anybody? Did you read any books? Like what what helped you kind of at the foundation of your relationship? Yeah, I like we knew nothing. And so we kind of um I mean we had our church growing up but we really didn't have like there wasn't any particular couple that came to us or that we went to for modeling. We did come from Christian homes, so we had that background, but even in that we n necessarily have our parents like sitting down discipling us, um walking through us or walking with us through that. And so It's really by God's grace and his word and just being under good teaching and preaching that we were able to grow together and We just say in a lot of ways we grew up together because we were young when we met and we got married and the Lord just really preserved that. Mm-hmm. So, um In the early years it was all God's grace. Yeah. Yeah. We never it's interesting. We try to be that now for people. We do that all the time, deciphering all kinds of couples and pouring into them. Because we never had that We never had any one couple take us under their wing and we often laugh and say, Well, if anybody ever doubts the sufficiency of Scripture We can just tell them because that's all we went to. We just like, how do we do this? How do we I remember early on, even when when I was ministering, um, not as a pastor but as a as a as a deacon in in our home church and was really on fire for the Lord and growing. But I was not being a faithful husband in the sense of I was away serving all the time and we didn't have anybody watching out for us. And I mean I'm at the church 247 and Amy's home and we were trying to figure this out and there was stress and like what's going on? We're serving the Lord, this is what we're supposed to do. But I'm never home and like nobody we had to figure that out on our own. Like uh how do you balance that and how do you work that out? And and we just had to work that out through prayer and repentance and going to the scriptures and figuring out much of what I taught today and again the scriptures taught us. It really did. And what a blessing. What a blessing. But we try we try to be that for couples now because it's it's a lot easier if you've got some couples ahead of you modeling. Yeah. So um another question uh and this is fruit for you again, Amy. How do you demonstrate sacrifice, you know, for the Lord and you know I know your husband's you know involved in ministry and has been for a while. How how do you how do you How do you like within your own heart say, you know, I need to make sure I'm sacrificing, you know, for the Lord, for ministry, for my my children while not sacrificing your relationship with one another and making sure that that's the the primary investment. So knowing that, you know, yes, I I I need to sacrifice, I don't need to primarily think about myself. But I don't need to neglect the relationship that I have, you know, uh with my husband. So there's, you know, just some wisdom that's needed, you know, in order to do that. So when do you know, like, hey, this is the time that I need to speak up and say like, hey Matt, like too much, whatever versus the time with that you know I just need to I just need to support 'em and and let that go and you know not really be concerned about what my needs are right now. So how do you how do you determine, you know, when to speak up and when to Just hang in there. Well, I think it all comes down to mindset and so having a biblical mindset on how to approach those things and just seeing service for what it is, that it is for God's glory. Um I think that Titus II passage that he he went to there at the end and how it lays out the older and the younger relationships and then it ends with that the word of God may not be reviled, that we're ultimately doing all for God's glory is number one. So um keeping my own heart in check in that way is number one important. I think there does come a reality though with like balance in home life and especially when you have little kids. at home and um the reality that you can be away too much and so church ministry and life can put a lot of pressure on homes that is not necessary because in the church everything that we could be involved in is a good thing. But Do we have to be involved in every single part of that is a question that you have to wrestle with as a couple, not necessarily individually, and being willing to speak about those things. So yes, there did come a time when um he was really, really active and busy and um we just were able to have that communication and talk about um just setting a boundary or a priority for our own self where it wasn't going to be like, um, you know, if you're doing every weekend right now out of the home, could we scale it back to where it's just like two or three times? uh because you're already out during the week working and then weekends gone too. And so it was just um making a commitment to that because the home and the family is equally as important as our involvement in our local church as well. That's good. Another question, and uh I actually had a couple conversations about this during the during the break. But uh can you elaborate a little bit more, um, Matt, on what you've learned from the the role reversal in Genesis three? I remember you said, you know, this is really a pivotal, you know, uh uh uh chapter for you and really understanding a little more about you know, your own uh marriage relationship. But um but I I thought that was uh that was really insightful. It's the first time I've really you know heard it described like that, you know, that the you know the creation was supposed to submit to mankind but here here's the creation you know the animals coming you know to to Eve and you know man is supposed to be bleeding but here Eve is leading and then you know man is supposed to be leading again but now he's submitting to his yeah you know following his his wife so um just can you elaborate a little bit more on on what he learned from that? Yeah well In in some ways, um, yeah, there there's many things we've learned. One is, and and this builds off of the question that Amy just asked that feeds into this is one of the greatest lessons we've learned through even that reality is how all of life is ministry, right? Not just Me preaching, not just me. Like all of life is to the glory of God and therefore his ministry. And this has been huge for us is in protecting against role reversal is when I'm away serving or when we're when like last weekend I did a conference in our at our Bible college where I graduated from and we had to take the family and go away. And I'm speaking and she's back in the room taking care of the kids or whatever. That just because I'm there preaching the word doesn't mean that's my ministry. That's our ministry. So we're doing this together because I could not do what I'm doing if she's not back there doing what she's doing. And this was massive in our relationship and protected against role reversal to where she understood that it was a partnership. So if if I'm away or I'm at the pulpit preaching and she's she has to be in the back with our little one, she's not feeling like she's not doing something. She understands that she's doing what she's doing so that I can do what I'm doing and it's together. And and that was missed in Genesis three, right? It that was totally missed. And that has protected you, I think, in large part. And Amy 's had to have many conversations with many ladies in ministry, but even in life where that truth was never embraced. But when it is, oh, it's it changes. It's life-changing. It opens the floodgates to productivity. Because now you're not each trying to do your own thing. Well that's your thing and I'm going to do this thing. No, you're doing it together. Even She teaches our ladies' Bible study on third Monday of every month. I get the kids. I got the kids. I gather them up. Two arms underneath. We run We go to the McDonald's playland, we fill up on chicken nuggets and I mean we get pizza. I mean we're having fun. But I'm doing what I'm doing so she can do what she actually I we do it on the day that I normally take off 'cause she she has all day to work on her notes, to work get ready for the lesson and I've got the kids and so they've got to eat cookies and cereal for food and I mean that's that's but that's what we do. Yeah, that's what we do. We go to Krispy Kreme and uh It's just a nutritious day. But we learn that it's partnering. It's not her Bible study. It's not my sermon. It's our ministry. together. And again, Genesis 3 shows that they were individual there. They weren't co-laboring together And so uh yeah, no, that's uh that role reversal is huge and that and we we have like we have protected one another multiple times in ministry and in life. by which I make sure that I'm leading and not in a domineering way because I can have a tendency to lean on her as my helper because she's a good helper And I can have a default to be like, you know, hey, what's going on? What do you think we should do with this? Or what do you and and Amy has said, Well, you're the leader. You know, and she'll provoke me to go out there and be like, Yeah, I am getting a little passive in this. Alright, I gotta make a decision about this We're buying a house, you know, this is my deal to find us a home when we're in buoyant. I'm kinda lazy about it because I just want to get the church going and She's like, you know, come on, you we gotta we gotta get out of my mom and dad's. We've been here for nine months, come on, we gotta you know, I mean I can r roll reverse Right there in that prime example and uh or she can she can lead and be like, Oh, I found this a house, here you go, you know, and and while that wouldn't necessarily be wrong if she's doing it to support me But if she's doing to you know to lead me, now with the roles have reversed and we've fallen right back into it. One of the things I've learned too, by way of the creation leading I've seen this where it can actually ministry can become that. Where you instead of are the leader in ministry and you are the Thermostat in ministry, you become the thermometer and ministry drives your family, drives your home, drives your relationship. It could be for your for for you guys, it could be your job, it could be the stress. And therefore the creation, whatever that is, now is leading you rather than you being sovereign, i. e. subduing the creation. And that happens in our lives all the time. We're run by our lives rather than running our lives. And what you see in Genesis 3 is Adam and Eve were run by by the serpent rather than them subduing the serpent. And I see that in in our ministries and our life all the time, especially with children. And that's where you know you gotta balance that. Yeah. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, so one more question and then uh you can just raise your hands and and we'll we'll take as many as we can. Uh so so Amy, how do you know when you've crossed the line between being a helper, you know, and a supporter? When did you cross the line to saying like I'm actually taking over here and uh kind of leading the the the charge stuff? So how do you know when you cross that line from just like giving suggestions and wanting to to help see where I'm actually like holding the reins and You know, off we go. So any any advice for Louise? Well I think when it becomes like then a predominant thought in your mind when you're not able then to take your thoughts captive and so then it's like the only thing you're like fixing fixating over, you're like trying to figure it all out, right? To then offer the plan when he comes home of how you have A, B, and C. If this one doesn't work, I thought of this map, and then we've got this one going. So I think if it's something that is so much um taking over your own thought life and mind and you're working out all the details on your own then that's a a good indication that you need to take a step back and reevaluate. Alright, I saw hand over here, but Kathy. Okay. Going back to the the world verse one. When I think of um the whole problem with role reversal is kind of when I woke in the other spot. So that all plays out for me really easily. Yes. So where my question comes in this is probably more theological or even the doctrine of sin, but um I don't think we have a need for interception. Mm-hmm. So I'm struggling with how they got um perfection, but then they had all these setups that eventually led them into this place where she could take a spite of the sort of offer to Adam. But I mean then this was prior to even today you just kinda brought in even more to the surface for me of how in a perfect world did they get into this place where they were set up so to speak now to bring the ground and Yeah, yeah. So your question is then how because sin wasn't technically there per se. The doorway for sin was open, but you didn't have sin. Yeah. I think if you go back to Romans chapter 5, I think is is really a pivotal passage in all of this. I was having a discussion I was having a discussion with this uh about this earlier with uh I think it was Mark, I think it was maybe we were talking about it. But in in Romans chapter five, um somebody was asking me about this as well, about Somebody was saying something about Satan bringing sin into the world. And I was saying, well, that's theologically not necessarily correct. Right? Because the Bible makes it very clear in Romans chapter 5, starting verse 12, therefore just as sin came into the world through Satan, no, one man. And death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sin. So I think that's the starting place, right? So you have to start there and understanding what you said a minute ago that there was no sin, right? And so you're struggling trying to figure out how did they get to that point. And one thing is they didn't have the Holy Spirit like we have. So they were in a place of innocence, but it was untested innocence. So this was a test in every way. for them. So they didn't have the Holy Spirit guiding them. They had the Word of God, like I said earlier, i. e. the Word of God, meaning God was clear. He had given them the boundaries. Right? But they didn't have the Holy Spirit to you know convict them, so to speak. Now we know they had the conscience, right? Because uh Romans chapter three talks about that that and Romans chapter two the conscience on all men But the reality is what they did then is exactly what we do. They disobeyed what God had given them. They didn't have everything we have, but they disobeyed what God had given them, and that was his word. They had all they needed to obey God, and that was, God said, don't eat from this tree, crystal clear, and they ate from it. And that's sin. I mean that's that's about as clear as what sin is. It's a disob disobeying God's word. And that's what they did. Now they didn't have all the parameters, and uh yet they had the you know the the inclination in their heart. They were open to that. Their heart was innocent, but they weren't perfect, like we will be. And that's a there's a confusion. They didn't have glorified bodies. That's what people think. They were just they were pure, but they weren't perfect. So they didn't have the Holy Spirit living in them and all of that. And so they were a lot of theologians call it untested creature holiness. Meaning they were pure, right? Because sin wasn't there, but they weren't perfect. They were untested, much like the angels, right? So when the angels were tested when Satan tempted them and then the angel fell. And the interesting thing about angels are they know they don't know grace. That's why 1 Peter talks about they long to look into salvation. They can't understand it. experientially like we can because they didn't get grace. They were tested, they failed, they're condemned to hell. And the other sin the other angels that didn't fail, now they're they're in a position of holiness forever. They won't fail anymore. And so there was no grace given to them like there was to us. So Yeah, much like that is is in the sense of that's how Adam and Eve were untested in their holiness. And the test came through through uh through the serpent and they failed the test and the results of that now is what Romans 5 said. We all do the same thing that they did. It's the s Role reversal and disobedience to God's word. Is that helpful? Oh yeah, very much. I guess I was just thinking too about you know because Jesus talks about the sin starting the heart before you even passed. Absolutely. I was struggling with that too that it's almost like your heart was already Yeah. Meetings break even though it's happened. Don't get. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. And again, we don't It was different for them because the world was different in the sense of the perfection, right? Wasn't like us. They didn't have all the outside influences. They didn't have all that we have. So we don't We don't have everything that they have. We know the heart is desperately wicked, but their heart, again, was untested in its holiness, right? So it was perfect in the sense of not perfect and glorified way. But it there was no sin necessarily there. But we know from the text in Genesis 3 that you can watch how Satan tempts and it starts in her heart Because she starts, she looked at the fruit, she saw that it was good, she listened to what he said, and and so absolutely, I mean what Jesus says in Matthew 12 there is is true, but where they where we're born with it, right? See, it for us it's innate, it's undeniable. For her, it was, and Adam and Eve, it it wasn't the same exact thing because they weren't born with a sin nature. So that's why it is a little confusing because we have a sin nature. We're born with it. Romans 5, undeniable, right? But they weren't created with a sin nature, because then that would cause all kinds of conflict with God as their creator. But he created them in a in a place of holiness, right? He said everything that he created was very good But yet it was untested. And so it was the test that came in and then instigated the independence of their heart to choose. sin to choose self over God. And then that cre you know, the byproduct of that is the sin nature that we're all born with. So yeah. Would you have anything to add to that, George? No, I was I was uh I mean while while you were talking I was thinking you know some of the uh the same thoughts, but you y you have like a uh kind of like a parallel of you know Christ being the the second Adam, you know, where where a temptation is introduced, but Christ never receives that into his own heart. It's like immediately rejected. Yep. Um you know but the s the temptation came from outside. It it didn't rise from within Christ's heart. It came from the outside that was suggested to him. Yep. But in the case of Adam and Eve, you know, when the the temptation is suggested, they receive it within the heart, and then it starts to you know this desire and the enticement and everything else, you know, comes about You know, it's also kind of looking at uh uh James chapter one, uh where it says each one is comfy when he's carried away and enticed by his own lessons, like this desire that rose up within their hearts. So so I would agree that, you know, before they they took the bite of the fruit that their sin was already involved. You know what I mean? Because they're already, you know, intending you know, to take the fruit and eat it. So before they they take a bite, like they're there's some all over the place, you know, uh that we can we can see that's clear there. Uh but it's because they received that temptation, you know, within the heart and now it became their desire, you know, to carry out, you know, what had been suggested. You know, uh uh but it again it came from the outside and then was internalized. Yeah. You know, and uh and resulted in you know what we have now. What's interesting about that is when you compare Christ to Adam the major difference between the two was going back to the word. And that's where I I I love the word and I stand on the word so much. And when you go back to Adam and Eve, they had the word. Like God's word was clear to them. Do not eat from the tree. It was there. Right? And they disobeyed it from the beginning. And like George said, there was all kinds of sin. Just being around it. You know, you can see this They were flirting with sin. I mean, you could just see the issues going on there. But when Satan comes to Christ, what ultimately does he do? He goes to the Word. He follows the Word. From beginning, right? Thou man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. What Eve and Adam should have done was go right back to the Word and say, no, serpent, God told us to not eat from this tree, right? But that's not what they did. What did they do? They started to doubt the Word. And then they ultimately, when you doubt the word, that leads to denying the word. Jesus never doubted the word. He stood upon the word right from the very beginning. So that's really ultimately where the issue comes from. They had the word given to them and they they've rejected it. And uh but yeah, yeah, good question. Anybody else? Staying on a similar topic, um Based on things in my our relationship over the years, better years and years, but the past years tend to go to passive, really strong, maybe passive in leadership. But the problems you see, how much of it is really not so much the women taking over, but more men being passive and are providing reliable consistently. He can add as much as he ever he thinks best. But from my experience, um it's both. What do I mean by that? So oftentimes The passive husband is is an issue, without question. But again, this is why I tried my best to drive this point, and I pray you walk away from it The passive husband, ultimately, the issue isn't his passivity, the issue is his walk with Christ. Right? So even in counseling, if you're going to go after the passive nature of the husband, you're missing the point. If he's passive in his relationship with his wife, guaranteed, without question, he has no walk with Christ, no vibrant walk with Christ. That's why he's passive with his wife. So the issue isn't his passivity with his wife, his issue is he's not in the word, he's not obeying the word, he's not following the word. So what normally tends to happen, and what I've seen, is that passivity is one of two things, either driven by a wife who's leading, or the wife is leading because the husband has been passive. So it tends to be both So you have to deal with both because 1 Peter 3 deals with the passive husband in many ways, right? So 1 Peter 3, the wife is still to submit even if her husband is passive. She's not to take over. And it's that it's that submissive helpmate that serves even a husband who's unwilling to serve that the Lord has designed to lead him back. to the word or ultimately convert him in the sense of draw him to Christ to be saved if he's unsaved, which I think first Peter 3 is probably dealing with an unsaved husband. And so his passivity isn't open door for her to aggressively lead. It's for her to aggressively trust the Lord. And so again, it goes all of that goes right back to those roles and how even in a fallen world where they're rarely fulfilled rightfully, we still trust the Lord and seek to stay within them even within an ungodly framework. Is that helpful? Yeah. Yeah. I was just wondering, um I guess in the society that we live in, um We've been talking about the role of men and women. In the in the Christian community, in the Pigati community, we understand the roles of authority as a mission. But you know, people you know well maybe you speak to the idea of the role of a woman in society in general, not just in a marriage relationship. Because there would be some who would may think that women should take leadership positions. Sure. You know, so I know we're talking about the the home here. Yeah. But but but I wonder how much of what we talk about from a biblical perspective, you know, uh influences our thinking, you know, in the world in general. Sure. Yeah. That's a that's a huge conversation for sure. That's the next webinar. But I I will say this. I can summarize it this way. That The priority of the wife, okay, the priority is one, her walk with the Lord and her service to her husband, right? Those are that's paramount. That's commands. That's not option. So that's priority. She has to and must seek to fulfill those first. Whatever else comes after then is subservient to that. And so if if we would live that way and then women could fulfill whatever roles and skills and abilities they had that was then just a result of her role in the home and her walk with the Lord. Yeah, I think that opens the door for all kinds of things that are good and beautiful and true and helpful. But what happens what happens almost always is the wife then neglects or denies her ultimate role to fulfill a career outside the home. And that's where it goes wrong. It's not the career that's wrong. It's that she's not fulfilling the role that God has designed for her. And that's where it goes awry. Because most of the time if she's fulfilling that role, she won't have the the time, the energy to fulfill that career at that time. until other you know down the road and children are grown and all of that. So I think the issue is still stay within the biblical framework and some of those reasons some of those things get answered on their own. If the passion and the priority is there But yeah. Did I dodge that one? Oh screw it. Thanks, brother. It's good. Well it's it's it's pop okay, good. We got one more. Last one. This isn't really a question, this is just a tease. Amy, forgive me for this, but West Virginia, I just assumed you recognized her because she was your cousin. Listen. I told you I can take it, right? You know the interesting thing is, in Amy's family tree there is some West Virginia blood, so we might be related somewhere down the line. We're all we're all related. That's right. We're all brothers and sisters in Christ now, so we're all good. And I do have to say on the white shirt thing he I said, well, praise the Lord it wasn't Sunday morning when you found out that you needed a white shirt. It was Saturday. A lot of plastics. He says, I'm sure it works this way at Urnome C, but I've got magic drawers. Like magic Magic magic furniture, you know, just magic closets. Like I I open up my closet and there's clothes that are you know hanging. Yeah. Where did that come from? Hey, look at that. There's empty yesterday in there. Could you um exactly more about examples of some of the purposeful neglect and how that is uh expecting your marriage and even Um and the race uh cycle and kind of the feeding cycle of the church. Yeah. Good good question. Absolutely. So So his question was can you give another example or two or or you know, some on purposeful neglect in your marriage and in your home and how that's been helpful? for your marriage and your home life? That's a great question, yes. Can I tell you one of the areas where you must design purposeful neglect is with electronics? Huge. Huge. So just a purposeful neglect, we have this rule in our home where the phones go in the basket, right? Now we have teenage girls or one with a phone and I mean just Put the phone down. Put it down. Put it on the counter. Put it out of the way before you come to the dinner table. I do the same thing. Put it off, like pull it out of m because it's nonstop, right? You know, it just And that's a purposeful neglect to where we're sitting down at our at our dinner table and there's no other outside influence, it's just us as a family. And you know, even for us as a family of ministry, you know We don't get to eat dinner necessarily every single night together, right? Because um counseling or if she's doing something or the kids gotta go somewhere, that's even hard. So we try to save that. So when we do Maybe three out of the five days out of the week when we're actually all together around the dinner table, man, we we guard that time. We guard it viciously. It's I mean Amy and I do. The kids sometimes don't like it. But they'll learn to love it, right? And but it's so important. It's so important. The other the other side to that then is is like your computer time. or your um internet time or your TV time, whatever it is, that's the other side. Like you can you can get in the zone, whether it's a wife or a husband. And it's just like I'm gonna turn on the TV and and watch something or I'm gonna get on the internet and search something. And you just gotta there are times you just gotta stop that. and sit down with your wife and sit down with your husband. And uh for me often it's reading a book. I'll get into a book and I'm reading a book and it's like You know what, I need to put this down and go s and go help Amy and go spend time with her and it's it's not wrong that I'm reading the book. It's not wrong if I'm searching something But I just know I I need to not do this now. Even though it's 9 30 and everybody's finally in bed and I've got, you know, another half an hour while I'm still halfway coherent before I start to fall off the chart But it's like, no, I need to go sit down with my wife while I'm still coherent or go stand with her in the i in the laundry room while she's working on my white shirts and and talk with her. You know, that's purposeful Neglect. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So um, you know, for me even sometimes, and this is practical, sometimes it's even neglecting some chores around the house. You know, instead of mowing the grass, instead of picking up the sticks, instead of doing this, you know what? I'm gonna let the grass grow high this week. So if the neighbors complain about it, that's all right, because I'm gonna take my wife out on my Monday, on my day off, because I haven't seen her a lot. My grass, who cares? My marriage, I care. So again, sometimes as men we get the projects and the and the things we have in life and they again, the creature now is driving us. The grass now, the surf has become it is driving me, versus me taking control and saying, all right, so it'll take me a little bit longer to mow my grass because now I'll have to bag it three times as much because it's so much higher. But My marriage is more important. So there's a couple examples. Is that helpful? Yeah. Yeah. Alright. Sounds good. Well we're going to go ahead and uh close with a word of prayer. So uh Matt, if you would, just uh pray for us. Absolutely. Thank you. Father God, we are so richly blessed to have your word and be able to study it, to hold it in our laps and hide it in our hearts. Lord, what a precious gift it is to us. And thank you for that promise that all we need for life and godliness is given to us through the precious promises given to us through your word. Thank you, Father, for the eternal nature of it, the timeless nature of it. Thank you for a a precious body of believers like this who desire to come together really for the ultimate purpose of knowing your word, that they might share it with one another and the lost around them. Lord, I do pray for this sweet gathering of saints that you would continue your work of sanctification in their hearts and in their lives. I pray that you would raise up godly homes. godly men who love their wives like Christ, godly women who understand the fear of the Lord and submit to Christ and therefore are submissive helpmates in their home and see that as a as a phenomenal blessing that they have to help their husbands. Lord I pray out of this godly children will come and generational holiness will will just permeate uh Baltimore Bible Church. Thank you for for George and Jennifer and for Matt and Ellie and for all the just the faithful servants of this church. May you continue to Grow them in holiness and godliness, protect them from the sin that dwells within them, and utilize their lives to be reflectors of your glory, for you are worthy of all of this and so much more. We thank you, Father, for your goodness and your greatness in our lives. May our lives just be a constant reflection of that truth through everything that we say and do. It's for the name of Christ all of this has been done. In Jesus' name. Amen. I also want to put in a plug for uh well no a couple things. Just kind of house cleaning or whatever. But I want to put in a plug for uh the marriage class uh is gonna be starting next week. Uh we have a marriage class that'll be starting so in the bags that you received uh uh today You'll find a book in there. You can actually get started a little bit early, you know, and read like your first chatting. You'll find a book in there.