The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, today why don't you open up your Bibles to Psalm chapter 19? Psalm chapter 19. This week we're going to begin a series of foundational messages for our church. We'll get to our exposition of the Gospel of Matthew in a bit, but I thought it would be appropriate for and helpful for us to consider what the foundation of Baltimore Bible Church is. or what's the foundation of Baltimore Bible Church and by God's grace what uh the foundation will will always be and it's uh critically important uh that we understand who we are and why we're here. who we are and why we're here as a church because if if we as a church don't know who we are and and why we're here, we'll be discouraged uh because uh we'll lose our sense of purpose We'll be distracted because we'll not be focusing on our priorities. We'll be derailed, start heading in a direction that God never intended for us by failing to stand firm either in sound teaching or in sound living. Uh and ultimately this church will be defeated and will die. I mean that that's how important it is that we understand who we are and uh why we're we're here Because there there might still be a group of people gathered in a building with a sign out front that says Baltimore Bible Church, but what exists on the inside will not be a church. if we don't understand who we are and and why we're we're here. It'll be an empty shell, a faint shadow of what once existed. So we really have to understand who we are and why we exist. And uh I'll go ahead and read uh uh Psalm 194, just to put it in your minds, and uh and then I'll make some introductory uh comments just about the series that we're gonna cover. Start at verse one. It says, The heavens are telling of the glory of God, and their expanse is declaring the work of his hands. Day to day pours forth speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are their words, their voice is not heard, their line has gone out through all the earth, and their utterances to the end of the world. And them he has placed a tent for the sun, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, rejoices as a strong man to run his course. It's right that Is from one end of the heavens and its circuits to the other end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heath. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise and simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true, they are righteous altogether. They are more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, and keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Acquit me of hidden faults, and also keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not rule over me. Then I will be blameless, and I shall be acquitted of great transgressions. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. And uh as we start this uh series on the foundation of of Baltimore Bible Church, I want to just give you a little bit of history, okay? Just a little bit of history because uh this was the question that the reformers had to answer in the 15th and 16th centuries. Okay? Uh 15th and 16th centuries. The the reformers were looking at a corpse Which was known as the Roman Catholic Church. They're looking at a dead corpse. The focus of the Roman Catholic Church became the external institution rather than the internal life. became on the the focus on the externals. The Roman Catholic Church had the history, they had a mass, they had the ordained ministers, they had bishops, they had a pope, but the problem was is that they did not have sound doctrine or sound practice. They had no spiritual life. And they forfeited the right to be called a true church. Forfeited the right to be called a true church. John Wycliffe in the 14th century, he recognized that He denounced the officials and the authorities of the Roman Catholic Church as a synagogue of Satan. He spurned the Roman Mass as blasphemy, saying that Christ was being sacrificed over and over again. He said it was blasphemy. John Huss in the 15th century he recognized it. He claimed the authority of the Scripture over and against the authority of the Pope. Martin Luther in the 16th century, he recognized it. He revolted against the system of indulgences. you know, paying for sins to be forgiven. He rejected the Roman bishop's claim to apostolic succession from Peter. He repudiated the infallibility of the church's general councils. And this is what began the Protestant Reformation. And new churches started to begin. But as the Protestant churches started to be formed, uh there was also the criticism from the Roman Catholic Church. It was said that Protestant churches could not possibly be true churches. Couldn't possibly be true churches because they didn't have the attributes or marks of a true church And for them, the attributes of a true church meant that they were not one, holy, Catholic, and apostolic, all taken from the Nicene Creed. They said, you know, this church isn't one with us. If it's not one with Rome, how could they be one with the church? That's what they said. It's not one. If they're not one with Rome, how could they be one with the church? If they didn't accept Rome's sacramental system, you know, the Mass and everything else and the priest, how could they be holy? They're not one, they're not holy. If they're only a small group, how can they be Catholic? Universal? They're not one, they're not holy, they're not Catholic. And how can they be apostolic? If they can't trace some kind of lineage back to the uh Apostle Peter, they had no apostolic succession. So if you follow their reasoning, it seems logical, right? They're not one, they're not holy, they're not Catholic, they're not apostolic, and the Roman Catholic Church says, you know, that's it. If you're not tied in with the Roman Catholic Church, you've left the true church. That was their understanding. But there was a large assumption that they made. And the assumption was that they were the true church. Right? That they were the true church. That's the big assumption that they they made. Practically, Rome linked its claim to be a true church back to this kind of succession that they said they had that they could trace their lineage back to the Apostle Peter, that you know Apostle Peter laid hands on somebody who laid hands on somebody who laid hands on somebody, and now you have the the Roman Catholic uh Church. Uh Calvin pointed this out. He says, nothing is more absurd. Than to lodge the succession of persons alone to the exclusion of teaching. Because you can't just claim, because I know somebody who knows somebody who knows somebody who might have known an apostle That's my claim to be a true church. He says, What kind of absurdity is that? With the absence of teaching? And now Galatians chapter 1 and verse 8, even Paul says: if I or an angel from heaven preach anything other than what I'm telling you right now, let him be accursed. It doesn't matter who I claim to be. It doesn't matter if an angel comes down, if he says anything different than what I'm telling you now, let him be accursed. The reformer said this: that if the word of God is not truly proclaimed, And the sacraments are not rightly administered, and church discipline is not faithfully exercised, you don't have a true church. You don't have a true church. The church didn't begin in Rome, it began in Jerusalem, right? Didn't begin in Rome, it began in Jerusalem. Rome's sacramental system didn't even exist when the church was born in Acts chapter two. There were no bishops in Rome to unite with. Even scripture uh shows that uh Many churches started without the presence of an apostle. If you look in the history of the church of Antioch, it was born without an apostle present. They actually sent the apostles to go and check out what's going on over here, right? It was born without an apostle. The church at Colossae. Paul says, I've never even seen you guys before, but I'm praying for you. Because I heard that God's doing the work there, right? And many in church history would even say the church at Rome wasn't even started by an apostle. The Roman Catholic Church would like to say that it's Peter, but many historians would disagree with that. There's very little evidence that Paul, that uh Peter, was the Pope in Rome. Very little evidence that he was even there to start the church. But this is what they claim it's like this is why we can claim to be a true church because I know somebody who knows somebody who knows somebody, right And that's my claim to be a true church. So that the marks of a faithful church from the church's inception were not, you know, are you part of the institution of Rome? That was never the marks of a faithful church. It was never, can I trace my history back to somebody? That was never the marks of a faithful church. But is your faith, is your church faithful to what the Bible teaches a true church is supposed to be? That's how you know you have a true church. And that's what we're going to do in the series, What Are the Marks of a Faithful Church? And we've landed on 12 non-negotiables, okay? Twelve non-negotiables for Baltimore Bible Church. Some churches have nine marks. Uh the Reformers had three marks. Some people have ten marks. The number's not really the important thing, uh, because whether these twelve uh traits and non-negotiables are explicitly mentioned or only implied, uh there's nobody that's going to disagree that scripture Claims that these are the marks of a faithful church and we'll just go through it and see that that it's it's just pulled straight out of scripture itself, okay? This is pulled straight out of scripture. This has to be the very fabric and makeup of our church, okay? Non-negotiable And uh, if these are absent, you're headed down the path of discouragement, distraction, derailment, defeat, and ultimately death. Okay? If you don't have these twelve, if they're not explicit, at least implied in the marks of your church. Here are the twelve, okay? Number one, the sufficiency of scripture. Number two, the authority of Scripture. Number three, the glory of God. Number four, the Lordship of Christ. Number five, the conversion of men. Number six, a qualified leadership. Number seven, a sound theology Number eight, a holiness of life. Number nine, a love for the saints. Number ten, a heart for evangelism. Number 11, a commitment to discipleship. And number 12, a faithful practice, which would include things like the Lord's Supper, baptism, fellowship, and prayer. If you don't have these, you don't have a faithful church. And you might not even have a church at all. Right? Might not even have a church at all. This is what the church is built on, and for the next couple of weeks we're going to look at What does scripture teach about these different areas? Because you need to know who you are and why you're here. Okay? And we'll begin with the first non-negotiable of BBC and uh for that uh we're looking at Psalm 19. Psalm 19, and you're already there, but it really talks about the sufficiency of of scripture. C. S. Lewis uh said about uh Psalm 19, he says, this is I take this to be the greatest poem in all this Psalter and one of the greatest lyrics in the world. And when it comes to the sufficiency of Scripture, there's no better place to turn than Psalm 19. There's other places that are just as good, but there's no place that's better than Psalm 19. If you look at the title of the Psalm in your Bible, it's said to be a Psalm of David. There's no indication as to when it was written during the life of David, but we know that it was used with regularity in the worship of ancient Israel. If you look at the title again, it was it says it's for the choir director or to the chief musician. Uh this was something that was actually sung in Israel. It was it was really a praise to God for his revelation. Okay? This is what we're we're reading right here And then uh Psalm 19 is just so packed. I mean there's there's no way that I'm gonna be able to tell you all that's contained here. Uh but and we can really spend you know two to three months probably just looking over over the psalm. But what's apparent just from the plain reading of it is that the focus of these 14 verses is the revelation of God. The focus of these verses are the revelation of God. And in these sections we see that God has left his mark or his signature as a clear witness. to himself. God's left himself with the witness. In verses 1 down to 6, uh we look at the the signature of God in the skies, for the heavens declare the glory of God. God 's left himself a witness just in the creation itself. You look outside Look outside, look out the windows right now. It's telling you something. It's telling you that there's the God and He's glorious. That's the message that's coming through the windows right now. There is a God, He exists, and this God is glorious. He's worthy of praise Uh in uh verses uh seven down to twelve we see the signature of God in the scriptures, in the scriptures themselves. And we have uh The phrase of the Lord, repeated uh six times in reference to the scriptures. The scriptures are called the law of the Lord, the testimony of the Lord, the precepts of the Lord. The commandment of the Lord, the fear of the Lord, the judgments of the Lord. This comes from God. The scriptures that we hold on our hands come from God. Uh we see God's signature in the in the soul in verses twelve down to fourteen. What when this conviction is brought to the heart and we realize that we're in violation of what God has commanded us to do, what's what's the immediate response to that, right? It's it's like uh Oh Lord, who can count as errors, right? Acquit me of hidden faults. It's this cry of the heart that says, I want to be in conformity to your will, God. And that's what we find in this Psalms, the response to the revelation of God himself. In verses 1 down to 6, let's read that again just to put it in our minds. It says the heavens are telling of the glory of God. And their expanse is declaring the work of his hands. Day to day pours forth speech and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are their words, their voice is not heard. The wine is going after all the earth and their utterances to the end of the world. In them he has placed a tent for the sun which is as the bridegroom coming out of his chamber It rejoices as a strong man around his course, its rising is from one end of the heavens, and its circuits at the other end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. And right here in these uh six verses, David focuses on the general revelation of God. Okay, what's known as the general revelation of God. It's how God reveals himself To man through creation and the conscience. Okay? God reveals himself to man through creation and the conscience. Listen to this definition from Evangelical Dictionary of theology. Listen to this. General revelation is the divine disclosure to all persons at all times and in all places by which humans come to know that God is, that he exists. And what he is like, referring to his attributes. The divine disclosure to all persons at all times and all places by which humans come to know that God exists and what he is like This is what general revelation is. And the heavens are two-point preachers, okay? Two-point preachers. There's a God, he's glorious. That's the message that the heavens have to declare. There's a God and He's glorious. They declare his worth, his honor, his splendor, his majesty. There's a God and He's worthy of praise. And this declaration of God's glory has been available at all times. Look at verse 1 again. The heavens are Telling. That verb is uh for R telling. It's in the PL stem in Hebrew. It's a participial form that it just expresses a continued or repeated action, an extended action. Which why it's translated what it's which is why it's translated R telling, it continues to tell. The heavens continue to say something. The same is true for the verb declaring, their expanse is declaring the work of his hands. And again it points to this continual nature of the revelation of the skies. In verse 2 where it says that day-to-day pours forth speech and night to night reveals now as that word uh pours forth. It's actually a a word that means to bubble, bubble forth. It's like a a a brook or a or or a fountain that just kinda you know can't be contained. It just keeps on coming up. When you look at the heavens, it's like I've got something to say and I'm not gonna stop. You know, it's like I'm gonna keep on saying this. I got a I got a message to say, right? I've got a message to tell you guys. There's a God, He's glorious, that just keeps on saying the same thing. You can't contain it. You can't contain it. So this declaration is available at all times since the creation of the heavens and the earth, right? Before man was even created on earth, there was already this witness, right? Already this witness saying there's a God. There's a God. From day one when man was created, he already knew there's a God. And this God is worthy of worship from day one. It's been available at all times. It's also been available to all people. Since the heavens don't speak audibly, In uh in literal words, right there in verse three it says, There is no speech, nor are their words, their voices not heard. Since the heavens don't speak with an audible voice, you can't say I I I just didn't get the message. You know, because I I I I belong to a different kind of culture or background, I have a different kind of culture. kind of language that I use. The heavens speak in a language without words. So it doesn't matter what language you speak, you're hearing the voice. You're hearing the message. You can't say that I didn't hear it. The heavens know no barriers. You know, all men may not understand each other, but everybody can understand the message from the heavens. Okay? Everybody can understand that. And not only that, it's all times, all languages, but also in all lands. Look at verse 4. Their line has gone out through all the earth Their utterances to the end of the world. That word line can be translated as a a sound or cry. Their line has gone out through all the earth. It's actually the way that it's translated in Romans chapter ten and verse eighteen, where Paul quotes the same psalm and he says, Their sound has gone out through all the earth. It's an inaudible sound. A sound that you can't hear. Their sound has gone out through all the earth. There's not a corner of the earth where you can go. where you're not going to hear the the voice of the the heavens and it's inescapable in uh verse six it says it's rising us from one end of the heavens it circuits to the other end talking about the the sun And it says, and there's nothing that's hidden from its heat. Nothing hidden from the heat of the sun. You can't escape it. And it's interesting that it would use the sun in heat because even if you're blind, you can still feel the sun. Even if you're blind, you can still feel the sun. There's there's a witness that God has left for himself. Nobody can deny the witness of God. There's a God in his glorious. You can't escape, but I found this interesting. Uh an average campfire, if you had a campfire or a wood fire Uh temperature would range between 800 and 900 degrees Fahrenheit. You stand back a couple of feet, you know it gets a little cooler. You know, stand back a couple yards, you probably can't feel it hardly at all. You stand a mile away, you don't even know the fire's there, right? It's not gonna warm you up Listen to this. The sun is 91 to 94 million miles from the earth. And we can't escape the heat of it. 91 and 94 million miles away, and we can't get away. If it wasn't for the heat of the sun, we'd be a lifeless block of ice. We can't escape God's witness. God is saying, I'm here. I'm here, you can you can see it, you can feel it, you're hearing it even though it's without words. You know that I'm here. No excuse. Absolutely no excuse penetrates the furthest corners of the of the earth. Flip over to Romans chapter 1. We read it a little bit earlier, but I want to show you something. Romans chapter 1. Great, great chapter. Look at verse 21 in uh Romans chapter 1 here. Actually, I'll backpack up. It's always hard to start in the middle of a passage. Look at verse 20. It says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen Being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse. Nobody's got an excuse. God, I just I I I didn't know, right? Nobody has an excuse Look at what it says in verse 21. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. But they became futile and their speculations, their foolish heart was darkened. That word uh they did not honor God, it's the the Greek word doxadza. You know what it means? Glorify Even though they knew God, they did not glorify him as God. What did the heavens declare? The glory of God. What do people refuse to do? Glorify God. God's saying, nobody has an excuse not to glorify me. Nobody has an excuse. I've left you a witness. It keeps talking to you. It keeps saying, glorify him. He's there. Glorify him. He's powerful. Glorify him. And what do people refuse to do? I don't want to glorify God. No excuse. It's available at all times, all languages, all places, inescapable, and men refuse to glorify God. But as powerful as the Voice of the the heavens are. As powerful as that is, there's there's a word that that speaks with superior authority And like the sun it pierces everywhere, it detects everything and and and those are the words of Scripture, okay? Those are the words of Scripture. And really the intent of the Psalm By placing general revelation with next to special or specific revelation, the words of God in Scripture. The reason that it does this is in order for us to fully appreciate the the sufficiency of God's word for all of life. Like I said, the the heavens are two-point preachers, right? What do they say? There's a God and He's glorious So if you were to ask David, you know, what's the meaning of general revelation? You know, why why are the heavens here? Why do they exist? It's to tell you two things. There's a God he's glorious. You need to glorify him, right? But when it comes to the Word of God, look what David says. Look at verse 7 The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true, they are righteous altogether. They are more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned, and keeping them there is great reward. You understand the difference? Yeah, the heavens, the two-point preachers. When you get to the word, it's like it's it's it's it's I mean you you you just can't can't explain it all. It's it's it's sufficient for everything. It's perfect It's sure. It's right. It endures forever. It's clean. It makes me wise. This is the benefit that we have from the Word of God. All that we need for life and godliness has been given to us in the Word of God. This is what we call sufficiency. The Word of God is sufficient. Let me give you a few definitions that I think are helpful. Grudham says this. Scripture contained all the words of God he intended his people to have at each stage in history, and that it now contains all the words of God we need for salvation, for trusting him perfectly, for obeying imperfectly. Have everything we need McKean says this, the Bible is a finished and complete revelation, entirely sufficient for its divinely intended purpose. It need not be supplemented by reason, experience, tradition, other religions, or anything else It does not wait to be sufficient until it encounters the individual, nor does it cease to be sufficient when rejected or ignored by the same. Sufficient. Westminster Confession says it this way. The whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man, salvation, faith, and life is either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture, unto which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations of the Spirit or traditions of men. We have everything that we need. It's all right here. In other words, whatever you need to live a life pleasing to God, you can find in the scripture. Whatever you need to live a life that's pleasing God, it's all there. The truth about Himself is there. The truth about salvation is here. If you need guidance and instruction for the will of God, it's here Whatever God wants you to believe, it's here. Whatever God wants you to practice, it's here. It's in the Bible. Absolutely nothing that's necessary for your Christian life that you will not find in the pages of Scripture. And people will try to argue against the sufficiency of Scripture with silly things like, you know, well the Bible doesn't tell me how to fix my car. You know, it's not sufficient. Doesn't tell me how to harvest a crop. Doesn't tell me how to solve the math problem. You know, the Bible doesn't have everything that we need. Well, you know, it may be true it doesn't tell you how to fix a car, but in Second Thessalonians 3 verse 10 says if anybody will not work neither let them eat. Right? It gives gives you the principles that you need. It gives you everything that you need and instructs the farmer, the auto mechanic, and the mathematician about the proper way to do his work. Colossians chapter 3 verse 23 Whatever you do, do your work heartily as for the Lord rather than for men. It gives you instructions for life. It gives the automechanic instructions It gives the mathematician instructions. It's principles that the Word of God gives. The Word of God is not meant to answer every question that pops into your mind And some people think that that's what sufficiency means. You know, anything that I come up with, the Bible's got to have an answer for it. And Deuteronomy 29, 29, it says there's certain things that God has chosen not to reveal to us, right? Secret things belong to the Lord, or the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children, right? There's certain things that God says, no, I'm not gonna reveal those things to you. But I've given you everything that's sufficient for you. Everything that you need, I've given to you. Okay? That's what sufficiency means. So when we're facing a problem, uh any problem of importance to the Christian life. We can approach the scriptures with the confidence that God has provided us with an answer. Okay? I remember I had an assignment. Well, I was a college student. I actually went around to different churches and uh had a question for him. It's like, you know, do you believe that the Bible is uh sufficient to lead a person uh to a relationship with God? I went around to Catholic Church, United Methodist Church, Episcopal Church. Remember, I went to the Catholic Church and said, you know, do you believe that the scriptures are sufficient to lead a person to a relationship with God? And you know what the priest told me? No. Priest told me now. He says uh it's scriptures and the traditions of the church. That's what's necessary to lead a person to salvation I'm thankful that he was honest with me, but he was wrong. 2 Timothy. Flip over to 2 Timothy We need to have a confidence in the Word of God, right? 2 Timothy chapter 3. Look at verse 15. Look at what it says. It says, And that from childhood you have known the sacred writings. Which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to what? Salvation. Through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Are the scriptures sufficient to bring you to salvation? The answer is yes. I've known people that have been saved just from reading the Bible alone. The scriptures are sufficient to lead you to salvation. But not only is the Bible able to give us wisdom that leads to salvation, it also instructs us after salvation into all the will of God for our lives. Look at verses 16 and 17, same chapter. 2 Timothy 3. Says all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approval, for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Every good work. You know what that means in the Greek? Every good work. Right? Everything that you need to do, everything that you need to do to please and honor God, he says, I've given it to you. Every good work. The scriptures are sufficient for that. We don't need to seek, like I said, new revelation from the Spirit or traditions from men. to make these kinds of decisions. Everything that we need in principle is found right here in the Word of God. We don't have to feel like we're deficient in any way. But let's see what David says back says about it back in the Psalm 19. Like I said, we could camp out on this for a for a while, but look at this passage again with me. He uses six different titles for God's law in uh verse 7. It's called the law of the Lord. It's a Torah in Hebrew. It refers to the teaching or instruction from God. Actually comes from a word hor which means to point out, to give direction. We have all the direction that we need in the Word of God. Uses uh five other synonyms for this uh law of God that give further description of it. In verse 7 is called the testimony, bears witness to God, precepts In verse 8, you know, the rules are guidelines to be followed, commandments in verse 8 demonstrates the authority that the Word of God has. In verse 9, it's called the fear of the Lord, focuses on the effect that it has on those that hear it, those that sit under it. It produces fear. It's called the judgments of God in verse 9 or ordinances. It's uh uh that which is determined by God that reveal what God has decided, you know, his judgments, what God has decided. And what struck me about this section here is that it doesn't really focus on what the law reveals, although it reveals a lot. It focuses on what the law does. What the law does in the life of a believer and its value and sufficiency for us. So like I said, if we were to ask David the question, what's the value of general revelation, it would be, you know, close there's a guy named He's glorious. What about the special revelation? It restores us, it makes us lives, it rejoices our hearts, it enlightens the eyes, it warns us, it brings us reward. Let's take a look at these benefits quickly, all right? Number one, it restores the soul. Look at verse 7 Says the law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. That word uh restoring can mean converting. Okay? It changes us. It literally turns us back. to God. Okay? That's what the word of of God does. Salvation is a product of the word of God. Did you know that? I mean we just looked at it. The scriptures were able to bring Timothy the the wisdom that needs leads to salvation, right? The scriptures were sufficient for that. 1 Peter 1 23 it says, For you have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. And in Romans 10, 17, so faith comes by hearing, and hearing by what? The word of God We're saved through the word of God. But not only are we saved, we're also sanctified. We continue to turn back to God from the Word of God, okay? We continue to turn back to God's word in verse Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 13, you don't have to turn there, but it says this. It says, we constantly thank God that when you receive the word of God which you heard from us You accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God, which also performs its work in you who believe. God's word will continue to transform you. And John 17, 17, Jesus prayed to the Father. He says, sanctify them in thy truth, right? And what is truth? Your word is truth. How are we sanctified? How are we transformed? It's through the word of God. This is the means that God has given us to transform our lives. Is the word sufficient? Better believe it is. I want to hear some amens out there, okay? You better believe it is. The word of God is sufficient. Word of God is not only sufficient to convert us, it also brings wisdom. It makes wise the simple. Look at verse 7 again. It says, the testimony of the Lord ashore, making wise the simple. That word simple was used for those that don't have discernment. Okay? Those that lacked discernment. It wasn't necessarily a person who's a fool. If you read in the the Proverbs, you'll find that the fool often mentioned. But the fool is somebody who has knowledge, but he rejects it Okay, that's a fool. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. He knows there's a God, but he's denying them. That's the fool. He has wisdom, he has knowledge, he rejects it That's the fool. The simple person is the person he just doesn't know any better. Okay, that's that's the simple person. Hebrew root for the word simple means an open door. This is somebody he doesn't know when to shut the door, when to open the door. It's just open for everything. You know, y'all come, right? Anybody, everybody, you know, whatever teaching, y'all, y'all just come on in, right? It's the person whose mind is like just an open open door for anything. This is the the simple person. Where does the simple person go? Goes to the Word of God. Look at Psalm 119. Listen to these verses. Psalm 119, verse 130. It says, the unfolding of thy words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple. If you're a person who doesn't have discernment, where do you go to get it? You go to the Word of God. The Word of God instructs us. Verse 99 and Psalm 119, it's a great chapter. You should read it sometime. Verse 99, it says, I have more insight than all my teachers. Why? Because your testimonies are my meditation. I have more insight than my teachers. Because I meditate on your word. Verse 100, I understand more than the age, more than people that have got many years on me. Why? Because I have observed your precepts. The word of God gives Understanding to the simple makes the simple wise. Scriptures are sufficient. Sufficient. Sufficient to convert us. Sufficient to make us wise. Number three, sufficient to bring joy to the heart. Look at verse 8. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Got a question for you. Where do you go? Where do you go when you want to find joy? Where do you go? Think about it. Alright? If if it's not to the Lord and to his word, where do you go when it leaves you empty? You know that's the next question. If if you're not going to to God and to his word for for joy Whatever you're going to, it's temporary. Temporary. Everything else is temporary. Everything outside of God in His Word will run out of steam. Listen again to Psalm 119, verse 16, it says this: I will delight in your statutes, I will not forget your word. Verse 97: Oh, how I love thy law, it is my meditation all the day. Verse 111, Thy testimonies are my heritage forever, yea, they are the joy of my heart. It's like there's joy in the Word of God. Joy there. Listen to Jeremiah 15, 16. Thy words were found, and I ate them, and thy words became to me a joy and the delight of my heart, for I am called by thy name. It's joy. Love it. Love it. Listen to the Lord Himself. John 15, verse 11. These things I've spoken to you that my joy may be in you and your joy may be full. How is your joy going to be full? By the things I've spoken to you? My word? This is where you're going to find joy. This is where you're going to find fullness of joy. This is where you're going to find the lasting satisfaction. And it's not to say that the Christians are always ecstatic and always running around with a smile on their face. You know, but there's this deep abiding sense of joy that you can't take away, right? If you're connected to the Word of God. When my father passed away in 2000, I got the first phone calls at work. Told me uh it was my my um my mom called to to say, you know, you need to come home. Your father's just had a heart attack. Went home, got a second call from my sister. You know, and you could hardly hear her through her tears. She was just saying, He's gone. You know, Dad's gone. First thing I did was pick up my Bible. First thing. It's like this It's my immediate reaction. It's just like I d I I need something, right? First thing, no, I was actually in Psalm 119. I was reading Psalm 119 before I got the news. I kept reading in Psalm 119 after I got the news. W Why? Because I knew that if if I'm gonna be stable through this, it's gonna be found in the Word of God There's nowhere else I'm going to turn. You know, sometimes people say, oh, you know, you Christians, you look at the uh the Bible as a crutch or you look at your faith as a crutch. It's not a crutch. It's a stretcher. It's a stretcher. You know when you're just flat on your back, it carries you. Okay? That's what the word of God is. It's not some kind of crutch like I'm getting along fine on my own. I just need a little help. No, I I'm just laid out. I'm just laid out, Lord. Just care of me, okay? That's the word of God. Brings you joy. Joy. Sufficient. Is it sufficient? Let me hear something, right? Sufficient God's word is sufficient. It restores the soul. It makes life and simple. It rejoices the heart. It enlightens the eye. Look at verse 8 again. Commands of the Lord are pure enlightening the eyes. Verse verse uh Verse 11. Moreover, by them your servant is warned. Moreover, by them your servant is warned. Well, let's look at the enlightenment of the of the eyes. It enlightens the eye. What is that? A little different from uh from the the wisdom, giving wisdom to the simple. Uh when you think about light, light keeps you from stumbling around, right? Even if you have sight, if you don't have light, it's just like you don't have sight, right? Even if I have sight, even if I can see perfectly fine, if I'm in the dark, my sight does me no good. It's the word of God that brings light to the eyes. Okay? Brings light to the eyes. The word light is uh used figuratively here for what gives direction. Okay? Psalm 119 verse 105. It says, Thy word is uh what? Where is a lamp? Where is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path? Again, in uh verse 130 it says, the entrance of thy word gives light The word brings clarity, okay? Clarity. And and shame on anybody who says that uh God's word needs to be kind of unlocked by some kind of, you know, mystery code. You ever see those things? You know, this Bible code, we're gonna crack, you know, the the Bible code. You know, if you skip every third letter and add this in here and then you can really understand what the Bible means. It's like shame on you. You don't think God knows how to communicate? You think God needs to communicate in the code? And if he was, you know, wouldn't he give us the instructions for how to read it? Good grieve. It's like the God who created language doesn't know how to communicate in it now? You need some kind of code to unravel it. If your church churches teach you that you need to come to them alone, you know, to unlock all the mysteries of the scripture, you need to run for your life. Okay? You need to run for your life. You're being hoodwinged. Somebody's lying to you. If they're trying to act as if, you know, I'm the only one that where you can get any truth from, like the scriptures alone can't can't provide light. The scriptures provide light. And actually anybody that tries to teach this dependence on them, as if they're the only ones that have the interpretation of Scripture, they actually shut out the light. Okay? They're shutting out the light. Jehovah's Witnesses. This is what they teach. This is actually what they teach. The lights will grow dim for those that don't constantly feed on the magazines. You know, if if you're not, you know, pulling out the watchtower, the awake, or whatever else, it says the lights will grow dim on your understanding of scripture. But we've discovered that the more magazines you read, it's like the more light. Give me a break. Give me a break. You're hiding the light. You're trying to snuff the light out. Mormons, they believe their apostles hold the true meaning of Scripture, and they pity those who are just left with the mere scriptures alone. It's like you need this hopeful companion. You know, the Book of Mormon to go along with your study of the Bible so you can really understand, right? Pearl the Great Price and listen to our apostles Roman Catholicism, as recently as the Second Vatican Council met in 1962 to 65, they concluded this: all that pertains to the form by which Scripture is explained is subject ultimately to the judgment of the Church. Meaning what? Only we can understand the Bible. If you want to understand the Bible, you need to come to us. Everything that pertains To the way scriptures explain it, subject to the judgment of the church. Come come to come to Mama. Come to Mama Church and we'll explain everything to you because you just can't figure this out on your own. Loose the scriptures and let them speak, right? Loose the scriptures and let them speak. They have sufficient light to guide the faithful, okay? You don't need some some kind of code to figure this out, some magazine to read. Look at the Bible yourself. We're not left in the dark. We're given what's right, what's proper, and it's all found in the Word of God. Is it sufficient Amen. It's like that uh old commercial for Ragu, right? You know, you ever seen that old commercial it's in there? It's in there. It's in there It's right here. God's word restores the soul, makes wise the simple, rejoices the heart, enlightens the eyes. This is where I was going, verse 11. It warns God's servant. Read it earlier. Moreover, by them your servant is warned. Your servant is warned. It's the word uh Zahar in uh Hebrew. It was uh used for the the watchman, what the watchman would do. Okay? He uh in Old Test Testament times uh uh cities were walled in for their own protection. You had cities that were walled in, you know, Jerusalem, other cities were walled in. uh for added protection they would station a watchman on top of the the the wall. Why? So we could warn the people inside if there's danger coming. If there's an army approaching, if there's a fire, you know, some kind of riot or whatever, the the watchman who would sit on the top of the wall, he'd warn the people, say , Danger! You know, an enemy's approaching Uses that same word, warn, in Ezekiel chapter 3, verses 17 and 18. The Lord used the watchmen to illustrate the prophets. Now listen to what he says in Ezekiel chapter 3. 17 and 18. It says, Son of man, I've appointed you a watchman to the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, warn them from me. Verse 18, When I say to the wicked, Ye shall surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to warn the wicked from his wicked way, that he may live, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. He uses this picture of the watchman and he says, warn him. What is the word of God? It's warning. It gives you warning. Tells you danger. Danger is approaching. Why? If you break God's commands, there's danger involved. That's what the warning is. Don't transgress against the law of God. There's danger involved in that. And we need that, don't we? We need somebody that's gonna come alongside us and says, you know what, you you better not go down that road. I'm I'm trying to help you out, you know I ain't hating. I'm not trying to hate. Alright? I'm just trying to help you out. Don't go down that road. There's danger down there Gives warning. The word of God gives warning. And lastly, we're brought great reward. Look at verse 11 again. Moreover, by them your servant is warning, and in keeping them there is great reward. So the word of God not only warns us about what will happen if we go down the wrong road. It tells us about the reward that we'll have if we go down the right road. Reward. There's a present reward in keeping the word of God, but there's also a future reward as well in Revelation chapter 22. In verse 12, it says this. I love this. Jesus says, Behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be. Word of God is sufficient. Sufficient. It's got everything that we need. Look back to verse 10. It says, they are more desirable than gold, yes, than much fine gold. Sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. The person who receives the word of God, it's like he uh just hit the jackpot, right? It's like I've got the word of God. I don't I don't need to go anywhere else. It's like he's just tasted the uh the most delicious taste that his mouth could ever fathom, right? It's like it's the word of God It's like I understand it now. And to remind you, this is a when when David is writing this, he's talking about Genesis through Job. You know the stuff that we fall asleep on? He's saying this I hit the jackpot here. This is the word of God. This is more sweet to me than anything I've ever tasted. It's the word of God. I like what Piper said. He says, this is no mere intellectual kind of commitment to the Bible. This is a love affair with God. If you have a choice between the Word of God and gold. Choose the Word of God. If you have a choice between the Word of God and much gold, choose the Word of God. If you have a choice between the Word of God and much fine gold, choose the W It's better than anything else. Most valuable commodity you can have. Sweetest treasure a person can experience. And the best advice that I can give to any Christian is fall in love with your Bible. Best advice Fall in love with the scriptures. You'll never be disappointed. Never be disappointed. And for us as a as a church, the foundational non-negotiable commitment for us has to be this book, right? If we're not holding to this, we might as well shut the door and close shop, right? It's over. It's the word of God that has to be sufficient. The song we sang earlier, how firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord. It's laid for your faith in its excellent word. How firm a foundation do we have? We've got it all right here And real quickly, what's the appropriate response to this this word? After we've we've received this great treasure, the revelation of God, it's definitely not pride, right? You don't look at this kind of word and say, yeah, I measure up I'm doing fine. Pat yourself on the back. Got that covered. I got that down. It's not out of your sponsor the word of God. I like what Albert Barnes wrote in his commentary. He says, in view of the law so pure, so holy. So strict in its demands and so extended in its requirements, asserting jurisdiction over the thoughts, the words, the whole life, who can recall the number of times that he has departed from such a law If you really understand what the word of God is, it's like who can recall how many times I've sinned against this law. He goes on to add this: he says, the reason why any man is elated. joyful with the conviction of his own goodness is that he has no just sense of the requirements of the law of God. And the more anyone studies that law, the more he will be convinced of the extent of his own depravity. The more you understand the word of God is the more you see yourself and all the sin that still remains within your heart, right? There's a change in the psalm at this point. At first it's kind of like the psalm that's trying to teach others, like kind of directed outward. At this point in the psalm, David focuses on himself. It says, moreover, by them your servant is mourned, and keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Acquit me. Acquit me of hidden faults. It's not even talking to anybody else now. It's just like acquit me of hidden false. Also keep back your servant from presumptuous, presumptuous sins. Let them not rule over me. Then I will be blameless and I shall be acquitted of great transgression. He focuses on himself and there's three requests. He acts to be acquitted. To be acquitted, it means to be cleansed, to be cleared. He's asking for forgiveness here. He says, acquit me of hidden faults. Who can discern his errors? How many times have I sinned against this law? Who can even count up the times that I've sinned against this? It's like forgive me, God. Acquit me of hidden false. There's things that I don't even know that I've done that are wrong. Second request is to be prevented. He wants to be prevented from Committing presumptuous sins. Look at verse thirteen. Also keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not rule over me. Uh presumptuous sins, it's uh the sins that we do when we know better. It's not like the things that we do and it's like, hey, I didn't know that was wrong. It's like, nah, I I knew better. I knew better. Those sins that we do intentionally are the sins of pride, arrogance, defiantly disobeying God. And then the third request he asked to be accepted. Asks to be accepted. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. And the the question for you is, is this the cry of your heart? Is this this how you respond to the Word of God? Is it your desire to be well pleasing to the Lord? We're not perfect. We know we're not perfect. We know we don't always please God. But we desire to, don't we? I mean that 's the heart of a true believer. And that's the confidence that David had. He saw himself as an individual who was purchased by God That's why he says I can call God my rock and my redeemer. He says, God, you've you've purchased me. You've bought me. I belong to you It's not about my obedience to your law, because I know I've sinned. It's because you're a gracious God and you've purchased me for yourself. Amen. Thank God. Because if it wasn't for that, we'd be blown away, right? We'd be blown away by this But because David sensed his own unworthiness, felt the weight of a sin before a holy God, David could fling himself on God's mercy and experience the forgiveness that only God could give. And he could say in another psalm, How blessed is the man whose sin is covered. Right? Sin is covered, transgression is forgiven. And that was all the product of God's revelation. How sufficient is that? We've been given a sufficient word, right? Sufficient word. There's a poem I heard. Long time ago, probably 10, 12, something, 15 years ago, I don't know. About this guy named Maud Fraser Jackson, I just never forgot it. He says, What if I say the Bible is God's holy word? Complete, inspired, without flaw. But fail to look in its pages from day to day. Fail to learn from there God's law. What if I go not there to seek the truth of which I glibly speak for guidance on this earthly way? Does it matter what I say? Does it matter if I say that the word of God is complete, it's efficient, it's inspired, it doesn't have any flaws, but then I don't go there Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much for The sufficiency of it. My Father, we pray that we would be able to say, like Job, that I've treasured the words of thy mouth more than my necessary food. It's more important to me than eating today. The word of God. Father, we pray that we would say with the psalmist, I love the law of thy mouth, it's better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces Oh, how I love thy law. It's my meditation all the day. How sweet are thy words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth I've inherited thy testimonies forever, for they are the joy of my heart. My soul keeps thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. Father, I pray that we would love your word exceedingly. That we would be a congregation that's marked and known by its love for your word, and that we hold your word to be all sufficient That we're not looking for new revelations, we're not looking for traditions, we're not looking for other things outside of the scriptures to build our church on. Father, that there's only one foundation, and that that foundation has been laid in your word. That Jesus Christ has laid that foundation and given it to us. Father, I pray that we would have a great confidence in you and in you alone that's expressed our uh Trust in the word that you've given us. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on Duplicat CDs and all digital files.