The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? The book of Matthew. Matthew is a rich and powerful proclamation and defense of Jesus as the long anticipated Messiah, and uh I'm humbled each week as I get to spend uh more time in this uh this book. It's been my prayer that that we as a congregation uh would really grow in our appreciation for our Lord. And I know that's been the case for me as I've been uh uh as I've had the opportunity to uh dig into Matthew each week. Uh Matthew chapter three is uh where we are uh today but uh before we begin let's uh let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you again, Lord, for your word. We thank you for leaving us this written revelation of who you are, of who your son is. of the way uh to heaven, uh Father, that you've uh displayed all that for us on the pages of Holy Scripture. Father, we thank you for uh leaving us a sure guide. And Father, I pray that you'd help me today, Lord, as I open up your word , that it would be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Matthew chapter 3, and we'll start at verse 13. Verse 13 of uh Matthew chapter 3. It says, Then Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan, coming to John to be baptized by him. But John tries to prevent him, saying, I have need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me? But Jesus answering said to him, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he permitted him. After being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove and lighting on him And behold, a voice out of the heaven said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. At the end of three chapters in Matthew, we're finally personally introduced to our Lord. Everything else has been in preparation for this point right here. We reviewed the king's royal genealogy in chapter 1, verses 1-17 that proved his right to rule. We marveled at the king's miraculous birth, which demonstrated his power to save in chapter 1, verses 18 down to 25. In chapter two, we saw how the king was recognized from his infancy as the rightful heir to the throne, and uh that recognition came not only at the faithful that bowed the knee, uh it also came from the f fanatical dictator that uh bore the sword. Uh but God made sure that nothing would prevent this king from being recognized, even if it came from an unlikely source. And in the beginning of uh chapter three, we're introduced to the king's herald. the voice in the the wilderness, the one who prepared the way for the king. And uh everything has been leading up to this moment and pointing us towards this moment when the king finally makes his appearance. Uh this is the moment that John the Baptist and all of his followers have been waiting for. And uh there's a tremendous amount of anticipation uh that was building up for the Messiah at this point. Uh the crowds were in anticipation if you flip over to the gospel of uh Luke. It kind of fills in some of the uh the pieces for us here. Luke chapter 3. Luke chapter 3 and uh verses uh 15 down to 18. Look at what it says here. Uh Luke chapter 3 It says, Now while the people were in a state of expectation, and all were wondering in their hearts about John as to whether he was the Christ, John answered and said to them, All as for me I baptize you with water, but one is coming who is mightier than I, and I am not fit to untie the thong of the sandals, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. And fire. And uh he goes on to say some of the same things that uh we saw before, and then in verse eighteen he said, So with many other exhortations he preached the gospel to the people. So you have these these people, these crowds that gathered around John the Baptist. They're eagerly anticipating this one who's mightier than I that's coming. And uh after a while they're wondering, you know, well, is John really talking about himself? You know, because they're they're anticipating this this king to come. They kept hearing so much about the one to come and they didn't see him, so they started wondering, well maybe maybe it's John, maybe he's talking about himself. Uh but we know that he uh he wasn't talking about himself. He says, No, it's not me, it's it's one who's coming after me, who's mightier than me. And uh John had to keep reminding him that he was only a a forerunner In Acts chapter 13, verse 25, it says, and while John was completing his course, he kept saying, What do you suppose that I am? I am not he, but behold, one is coming after me with the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie. So he continued to Point away from himself, point towards the Christ, the one who was to come, and he says that there is one who is among you that you don't even recognize. In uh John chapter one, verse twenty six, John answered and said, I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you do not know. The the Christ is among you. So there was this anticipation that that built with the people. But not only were the people in This eager anticipation of the Messiah, but so was John. Uh John was eagerly anticipating the Messiah. From the time John was a child, he would have known about Jesus. John and Jesus were cousins, if you remember that from uh the Gospel of Luke. Uh John would have known from his childhood about the prophecy even regarding his own life. that uh he was to be a forerunner of the the king, a herald of the king. Uh back in uh Luke chapter uh uh one again it it talks about that and uh by the time we get to uh Matthew chapter three uh John is in his thirties John is in his 30s, and we know that because uh the beginning of Jesus' ministry uh was marked by the baptism of John, and uh Jesus was About 30 years of age when he started his ministry according to Luke chapter 3, verse 23. It says that when he began his ministering, Jesus himself was about 30 years of age. So if Jesus is beginning his ministry at 30, John is six months older than Jesus, John has been waiting 30 years, 30 plus years. you know, for this uh uh presentation, this arrival of the the Messiah. And uh here we see the Messiah finally make his appearance. We don't know how long John was out in the wilderness preparing the people uh for the king. Some say it was a period of months Some say it was a period of years, but we know that John waited his whole life for this. This is what John was made for. He was made to be this forerunner for the king. So he's been waiting all of his life, you know, to to present the king to the people. Uh and the people uh were in eager an expectation. John was in eager anticipation, and Jesus himself would have been preparing for this moment as well. We know that from the age of twelve Jesus knew who he was. He knew why he was there. And Luke chapter 2, verse 49, he had this to say about his parents after they lost him Uh imagine that, you know, we've we've lost the Messiah. You know, here here God gave us his son, and now we can't find him. You know, so here they are, they're looking for uh for Jesus uh while they're at Jerusalem, and in uh Luke chapter 2 verse 49, he said to them, Why is it that you were looking for me? Did you not know that I had to be in my father's house and uh King James, New King James translates it in my fat uh about my father's business, uh, because literally it says uh Didn't you know that I had to be in the things of my father? Had to be about father things. How to be about my father's things. From the age of twelve he knew that he had a purpose to fulfill, but he waits 18 more years. At twelve he he knew who he was, he knew what he was supposed to do. He waits still eighteen more years before he presents himself publicly. In uh verse fifty one of Luke chapter two it says, He went down with them and came to Nazareth, and he continued in subjection to them Continued in subjection to his parents, even though he knew exactly who he was. And for thirty years you had God in human flesh walking among his people. Walking among his people, and they did they didn't even know who he was. I mean, uh, and that's pretty remarkable when you think about it. I mean the incredible patience of the Lord, knowing who he was the whole time, and not revealing himself. Exhibiting this great patience, waiting until the fullness of time had come and when it was the right time to reveal himself to the people. And uh just briefly, I mean this This should really be the longing of God, that the longing of us, you know, rather that um that Jesus would be manifested. That should be the longing of all of our hearts. You actually find that uh in the in the New Testament when we uh kind of look forward to the time that Christ comes back, it's like the there's the same kind of expectation. that we should have, right? In uh Luke chapter, um, I mean uh Revelation 22, uh John says there, amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Come, Lord Jesus. You know, and the the question is, is that how your heart responds to the coming of of Christ, that you're you're eagerly anticipating the time when Christ would manifest himself? And far from being an isolated text of Scripture that says, you know, come Lord Jesus, we find this all over the scriptures. All over the scriptures. 1 Corinthians 16, 22. If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed. Maranatha, uh that uh word Maranatha uh could be translated, O Lord come, O Lord come. Could somebody say that you're as uh Peter was in 2 Peter 312, looking for and hastening? The coming of the day of God as Peter talks about, the the presence of God, the arrival of God, referring to Christ, would you describe yourself as loving the appearance? of Christ. In 2 Timothy 4 verse 8, it says, In the future there's laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day And not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing. It's like like as believers, we should be longing, loving the appearing of Jesus Christ. We should be waiting for this moment, eager. Anticipation for this moment. Philippians 3. 20, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh Jude 121. Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. And then one more, Titus two thirteen. Looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior. And who is that? Christ Jesus. And uh for these people here in the first century, these believers, those that had been baptized by John, this would have been their longing. We want to see Christ manifested. We want to see him appear. We're longing for the Messiah. Longing for him. So they were waiting for this manifestation of the king. The king's expected manifestation, and this is our first point, uh back in uh Matthew chapter uh three of uh verse 13. It says then, after all this eager anticipation, then Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan, coming to John to be baptized by him. And as we've already learned in our uh past studies, uh Jesus was from the north. Israel uh was at this this time split up into four different regions. You had Galilee uh that was to the north, Samaria was in the center, Perea was on the east. And in the south would have been Judea. Uh John 's ministry was in the south in the the wilderness of Judea and uh Jesus was was up in the in the north And uh one day while John is out here baptizing in a place near Bethany, which was uh on the east side of the Jordan, according to John 1. 28. The one that he's been predicting finally shows up. You know, the one that they've been longing for finally shows up. And uh like I sh said, the uh initial chapters of Matthew, they're preparing us uh for this moment. John's been preparing the people for this. John 's waiting for this. And uh John finally identifies Jesus as he approaches in uh John 129. This is what he says. It says, the next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he on behalf of whom I said, After me comes a man who has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. So here he is. Here is the Messiah. Okay? Question, what do you think everybody was expecting at this point? If you remember where we were uh just uh a week earlier John has been preparing the people to receive this Messiah, right? Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make his path straight. As for me, I baptize you with water, but though there's one coming mightier than I, he's going to baptize you with the Holy Spirit in what? Fire. Winning fork is in his hand, he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor, he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Prepare yourself for this king. And then here he comes. He shows up. Here he is. Here is the king. What are the people expecting? They're expecting maybe a baptism of the Holy Spirit. They're expecting maybe a baptism of fire. The last thing they're expecting for this king to do is to walk down into the Jordan himself and be baptized by water. That is the last thing that they're expecting this king to do. The king has this expected manifestation, but there is this unexpected humiliation. Unexpected humiliation. Let's look at uh again verses 13 down to 15 here. So then Jesus arrived from Galilee at the Jordan, coming to John to be baptized by him? But John tried to prevent him. No wonder. Try to prevent him. I have need to be baptized by you. Do you come to me? And Jesus answering said to him, Permit it at this time, for in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. And then he permitted him Like I said, this is an unexpected turn of events here. This is the last thing that John the Baptist is expecting from Jesus Christ. But this is the very reason why he came to John. There's a purpose clause in the Greek in verse 13 where it says Jesus came, he uh uh uh arrived in the Galilee coming to John to be baptized. By him. There's a purpose clause in the Greek that says that this was the purpose why he came. He came for this specific purpose. Nobody expected this. Nobody expected this, especially not John. Because first of all, John understood his place. He understood his place. He understands that even though he's related to Jesus physically, There's this infinite distance between them spiritually. I'm not even in the same class. He knows he's not worthy enough to pick up his shoes, much less baptize them There's this respect here for Jesus that I think uh today's evangelicals know next to nothing about, the kind of respect that he has for uh Jesus Christ. You know, a lot of us would say, you know, hey, I'm not sure why, you know, why is John making that big of a deal about it? I mean, it's his cousin after all, right? You know, he's just asking to be baptized. What's the the big deal about that? And We become so familiar with Jesus that we look at John and wonder what the problem is. After all, it's just Jesus. It's your cousin, Jesus. We sound like the people of Nazareth, don't we? Isn't that this the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary's brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas and his sisters there? Aren't they all with us? And his cousin John But we have to be careful that we don't become so familiar with Jesus being fully man that we forget that Jesus is fully God. And John understood that. So there's this infinite distance between me and you. I'm not even worthy to pick up your shoes. What are you coming to me for a baptism for? This doesn't make sense. John understood his place. And second thing, he understand he understood his baptism. He understood what this baptism represented. Like we pointed out last week, the closest picture that the Jews had to John's baptism was a a Gentile proselyte baptism for Gentile converts where a Gentile publicly admitted that he was disassociating himself with his past. He repudiated his old life. He was to regard himself as a new man with a new country, new home, new habits, new friends. The old man and all his defilements were to be buried in the water. And like I said, this differed from the Levitical ceremonial washings because the Levitical ceremonial washings basically said, I 've come into contact with something that's unclean. And now I'm defiled by that. What this uh Gentile proselyte baptism said is that um I haven't come into contact with something that's unclean because I am the one that's unclean. I'm the one that's that's defiled. It would have been hard enough for a Gentile to swallow, right? To say that, you know, I'm just totally disassociating myself with anything from my past, my heritage, my background, everything. But for a Jew to make that kind of admission was doubly humiliating Because he would have felt that there were a lot of things good and valuable back there. What am I repudiating all my past for? Why would I turn my back on my circumcision? Obedience to the law, my physical descent from Abraham, doesn't that count for something? Why would I turn my back on that? And what John is saying is that you can't trust in those things, right? That's why John the Baptist talked to the Pharisees. He says uh You know, don't say to yourselves that we have Abraham for our father. God can raise up uh these stones and make them sons of Abraham if he wants to. Uh so he's telling these Pharisees and Sadducees, If you if you come down into the water, you're you're gonna come confessing your sin. Not confessing your righteousness. So for like I said, for a Gentile it would have been humiliating. For a Jewish person, it would have been doubly humiliating. But for Jesus, it doesn't make sense at all. Right? Why would he humiliate himself by submitting to baptism? A baptism he didn't need. What did he have to turn his back on? He's God. What sins did he have to confess? He's sinless. How can you say that you're not rightly related to God when you are God? Basically that's what everybody else is confessing. I'm not rightly related to God. What what is Jesus doing in the water for? This is beneath him, unnecessary for him. So John was uh attempting to prevent him, and the the word prevent, it's an imperfect tense verb, which means he he kept trying to prevent him. Please, no, no. Don't do this. He knew that his baptism wasn't what Jesus needed, but Jesus' baptism is what he needed. You don't need my baptism? This is a baptism for Sinners! This is a baptism of repentance. This is to prepare people for you. What are you doing down here? The baptism that Christ could give was far mightier than his own, and he understood that. But over in uh Acts chapter 19, it talks about this Spirit baptism In Acts chapter 19, it kind of makes the difference between John's baptism and Jesus' baptism pretty clear. In Acts 19, I'll start at verse 1. It says, It happened that uh while Apollos was in At Corinth, Paul passed through the upper country and came to Ephesus and found some disciples. He said to them, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said to him, No. We have not even heard whether there is a Holy Spirit. And he said, into what then were you baptized? And he said, into John's baptism. Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in him who was coming after him. That is in Jesus And when they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. And when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking with tongues and prophesying. The kind of baptism that Jesus gave, gave the Holy Spirit. The kind of baptism that John gave just got you wet. He's saying there's a big difference between your kind of baptism and my kind of baptism. What are you doing here just to get dunked in the Jordan for? This doesn't make sense. So John is saying this is this is symbolic. What you have is the real thing. Ezekiel chapter 36, it predicted this, verses 26-27. It says moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances Joel chapter 2, verse 28 also predicted this. It will come about after this that I will pour out my spirit on all mankind. John understood that this is what Jesus came to do, and All the pronouns that he that he uses here just make this point emphatic back in uh Matthew chapter 3 and verse 14. Uh in the Greek language, the the verbs actually indicate whether it's a subject or an object in in itself. You know, you don't have to say you or he or whatever. It's just contained within the verb. So when you add a separate pronoun, it's done for for emphasis. And that's what you have going on in this verse. John is literally saying, you know, I, I have the need to be baptized by you. And do you, I mean, you come to me? Trying to make this point clear. John says, I know who I am and I know who you are. This is backwards. Totally backwards. What are you doing coming to me? It's like uh you know Babe Ruth coming to me to ask how to swing a bat, right? Or Michael Jordan asking me to help him with the layup. Or John MacArthur asking me how to preach, right? It's like you don't you don't need my advice here. You don't need anything from me. I can't I can't add anything. You don't need my help. Jesus' words acknowledge that he didn't have any sins to repent of because actually look at what he says. He says, uh, permitted it this time. Permit it. Jesus' words actually acknowledge that he didn't have any sins to repent of. When he says to John, you know, permit it, suffer it to be so. He uses the the Greek word uh aphiemi, uh which means to to let it go. Just let it go. Let it go, John. Just just leave it alone. This is this is what we're gonna do. Let it go. He's admitting that the John 's reasons for uh being reluctant to baptize him, he said it's it's all right. It's it's you're right, but but we're just gonna let it go. Let it go for now This baptism is for a different reason. The rest of the crowd came to be baptized because they were sinners The Messiah came to be baptized because he was righteous. The Messiah came to be baptized because he was righteous. It was to fulfill righteousness. Permit it to be so because this fulfills righteousness. It was fitting for Jesus to do what was expected of righteous men And uh even though the baptism of John was not part of the written Old Testament law, it was expected for all men to submit to it because it came from heaven. It came from heaven. John didn't come up with this idea to baptize people. It was a command that came from God to do this. It was a necessary preparation For the Messiah and the direction came from God in John chapter one , verse thirty-three points us out when John says, I did not recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water. He's saying I got this direction from God. God sent me to baptize in water. And Christ recognized that this baptism had a heavenly origin. That's why He asked the Pharisees that question about the source of John's baptism. When he talked to the Pharisees, it says, uh, from what source was John's baptism? From heaven or from men? Where did it come from? The Pharisees were so blinded by their sin that they rejected what came from a heavenly origin and held on to the traditions that were of an earthly origin. They'd rather hold on to the traditions instead of listening to what came from from heaven. This baptism was from heaven. Jesus, on the other hand, rejected All phony man-made rules, but he ref fulfilled every requirement of the law. Every requirement of the law and the prophets. In uh Matthew chapter five. Verse 17, if you want to flip over there, Matthew chapter 5, verse 17. Listen to what he says. He says, Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. And guess who the last Old Testament prophet was? John the Baptist. John the Baptist. In Luke 16, verse 16, it says, the law and the prophets were proclaimed until John. Since that time the gospel of the kingdom of God has been preached and everyone is forcing his way into it. John the Baptist was that transitional prophet from the Old Testament into the New, the last Old Testament prophet. And if Jesus was to fulfill all the law and the prophets It would include the greatest prophet, which was John the Baptist. So in order for Jesus to fulfill all righteousness, it required that he submitted to John. as well. And when you really think about it, the I mean the whole life of Christ, really, uh he submitted himself voluntarily to things that he didn't have to. I mean his whole life. One author points out Jesus was born under the law, and in his infancy he was circumcised and redeemed, even though there was no sin in his flesh. What's he doing getting a piece of flesh cut away for? There's no sin in it, right? At the age of twelve, he became a son of the law, even though he wrote it. He later paid the temple tax, though as the son of God, he should have been exempt. It was fitting that he should fill out all the ordinances of the Abrahamic covenant to completion. And it would also include right here following the baptism of John. This was not an act of contrition, it was an act of righteousness. So this is going to fulfill righteousness. The rest of the crowd, they're coming because they're sinners. I'm coming here because I'm here to fulfill righteousness. That's what I'm here for. In addition to that, the rest of the crowd was baptized to identify with the Messiah. You know, this is preparation for the Messiah. We're getting ready for him to come. The Messiah was baptized to identify with the crowds. John 's baptism was a baptism of repentance. That's what he proclaimed. That's what everybody would have understood. This is all about sin. This is about confession of sin. But here was one who stood in the place of a sinner. Everybody understood that when you go down into the water, you're proclaiming something about your sin, confessing your sin. And here Jesus comes down and steps in the place where a sinner would have stepped. Steps in the place of a sinner. The one who had no sins. The one who was innocent. Standing in the place of the guilty. And it's been observed that just as it was necessary for Israel to be identified with the scapegoat, and the scapegoat to be identified with Israel through the laying on of hands, so Jesus identified himself with sinners so that they might be identified with him. Who would give himself as a substitute for their sins? Do you have any idea what kind of king you belong to? You know what kind of king you belong to? This humble king, we should never be fooled into thinking that uh God doesn't loathe and despise our sin, because he does. I mean this kind of association, you know, would it would have been repulsive in a sense, to associate himself with the sins of all of Israel. This would have been repulsive. Proverbs 6 speaks about all the things which God hates. God hates sin. God hates sin. And here you have God in human flesh associating himself with sin. Through Christ, he associated himself with the very thing that he was going to pour his wrath on. And what kind of humility is that? That I'm going to associate myself with the very sins that I've come to destroy. We need to behold the king, behold this manifestation of the king as he appeared, behold the humiliation of our king, this association with sin. And the third thing, we need to behold the identification of our king, the king's respected identification. Look at verses 16 to 17 in Matthew 3 again. It says, after being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water. And behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove and lighting on him. And behold, the voice out of the heaven said, This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. There is no higher recognition than this. Heaven and earth moved for this king. At his death, if you remember, uh the earth shook, and at his baptism the heavens were open. I mean heaven and earth moved for this king. In uh Matthew chapter twenty-seven Verse 54 it says, When the earth shook, it says, Now the centurions and those who were with him, keeping guard over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, became very frightened and said, Truly, this was the Son of God. And here we have the heavens open in response to Jesus' baptism, and the response from us should be the same: truly, this is the Son of God. This is Him. This is a positive and unmistakable identification of Jesus as God's Son and the Messiah. And the first thing you have is the heavens open. What does that mean? That the heavens opened. Um there are times when uh the heavens opening just refers to rain falling. In Deuteronomy 28, verse 12, it says the Lord will open for you his good storehouses, the heavens to give rain to your land and its seasons. It says that the Lord will open up the heavens for you, pour down rain. It was used for manna falling down from heaven. In Psalm 78, verse 24, the heavens opened for the manna. Sometimes she used to refer to the blessings of God. It's used that way in Malachi 3, verse 10, that the blessings of God are like the heaven's opening. But this is not the kind of opening of heaven that we find here. This is actually a vision of where God dwells. This is an opening of of the very abode of God. It's like what a Jacob was able to peer into when he spent the night at Bethel, if you remember that, sleeping on a rock. In Genesis 28, verse 12, it says he had a dream, and behold, the ladder was set on the earth. with its top reaching to heaven, and behold the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. Or the vision of Ezekiel in Ezekiel 1 verse 1 it says Now it came about in the thirtieth year, on the fifth day of the fourth month, while I was by the river Chabar among the exiles, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God. Or Stephen, you know, when he saw the heavens open in Acts chapter 7, or what Christ promised Nathaniel. This is kind of interesting. Turn over to John chapter 1. John chapter 1 and verse 47. This is after Nathaniel says, you know, can anything good come out of Nazareth? And he found out later on, right? Philip said to him, Come and see. Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him and said of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed in whom there is no deceit. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to you that I saw you under the fig tree, do you believe? You will see greater things than these. And he said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see the heavens opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. What we're talking about over in uh Matthew chapter 3 is an opening of heaven, the abode of God, where there's this vision that was opened up uh to John and Jesus of uh the very dwelling of of God. Did everybody see this vision? I don't think so. I don't believe this vision was for for everybody, but this was a confirmation to to John the Baptist that this is this is the one. This is the one. But not only do you have the heavens opening and identifying the king, you also have the Holy Spirit descending. Look at uh verse 16. It says uh Behold, the heavens were open, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove and lighting on him. And this again would have been a confirmation for John that Jesus was the one. I find it interesting that John needed confirmation of who Jesus was. In John chapter 1, verses 33-34, it says, I did not recognize him. But he who sent me to baptize in water said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit You have uh later on in uh Matthew chapter 11, uh John having some doubts again, needing some confirmation, and he says uh uh 11 verse 3, it says, Are you the expected one, or shall we look for somebody else? And uh maybe while John is sitting in prison, he's saying, you know, you know, it's it's uh it's a good time for that baptism and fire if you want to get that going, right? And uh kind of let me out of here. And John is saying, are are are you the one? Because uh some of the things that I expected to happen aren't aren't happening. But uh it wasn't God's time for that, and God graciously comforted John the Baptist by giving him these these different signs and confirmations that Jesus was indeed the one. And here he confirms the king by the sign of a of a dove. Doves were uh symbols of peace, of love. Uh they were used as sacrifices. Um, you have this uh kind of picture in Genesis of uh the Spirit of God hovering. over the the face of the the waters, brooding over the face of the waters. A lot of rabbis would look at that as a as a dove. But here the the dove represents the the Holy Spirit and it was a fulfillment of Isaiah sixty one, uh verse one, where it said that Jesus would be anointed by the Holy Spirit. In uh Isaiah 61, verse 1, it says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the afflicted, He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to captives and freedom to prisoners And the dove resting on Jesus was this the symbol of the anointing of God, the anointing of the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 10, if you want to flip over there, Acts chapter 10. It'll point this out again in Acts 10 about the anointing of the Spirit during this time. Acts 10, starting at verse 37. This is uh Peter speaking here, and he says, uh start in verse 36. It says, The word which he sent to the sons of Israel preaching peace through Jesus Christ, he is Lord of all. You yourselves know the thing which took place throughout all Judea, starting from Galilee after the baptism which John proclaimed. You know of Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power And now he went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. So you have uh Jesus After this point he's he's exercising himself in the authority of the the Spirit, under the the the power and control of the Spirit. Jesus could have exercised his own authority any time he wanted to, right? I mean it there there were his rights, you know, it's his authority. But instead of just operating in his own authority, what he chose to do was to voluntarily submit himself to the Holy Spirit of God. And allow the Holy Spirit to be the one that empowered him and directed him. And we find immediately after this in chapter four, it says then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness. Taking instructions, direction from the Spirit of God. So you have this anointing here at the baptism of John, and it was symbolized by the Spirit that rested on him. So what we uh immediately find is uh uh the Spirit starts to lead and direct uh Jesus Christ. In his deity, Jesus didn't need this. He needed nothing, but in his humanity he was anointed by the Spirit for service and he was granted strength for uh for ministry. And uh Finally, we have this final identification which comes directly from God the Father. This is where the Father speaks. So you have the heavens open You have the Spirit descending, and then you have the Father uh speaking. So you have the whole Trinity involved in this uh identification of uh Jesus Christ, Jesus being baptized. Spirit, you know, descending upon him and the Father speaking from heaven. I like what J. C. Rowl said. He said, uh, it was the whole Trinity, which at the beginning of the creation said, Let us make man. And he says, now it's the whole Trinity, which again at the beginning of the gospel seems to say, let us save man. Let us save man. And here you have the Father speaking, and it's it's pretty fascinating to go throughout scripture. And uh observe the times that God speaks from heaven. When God speaks from heaven, it's often uh the voice of thunder when God speaks. Exodus 19, verse 19, it says, When the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him with thunder. 2 Samuel 22, verse 14, the Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice. And then there's many cases in the book of Job, in Job chapter 37, verse 2. It says, Listen closely to the thunder of his voice. and the rumbling that goes out from his mouth. Then you have in uh Psalm 18 verse 13, the Lord also thundered in the heavens and the Most High uttered his voice. In Psalm 29, verse 3, it says, The voice of the Lord is upon the waters. The glory of God thunders. The Lord is over many waters. And then you have this. This is interesting. Let's flip over to uh John chapter 12. John chapter 12. This is where the where Christ is is speaking to the Father. In uh John chapter 12, look at uh verse 28. Actually, I'll back up. I'm always backing up. Let's back up. 27, right? Now my soul has become troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I came to this hour. He's talking about his death, right? Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came out of heaven. I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. Can you imagine that? You know, you're just uttering a prayer, Father, glorify your name. I have glorified it, right? Just booming out of the heavens here. So the crowd of people who stood by and heard it were saying that it had thundered. Others were saying an angel was spoken to him. Jesus answered and said, This voice has not come for my sake, but for your sakes. I don't need to hear the voice. I know God hears me. He says this voice has come for your sakes. And I believe back in Matthew chapter three that those that were gathered there would have actually heard thunder from heaven at the time that Jesus was uh uh in the the waters. Indicating that this is the one. In uh verse 17 of uh chapter 3 it says, Behold, behold, a voice out of the heavens. This would have been heard by everybody here, a voice out of the heavens, and just as uh like in John 12 the voice wasn't for the the sake of Jesus It wasn't for Jesus. It's not like the voice came from heaven and says, You are my beloved son, and in you I'm well pleased. The Father's not speaking to Jesus. He says, this is my beloved son, and in whom I'm well pleased. This voice is for everybody else. It's not for Jesus This is the Lamb of God who is to take away the sins of the world, and what was required of lambs was that they be without spot and blemish, right? In Deuteronomy 17, verse 1, it says, You shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or a sheep which has a blemish or any defect, for that is detestable, a detestable thing to the Lord your God. So how is anybody to know that this lamb, you know, this lamb of God, behold the lamb of God who comes to take away the sins of the world? How is anybody going to know that this lamb is spotless? How's anybody going to know that he's unblemished? There's no way that we can verify that. How am I going to know that he's sinless? How do I know that? I can't examine that. And God says I've performed the examination myself. You don't have to worry about it. You don't have to worry about it. This is my beloved son, and in him I'm well pleased. I am well pleased with this one. He's unblemished. He's spotless. There's Nothing wrong with this one. This one is perfect. And these words are a reminder of what the Lord said about the Messiah. This is the the beloved one. This is one I take delight in. In uh Isaiah forty-two, verse one it says, Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. This is the Father referring to the Son, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. And there's uh no suggestion here that Jesus became the Son at baptism, as some false teachers like to proclaim. Or that the Father begun to delight in him after the baptism, this is something that was just already true about Jesus. This is the one that I take delight in. It's actually uh uh spoken here of the of the past. This is the one I delight in. I just delight in him. And it's because of his identification as the sinless Son of God that you can have confidence in Jesus Christ. You can have confidence. The one who knew no sin became sin, right? So that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Over in 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19, this is what it says. It says Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things, like silver or gold from your futile way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood, as of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. When God the Father looked down at this lamb, he says, this one is unblemished and spotless. This is the one that I take delight in. I'm well pleased with this one. Delighted in the Son from all eternity. And it's because of his identification as the sinless Son of God that we can take refuge in him. We can have confidence in him. Do you do you do you really behold the king? Do you really think about stuff like this? Do you really think about the sun? You think about the one who is manifested just as he was promised? As John is indicating, he's coming, he's coming, and then he came. And how does that affect your heart looking to the future? Just as has been promised in the scriptures, he's going to come again. He's coming again. We should have that longing for the Son, longing for the Messiah. Think about this uh humble association with our sin. The the one who who who would have hated sin, loathed our sin, but still he comes to be associated with it. We think about the uh, you know, the the the sweat that came down like drops of blood, is he saying, Father, if there's any other way? Jesus wasn't afraid to die. It wasn't the death that uh Jesus feared. He says, I have a baptism to undergo. I have a baptism to undergo. What is he talking about? The wrath of God. He associated himself with our sins and then took the wrath for us and drunk down the cup of God's wrath to the very last drop. That's what Jesus Christ did for you. He associated himself with your sin. That's what it took to pay for your sin. For the sinless Savior, the spotless Savior, the unblemished Savior to be associated with your filthy rags. And then this Messiah is identified as the uh the spotless one, the one in whom the Father takes delight. Do you behold your king? What other kind of king can do this, right? What other king can do this? This is the Savior that we worship, Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh we do thank you for uh the Son. Father, we thank you for This identification, this association, this manifestation of who the Son is, and Father, we uh we do long for the Son to return. Just as the uh the people of that century with eager anticipation waited for the Savior, they looked for the Savior, even though they couldn't recognize him, he was right there in their midst. And Father, we long for the Savior as well. We thank you that the Savior associated himself with our sins so that our sins could be forgiven, our sins could be wiped clean. And we thank you that this Savior who died for us was a spotless Savior, an unblemished Savior, the one in whom your soul takes delight. And because you delight in your son, now you can delight in us if we're found in your son. So Father, we thank you for sending us exactly who we needed. Not just a king, but a saving king. A king who was willing to lay down his life as a sacrifice so that we could be free. Father, we give you glory and praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.