The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew? Matthew chapter 5. We'll start at verse 38. Jesus says, You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on your right cheek, turn the other to him also. If any one wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him two. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word, even the uh challenging and convicting portions. Of your word, now Father, we don't want to shy away from anything that you said to us, and we want to properly understand what you've uh said Father, we pray that you'd use my words and this text, Lord, to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, this morning we come to one of the most challenging statements that Christ made in the Sermon on the Mount to turn the other cheek. Turn the other cheek. It's difficult because it goes against every fiber of our being. I mean, from the the time uh we can remember, you know, you hit me, I'm gonna do what? I'm gonna hit you back. I remember growing up a saying used to be, you know, I don't get mad. I get even. I mean, we we we we we crave for revenge. It's just not right for somebody to mistreat me. It's not right. Turn the other cheek. How are we to understand this? For some people, this text has been the overarching principle for spirituality, and everything else is to be viewed through this. Uh there are people like uh Mahatma Gandhi who uh urged the Jews to offer a nonviolent resistance to Hitler, appealed to Britain to cease hostilities because of this principle, to turn the other cheek. He actually said, I've been practic practicing with scientific precision nonviolence and its possibilities for an unbroken period of over fifty years. I've applied it in every walk of life, domestic, institutional, economic, political. I know of no single case in which it has failed. Leo Tolstoy, the author of War and Peace was another proponent of uh this view that you know turn the other cheek is to be the overarching principle of all of life. Uh Tolstoy said that in his reading of the Sermon on the Mount, he finally understood what the whole church for eighteen hundred years had misunderstood. He says, I understood that Christ says just what he says. Resist not evil. These words, understood in their direct meaning, were for me truly a key, opening everything else. Everything is to be understood through this verse. Turn the other cheek. He understood Christ's words as the prohibition of all physical violence, argued that it is impossible to confess Christ as God, consciously and calmly work for the establishment of property. Law courts, governments, military forces. He said Christ forbids law courts because they resist evil. You know, basically do away with all law, all forms of government, you know, all military, police force. Just do away with it because they're resisting evil. You shouldn't resist evil. Then on the other side you have uh people that see Christ's words here as so absurd that they're understood as just mere hyperbole. You know, Christ didn't really mean that. Turn the other cheek. I mean nobody really means that So they just kind of throw it out. There's uh philosophers like uh uh Friedrich Nietzsche who believe the biblical principles of turning the other cheek, humility, charity, and pity, are the results of universalizing the plight of the slave unto all mankind. And making the master slaves as well. You know, so just do away with this whole Christian principle of turning the other cheek. And the the question is, how are we to understand this? Because the Lord meant something by it, right? Turn the other cheek. What does that mean? For those of us who are followers of Jesus Christ, members of Jesus' kingdom, the one option that we don't have is just to ignore what he says. To ignore what he says. The standard of righteousness that we're to strive for includes these words, and we have no right to dismiss what the Lord says here. So What does he mean by this statement? Turn the other cheek. Let's take a look at verse 38 again. We'll take this in uh kind of three sections, uh, avoiding the unwarranted perversion of the law. Affirming the unfamiliar principle of the law, and uh also uh accepting accept the unnatural practice of the law because basically what Jesus is going to say to us seems unnatural. It goes against Like I said, every fiber of who we are, every fiber of our being. But first of all, let's take a look at this first point. Avoid the unwarranted perversion of the law. Look at verse 38. It says, you have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. You've heard it said an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth And it's important to remind ourselves that Jesus is not attempting here to overthrow the authority of the Old Testament That's not what Jesus is attempting to do. Throughout his ministry, Jesus constantly appealed to Scripture as the defense of his person and work Uh Jesus said that it was the scriptures that bore witness of him in John 539 , said that he did not come to abolish the scriptures, but to fulfill them uh just a little bit earlier in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 17. And in fact that the reason why there was such confusion about Jesus Christ and his ministry was because the religious leaders failed to understand the scriptures. He told them that you don't understand the scriptures or the power of God. The reason why you don't understand me is because you don't understand your Bibles. If you understood your Old Testament scriptures, you'd know about me. You'd know about my ministry. You know what I'm here for. So Jesus is not here saying that, you know, the Old Testament scriptures, that whole eye for an eye thing, you know, that was a really bad idea in the first place. I don't know how it got through the uh inspiration process and made its way into Scripture, the eye for an eye. It's just a really bad idea. That's not what Jesus is saying. In uh Psalm 12, verse 6 it says the words of the Lord of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in the furnace on the earth, refined seven times. So the principle of an eye for an eye was a righteous principle. It's a righteous law. It's fair. It's right. And we can think of several reasons why an eye for an eye would be the right thing. And part of God's inspired word. First of all, an eye for an eye honors the image of God and man. Flip over to Genesis chapter, Genesis chapter 9. An eye for an eye honors the image of God in man. After the worldwide flood, uh God made a covenant with Noah That he would not flood the entire earth again. But just before establishing this covenant, uh God gave Noah and his family Permission to have the animals as food. You can eat meat. Permission to have the animals as food. They had permission to kill the animals and eat them as meat, but what they didn't have permission to do was to kill one another Look at Genesis chapter 9 and verse 6. Actually, it started at verse 5. It says, Surely I will require your lifeblood from every beast. Even the animals can it kill a man without and get away with it. An animal can kill a man and get away with it. I will require your lifeblood from every beast. I will require it. And from every man, from every man's brother, I will require the life of man Verse 6, whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. Why? For in the image of God he made man That the image of God that has been stamped on man is so valuable, so valuable that it separates him from the animal kingdom And man can't get away with killing people and just get away with it. God says, my image that I've stamped on man is valuable. You don't kill a man and get away. You don't kill a man and I don't require the lifeblood from you. The animals don't share that image with us, which is why we're not vegetarians in here. You know, some of us had some meat on the way in, and that's okay. But there's no divine law against eating meat, but a man cannot take the man the the life of another man without God requiring that life from him. God takes an attack on his image personally. To attack the image of God was to attack God. That's basically what he's saying to attack the likeness of God was to attack the one who made man in his likeness. You can't just kill man and get away with it. If God is to be honored, The offender could not go unpunished. It was to be an eye for an eye. An eye for an eye also creates an impartial justice system. Uh punishment should match the crime. I mean that's pretty pretty basic, intuitive to all of us. You know, the punishment should match the crime. Uh to punish somebody severely for a minor crime or to punish somebody lightly for a severe crime goes against our innate sense of justice. It's just wrong You know, somebody shouldn't walk away with a slap on the wrist for murdering somebody. It's wrong, right? And all of us believe that. You know, that's why there's there's people that ride on all kinds of things. You know, people shouldn't get away with murder. But nobody would argue with an offender getting exactly what he dished out. Nobody argues with that. Why? Because it's just fair, right? No, the Book of Esther makes uh an example of out of this because when an offender gets exactly what he dishes out, I mean that that kind of justice is so sweet we call it what? It's poetic. It's just poetic. And the book of uh Esther is an example of this. Kind of interesting that the there's two books in the in the Bible that don't mention God by name, uh the book of Esther and the uh book of the Song of Solomon But what we find in the book of Esther is that God's character is so intertwined in this book that it's just obvious that this is an inspired uh book. Esther is, like I said, one of the two books that doesn't mention um God by name. But when we see that the this kind of boomerang that Haman threw out turned right back at him with the full force and energy, we say that's just that's just divine. I mean God was at work somehow in this. And Esther chapter seven Verse 9, if you remember the story, you have uh Her Harbona, one of the eunuchs, who was before the king, said, Behold indeed the gallows standing in Haman's house fifty cubits high, which Haman made for Mordecai. Mordecai was uh a righteous Jewish man during that day, actually saved the king's life earlier. And uh Haman, because of his hatred for the Jewish people, uh planned to wipe out all of the Jewish race, including Mordecai, and hang him on these gallows. He constructs these gallows, and uh after Haman is found out for for who he really was The servant comes up with an idea and says, hey King, you know, there's this 50-foot high, 50 uh cube it high gallows out there that Heyman constructed. I think you should go hang Heyman on it. So they hanged him on the gallows which he had prepared for Mordecai and the king's anger subsided. It's like exactly what you dished out came right back at you. And because of this, we we see that that God is just clearly within this book, an eye for an eye, honors the image of God and man, and it also creates an impartial impartial system of justice. Number three, it also uh deters sin. A person is going to think twice about committing a crime against somebody else if he knows that exactly what he's planning to do is going to come right back at him, right? A person 's going to think twice about that. And this was God's provision to keep an unbelieving and evil society in check. In Romans chapter 13 and verse 3 it says, For rulers are not a cause of fear. They are a cause of fear But not for good behavior, but for evil. You want to have no fear of authority? Do what is good and you will have praise from the same. When evil is punished, It uh brings order to an otherwise chaotic society, even a government, even a corrupt government is better than no government because it keeps evil in check So retribution for evil was was right, and we know that because uh God repays for every man because of the deeds that he's done In Jeremiah 32 and verse 17, it says, Ah, Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power, by your outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for you. Who shows love and kindness to thousands, but repays the iniquity of fathers into the bosom of their children after them, O great and mighty God, the Lord of hosts. is his name. Great in counsel and mighty indeed, whose eyes are open to all the ways of the sons of men, given to everyone according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds. And and this attribute of of God, uh that God is a God of of justice, uh, makes sense of uh what are known as imprecatory psalms, psalms that actually call for cursing on people. It makes sense out of that because we understand that God is a God of of justice. In Psalm 28, verse 4, it says, Requite them according to their work, according to the evil of their practices, requite them according to the deeds of their hands, repay them their recompense. And the New Testament doesn't change that. In Matthew 16, 27 it says, For the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and will then repay every man according to his deeds. It was right for God to repay according to the deeds of men. So Jesus here is not trying to overthrow that principle. That's just the point I want to make. Jesus is not here trying to say, an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, just do away with that. Do away with justice. Just let evil run rampant. Let it run wild. That's not what he's saying. What Jesus is saying here, and what's consistent with the rest of the Sermon on the Mount, is that he's correcting a misunderstanding of that law Correcting a misunderstanding of that law. The common misunderstanding was that an eye for an eye gave individuals the right for personal revenge. gave individuals the right for personal revenge, a justification for retaliation, or an excuse to get even with somebody who had offended them. That's what Jesus is trying to Correct the understanding of. It was seen as a this the principle of an eye for an eye was seen as a personal license to become the judge, jury, and executioner all by yourself. It's never the intent of the law in the first place. The law was never meant to be the green light to take your anger out on somebody who offended you. The law was always meant to be carried out by a proper authority and to honor the character of God. Always meant for that. It's being carried out by the proper authority. There's three times that we actually find this principle of an eye for an eye in scripture, and I'll just turn you to it really quick. Exodus chapter 21. Back to Exodus chapter 21. The book of Exodus, the children of Israel are established as a nation. They uh enter Egypt as a family plane, and they they leave Egypt as a nation. In uh Genesis uh forty six verse three, uh God made the promise to Jacob that uh he says, I'm the God of your father, do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make a great nation out of you there. So they they entered as a family, they came out as a nation. And at Sinai, uh what we find here where God is addressing his uh people here in Exodus twenty-one at Sinai, uh Israel was addressed as a nation for the first time. So here's the first time they're being addressed. as a nation before God. And the first thing that needed to be established was the rules that would govern this new nation, okay? Exodus we find that the founding document of of Israel, Israel was free from Pharaoh, but they were not free from order and authority and being held accountable for their actions. And just after the Ten Commandments, which served as a foundation for everything else, we find these words in uh chapter 21, starting at verse 22. Look at what he says. Says, if men struggle with each other and strike a woman so that she gives birth prematurely, yet there is no injury, he shall surely be fine as the woman's husband made demand of him, and he shall pay as the judges decide. But if there is any further injury, then you shall appoint as a penalty life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. And here you have both the pregnant mother and the unborn child in this passage having rights. The pregnant uh mother and the unborn child had rights. And if these careless brawlers injured a woman who was pregnant, and that child happened to be born with some kind of deformity because of this tussle that they had. These guys were accountable, held accountable for whatever damage was done. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, tooth, foot for hand for hand, foot for foot. And the judges were the ones that handed down this sentence. Verse 22 it says, They shall pay as the judges decide. There was a proper authority for handing out judgment. Flip over to Leviticus chapter 24. Leviticus 24. In the book of Leviticus, there was a an actual example of this law being implemented. And here you have uh two men who get into a fight with each other, and in the midst of this struggle, one of them recklessly swings the punch. But instead of slinging a punch at a pregnant mother, his punch is actually thrown towards God. Look at uh Leviticus 24, verse 11. Actually, I'll start at verse 10. It says, Now the son of an Israelite woman whose father was an Egyptian went out among the sons of Israel, and the Israelite woman's son and the man of Israel struggled with each other in the camp. The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the name and cursed. The name is the reference to God, the name of God, and cursed. So they brought him to Moses. Now his mother's name was Shelemeth, the daughter of Debore, of the tribe of Dan. So here you have these two guys, they're in this fight. Struggling, and in the midst of this fight, this guy lets out this uh blasphemy towards God. He curses the name of God. And the Israelites who witnessed this blasphemy brought him to Moses. The reason why they brought him to Moses is because Moses is a judge. Moses judged all of Israel. It's considered the judge of Israel and major disputes were were brought to him. So they wanted to find out, you know, Moses, what's God's judgment on this? You know, this guy is blaspheming the name of God. What's God's judgment? Look at verse 13. Says then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Bring the one who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, then let all the congregation stone him. You shall speak to the sons of Israel, saying, If anyone curses his God, then he will bear his sin. Moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death, all the congregation shall certainly stone him, the alien as well as the native when he blasphemes the name shall be put to death. If a man takes the life of any human being, he shall surely be put to death. So here God reiterates the law that he told before. The one who takes the life of an animal shall make it good for life, life for life. If a man injures his neighbor just as he has done, so it shall be done to him. Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, just as he has injured a man, so it shall be inflicted on him. So God here considers uh blasphemy to be on the same level as taking a human life. But the punishment wasn't to be carried out individually. It's to be carried out in a legal way, brought before a judge, and the the congregation was to take out this punishment. Then the final time we find this uh principle of eye for an eye uh mention is in Deuteronomy, the book of Deuteronomy. This time the law is shown not to have only application for taking a life and blasphemy, but also even for the intent to take a life. Because uh here it didn't take people long to realize that the court could take care of their dirty work for 'em. You know, if you could convince the court that somebody blasphemed or took a life or did something, you know, you could get the court to take out your dirty work for you, you know, take out revenge. on somebody that you had it out against. This is what happened in uh uh if you remember in uh first Kings chapter twenty-one, uh Naboth was a righteous Israelite and uh he had a uh a vineyard that he wouldn't sell uh to the king, King Ahab. And uh Ahab's wife, Jezebel, came up with this plan. It's like, I'm gonna get rid of this this guy, uh Naboth, and and secure this this vineyard for you, Ahab, you know, honey bunches. You know, I'm gonna secure this vineyard for you. What does she do? She gets two men to come and say, We we heard Naboth curse God. You know, long live the king, long live God, you know what I mean, and let's let's go get him. And uh basically they they put this guy out, you know, all on a fabrication. You know, they made up the story about him. So it didn't take people long to figure out if we can come up with a plan uh to to kind of convince the courts that somebody did something you know that's worthy of death, the court will take care of death for us. You know, we don't have to get our hands dirty. We can let the court uh do that in our in our place. So Deuteronomy nineteen was actually written to protect people against false accusations. Look at uh actually I started uh verse uh chapter uh Chapter 19, look at verse uh 15. So as a single witness shall not rise up against a man on account of any iniquity or any sin. which he has committed on the evidence of two or three witnesses, the matter shall be confirmed. If a malicious witness rises up against the man to accuse him of wrongdoing, then both the men who have the dispute shall stand before the Lord, before the priests, and the judges who will be in office in those days, and the judges shall investigate thoroughly. And if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him just as he had intended to do to his brother Thus you shall purge the evil from among you. The rest will hear and be afraid and will never again do such an evil thing among you. Remember again, the law was meant to deter sin. Thus you shall not show pity, life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. And that would clean up the justice system pretty quick, wouldn't it? You know, anytime somebody lies against somebody else, I mean exactly what you wanted to happen to them, it's gonna happen to you. I mean there is no way out of this. You know the judges are supposed to investigate thoroughly, and uh this is the way that the guy was going to uphold uh justice and honor in his land. So the what's what's helpful to remember as we uh think about this is that uh Christ is not here trying to overthrow this law. He's not trying to overthrow the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for tooth, foot for foot, life for life. He's about trying to remove it from the individual, the individual being the one who carries out his own justice on another person. supposed to uh uh uh take that away from from men. It was supposed to go to the the rightful authorities to take care of that. So we're uh uh first of all to uh uh to see that that this principle is uh is a right principle It's considered part of the law of God. And also we're to affirm the unfamiliar principle from the law as well. And look at verse 39. Let's pull back to Matthew for this. Matthew chapter 5 Because this is where uh heads probably would have started to spin as Jesus speaks these words. So as you've heard it said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist an evil person. Don't resist an evil person. What does that mean? Some some verse versions say just don't resist evil. And uh it's uh it can either be taken as a uh a masculine or a neuter, you know, meaning evil in general or an evil person. I take it to mean an evil person because of uh what follows in the context that gives illustrations of evil people. What does it mean not to resist an evil person? That word uh resist is the word anthistamine. It means to set oneself against, to oppose, to withstand. It was used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament for military opposition, to be staunchly opposed to somebody. In Numbers chapter 10, verse 9, it says, When you go to war in your land against the adversary, that's the same word Who attacks you, then you shall sound an alarm with the trumpets. It's this kind of military stand against somebody, opposing them. It's a word that describes described as a strong word. And uh this is the kind of opposition that Jesus commands his followers not to engage in. Commands his followers not to resist an evil person. Because it's the person who strikes on the cheek, who sues you for your cloak, who forces you to go another mile. Command here is not to resist an evil person. But what does that mean not to resist an evil person? What does that mean? And and we're going to take some time on this because this this can be just kind of misconstrued in all kinds of ways, right? What what would it mean if uh if one of your little girls was uh attacked by somebody And trying to be taken advantage of. Would you tell your little daughter, hey, don't resist? Are you going to say that? Any parent in here gonna say that? It's not what it means. Part of the Old Testament actually required girls who are being attacked to cry out, to resist. And if they didn't cry out, they'd actually be considered complicit in the act. You find in uh Deuteronomy chapter 22, 23, and 24, where it talks about uh if there's an engaged woman who's in a city who's being attacked and she doesn't cry out. That she was going to be punished as well. So it gave a pretty good motivation for women to say, Hey, if you're going to kill me, I'm going to die anyway. I'm crying out. I'm getting out of here, right? Cry out. If you're in the city, cry out. Ask for help You don't tell your daughter just, no, don't resist. It's not what you tell them. That's not what the scripture expects you to do. And you can't read Matthew in a way that makes Jesus contradict The very law of God to cry out was one of God's provisions to protect innocent lives. Resist. The same way we don't tell a parent if the if their child is being kidnapped, you know, tell the child, hey, don't resist You're being taken away, you're being stolen, hey, don't resist. The Bible actually says that the kidnapper was worthy of death. You resist that person. You resist the kidnapper, right? Abuse, a woman being abused at home. What do you tell the woman who's being abused at home to do? Turn the other cheek? It's not what you do. In Proverbs 19, verse 19, it says, A man of great anger will bear the penalty. A man of great anger will bear the penalty, for if you rescue him, you will only have to do it again. What is God's instruction for a woman who's at home being abused? Let that man pay the penalty. You don't rescue him from that. You let him pay the penalty. Why? Because if you rescue him, you only have to do it again. It's not going to stop anything. You don't tell somebody like that, oh, the Bible says turn the other cheek. It's a misrepresentation of what God says. God is not trying to make innocent people suffer at the hands of wicked men. That's not God's intention here. God was about protecting people, protecting people's lives. Somebody breaks into your house at night. What do you do? Turn the other cheek? What happens if somebody breaks in your house at night? The lives of your family are at stake. Exodus 22, verse 2 said, If the thief is caught while breaking in. And is struck so that he dies, there will be no blood guiltiness on his account. I'm not going to hold you responsible for that. You kill a thief if he breaks into your house in the middle of the night More power to you. Protect yourself, protect your family. God is not saying, hey, let the thief come in and kill and destroy and just wreak havoc on your family. That's not what he's saying. To read the scriptures in that way would be a wrong and a misrepresentation of God's word. Do you understand that? God is not writing his word in order to protect the thieves. And to kill the innocent. That's not what God's word is written for. In the church, New Testament church. Does Christ's command mean that we would allow a deceitful and a false teacher to just come in here and do what he wants to in God's church? Is that what we do? Titus 1:11 says, talks about these false teachers who must be silenced. You shut them up. You don't allow a false teacher to come in and wreak havoc among your congregation. You don't allow that. You silence the false teacher, teaching things that they should not teach for the sake of sordid gain. Even even uh Paul resisted Peter to his face. He uses the same word that we find here in Matthew. Resisted Peter to the face. Why? Because he didn't feel like the gospel was being represented correctly. In Galatians chapter 2, resisted Peter to his face. It would be absolutely inconsistent with the rest of Scripture if we were to say Christ is contradicting that. Christ is saying, oh, just let evil people have their way. That's not what Christ is saying if if of course we're to resist evil. Of course we're to resist evil. Christ resisted evil, right What how else do you explain what he did in John chapter 2 when he's uh overturned the the the the the um the money tables, right? Making a court of whips and whipping these people out of his father's house. You've made my father's house a place of merchandise Didn't allow him to get away with it. Oh, you know, I can't resist him. He's evil. It's not what Christ did. So what does Christ mean when he says, don't resist an evil person? Listen to this and we'll we'll we'll talk more about this. I don't know how much time I have, but we'll we're just gonna keep going, okay? The snow stopped anyway, all right Listen to this. What he means is that rather than seeking an opportunity to retaliate for personal offenses, we should seek legitimate ways to lay down our rights, even for our enemies. Instead of seeking for opportunities to retaliate, to get revenge for personal offenses, we should seek legitimate ways to lay down our rights even for our enemies. And he clarifies what he means by this through the examples that he gives. And what I think is is going to be helpful for us is if we start at verse 42 and kind of work our way back. to the to the one that gives us the the most uh trouble, which is uh turning the other cheek. But if we start with verse 42 and work our way back, I think it'll help us out a lot. Look at uh verse 42. Just give to who him who asks of you and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. Alright? Give to him who asks from you and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you First thing that you need to keep in mind is the biblical context, alright? Keep the rest of the Bible in mind as you come to the scripture. Scripture interpret scripture, right? Keep the rest of the biblical context in mind. The Bible commands us to be wise stewards of our resources. Amen? Supposed to be wise stewards of our resources. There are clear cases where people who request money from us individually or as a church corporately should not receive it. There are certain times when people who request money should not receive it. 2 Thessalonians 3 verse 10 says, For even when we were with you, we used to give you this order, if anyone is not willing to work. He is not to eat either. It's not anybody who can't work, you know, anybody who's not willing to work. He's not willing to work. Why should he eat? That's what the scripture says. If a man refuses to work, he's not to live off of the generosity of others. It's not biblical. John Calvin said it is certain that it was the design of Christ to make his disciples generous, but not prodigals. It would be foolish prodigality to scatter at random what the Lord has given us. It's a foolish use of your resources. I'm just going to scatter it around. Whoever wants it, hey, here I am. I'm going to throw out God's money. That's not what God is instructing people to do. You need to keep that broader context in mind. This is a legitimate request that's coming here. A legitimate request. I remember Just different times when uh, you know, run into people on the street and you say, Hey, you know, brother, you got uh got a couple dollars, you know, I need to eat. I mean how how many times do you get that, right? I remember I was uh outside of a Burger King one time and there's this uh guy who's standing outside and he says, you know, hey brother, I'm just looking for a couple dollars, just wanting to get something to eat I say, hey, you know, this is a Burger King right here. I'll I can take you in, you know, whatever whatever you want. He says, ah, that just that's want the money. I said, okay. Tell tell me what you really want the money for. What do you really want the money for? He says, well I'm I'm just trying to get myself a drink. I just want me a drink. So do you really think that I should help you to get a drink which put you into this condition in the first place? You really think that that's a wise use of my resources to help you? He says, no, I understand what you mean. All right. So it's it's a foolish use of God's resources. To help somebody to continue within their sin. You need to keep that broader principle in mind. God expects you to use your resources wisely. You also need to keep the immediate context in mind. When uh he's saying that whoever asks of you do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you This is not a friend that's coming to you and just asking to borrow, you know, even though we should lend to our friends. It's not a stranger who's coming to ask you to borrow from you. Even though we should be kind to strangers. You know, be good to all men, especially to those of the household of faith. If we have opportunity to do good, you know, do good. This is an enemy who comes to you. Because what's the what's the principle? You know, was this not an evil person, right? Was this not an evil person? This is an enemy, somebody who's an evil person who's coming to you and asking. For some help. A legitimate request. Keeping the broader context of scripture in mind. This is a guy who's coming with a legitimate request. An enemy. Somebody who uh for whatever reason you've been at odds with for who knows how long And now they come to you with a legitimate request, you know, hey, um, uh I I I really I hate to ask you this, but you know, I'm my family's struggling, I need something to eat. What do you do then? This is somebody that you've been opposed to for a long time. Somebody that's been opposed to you. Somebody that's, you know, in different ways tried to undermine you and your family or whatever else. How do you respond then? You kind of rub your hands together and it's like, a sweet revenge. I knew this day was going to come when you have to come and ask me for something How many times have I been in need and you refuse me? Remember what you did to me last week? You're not getting a dime from me, bunny. It's revenge. Personal revenge, how sweet it is, right? This is exactly what the Lord is telling you not to do. Don't resist an evil person. You have an opportunity to do good even to an enemy. Legitimate request. What does the Bible say to do? You do it. We 'll go over to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12. Look at verse 17. Because the same principle and explains in a little more detail here. Romans chapter 12, look at verse 17. It says, never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. It would be right to give, right? If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And then what did he say? Verse 20. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing he will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. That's what it means not to resist an evil person. Somebody comes to you with a legitimate request, even if they're an enemy, what do you do? You feed them. You give them a drink. You try to take care of his needs if you have the ability to do so. And what a gospel opportunity that would present to us, right? What an opportunity to present ourselves as citizens of the King if we were to do that In a book by Ernest Gordon, a book called To End All Wars, Gordon described how he was captured by the Japanese during World War II. Forced with other British prisoners to endure years of horrible treatment while building the notorious railroad of death through Thailand, faced with starvation, disease, prison camps, the brutality of his captors, who killed hundreds of his comrades Gordon survived to become an inspiring example of the triumph of Christian love against human evil. And uh he describes his own experience. He says, they were on their own and without medical care. He's talking about the enemy here. He says they're on their own without medical care. Their uniforms were encrusted with mud, blood, and excrement. Their wounds were sorely inflamed and full of pus, crawled with maggots. We could understand now why the Japanese were so cruel to their prisoners if they didn't care for their own. Why should they care for us? The wounded men looked at us forlornly as they sat with their heads resting against the carriages, waiting fatalistically for death. They were the refuse of war, there was nowhere to go, no one to care for them. Without a word, most of the officers in my section unbuckled their packs, took out part of their ration and a rag or two, and with water, canteens in their hands went over to the Japanese train to help them. Our guards tried to prevent us, but we ignored them and knelt by the side of the enemy to give them food and water, to clean and bind up their wounds, to smile and say a kind word. Grateful cries of Aragot, thank you, followed as we left I regarded my comrades with wonder. Eighteen months ago they would have joined readily in the destruction of our captors, had they fallen into their hands. Now these same men were dressing the enemy's wounds. We had experienced a moment of grace there in those blood stained railway cars. Is that the kind of person you are? Would you care for an enemy? Would you love an enemy? Would you hate an enemy? The first thing that uh illustration that Christ gives here in verse 42, charity for an enemy. Not only charity for an enemy, but liberty, uh a loss of liberty for an enemy. Look at verse 41, working our way back. Verse 41, whoever forces you to go one mile, go with them too. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with them too. The idea of being impressed into service by an enemy was humiliating. Humiliating. Humiliating experience for the Jewish people. From 167 BC to 63 BC, the Jewish people enjoyed nearly a hundred years of independence During this time they hoped their hope was revived. The idea of a Jewish kingship was rekindled, but in 63 B. C. the Roman army led by General Pompey snuffed out the small glimmer of hope that they had. According to the history, uh they invaded Jerusalem in sixty three BC, profaned the temple, entered the Holy of Holies, put an end to the Jewish independence, and Israel was under foreign rule once again. And one of the ways that Rome reminded the Jews that They were in charge was by impressing them into service, forcing them to serve. This was a practice that was developed by the Persians and introduced uh uh uh by the Romans as well. that made it possible for a Roman soldier to force somebody to serve him. He could he he was forced to uh a a citizen would be forced to carry his military pack, military equipment from one milestone to the next There's an example of this practice actually in Matthew 27 where apparently Jesus was unable to carry the weight of his own cross. Remember that? And one of the Roman soldiers forced Simon the Sirene to carry the cross. That was part of the privilege that they had as Roman soldiers. I can force anybody to do anything. Take your horse and come and take you, tell you I I need you to carry this from here to there and and you had no choice. I mean no excuse. I'm I'm having family time right now. So what? I'm I'm I'm working right now. It doesn't matter to me I got work I need you to do. Could force you at any time to carry whatever they wanted to you to carry. The Roman mile was four thousand eight hundred fifty feet marked off by milestones along the road. The English word mile actually comes from the the Latin word mill. which means one thousand. Uh a la uh a Roman mile was one thousand paces. You know, uh uh typically one thousand paces It was a legitimate and illegal request that a citizen could carry a pack for a Roman soldier, and he had nothing to say about it. I mean, can you imagine like if Iran or North Korea you know, uh defeated the U. S. and came in here and made us carry around whatever they wanted us to carry around for 'em. Like it it doesn't matter, you know, w what what you're doing right now. We need you to do this. And you just have to drop everything and and do it. The very implements of your subjugation, you know, the very implements of war that they're subjecting you with, they're asking you to carry it for 'em. This is getting too too heavy for me. I need you to carry it for me The natural thing would be to seek the first opportunity to get back, right? I mean, if I'm going to carry this pack, at least I'm going to find a good spot of mud to drop it in once in a while, right? Rush up against a you know a rock really hard and rip open his bag. Oh, I'm sorry about that. I you know, I didn't see that coming. All right? Look for any opportunity to get back at him. The last thing the soldier would have expected you to do would be to willingly give up your rights and carry his bag for a second mile. The last thing they would expect you to do. And what kind of conversation do you think you'd have on that second mile? Lloyd Jones says that the soldier would say, who is this person? What is it about him that makes him act like this? He's doing it cheerfully of Going beyond his duty, he says, as Christians, our state of mind and spiritual condition should be such that no power can insult us. Nobody can bring us down. Carried the second second mile, and we have opportunities to to be a witness for for Christ. Legitimate way to give up your right for an enemy. The third one, property, loss of property for an enemy. Look at verse 40. It says: if anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let them have your coat also. And the this example here in verse 40 it involves another legitimate request from an enemy. The picture that Jesus paints here in verse 40 is of a person who owes a debt. He's taken before a judge on account of this debt, a debt that he owes. It's not a false charge. And apparently the the reason why the the accuser is going after their shirt is because they don't have anything else to pay him with. You know, everything else has has been used up. So it would seem in in most cases, you know, people would stop before getting the taking your clothes from you to get a debt, but in this case this this enemy is determined to make you pay. You know, I I don't mind taking the shirt off of your back. You're gonna pay me. You're gonna pay me what you owe. Natural response to this kind of treatment would be anger and resentment. You know, I can't believe that uh you know somebody's so hard pressed for money that they're willing to take my shirt. Somebody's so hard pressed he's willing to take the shirt off my back. You wouldn't want to deal with him again? You probably want to do everything in your power to make sure he didn't get another dime out of you. Want to guard everything else that you have. Is there any way you can walk away from this situation with some kind of dignity and not utter defeat? You know, you try to do that? There's actually a law in place to safeguard at least one piece of property that you had? And that was your cloak. It's your your outer outer coat. There's uh two pieces of uh clothing that were kind of, you know, um Uh primary for for people during this culture there was a tunic or a shirt. Uh catone in Greek it was a an inner garment made out of uh wool or linen worn next to the skin like the a shirt, but you know, usually had sleeves and reached all the way down to your ankles, you know, either your knees or down to your ankles, you know, uh wrapped around by a belt. That was the inner shirt and then there was the outer cloak. Himation is uh in the Greek it was a large square piece of animal skin or wool that you wore over your tunic. And uh this is like a uh like a large shawl. Uh It was actually used at at night for bed covering. It kept you warm at night as well. According to Exodus 22, this outer garment could not be permanently taken away. If uh It says that if you ever take your neighbor's cloak as a pledge, you're to return it to him before the sun sets. So that it is because that is his only covering. It is his cloak for his body. What else shall he sleep in? That's what I'm going to sleep in. Shall come about that when he cries out to me I will hear him, for I am gracious. So so it was it was right for you to maybe sue for a shirt, but you can't take the cloak. This is what keeps the guy warm at night. You can't sue for that. And the person who was sued for a shirt could still flawn his coat around is something that couldn't be taken away. Nobody could take this from me. But what Jesus here is doing is he's he fights against even our natural tendency to cling to legitimate rights. I have a right to my cloak. It keeps me warm tonight, but he says, if anyone wants to see you for your shirt, let them have your coat also. Give it up. It's a right that you have. But he says, voluntarily give that right up. And if you compare this with what Jesus says in verse 25, the expectation is that you would do it even before you reach the courthouse. While you're on your way, you know, do what you can to settle accounts with your enemy. Why not just let it go before bringing it to the judge? And again, here the enemy has a legitimate reason to sue. It's not just anybody who wants to have what you have. Now we come to the statement that presents us with the most challenge and the greatest difficulty, and it's uh turn the other cheek, which we're not going to get into this week. We'll save that for uh for next time, but um let me just just end with this Jesus taught that to demand one's rights was not a manifestation of divine righteousness. It's not righteousness. It's not an example or demonstration of righteousness to demand your rights. Christ said that the righteousness, godliness, holiness, it doesn't demand or seek your rights. Instead, it has the characteristic of giving up your rights. And the one who modeled this perfectly for us was who? Jesus Christ. Where would you be if Jesus demanded his rights? Where would you be? He could have remained in the splendor and riches in heaven, the blessing of heaven. 2 Corinthians 8 verse 9 says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ that though he was rich, Yet for your sake he became poor so that through his poverty you might become rich. Jesus could have demanded that the stones become bread for him. He had that right. He's God in human flesh, right? He's the Son of God. He could have demanded it But if he demanded that right, he would not be our Savior who was tempted in all points as we are, yet without sin. When the the guards came to take him in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus could have called down legions of angels to come and protect him at that point. Matthew 26, Jesus said to Peter, Put your sword back in its place, for all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword. Or do you think I cannot appeal to my father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? At any time I could call my father and he could end this right now. He had that right. Could have come down from the cross at any time. The the the thief on the cross and the crowds that were jeering them saying, you know, come down now and and we'll believe that you're the son of God. Why don't you if you're the son of God, just come down now. If you're really the Messiah. Jesus had that right to come down from the cross In John 10, 17 and 18, it says, For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, so that I may take it again. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from my Father. I laid down my life on my own initiative. I gave up my right willingly. Where would we be if Christ demanded his rights? Every one of us would spend an eternity in hell. If Christ demanded his rights. I'll ask you another question. Where will your enemies be if you demand your rights? We're enemies of God, right? Before we came to Christ, we're enemies of God. And Jesus Christ laid down his rights for his enemies. And now Jesus turns to us and says, I'm asking you to do the same thing. I'm asking you to lay down your rights for your enemies. That you could be an example and point to the grace of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what God wants you to do. That's what Christ is asking you to do. Don't resist an evil person. You could be the very instrument God uses to bring that person to faith in Jesus Christ. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.