The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's take our Bibles and open up to Romans chapter 3. We're back in the book of Romans today. And as we turn to the book of Romans, we're considering What many would describe as the heart of Paul's letter to the Romans, the heart of Paul's letter to the Romans Now that doesn't mean that there's not still a lot of ground to cover. Paul still has a lot more that we need to unpack. But when we think about the heart of Paul's message, this is it. And in many ways, the first few chapters of Romans have been anticipating this transition. In chapter three, we've been building up to this statement in verse 21 that says, but now But now all of what we've seen in the first couple of chapters has been leading up to this point. In chapter one Paul proves that the Gentile, the pagan Gentile unbeliever is accountable before God and guilty. In chapter 2, he proves that the religious Jewish believer is accountable before God and guilty. And then in chapter 3, he lets us know that the entire world is guilty before God, that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable before God. We're all guilty. There's this dark and dismal portrait of humanity, and the reason why every mouth is shut is because there's nothing to say There's nothing to say in protest. Every mind is convinced, every heart is convicted, and all Paul is telling us is what we already know. That yes, I'm not righteous, that no, I haven't sought after God, that I've used my tongue for evil and my lips for speaking deceit. That my feet have been swift to shed blood for destruction and misery, and I haven't had the fear of God before my eyes. So on the last day when the charges are read, I have nothing to say in my defense. There's nothing to say, my mouth is shut. There's not one syllable of protest Because the pathway to pursuing righteousness, and by keeping the law, by keeping the law that to pursue that path has been forever shut, no one will be able to proclaim their innocence when they stand before this holy, holy, holy God, right? But now. But now. That's the transition. Transitional statement apart from the law. The righteousness of God has been manifested. Against this dark backdrop of human depravity, God has made a way where there seemed to be no way. And isn't that consistent with what we see throughout Scripture? You know, the waters of the flood prevailed over the earth, but God remembered Noah. Joseph was sold into slavery, and his brothers meant evil against him, but God meant it for good. Jesus was nailed to the cross by the hands of godless men, but God raised him again. We were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest, but God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. In Psalm 73, my heart and my flesh may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. But God. And here we find in Romans, but now And the but now is because of God. But God. But God's righteousness has still been made manifest But God. James Montgomery Boyce, the late pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, he observed that the passage before us contains a number of significant theological terms. You know, there's terms like redemption and justification and propitiation. But he says then there's those those little words that are even just as significant like but now. Just as significant. But now. So much theological meaning communicated in those two little words. There's hope for the hopeless, there's help for the helpless, and it's all right there in that word, those two words, but now. And what is so surprising about this text is that the hope is found in an unexpected place. Because it says, But now what? But now it's it's this righteousness of God that's being revealed. But now, apart from the law, verse 21 says, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Even witnessed by the law and the prophets. But now the righteousness of God. Why is that surprising? Because it's the righteousness of God that condemns us How is that now all of a sudden good news? Just a few verses earlier in chapter 2 verse 11, we learn that there's no partiality with God, for all have sinned without the law. will perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. The righteousness of God is what condemns us. And it would be a violation of God's justice and a denial of his holy character if God did not punish sin. He can't ignore our sin. In Proverbs 17, 15 it says, He who justifies the wicked and he who condemns the righteous, both of them alike are an abomination to the Lord. Think about that. Think about that one. He who justifies the wicked is an abomination. So how are we justified? When we're wicked. How is that not an abomination? Proverbs 24, 24. He who says to the wicked, You are righteous, peoples will curse him and nations will abhor him. Isn't that what we're hoping for from God? That God will say to the wicked, You are righteous? Isaiah 5. 20, Woe to those who call evil good and good evil. To declare a wicked person as innocent is an abomination to the Lord. The Bible actually pronounces a woe to those who declare guilty people innocent. And it wouldn't help us if we just heard that the judge just forgave the person as if that was enough. How would that work out in a court of law? All the evidence is against the person. It's been proven that the person committed the crime and the judge just says, you know what? I'm feeling generous today. I forgive them. What kind of judge are you? You know, get him off the bench. He doesn't deserve to belong there. The judge is legally bound, according to law, not to pardon the guilty, but to condemn the guilty. But here we read in Romans that God is the one who justifies the guilty. Romans 4 and verse 5 says, But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies who? The ungodly. His faith is credited as righteousness. And why isn't that an abomination? How can God do that? I thought the person who justifies the wicked isn't an abomination. How are we to understand that God justifies wicked people? And that's the very question that Romans chapter 3, 19 to 26 helps us to answer. So follow with me as I read Romans chapter 3. I'll start at verse 19 and read down through verse 26. So now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God. Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But now Apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith, this was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, Lord, as we do every Lord's day. Lord, asking for your help, Lord, that you would open up your word to us. You're the one who authored this word. And Father, we depend on you to give us an understanding of what's written in it. Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to have a proper understanding of what These terms mean, Lord, when we speak about being justified, when we speak about sins being propitiated. Father, I pray that you'd give us an understanding of what these things mean Oh Lord, but not only to us, but what these things mean for you, what these things say about you. So Father, I pray that we would have a greater appreciation for who you are, for your holiness, for your righteousness. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Righteousness is a central theme throughout the book of Romans. The entire book of Romans can be really summarized by the righteousness of God. We find that phrase over and over again in the book of Romans. And Paul's desire is for all men to know that God is righteous. And his standard of justice will not budge, will not budge for the Jew, it will not budge for the Greek, not the Gentile, not anyone. God is the God who is impartial. There's no partiality with God The Bible lets us know that those who have sinned without the law will perish, and those who don't have the law, who do have the law, will be judged. God is the God who shuts the mouth of every protest because we all are all held accountable before his standard. We're all condemned. But the good news is that God will declare unrighteous men as righteous and receive sinners as saints by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, and that's good news. That's good news, but the question is, is how is it righteous? We know it's good news for us, but how is that righteous of God That's the question. We don't call a judge who ignores the law a good judge. We don't call an umpire who ignores the rules a good umpire. But this is the very position that it appears that God is in, because this passage speaks about how God justifies sinful men and declares them to be righteous. And the main point is how can God be declared righteous and still justify sinful men? And really that's the that's really the main point in this text. It's about the righteousness of God. In verse 21, it speaks about the righteousness of God. Apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. In verse 25, it speaks about uh his righteousness. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, the the propitiation in his blood through faith of his son being displayed. Verse 26, it's the demonstration I say of his righteousness. Over and over again we we find out that this is about God's righteousness. God is concerned that we would see him as righteous, that his righteousness would be put on display. And when God makes a decision, he doesn't need anybody looking over his shoulder to see if he's done what's right. He doesn't need a committee to review his judgments. What God does is right. It's manifestly right. And in the passage that we read today, God is revealed to be a righteous God. And we're given eight reasons why God is just. And why why when he justifies, he can be considered a righteous God. Eight reasons why God is righteous when he declares us us righteous. And each of these points is theologically rich, and this is really just an overview of what will develop in uh the the weeks to come, but um but that's why you're coming back next week, okay? What we're doing is right now just giving you an overview, okay? If if this again is the heart of the book of Romans, we want to make sure that we understand this, okay? We want to allow the weight of this to rest on us. But right now we're just going to do an overview so that we can understand what we're we're heading for. Number one, justification is not through the law. This is in verses 19 to 21a. Justification is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures, verse 21B. Justification is through faith in Christ, verse 22. Justification is for all who believe, 22 to 23. Justification is through the redemption of Christ, verse 24. Justification is through the propitiation of Christ, verse 25. Justification covers sins previous to Christ in verse 25. And justification covers sins presently in Christ, verse 26. And I promise you, it's all there, okay? This is the heart of Paul's message. It's also at the heart of the gospel. And we need to understand this for our joy of our own salvation and for the health and well-being of the church. Martin Luther considered the doctrine of justification the article upon which the church stands or falls. This is an important doctrine for us to understand. Number one, justification is not through the law. Look again at verses 19 and 20. It says, now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that the mouth of that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God. Because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. But now apart from the law of righteousness. The law, uh, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Justification is not through the law. For those who would blame God for being unjust, Because he justifies ungodly people that don't obey the law. God says that's never how I've justified anybody. I've never justified anybody by their obedience to the law. No flesh. will ever or has ever been justified by the law. If anybody is ever going to be justified, it has to come through another way. The law that's referred to here is the Old Testament, Old Testament Mosaic Law. It was handed down as a unit. We've divided it into different parts, you know, ceremonial and uh, you know, moral and other, you know, portions, but uh it came down as a unit, the law of God. And verse nineteen says, Whatever the law says, that's referring to that Old Testament law, all of it was to be obeyed, and if you broke any of it, you were guilty of All of it. James 2. 10, for whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. All of it had to be obeyed. Galatians 3 10 says, For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. Why are they under a curse? For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law. You have to obey all of it. And if anyone was to be a candidate for obeying all of the law, surely it would be those who were the recipients of the law, the Jewish people. But here we learn that not even those who received the law could obey the law. Romans 3. 9, are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. Everybody's a sinner. When God does this Google search for good people, it comes up with no entries. None of us are good. None of us is righteous. One commentator said a silent world will stand before the bar of God's judgment. Every mouth will be shut. And according to verse 20, the law will be the prosecutor that condemns us as guilty. Through the law comes, verse 20 says, the knowledge of sin. All the law does is it reveals the standard and exposes your errors. The law cannot save you. To borrow a metaphor from James, the law of God is like a mirror. But all the mirror does is it shows what's there. It doesn't fix what's there. You know, you look in the mirror and your face is dirty. You don't pull the mirror off the wall and start wiping your face with it. If you look in the mirror and your hair's out of place, you don't pull the mirror off the wall and start rubbing your head with it. The mirror cannot help you. It just shows you what's there. Like when some of you take a picture and you look at it, it's like, ah, I don't like that. I'm sorry, it's just showing what's there. It can't change you, it just reveals what's already present The law doesn't do anything to save us. But there's nothing wrong with the law. Romans chapter 7, Paul says, what shall we say then in verse 7? Is the law sin? Is the law the problem? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had said, You shall not covet it You shall not covet. And then verse thirteen it says, Therefore, that that which is good, speaking about the law, become a cause of death for me? May it never be, rather it was sin in order that it might be shown to be sin by affecting My death through that which is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful. The problem wasn't with the law, the problem was with our inability to keep the law. We couldn't keep the law. And the law just shows me to be who I am. I'm utterly sinful. And there's nothing that the law can do to help me. The law doesn't justify anybody because nobody has ever obeyed it I don't care what kind of Israelite you claim to be. You can't obey the law. And if God is going to justify people, it has to be through a different way. And that's what Paul is saying. That's the point that he's making. God has never justified anybody by their obedience to the law. There's got to be another way. There's no entry through that port. And what this does is it shows God to be righteous. Why? Because God is impartial. God isn't justifying some people because they obey the law, and other people because they have faith Everybody who's ever justified is only justified in one way, and it doesn't come through the law of God. Number two, justification is consistent with the Old Testament scriptures. Look at verse 21. It says, now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. And when he says apart from law, he doesn't mean apart from the scriptures. So it's apart from obedience to the law that we're justified, but it's not apart from the scriptures that we're justified, even the Old Testament scriptures. spoke about being justified apart from obedience to the law. And we're told here that that the Old Testament scriptures bear witness to this. Two prominent illustrations. Flip over to Romans chapter 4. Just look across the page. Romans chapter 4, look at verse 1. Two prominent illustrations from the Old Testament would bear this out. Verse 1, chapter 4. What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh, has found? For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. For what does the scripture say? Again, we're referring to the law and the prophets. What does the scripture say about this? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. How was Abraham justified, declared innocent in the sight of God? Was it because Abraham obeyed the law? Absolutely not. Abraham believed, and it was credited to him as righteous. So how does a pagan idol worshiper from Ur of the Chaldeans, and just in case she wanted to make the connection, the the Chaldeans were the same people connected to Babylon, this is where Abraham comes from. How does this pagan, idol-worshiping Gentile become a friend of God? It's because he believed God and God credited it to him as righteousness. That's how he became a friend of God. It wasn't because of his obedience to the law. It's because he trusted in God. And that's the Old Testament scripture. That's the Old Testament scripture. Drop down to verse 6, chapter 4. Speaks about David, you know. Exhibit B, David, verse 6. Just as David, who also, David also speaks of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works. Verse 7, and this is from Psalm 32. Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. Psalm 32 is written after the sin with Bathsheba, after the murder of Uriah. How does an adulterous king who takes another man's wife and has The husband killed and cover up for it. How does he become a man after God's own heart? Is it because he obeys the law? Absolutely not. It's because God credits his faith as righteousness And that's the Old Testament. That was while under the law. Abraham was declared righteous by God because of faith. David was forgiven by God because of faith. Because they trusted in God, and that's the consistent testimony of the Old Testament scriptures. And praise God for that example because such were some of you. First Corinthians chapter six verse nine Or do ye not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals. Nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God, and such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were what? You were justified. You were declared innocent in his sight. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. This is consistent with the Old Testament revelations, that we can be declared innocent by God through faith. Justification is not through the law. Justification is consistent with the scriptures. Number three, justification is through faith in Jesus Christ. Look at verse 22. It says, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. What this is saying is not that, you know what, I used to require righteousness, but now I just require faith. You know, as long as you believe, I'm okay with that. I'm not really worried about that righteousness stuff anymore. That's not what God is saying. I still demand righteousness, is what God is saying. But I will receive that righteousness not from you, but from another. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. God does not compromise his standard of righteousness in order to squeeze men through the pearly gates. He's not lowering the bar. The standard of righteousness is still the standard of righteousness, but he will take that righteousness outside of you as a substitute for you. Martin Luther referred to it as an alien righteousness. It's a righteousness that comes from another. It's literally a righteousness that comes from outside of this world. It's what Paul refers to in Philippians chapter 3 and verse 9 where he says, that I may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own. It doesn't come from me. Not derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith, and Jesus is that righteousness for us. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 30 says, Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness. Christ is our righteousness. Jesus is our righteousness. Romans 10 verse 4 says, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. There's a real righteousness that stands behind justification. Just like there has to be real money in the bank that stands behind your check. You can't just write a check and there's nothing behind it. There's a real righteousness that stands behind our justification. And the real righteousness is the righteousness of Jesus Christ. There were times when uh John Bunyan, John Bunyan's the author of Pilgrim's Progress, and uh he wrote a book that was really uh uh uh autobiography, you know, just on his own uh personal journey. And often John Bunyan doubted his salvation. He wondered whether or not he was truly saved, whether or not he was righteous enough to enter into heaven And he recounts one of these times when he was struggling with the assurance of his salvation. He's walking through a field and he's wondering whether or not, am I really saved? Am I righteous enough to stand before God? And he writes this, he says, one day I was passing into the field, and this sentence fell upon my soul. While he's wondering, Am I saved? Do I have enough righteousness? This sentence fell upon my soul. Your righteousness is in heaven. And with the eyes of my soul I saw Jesus at the Father's right hand. There I said, is my righteousness. So that wherever I was or whatever I was doing, God could not say to me, Where is your righteousness? For it is always right before him. I saw that it is not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better, nor my bad frame that made my righteousness worse. For my righteousness is Christ. And now my chains fell off indeed, my temptations fled away, and I live sweetly at peace with God. Where is your righteousness? Our righteousness is in heaven at the right hand of the Father. That's where my righteousness dwells. That's who is my righteousness. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to those who believe. In Christ's righteous life and death are considered the material cause of our justification. The substantial righteousness before God is the righteousness of his own son. And the way that we attach ourselves to that righteousness, the instrumental cause of our justification is faith. It's through faith that we attach ourselves to the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And that's why we teach that salvation is by Christ alone, through faith alone. We're attaching ourselves to the righteousness of Christ, but it's through faith. And this is what brings God glory. If you had anything to do with your justification, you deserve some credit for it. You deserve some kind of credit. That's why Romans 4 2 says, if Abraham was justified by works, He has something to boast about. He could pat himself on the back and say, hey, I I had a part to do with that. You know? It's like the Home Depot, you know, advertisement. You know, you can do it. We can help. It's like, yeah, you can you can you can get your salvation and and I can help you out with that, but you can do it yourself. And there are too many people out there with a DIY salvation. That hey, I you know I need some help doing it, but I can do it. All I need is a hand, a little bit of help from my friends. I can do it, I can cross the line. And the what the Lord is saying is, no, you can't. It's all of me. And why is it all of him? Because he gets all of the glory for it. All of the credit goes to God. Where does our righteousness come from? It comes from outside of us. It's outside of us. It's through the righteousness of Jesus Christ. It's through faith in Christ is verse 22. And number four, justification is for all who believe without distinction. Look again at the end of verse 22. It says through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. For all those who believe, no distinction, for all have sinned. And if you pay attention to the argument that Paul is making here, the emphasis is that salvation is for all without distinction, and that's actually the reason for verse 23. You know, sometimes we uh quote verse 23 , and it's true by itself that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, but it starts with uh this little conjunction for. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. It's given here a reason. For there is no distinction. Why is there no distinction? For all have sinned. That's why there's no distinction before the Lord, because everybody has sinned. So listen to the logic. If you were to ask Paul, why are men declared righteous? Or how are men declared righteous? The answer would be it's through faith in Christ. That's how we're declared righteous, through faith in Christ. If you were to ask him which men are declared righteous, no, the answer would be all who believe. And if you were to ask him, why is there no distinction in that requirement, he would say, because all have sinned. That's why there's only one way to come, because everybody has sin. That's how it fits into the argument. The reason why he doesn't rescue some by faith and others by works is because all have sinned. So there's only one way to come. And the big concern for Paul in this book is how is God demonstrating himself as being impartial And that's one of the reasons why we have it right here, that all have sinned. That's how God shows himself to be impartial, because the salvation only comes through one way. It's through faith in Jesus Christ. There is no distinction because all have sinned. Number five, justification is through the redemption of Christ. Through the redemption of Christ. Look at verse 24. He says, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. A word for redemption, it's a Greek word, uh, apolutrosis. It means a release affected by the payment of a ransom. A release affected by the payment of a ransom. There was a price that was paid for you to be set free. If you're here, you're a believer, there was a price for your redemption. And the price for your redemption is the price of blood. Somebody, I mean, think about that, that somebody had to die for me to be set free. And we'll get more into the arguments for this when we come back to this text again, but it's clear that the price required for our ransom was the price of his blood. In Romans chapter 3 and verse 24, it says we're justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption. In verse 25, the propitiation in his blood. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 12, it says, Not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood, he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. There are people who would say that you know it it didn't really require you know the uh the sacrifice of of Christ for us to be be set free. And it totally ignores what all of Scripture says that it had to be blood. It had to be blood. To free you from the penalty of sin cost Jesus his life. And that's what the blood signifies: that the one who is offering this blood is the one who has died. And there is no way to have God without the cross. To have God without the cross is to say that God is not serious about sin. He's not serious about his holiness. It makes salvation cheap. It would mean that God could be bribed or bought off. I mean that God doesn't really demand perfection. To have God without the cross is to have a God who's not really God And here's the reality I don't want you to miss, that if God was going to redeem us and declare himself as righteous, that the cross was the only way for that to happen. If he was going to redeem us and declare us righteous, it was only through the cross. That God doesn't simply forgive you. It's not like a presidential pardon where you've been convicted of a crime, but a president or a governor can just say, you know what, I'm just going to let you go. I know that you're guilty. I know that you've been convicted. But I have this authority, this executive power, that I can just release you. That's not what God does when he forgives us of our sins. It's not simply a pardon. He doesn't simply write a pardon. I'll just write that one off. That's not what God does. God takes our sins seriously, so seriously, that he demands that every sin be paid for. No, you have to pay. I can't just let you off. This has to be paid for because he will not violate his own justice. There are some things that are impossible for God to do. If anybody asks you if there's something that's impossible for God, it depends on what they mean by that. But you go ahead and say yes. There are certain things that are impossible for God. Scripture will back you up, don't worry. It is impossible for God to lie. Hebrews 6 verse 18, it's impossible for him to lie It's impossible for God to change. Malachi 3:6, for I the Lord do not change. It's impossible for God to fail. O Lord God, behold, you have made the heavens and the earth by your great power, and nothing is too difficult for you. And that answers the silly question, you know, can God make a rock so big that he can't pick it up? And the answer is, no, he cannot make a rock so big that he can't pick it up because he can't fail. Anything that he attempts to do, he can do. So of course it's impossible for God to do, make something that's impossible for him to pick up. What kind of silly question is that And it's impossible for God to deny himself. Which means that God will never violate his own character He will always be who he is. 2 Timothy 2. 13 says, if we are faithless, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. He cannot be other than who he is. And if God frees you from your sins without paying the price, that would mean that God's a liar. Because he doesn't really take sin as serious as he says he does. It would also mean that God's changed because he used to be holy, but now he's not It would also mean that God has failed. He's failed to live up to his own standards. And it would also mean that he denied himself, that his own holy character is at stake. So what does the cross do for God? If we understand this properly, what the cross does for God, it allows him to demonstrate his love and his justice at the same time. The guy can demonstrate himself to be both loving and just, that he takes sin seriously, and he can also forgive the sinner and allow guilty people to go free because the price has been paid for them. He doesn't simply write a pardon. He pays the price by the blood of his son. And that's why we call it a propitiation, verse 25. It says, whom God, you know, speaking about Christ. whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood. When the Apostle Paul testifies about Jesus in Acts 26 , He says that the death of Christ did not happen in a corner. This is a public event. Everybody who walked by could see what happened to Jesus Christ. The Romans made sure that the person who was crucified was on full display in public view. And this was a public symbol of the wrath of Rome. But more than that, this was also a public symbol of the wrath of God. The God was at that point demonstrating that I take sin seriously. I take sin seriously. And this there's this obvious picture that's in the cross of Jesus Christ. And here it's called the propitiation. God displayed publicly as a propitiation. It's the Greek word Hilasterion. It was used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament for the mercy seat. The lid on top of the Ark of the Covenant where blood was sprinkled once a year for the forgiveness of The nation of Israel. And where did that blood come from? It didn't just come from an animal that they cut. It came from an animal that they killed. Jesus provided for our salvation not just by his blood, but by his death. It was by a death. To remove the idea of wrath ignores the the way that the Greek word would have been used, to appease wrath And Greek commentator Leon Morris says throughout Greek literature, biblical and non-biblical alike, hilosterion means propitiation. It's a satisfaction of wrath. And we cannot now decide that we like another meaning better. There are those who try to eliminate this idea of the wrath of God from the cross of Jesus Christ. But what we find that on that Friday, over 2,000 years ago, Jesus took upon himself the wrath of God for our sins. That's what he was doing. Isaiah 53, verse 5 says, He was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening or the punishment For our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are healed. We needed to be saved from the wrath of God. I love the title of R. C. Sprohl's book. He says, Safe from what? You know, you talk to people, they say, oh, I'm saved, and you say, well, saved from what? What are you saved from? Do you know that we're actually saved by God from God? Romans chapter 5, verse 9 says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God. Through him. We're actually saved by God from God. Saved from his wrath by the blood of his own son. He's the one who provided himself with the sacrifice to take care of the wrath against sin. And we can find in that just such a love that the father would initiate that, the sacrifice of the son. It's not that the son is, you know, twisting the arm of the father to say, oh, please let me come down, I'll take care of their sins for them. It's actually the initiation of the Father because of his love, his great love towards us, that he sent his son to be the payment for our sins. Number seven, justification covers sins previous to Christ. Look at verse 25. It says, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in the forbearance of God, he passed over the sins previously committed. And here Paul answers the question, you know, what about the people before the cross? You know, we we understand how how God can forgive people after the cross, but how can God forgive people before the cross? How does that happen If the cross is so essential for people to be saved, how could he redeem anybody before the cross happened? You know, sometimes I hear people say that the you know the Old Testament God is this God of vengeance and wrath and anger. And the New Testament God, the New Testament God, he's the God of love and peace and mercy. But that's not how Paul looked at it He actually said that the question is about, well, what happened to them before the cross? How did they get away with what they did? How did Adam and Eve make it out of the garden alive? Why did Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob get away with their lies and their deception and polygamy? How did that happen? How did the children of Israel get out of the wilderness? What was going on during the time of the judges? Every man's doing what's right in his own eyes and they still survive? And how did Solomon get the right scripture? God says that in his forbearance, he passed over the sins previously committed. Why did how could he pass over those sins previously committed? It's because the cross was on the way to pay the debt. The cross is on the way to pay the debt. For those of you who use your uh your credit cards, there's what's called the minimum payment, right? Minimum payment. And when you send that minimum payment in, it can kind of be deceiving because you think that you're you know you're current. But they just leave you alone until the next month. And there's another minimum payment. But eventually, you have to pay off that bill in full, or you will be a debtor for the rest of your life. In the Old Testament, you know what was being given to God? Minimum payments. Minimum payments. Bulls, goats, sheep, minimum payments. It wasn't the full payment Even when people suffered for their sins, it was a minimum payment. Even if somebody died because of their transgression, you know what that was? A minimum payment. That did not pay off their sin in full. There had to come one who could pay off that bill in full, and that one was Jesus Christ. In John chapter 19, 30 it says, Therefore when Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is what? It's finished. A word that was used in Koine Greek for a bill being paid off in full, to telesti. It's done. It's complete. He bowed his head and he gave up his spirit. Paid in full. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Sin had left a crimson stain and he washed it white as snow, right? Jesus paid it all on the cross. All to him I owe. So how can God declare those who live before the cross? As uh redeemed. How could he consider them redeemed? It's because the payment was on the way. And even the the sacrifices that they offered were just minimum payments until the full payment came, who is Jesus Christ? And that also answers the question, how can God declare a group like us today as righteous? Justification covers sins presently in Christ. Look at verse 26. It says, for the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time. Not just those sins previously committed, but how about the sins we commit today? For the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. How can God be considered just and at the same time justify people like us? How can God declare people like us innocent? You're not righteous. You haven't always sought after God. You've used your tongue for evil and your lips for deceit. You've used your feet for destruction and misery that's been in your path. You haven't always had the fear of God before your eyes. And it would be a violation of God's justice and a denial of his holy character if he did not punish your sin. He can't ignore it. He who justifies the wicked and condemns the righteous, both alike are an abomination to the Lord, Scripture says. So how can he allow guilty people to go free? According to Colossians chapter 2, we had a certificate of debt. Consisting of decrees against us which was hostile to us. Well, listen to what Colossians 2. 13 says, when you were dead, in your transgressions, in the uncircumcision of your flesh. He made you alive together with him, having given forgiven us all of our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us. Which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross, when he had disarmed the rulers and authorities, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. The cross is what canceled our debt and set us free. And it demonstrates that God is righteous. He still takes sin seriously. He doesn't violate his holy character, and he can still demonstrate his love and compassion towards those who violated his law of the cross is what gives God the the uh allows God to demonstrate These attributes of who he is. And it's right that we think of the cross and what has the cross done for us, but it's also right for us to think about the cross and what the cross has done for God. That the cross has allowed God to redeem a sinful humanity. Demonstrates that He can redeem a sinful humanity. Over in Hebrews chapter 10 it says, the law, since it only has a shadow of the good things to come and not the very form of the things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near. Sacrifice is going to do that. It's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. But what does Scripture say in 1 John 3 and verse 5? You know that he appeared in order to take away sins. All of the sacrifices, all they did is cover it over, throw the rug on top until the next year when somebody pulled the rug back off. And the sin is still there And then you cover it over again, and then the sin is still there. Over and over and over again, you're covering the sin, but the sin doesn't remove itself. It was Jesus Christ who came and took our sins away. Love what uh you know uh John the Baptist said when he saw Jesus Christ coming. He says, Behold the Lamb of God who does what? Takes away the sin of the world. Here comes the one who can take it away. Here's finally the one who can remove our sins from us. He doesn't just cover our sins. He removes them completely. He takes our sins away. The cross was necessary so that there could be peace with a sinful humanity between God and mankind. Without the cross of Christ, we would be doing nothing but storing up wrath for the day of wrath. But it's because of the cross of Christ that now we can have peace with God. Sometimes you hear people saying, you know, I'm trying to make my peace with God. You can't make peace with God. God has to make peace with you. And that peace comes through the blood of the cross. God is making peace with us through the blood of his son. Romans 5, 9, much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. It's through him that the wrath of God is removed and peace has entered into its place. We can have peace with God because of the blood of his son. And there's there's some people who who even even believers who struggle with that. They struggle with this idea of, you know, is God really angry with me? Have I done enough that I've satisfied God? You know, I've stumbled again, I've fallen again, and now they think that they're somehow removed from the peace of God. But the scriptures let us know that the wrath of God has been removed for you, believer. There is no more condemnation. For those of you who are in Christ Jesus. You are not condemned when you sin. Now you still come before the Lord and you seek for forgiveness. You know, there's there's that that that break in the the the the the the relationship that you might have, you know, temporary loss of that that intimacy of fellowship. But God is not condemning you now because you've sinned. You don't have to anymore kind of check off the box as if somehow you're trying to work your way into God's good favor. Grace has already been given to you as a believer. There is no more condemnation for those of you who are in Christ Jesus. The wrath of God has been removed and peace has come into its place. You don't have to struggle with that as a believer. And the cross was necessary to demonstrate that God could justify a sinful humanity. That we could be declared innocent in his sight And if you have any questions about whether or not the death of Christ was really necessary for this kind of peace to be made between you and God, for Him to declare you innocent, all you have to do is remind yourself of one simple One simple illustration in the life of Christ. In the Garden of Gethsemane, when he's before his father. And he's experiencing this great agony of soul. He's wrenched under the pressure that's so severe that it made his body drip blood like sweat. And he cries out to the Father in this moment of intense emotional pressure and desperation. And he cries out and he says, Father, if there's any other way, let this cup pass from me. If there's any other way, God is about to unleash his anger against his own son. And the son cries out, having always pleased the Father, and says, If there's any other way, let this cut pass from me. Did the cup pass? No, the cup didn't pass because there was no other way. There was no other way. For sinners to be declared innocent in the sight of God, other than the cross of Jesus Christ. But that cross. has been accomplished. The crucifixion of Christ has been accomplished so that there is now peace with God for all of those who trust in Jesus Christ. And if you think that you could do anything on your own to establish peace with God that the cross couldn't take care of, you need to think again about the agony that Christ went through. in order to secure that. There's nothing that we can do to match this kind of sacrifice. And that's what's been offered to you as a believer. The cross was necessary for you, and the cross was also necessary for God, because there was no other way for peace to be made between God and a sinful humanity besides the cross of Jesus Christ. And we'll get more into this in the weeks to come, but this is the heart of the message of the Apostle Paul. This is the gospel. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for just this flyover, this introduction to this heart of the book of Romans. Father, this message is such an important message. Father, this message is a message that's been attacked by so many in our day. And this message is uh is also a message that uh that we need to be bold to proclaim because there is no other way of salvation. My Father, people can't come to uh to uh to know you, Lord, except through the cross of Christ, except through the gospel of your Son, except through faith in Him and in Him alone. My Father, there is no path through our good works, through our efforts. Father, I pray that we would uh boldly proclaim, Lord, that there's only one way of salvation, that there's one name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved, and it's the name of Jesus Christ. Now, Father, I pray that we would be bold with that message that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father except through him. Father, I pray that we would honor the sacrifice of Jesus Christ by pointing people to that. And Father, I pray that we would honor the sacrifice of Jesus Christ by resting in that. That we would rest in the hope that's been offered to us because we trust in Jesus Christ. So Father, I pray that you would remind us of these things, and Father, that you would be glorified, and that we would see within this your righteousness, that you are a God who displays yourself as righteous. because of what you've done through the salvation that's been provided to us through Jesus Christ and through him alone. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.