The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So yes, um Ben Asked is Just talk about the day of the Lord, and that's a joy for me, because it is a topic I have studied and and it is an important one, as you've already heard mentioned from from Dr. Vlock multiple times already, it is an integral part of the eternal plan of God. But it is one of these nebulous terms that often in the church we don't really have a good understanding of. So I'm I'm excited to come together and and walk through some specific scripture which is where we'll land. discussing this and try to help bring some uh a semblance of biblical clarity to what is often confusing. But let me start us in a word of prayer And then we're going to jump in. And let me just say, I didn't bring any notes. I have my notes. And I'm more than eager to send you what I have. What I have is is very verbatim, so it will be helpful for you if you if you desire it. I will gladly send it to you if you want it. My email is very simple. It's Matt At, so it's M-A-T-T at Belcroft, that's B-E-L -C -R-O-F-T. Matt at Belcroft. org. That's my church email. If you want a set of notes for this, please email me and I will gladly send you all that I have that I'll be working through. You're more than you don't have to at all, but I didn't want to bring hard copies because I didn't have any to bring and who would want them in in our day and age. So there you go. All right, let me open this a word of prayer. Father God, we are so grateful. for your word, which does bring us clarity amidst oftentimes the eschatological confusion we find ourselves in, especially in the modern church. So help us, Lord, in these days that we might rightly divide your word, so that we might live with hope, as chatology above all else is given to us, that we might have hope. in the King of heaven as he prepares to come to earth. So help us in these days, Lord, as we live in preparation of the return of the King that we might have our eyes upward and our heart and our hearts strengthened as we fight the good fight of faith in times where it seems godless. So help us in these days to be strengthened by the scriptures we pray. In Jesus' name, amen Okay, so the day of the Lord is a it's a very broad theological and eschatological term that encapsulates both the looming judgment of God and the future restoration that God brings. So the day of the Lord is like the doorway, if you will. into the restoration of all things, and most assuredly the restoration of Israel, of which we'll talk a lot about. While the day of the Lord often focuses on the coming judgment, It will at times, as we'll see this morning from Zapaniah, incorporate a gracious time of the ultimate coming restoration. The day of the Lord is simply the day the Lord brings holy judgment upon sinners and thus clearly and ultimately vindicates himself. The day of the Lord speaks of a time when God supernaturally intervenes into the course of human history to deliver and display his perfect judgment upon the wicked. The day of the Lord judgments are not always tied to one specific event or time But must be determined by the context of the passage. I'm going to explain that. There are times in Scripture where the day of the Lord might have a specific near fulfillment of a historical vent. right there at the prophet's time and we'll we'll look at that. The day of the Lord judgments are a sobering, very sobering reality found throughout the pages of Scripture in both the Old and the New Testaments. This day of divine reckoning is where God calls sinners to account for their sin, and it is key, key, as Dr. Vlock has already shown us, key to the eternal plan of God for all the ages. God has a day of judgment planned for everyone. And we must never forget that. The day of the Lord judgments and the restoration deal with, as we've already heard, the cosmos, the creation, it deals with the Gentile nations, and it deals most specifically with Israel. The cosmos itself will be apart and deeply impacted, as I'll show you in a moment, by the day of the Lord's judgments. We'll be looking at this in a moment, but Zephaniah chapter 1, verses 2 and 3 make it plain that the entire cosmos will be in chaos under the judgment of Christ in the day of the Lord. The Gentile nations will also be judged in this divine day of reckoning, as Jeremiah 48, 10-12, Isaiah 2, 10 -22, Ezekiel 30, 1 -9, Joel 3, 1-6 declare, and yet, and yet The day of the Lord is also very specifically about the judgment and restoration of Israel, as Isaiah 3, chapter 3 and chapter 4 speak of, Ezekiel 13, 5. Zechariah 14, 1 and 2, Zephaniah 3, 7, Joel 1, 13-15, and many others display The day of the Lord is also seen in many places in the New Testament, like Matthew 24 and Mark 13, with the Olivet discourse in many ways is showing us this looming day of the Lord reality, 1 Thessalonians 5, 2 Thessalonians 1 um and 2, 2 Peter chapter 3, and as Dr. Vlock has already said, the the quintessential display of the day of the Lord would be Revelation chapter six all the way into uh the beginning of the millennium and then even in part, maybe after, with the ushering in of the eternal state and what happens there. Now the day of the Lord speaks of a time frame, a period of time when Yahweh will bring severe judgment upon sinners. You gotta grapple with this for a moment and get clarity. The day of the Lord is not speaking of a specific day, meaning twenty-four hours, but a general time frame or epoch or an era of time. This day is highlighting more of a qualitative aspect than a quantitative nature of time This period of time is often referred to as the day of the Lord can have near historical fulfillments in part. when God brings judgment specifically during the time or near the time when a prophet prophesied. You can see that in Ezekiel 13 or I also believe Ezekiel 30 verse 3 is another one where what is referred to as the day of the Lord is very likely Speaking to the Babylonian exile and that act of judgment that was happening right there. There's a near fulfillment of what the Lord was saying in that text right there and being referred to as the day of the Lord. And so you've got to wrestle with this reality. Yet these near historical fulfillments do not fit They do not fit so many of those realities we see in the Scripture as the day of the Lord. It just doesn't fit it completely. So what we realize as we wrestle through so many of these passages is that these near quote-unquote fulfillments are a portent or a partial fulfillment of what is ultimately to come in the actual complete fulfillment of the day of the Lord. And we see that reality. So in many ways what we see with the exile of Judah and the Babylonian exile is a portent, a foreshadowing, a a picture in part of what will ultimately happen across the globe when God brings his Day of the Lord judgment ultimately And so as you're working through the Day of the Lord passages, you have to keep that in mind. And you'll see that reality. So this is why after all the exiles, and this is so important especially for our friends in the preterist camp, After all the exiles has happened for both Israel and Judah, the prophet Malachi, written now post -exile, post -ex Babylonian exile, judgment of God, speaks of the day of the Lord judgment still as what? Future. It's still coming. And when you see Matthew chapter 3, verse 7, John the Baptist. An Old Testament prophet in many ways warns of what? The coming wrath of God. Even when you get to the New Testament epistles , obviously written post-cross of Christ, and the book of Revelation, clearly written post -8070 destruction of Jerusalem So many people in eschatology want to see the destruction of Jerusalem in AC AD 70 as either a partial or an actual fulfillment of the day of the Lord. If that was the case, then why are so many of the epistles written after that still speak as the day of the Lord is coming? And so obviously the Book of Revelation written in the late AD 90s, the day of the Lord is clearly Still yet future, still coming. It has not happened in its fullest, complete fulfillment. So the day of the Lord judgments Though sometimes have a near partial fulfillment, we will say, they are still waiting their ultimate fulfillment when Christ returns This is undeniably clear when what is described in its fullest sense as the day of the Lord, when you study it, you have to see it so clearly. It has not happened. When the the scriptures we're going to look at in a minute speaks of the entire world being thrown into upheaval, you realize that has not happened yet in any stretch of the imagination. And so you start to understand that. Now, what I've just done is give you just a general overview of the day of the Lord, just a trying to acclimate us to this topic for a moment. What I want to do is move from a general overview, and I want us to go more specific in what is a very obviously deep topic, but I want to do it in this way. I want us to focus on one book of the Bible. One book of the Bible that actually has as its main theme, the day of the Lord. And I want us to walk through that book of the Bible. hitting the high points, kind of walking you through what I have in outlining this book because it will help us grasp the day of the Lord, I think, in a much better In a clear way. That book of the Bible is the book of Zephaniah. The book of Zephaniah. Now, if you don't know where that is, find the book of Matthew and turn left. Okay, it's at the end of your Bible. Okay? It's in the Minor Prophets. It's a glorious prophecy. It's three chapters, so we can do this. Hold on, we're gonna go through this. And I think this will, I've I've wrestled with how to do this and actually be helpful and not just giving you a ton of scriptures of which I've already done. Right? And and then we're all going out of here uh bloated on the Bible, but not really sustained and clear on what the day of the Lord is. So We'll find out whether this was helpful or not, but this is this is where I'm going. I think if we walk through Zephaniah, I think it will be helpful in bringing clarity to the day of the Lord. Now, context here This massive truth of the day of the Lord is highlighted here in this book of Zephaniah more than any Old Testament prophetic book. You might say, well, what about the book of Joel? I think Joel and Zephaniah together speak more of the day of the Lord than any other writer. Now, if you can take the book of Revelation, The book of Revelation depicts or shows, displays the happenings of the day of the Lord in vivid, dramatic, color fashion. But it's the really the prophets, especially the minor prophets. that really are speaking of this day of the Lord reality, the minor prophets of Joel and Zephaniah. Now what's helpful is Joel writes about a hundred years before Zephaniah And yet when Zephaniah comes a hundred years after Joel, what Joel spoke of as the day of the Lord being near, Zephaniah comes in and says Multiple times the day of the Lord is near. So it's again, just even that is helpful in understanding some of this biblical language. Now, the simple overview of Zephaniah. This overview goes like this. Global judgment that brings global restoration. I've just summarized really the whole book of Zephaniah for you. It's about global judgment. Notice global. Okay, we're gonna see Israel, we're gonna see the nations, we're gonna see the cosmos, it's global. But it all those specifics are there But that global judgment, which is the bulk of Zephaniah, it all ushers in. It's all moving in a specific direction, not of annihilation, but of restoration. And that's all part of the plan of God's ultimate eternal plan of the restoration of all things that Dr. Vloch mentioned multiple times. And the day of the Lord is part of the doorway of God walking us through that plan. So Zephaniah proclaims the coming day of God's wrath. both nationally for Israel and internationally for every other nation. But the Prophet also declares how the coming day of the Lord will also usher in divine restoration of Israel as a nation, along with the restoration of the redeemed elect Gentile nations. So Zephaniah gives us a helpful picture of the day of the Lord, both a time of Retribution, but also that which moves us into a time of divine restoration. Now the setting of Zephaniah. The setting. Zephaniah the prophet is a contemporary of Jeremiah, and he served in the latter part of the 7th century B. C. Likely From 635 to 625 BC. And this would have been during the king the reign of King Josiah. Judah had become utterly wicked. With Jerusalem, her capital becoming a citadel, if you will, of cultic worship and false teaching. Instead of Judah being a light to the nations as God had designed, Isaiah 42, 6, Isaiah 49, 6, she had become like the world. Judah had been enticed and thus enslaved by the darkness of the world. There is a remnant, though, a remnant of faithful followers of Yahweh in Judah, but they are few The bulk of the people and the holy city of Jerusalem has become an unholy city or an unholy center of false worship and a springboard for wickedness. This is the spiritual and the historical setting to which now the word of the Lord regarding the day of the Lord comes through Zephaniah the prophet. Okay, so are you with me? We know what we haven't parachuted into Zaphaniah. I know most of us haven't read it. Some of us probably have never read it, but you know where you're at now. You kind of you you you got the landscape. You can feel where you are Okay, let me give you an outline. Again, this is an outline. I've preached through Zephaniah and I've wrestled with this, and and so you may not like it, but I think it's helpful. I think it's helpful and obviously I think it's accurate. The day of the Lord is the main is the main theme of Zephaniah. One only needs to consider how the day of the Lord, if you think I'm stretching this, is mentioned, wait for it, seventeen times. In just this stretch, from chapter 1, verse 7, to chapter 2, verse 3, you have 17 direct references to the day of the Lord in like that short span. I believe a helpful outline that summarizes both the book of Zephaniah and the day of the Lord is this. So if you're gonna if you're gonna outline this book, this is what I've done. The day of the Lord's retribution. Okay? That's point number one. Day of the Lord's retribution. That goes from chapter 1, verse 1, all the way to chapter 3, verse 8. And I think this is helpful in the uh, shall we say, the weight of of the book and where it leans. It leans in the day of the Lord judgment, okay? So the day of the Lord is primarily about the day of the Lord judgments. So the first part of the book, the first major section, literally is from chapter 1, verse 1 to chapter 3, verse 8, and I'm categorizing it as the day of the Lord's retribution. But then in chapter 3, verse 9, through the end of the book, which is verse 20, you really have the day of the Lord's restoration. And and the day is mentioned multiple times there. On that day, in that time. Remember, the day of the Lord isn't a s isn't a twenty-four-hour period, it's a time frame, it's an epoch of time, an era of time. So from this outline, Zephaniah's teaching on the day of the Lord, you can see how the majority of the prophecy is focused on God's coming judgment. And yet you can see how that coming judgment or wrath leads into an amazing day of God's coming restoration of the earth, the nations, and most specifically. That's why I love this in Zephaniah, because he's very clear, most specifically, the nation of Israel. There we see how the day of the Lord deals with global judgment that ends in global restoration. What I would like to do with the time that remains, I'd like to walk through this prophecy of Zephaniah so that we might gain a better understanding of the day of the Lord. And I will walk us through this with a major outline I've already given you. Okay, so that's that's going to be our map, the day of the Lord's Retribution, chapter 1, verse 1 to chapter 3, verse 8. and the day of the Lord's restoration, chapter 3, verse 9, verse 20. And then what I'm going to do is I'm literally, hopefully you have your Bible. You're there. I'm just going to walk you through the text. and show you what's going on in relationship to the day of the Lord all the way through the book. And as we do that, you're going to get a better understanding of the day of the Lord. So after that brief introduction here in Zephaniah chapter 1, verse 1, because that's what verse 1 really is, the first section of Zephaniah is the day of the Lord's retribution. The prophet starts off Giving. Here you go. General, a general declaration of the day of the Lord. That's in chapter 1, verse 2 to 6. It's just this very sobering and very scathing, but very general declaration of the day of the Lord. Okay? The general declarations of the day of the Lord. That's verses 2 to 6. In this section, the prophet proclaims how God's coming wrath brings both universal, that's verses two to three, and specific, verses four to six, a specific and universal end to all things. This is a scary, sobering, and shocking passage when understood rightly. Without question, the prophet declares how the entire globe world will be utterly judged and thus absolutely destroyed during this day of the Lord judgment by Yahweh himself. Zephaniah does not ease into this declaration of divinely wrought doom, but he comes out of the gate swinging. By the second verse, he proclaims the ultimate apocalypse. If verses 2 to 6 were given a news caption, it would literally read, The end of the world is coming. That's literally how these verses read. It's sobering. Thus, global destruction, because of God's global judgment, is truly at the heart of the prophet's message here. Verses 2 to 6 in many ways introduce to us This sobering message from God's man regarding the coming end of all things as we know them Now notice there are clearly six divine I wills in this text that leave no doubt who's driving this looming disaster. Verse 2, Yahweh says, I will utterly sweep away everything. The Hebrew phrase in the word sweep away means God will bring to a complete end everything in creation. Mankind and the whole created order as we now know it will come to a complete end by God's sovereign wrath. He'll overturn it all. He'll move it all around. He'll shake the heavens and the earth in this time. Notice in verses 2 to 3 how the language there is clearly connected to Genesis 6 and what God did in the destruction of the earth with the flood. Here in Zephaniah verses 2-3 we see this phrase, I will wipe away, sweep away from the face of the earth Which is exactly what God said he would do and did in the flood in Genesis 6. 7. Notice also the cause of this global judgment is the wickedness of man. And so it was with the global flood, as we see in Genesis 6. 5. However, do not miss this, because this will put the day of the Lord, I think, in a better image in your mind. What Zeppaniah describes here in verses 2 and 3 is actually far greater and far worse than what actually happened in the global judgment brought by God in the flood. Never forget, never forget that. Because what we have in the flood did not involve every aspect of the created order, but what he shows us here. is all of it is going to be cast into an upheaval like like never before. And that's where in the Olivet discourse This phrase is used multiple times, that there will be a judgment and tribulation on the earth that has never been like before and never will be like again. So even the flood itself, which we would look at as probably the greatest display of God's judgment upon the globe as like unlike anything we have ever seen, unless you have a view of the cross rightly, but that's another discussion for another day. But it's like You look at that in the physical realm and you're like, yeah, there's nothing like that. And yet there's coming a day when there will be such judgment on the globe that nothing can compare to it. And Zephaniah is showing us that right here. What's interesting about this is don't miss it. It is the wickedness of man that drives this. So think about it. The globe is going to be destroyed not because of greenhouse gases. Listen, listen, don't miss it. But because of God's divine wrath, because of depravity, because of wickedness. So never forget that the globe, the creation itself, its greatest issue is not greenhouse gases, it's global depravity. Mankind's wickedness. So you see that right even here. It's a reminder when we're hearing the things we often hear. to make sure that we're thinking rightly. Now when we transition in verses four to six from the general d upheaval and destruction of all things to the specific, the universal judgment of mankind to the personal judgment of Judah. That's what you see in verses 4 to 6. Yahweh now focuses in on the end he will bring to his own people, his beloved city Jerusalem. Just as what happens to mankind directly impacts creation, so what happens to Israel directly impacts mankind. Israel was called to be God's light to the nations, mankind. Israel was called to be a kingdom of priests, a holy nation, proclaiming the glory of God to the world. Yet Israel rejected God's word and God's plan to be a light to the world. And instead she sought to be like the world. Instead of Israel infecting the world with the light of truth, Israel became infected by the darkness of the world and the lies of the world. Depravity and rebellion against general revelation. That's Romans chapter 1. Israel specifically, Judah here, they have rejected God's special revelation. And thus they have rejected it, and God will ultimately bring judgment upon his people as well. In this day of the Lord's judgment on Judah, God sweeps away, you can look at it in verse 4, he sweeps away what? All the false teachers. And then he sweeps away in verse five the filth of cultic and synergistic worship. And then this judgment will also finally remove all apostates and practical atheists from Judah, verse 6. Again, that has not happened, by the way. It's happened in part at times throughout our history, but not in full at all. So again, these things have not happened. Now as we move to the next part of the text, verses 7 to 18, we're moving from the general declarations on the day of the Lord, which already have helped us get a I think a more biblical picture of what's coming. But this section, I'm telling you, is shocking because it's so specific on describing the day of the Lord. I believe, and many others who are smarter than I have declared that in this section of Zephaniah we have depicted for us the most explicit teaching on the actual aspects of the day of the Lord. And it is graphic, and it is scary, and it is sobering. As you work through verses 7 to 18, you see the day of the Lord. We've moved from the general declarations to the specific descriptions. That's what verses 7 to 18 are. The specific descriptions of the day of the Lord. We see this day of the Lord is sovereignly driven by God. So it's not driven by global warming. It's driven by God's global sovereignty over everything and his global plan for everything. It is sovereign, it is scary, and it is sobering This day of judgment in verses 7 to 8 is called, don't miss it, a day of sacrifice. And to be more clear, a day of Yahweh's sacrifice, where he makes a sacrifice of unrepentant sinners. This is sobering and hard to even wrap our minds around it at times and yet it's so clear and so just The Bible uses this language of God's judgment against sin being as Yahweh's sacrifice. You can see that in Jeremiah 46, 10, in Isaiah 34, 5-8, in Ezekiel 39 , 17 -20. And obviously in Revelation 19, 17 to 18, just to name a few places. Listen to Jeremiah 46, 10, speaking of God's day of judgment on Egypt. And I quote, That day is the day of the Lord, God of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The sword shall devour and be sated and drink its fill of their blood. For the Lord God of hosts holds a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates. Zephaniah now turns this amazing grace of God provided in and through the Old Testament sacrificial system and he prophetically, if you will, turns it on its head. And he says, either you will receive the sacrifice God has provided for you, or you will be sacrificed You will be killed for your own treachery. Either something will be killed in your stead, or you will be killed for it. So what we have here is those who have rejected the Lord's gracious sacrifice will now be sacrificed themselves. for that is exactly what their sins, our sins, all of our sins deserve. Accept Yahweh's sacrifice before judgment or become Yahweh's sacrifice in judgment. Listen, the day of the Lord is no joke. Right? That's the sobering reality. As you're going through this, you're like, whoa. Right? That should be the right response if you're if you're getting it But not only is this sovereign sacrifice, but it's a day of sovereign punishment. You can see that multiple times in verses eight to thirteen. Yahweh declares that he will punish evildoers in judgment. The Hebrew word translated here is punish in this context means he will visit upon someone or bring something to bear upon their life And he brings punishment to bear. He brings affliction. He brings pain. He brings death. He brings judgment. So what is actually being said here is that God specifically visits these people. in order that he might inflict punishment upon them. Punishment meaning in order that God might bring divine retribution or justice for their wrongdoing, i. e. for their sin unrepentant. We have seen the sovereign sacrifice and punishment, but look at the text here in verses 14 to 16. So if you're tracking with me, we've already made it from chapter 1, verse 1. Now we're in chapter 1, verses 14 to 16. The textual indicator here moves us along and it says, on that day, or now, at that time, meaning in the day of the Lord judgment. Here Yahweh says, I will sovereignly search out all sinners. This Hebrew word in context means to diligently investigate every nook and cranny, if you will, or under every mountain, as Revelation will show, to find all that is hidden. Even the text goes on to speak figuratively of Yahweh using a lamp, so to speak, to search out the dark and hidden places. God needs no lamps, for even darkness is as light to him, as Psalm 139, verse 12 says. Notice, this is a seek and destroy mission, as God is saying. There is nowhere you can hide from me. And though you will try, I will find you on that day, and I will destroy you. So far, we have seen three descriptive truths about the day of the Lord. We've already seen it's a sovereign judgment. We have already seen this, that it is a sovereign punishment, and we now want to show you it's a scary judgment. We've looked at that, and now I want to show you it's a sweeping judgment. Verses 17 to 18 Sweeping. It is all-encompassing. Meaning these judgments will be comprehensive, far-reaching, overwhelming, and complete. The day of the Lord is a time when Yahweh will sweep the cosmos of all evil and evildoers. You can say the day of the Lord is when Yahweh will finally sweep the creation clean of all sinners and sin. The day of the Lord's judgment is when Yahweh sweeps the world clean with his perfect and purifying justice. Notice Zephaniah 1, 2 to 3 has already spoken of Yahweh using this language of sweeping and sweeping judgment, sweeping away and cleaning it and bringing it to its utter end. That reality, generally declared in verses 2 to 3, is now specifically displayed in verses 17 to 18. This final description of the day of the Lord shows us how God's judgment brings overwhelming distress. upon mankind. What is described in Zephaniah 1. 17, here you go. I told you, Revelation, I love this. People at our church is like, when are you going to preach through Revelation? When we've gone through the prophets. I said, not until we've gone through the prophets, that's why I'm preaching through the minor prophets, are we ready to really understand the book of Revelation? The book of Revelation is color, is eschatology and color. The prophets are black and white. You've got to have the black and white and then fill it in with the color to get it right. And I love that. And so that's what we're doing. So if you go from what we're seeing here and you go over to Revelation 6 15 and 16, that's where you see the people of the wor world what? Overwhelmed by the judgments of God, in utter distress. Everything he's saying here, you see, now displayed in Revelation during this time of the day of the Lord. This great distress he will bring and affliction upon mankind is pictured in Revelation six, fifteen to sixteen, when people are crawling under rocks and Tunneling into the mountains. Why? Trying to get away from the wrath of God. You see it in Revelation 9. 6. You see it in Revelation 16:10, where the people of the world are just in utter distress They're in utter brokenness physically. They're in so much pain, and it's all because the day of the Lord. That's chapter one. Do you feel the weight of the day of the Lord? Do you feel the tension of it? It's serious, right? Yes. Like you're just like, if you're like me, you're like Whew. I'm tired. Um nervous. And and the scriptures are amazing. I love this because this is such a good reflection of the character of our God. So we we're done chapter one. Okay? So we're transitioning. We're still under that first major heading of the day of the Lord. God's retribution. We're still there. But now we're into chapter 2, verses 1 and 3. And I love this because right here we've moved from the general declarations to the specific descriptions. And now we go to the merciful demands, the merciful demands of the day of the Lord. In chapter 2, verses 1 and 3, you actually have a call for the gospel. It's at this point where you see the mercy of Yahweh come out. In the midst of all this gloom and doom, he now brings grace And he calls sinners to repent. Obviously he's speaking to the context of his people. This is pre-the exile of Judah in Babylon, and he's trying to wake them up. And you're going to see this multiple times. And so we have five commands here in three short verses, as compared to only one command in chapter one. That's massively, it jumps off the page. Clearly the Prophet is transitioning from proc proclaiming something to admonition, from giving characteristics of the day to now giving a charge because of the looming judgment the day begin brings from condemning people to calling people to repent. That's really what is in chapter 2, verses 1 to 3 Notice the prophetic therefore that emphatically but compassionately calls people to respond. In light of all that I've described as coming, therefore, meaning there's a response, there's something you must do. And it is turn back to God. Repent for your ways. Thus, these three verses show us God's undeserved compassion for sinners amidst his looming condemnation of sinners. The point of this passage in one word is repentance, as God calls people to turn back to him in broken and utter dependence on him. And so many in so many ways that's what the day of the Lord is about for us, right? It's a call for us to repent and it's a call for us to be gr to be rejoicing in the repentance that the Lord has gifted us so that we don't have to go through this. So we don't have to deal with this. So it's it's both a calling of of salvation and it's a calling of rejoicing in our sanctification that this is not our end. And so here in this passage he's calling his specific people in this moment and all people to see what's coming and repent. and it is glorious. How encouraging it is to see Yahweh continue, think about it, to continue to offer grace and compassion amidst Such divinely wrought and deserved calamity. These people don't deserve it in his day, and the people in the day coming don't deserve it. We don't deserve it at all. But he offers it. He gives it to us. That's grace. He gives us what we don't deserve. Revelation 14, 6 is amazing. Revelation 14, 6, again, 6 and 7. We're in the throes of the day of the Lord judgments They're being cast out, literally. Christ is in heaven and he's flinging the wrath of God, literally, from heaven upon earth. And yet, amidst all this gloom and doom, all this affliction and pain, all that's going out, do you know what God still does? He sends the gospel. Revelation 14, 6 and 7 says he sends an angel. As all the judgment is coming upon earth, there's an angel flying through the heavens, proclaiming the gospel, telling people, repent. Follow God, trust him, fear him. Again, does he have to do that? No. In some way, should he do that from our perspective? No. But he does it because that's who he is He is an amazing, merciful God. So don't think for a moment that amidst the day of the Lord's wrath, there's not grace and mercy. Of course there is. Right there it is. It's glorious. You can see that many times. But As Jesse pointed out in the last session about post-millennialism and how it falls short of what the scriptures teach, isn't it interesting? They know, so in the midst of God's Gloom and doom and wrath in the day of the Lord. Mankind doesn't think, wow, it's really hot and we have all these boils because of global warming. No one thinks that. No one is no one's going, man, I should have got an electric car. Right? Now People will likely say that in those moments, right? Trying to deny it. But the Bible's clear. They all know this is coming from God. The world looks at God literally and shakes their fist towards heaven because they know it's coming from him, even though he's calling them to repent. He's reaching out and saying, You don't need this All you need is me. Turn to me. And you know what they do? They shake their fist at God and say, never. Think about it. You read about that, it comes up multiple times. Revelation 16, 8. Revelation 16, 8 to 11, Revelation 16. 21, you'll watch it. Even as the boils, even as the afflictions are coming. That's the way we are as fallen human beings. Then, starting in chapter 2, verses 4 to 15, we move from the merciful demands. to the international details. So now we've we've been talking about the general declarations, the specific descriptions, the merciful demands, and then starting in chapter 4 through the end of the chapter, now we're getting a flavor for the international nature of the Day of the Lord. Where it's going to involve more than Israel, it's going to involve more than the cosmos, it's going to involve all the nations. And that's literally what you see in chapter 4, verses 15. God is zeroing in on specific nations around Judah. So if you're looking at the text, you can literally outline it like the text does. He then describes where he's going to judge those in the north, in the south, in the east, and the west. So it's like he has Judah, pay attention, in the crosshairs, and he judges everyone else around them. Literally, he takes every nation to the north of them, to the south of them, to the east of them, to the west of them. They are all judged by him. The only one left is Judah. So that's chapter 2, verses 14 to chapter 2, verses 4 to 15. But when you get to chapter 3, who's the only one left for judgment? Judah. Now Judah is in the crosshairs. And so we move from the international details of the day of the Lord, and now you're in the national. national details or better yet the national denunciations of the day of the Lord, specifically the nation of Israel. And that's what you have in chapter 3 verses 1 to 8. This is where God makes it. What he said generally in chapter 1, verses 4 to 6, where he gave this general description of what I'm going to do to Judah. Now he lays it out. And he just gives it to him, both guns blazing, and says, okay, I've judged everyone around you. There's no one left but you And now you're next. Like he's zeroing in. But again, I love this. Look across the page at chapter 3 in Zephaniah chapter 3 verse, what is it, 7, right? I love it. Don't miss it. He's coming and he's scathing, and this is a divine denunciation in these eight verses. He holds nothing back. But he says, I judged all those nations around you. So that you would wake up and see I'm coming and accept me. And you didn't. So it's like again, he keeps reaching out and saying, why won't you Follow. Why won't you submit? Why won't you repent? Everyone around you has been decimated by my wrath. And you're still hard-hearted. You're still ingrained into this. And therefore, you're next. And so really what you have in this section is where God just lays it out for them so that, again, I love our God, he's crystal clear that his judgments are just. He wants Judah to see. You think I'm overbearing? You think I'm too much? I'm going to prove it to you. So he denounces her character. And he says, You deserve this because your character is wicked. And then he denounces her actions. You are a bunch of fakes and phonies. Therefore you deserve it. He denounces Judas leaders. You've got wicked, duplicitous fakes for leaders. And then he denounces, and then in verses 5 to 8, he says, I'll prove to you I'm just. I'll prove to you that I'm righteous. even in my judgments. And so he verifies his righteous justice in verses 5 to 6. What I've just said, he verifies his undeserved grace. They have rejected in verse 7, and then he verifies his all-consuming wrath is coming for them in verse 8. That's the end of the day of the Lord judgments. Point number one in Zephaniah, major section, retribution. It's interesting. Where he started globally Chapter 1, verses 2 and 3, he ends very nationally, specifically in Israel. And that's the way the the whole day of the Lord goes. It starts broad and he just keeps zeroing in on his people. Zeroing in on his people. But let's not forget, and this is why I love this in Zephaniah, because it doesn't end there. Right? Now if it ended there, we would have a a pretty good understanding of the day of the Lord, but we wouldn't have a complete understanding. Because it continues to go. I love it. Because what is the reason for all of this? He's doing all of this judgment to vindicate his righteousness and to redeem his people and restore his globe. And that's what comes next. So this day of the Lord judgment is a doorway in every way so that God can ultimately bring about his ultimate plan, which is the restoration. of all things, including his people. And that's what you see in verses 9 to 20. The last major section of the prophecy is the day of the Lord's Restoration. So we move now from the darkness and the doom and gloom of the text. We've m reached a a massive turning point. And if you're like our church, when I preach through this literally verse by verse. When we reached chapter 3, verse 9, there was like a hallelujah chorus because we had been walking through so much bloodshed and judgment and doom. You're just like, when will it end, Pastor? Right? But it's good We need to see this. We need to understand the God's character. We need to see his grace amidst our guilt and all of that. And and we grew a lot from it. And we still are as we're working through some minor prophets. But here in the text we're moving. We've transitioned from the global judgment, here you go, to the global blessing. That's where we're at. From the national punishment to the national purification. From condemning retribution to saving restoration. Starting here in verse 9 in the text, the whole of Zephaniah's prophecy moves us from the negative to the positive, as much hope and help are now proclaimed to all peoples of God, all the redeemed, elect people of God from every tribe, tongue, and nation. In both Judah and beyond, now they get this blessing of the restoration. Up to this point, we have learned a lot about the day of the Lord judgment that was coming on God's people, Judah and the rest of mankind. Why? Because of their unrepentant rebellion against Yahweh. Since chapter two, verse chapter one, verse two, we have learned that the day of the Lord is ultimately that terrible time when Yahweh will judge all unbelieving sinners everywhere. We have seen how this is a sovereign judgment brought about by God Himself, how this is a scary judgment bringing horror and calamity. and distress on man. How it's a sweeping judgment that will involve Yahweh removing all sin and sinners off the face of the entire planet. And this has been daunting and dark. Think of the prophet having to proclaim this, but now everything changes. From verse 8 to verse 9, God moves from punishing people To purifying his remnant. God is speaking once more now of the remnant of the righteous people from both Gentiles and Jews that He Himself will purify, He Himself will preserve, and He Himself will redeem. God will purify a people for himself as he sovereignly now transforms them from worshipers of self to worshipers of Yahweh. You see it in the text, this idea of purify, bringing pure speech and all this divine purification in this purifying God will. It comes up multiple times in the text, and God will cleanse these people who were once polluted and impure, he will now sovereignly purify them in grace. This sovereign purification of God's people is the main point of the prophet's message here in chapter 3, verses 9 to 13. You're tracking and you're outlining. You reach this first major section. Your first subpoint would be the purification, because that's what it's all about in verses 9 to 13. Verses 9 and 10 give you the purifying of the Gentile nations. Most specifically, the remnant of the chosen people from every tribe, tongue, and nation that God ever is going to save and purify. That's what he's talking about here. Despite the fact that verse 8 is clear that God assembles kings and nations to judgment so that all the earth is consumed, yet there's a group, a group of believing Gentiles that remain. And verse 20 shows us that at the end of the prophecy, where there are nations assembling to worship God beyond Israel, and they remain. Why? Because God is purifying a people for himself from every tribe, tongue, and nation. Then we move from the purification of the nations in verses 9 and 10 to the purification of Israel in verses 11 to 13. The reason Israel will finally be saved and purified in the end is not because of anything in or about Israel but by the grace of God. So again, isn't it, and I try to help us in this. not to be gloom and doom and dark and dreary. But isn't it amazing amidst all the judgment, there's grace, mercy, kindness A plan of compassion. This is our God, right? This is who he is. And there he is. He's got a plan for his people. And he purifies them. They don't want to be purified, just like you didn't, and I didn't. But he comes in sovereign grace and he changes them and he draws them and he moves them to follow him and it is glorious in the text. But notice, verse 12 says, Yahweh will leave a remnant that he has preserved. He'll sweep away the wicked. He'll take out the idolaters. He'll take out the fornicators. He'll take out the wicked. But he leaves a remnant. A remnant that will be humble and meek. God will remove the shame of Israel through judging the wicked of Israel as he redeems the chosen of Israel Like Paul declared regarding the final salvation of Israel in Romans eleven, five to six, how God has a remnant chosen by grace, not by works, whom he will ultimately save in the end. This is what Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34, and Jeremiah 32, 36 to 41 say. When God declares He will change, He will purify, and He will redeem. his chosen people in the end. That's what we're witnessing here. Judah now changes and God redeems the people. And notice how they're marked. Look at verse 12. Now they're called a humble people. Now they're called as seeking people, where they're seeking after him. Listen, they're seeking after Yahweh because they believe in Yahweh's Son, right? Let's be clear about that. Because they're not doing this as a nation now. Not at all. They're a humble people. They're a seeking people. Notice, they're a just people. They're doing what's right, verse 13. They're an honest people. They're speaking and dealing with one another in honesty, and they're a genuine people They're no longer duplicitous. Remember, that's been one of Israel's greatest issues. External worship, internal wickedness Now they're not. They're no longer duplicitous. They're genuine people. And this is, again, why this is so paramount for us, because this has not happened yet. They're a peaceful people. They're peaceful in themselves and they're at peace. Obviously, that has not happened, undeniably, without question. And so that's verses 9 to 13, the purification of God's people, both the international Gentile remnant and the national remnant. But now we move to the final section of this wonderful prophecy, helping us better understand the day of the Lord. And it is the ultimate culmination and coronation of the king. The re-establishment of God's people, if you will, in their land, at peace with all nations. Now I remind you that the main focus of this final section we're in. I can't believe we've done this. Just just just telling you. Don't tell my church I did this. Please, Jeff, don't say anything to anyone. Because that 's terrible. Pastor, why can't you do that on Sundays? It's another story for another day. Yes, but this is crazy. But we've done it. I'm encouraged. Praise the Lord. Because I didn't think I could do it. But anyway, praise the Lord. So here we are, right? We're here. We're at the end. And the whole point here is this final restoration where God Himself will establish Israel so that she has peace with God. Peace with one another and peace with the world of nations. Again, we're not there, but that's what's coming. That's what God is planning. They have net this has never happened, but it will one day when Notice the text. When the king is in their midst. You look at it, right there it is. The king is there in their midst, and thus they have peace. He is there, Israel's king, the Lord Christ, returns, and he rules the world in Jerusalem from David's throne. So Zephaniah has moved from predicting future judgment and now predicts the ultimate future restoration of God's remnant in Israel. Now please don't miss this The promise from God to ultimately, ultimately and fully restore his chosen people, the remnant from Israel, and re-establish them as a nation. Notice, it blesses the world. It blesses the world. And this reality of God's blessing, future blessing on Israel, as in many ways the conduit. by which he will bless the globe of which Dr. Vlock was showing us in the Millennial Kingdom, how so much has changed And then ultimately in the eternal state everything has changed and there's nothing of wickedness. That's why I think the day of the Lord will even stretch beyond the tribulation and even past the millennial kingdom to the ultimate final war and battle at the end when it's all done, when Satan is cast out. That's all an aspect of this ultimate judgment. that God will bring when then it's finally done. But this promise is rooted and grounded in the Abrahamic covenant, as we see in Genesis 12, Genesis 15, 17, 22. This Abrahamic covenant, which is being taught downstairs even now, because it's such an integral part of sound eschatology. But this promise, do not miss this, because this is where so many church members go wrong because they fail to see how explicit this is in Scripture. This promise to restore Israel and establish her so that the rest of the world is blessed. is found throughout the scriptures. It is found, this promise, in every single section of the Old Testament. There's not a major section in the Old Testament where you cannot find this promise explicitly declared. You see it obviously in the Pentateuch. I just said it. Genesis 12, Genesis 15, Genesis 17, Genesis 22, and other verses. You see it in the historical books in 2 Samuel chapter 7 with the promise of the Davidic king, the promise of the Davidic covenant It was in the wisdom books in places like Psalm 2, Psalm 72, Psalm 110. But consider, dear loved ones, this amazing truth. All twelve prophets, all twelve prophetic books in the Old Testament have promises that deal with Israel's future restoration as God's chosen people. Here's just a few references. Isaiah chapter 27, Isaiah chapters 42 to 44, Isaiah 65, 66, Jeremiah chapters 30 to 33 Ezekiel chapter 36 and 37, Ezekiel chapter 40 to 48, Daniel chapter 9, which is happening across the way, Daniel chapter 9, verses 20 to 27, Daniel Chapter 12, verses 1 to 3, Hosea Chapter 2, 14 to 23. Hosea 14, 4-7, Joel 3, 18-21, Amos 9, 11-15, Obadiah verses 17 and verses 21. Micah 7, 14 to 20. And obviously Zephaniah chapter 3, verses 14 to 20, and Haggai, that's where we're at in our church right now. Haggai chapter 2, verses 20 to 23 Zechariah 13, Zechariah 14, Malachi 4, 1 to 3. Do you think we should be confused about God's plan to restore Israel? Do you see? I mean, this is not like a For a long time in scripture like like like a parenthesis. This is not a parenthesis in God's plan. This is his plan. Because the restoration of Israel is the doorway to the restoration of the rest of the globe. Right? This is it. So I mean you see it. And Zephaniah is so helpful because he ends where it really all began with Israel. And it's so, so helpful. So even though Zephaniah started with the promise of global horror Coming in and through the day of the Lord judgments, now the prophet ends his message with the promise of global hope in and through what Yahweh will do in restoring his people. So the point of this passage and the whole ending of the prophecy is that God brings hope to his people and the world through the promise of the future restoration of his people Israel. Amen? You now have walked through the day of the Lord in the book of Zephaniah. And the Lord has blessed us, trust me, because I can't normally do that. So I don't want to call it a miracle because that would not be right. But that was clearly God's kindness on us. Praise the Lord. All right, let me pray and then we'll be dismissed. Father God, we are we are grateful for your word and how it teaches us and helps us. Thank you for this conference which has already been so helpful. Thank you for your people who are so hungry. Thank you for your church. which is so important in our lives and in your plan. And now, O Lord, we pray that we would enjoy this lunch with gratitude because it is another grace gift from you in which we don't deserve. Bless us, Lord, we pray. For the glory of your name throughout this conference, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files