The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to uh Matthew chapter 6? Matthew chapter 6. We'll turn our attention again to the Sermon on the Mount we've been considering. Our Lord's words together, and this is an extremely convicting study, and one of the features of this section of scripture um that really makes it so crushing uh for us is that it penetrates far deep beneath just the surface. Goes beneath the surface of our our lives and uh and this is really what Makes it so devastating to us because we wouldn't be nearly so troubled if uh Jesus merely said things like, you know, hey, God just wants you to give. You know, um might be difficult, but we couldn't manage that. You know, just forgive. Wouldn't it bother us so much if Jesus just said, you know, God is really concerned that you pray? You know, that's all he's really concerned about that you, you know, speak to him, you know, just pray. Again, that might be challenging, but you know, if we put our minds to it, we could do that as well. But even be more challenging if uh when Jesus says, you know, I want you to fast. You know, maybe God is just requiring you to push the plate away for a period of time to focus on him. And you know, that would be difficult as well, but it wouldn't devastate us to fast to push the plate away for for a period of time If Jesus just focused on the visible and the external things, we could make our way through this sermon pretty much unharmed. But Jesus goes deeper than just the surface level, and he pushes past the words, he pushes past the actions, and he actually focuses the microscope on the motives and intentions of our hearts. And that's what makes this sermon so difficult. That's what makes this sermon so convicting to us because the demand for righteousness is on the inside. The demand for righteousness is in the inward parts where nobody can see but you and God. That's what makes this so convicting to us, because there's no place to hide You can hide when you can just kind of put on the face. Do things externally. You can hide. But where are you going to hide from your own heart? Where are you going to go? And Jesus doesn't allow us to get away with just the show of religion. He's not satisfied until we're fully transformed in the innermost being. God wants to see us fully transformed from the inside. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 6, verses 1 through 4 together. Jesus says, beware of practicing your righteousness before men. To be noticed by them. Otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. So when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do. In the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be honored by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. So that your giving will be in secret, and your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for Your word. We thank you that your word is sharp. It's powerful. Father, that it divides the thoughts and the intentions of the heart. And Father, I pray that this morning that you would lay us open with your word, that you would do the needed surgery there, and that you would help us to follow after you. Father, that's our desire And uh Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. I've titled uh this section of the Sermon on the Mount the The riches of the kingdom. The riches of the kingdom. Really to cover the whole of chapter six, because throughout this section Jesus focuses on heavenly, spiritual, and eternal reward. And the idea of heavenly reward is really the major theme that ties chapter 6 in together If you look at verse 1, it starts to introduce this idea of reward. Beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. In uh verses two to four, Christian giving is rewarded by the Father. In uh verse four, the Father who sees in secret will reward you. In uh Verses five to fifteen, Christian praying is rewarded by the Father. In uh verse six again, the Father who sees what is done in secret are prayers that we offer to him in secret will reward us. In verses 16 to 18, Christian fasting is rewarded by the Father. In verse 18, it says, Your father again who sees Who is in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. In verses 19 to 24, Jesus urges us to store our treasures in heaven. In uh verse twenty store up for yourselves treasures in heaven where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal. Again this idea of storing our rewards, our treasures up in heaven. And then in verses twenty five down to thirty four we're encouraged to seek First, the kingdom. We're to seek heavenly, spiritual, and eternal rewards of the kingdom over even our necessary food and clothing. It's that important. It's that important. And the first mention of reward is attached to giving to the poor, charitable giving. And you literally have to read your Bible with your eyes closed not to see God's attention to the poor, right? I mean it's it's all over. It's everywhere. God is not indifferent to human suffering throughout the Bible, and the poor are found close to God's heart. The poor Uh from the time that the law was given to Israel, the people of God clearly heard God's heart and intention for the poor. It was actually mandated In Deuteronomy chapter 15 in verses 7 to 8 he speaks to the individual. He says, if there is a poor man with you, one of your brothers, In any of your towns in your land, which the Lord your God has given you, you shall not harden your heart nor close your hand from your poor brother But you shall freely open your hand to him, and shall generously lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks Talking to the individual follower of God, you are to open your hand generously to those that are poor around you. Open your hand freely. There was this corporate uh kind of command that was given under the Mosaic Law. Every third year uh there was a specific tithe. Uh sometimes we think about the tithe as only the one-tenth percent. There was actually three different uh tithes that were taken. And uh one was taken every third year specifically to give to the poor. Specifically for the poor. Deuteronomy 26. Verse twelve it says, When you have finished paying all the tithe of your increase, in the third year of the year of tithing, then you shall give it to the Levite, to the stranger, to the orphan, and to the widow, that they may eat in your towns and be satisfied Every three years there was a tithe that was taken specifically to give to the strangers, the Levites, the orphans, the widows, so that they would eat and be satisfied. It was to be given to the poor. It was to be the the business and practice of even everyday living. The way that they were supposed to conduct their their business was to also give attention to the poor. In Leviticus chapter 23 and verse 22, it says, When you reap the harvest of your land Moreover, you shall not reap to the very corners of your field. Don't try to get up every bit of grain that's on your field. Leave leave the edges. Why? The very corners of your field You are to leave for the needy and the alien. I am the Lord your God. Just in case there's somebody who comes in who's needy, somebody who comes in as a stranger, a sojourner, he's come from another land. He's uh trying to look for resources, but at the time he doesn't have any. Leave the edges of your field open for him, so that as he passes by, that he'll have something to eat. God was concerned about the poor. And if you remember the story of Ruth, Boaz picked up a wife because he learned from this principle, right? This was a concern of God. It was also even a concern that was included in their worship. The poor were allowed to bring a different kind of offering. before the Lord, because God wanted everybody to be included in the worship that was to be given to him. In Leviticus chapter 5 and verse 7 it says, But if he cannot bring or afford a lamb Then he shall bring to the Lord his guilt offering for that in which he has sinned, two turtle doves or two young pigeons, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. Everybody couldn't afford a lamb. Everybody couldn't afford a bull So what does God say? If you can just find two two doves, just find two two pigeons, offer them to me. I'll accept that for your sin offering. If you remember uh when uh Mary uh actually gave uh an offering to the Lord, it was what? It's two pigeons. The parents of Jesus were poor. They offered the sacrifice of the poor. So this concern is really nothing new in the in the scripture and it's not something that's isolated just the biblical times, you know, that, oh, back then they were supposed to give to the poor, but you know, what do I have to do with that Jesus says in Matthew 26, verse 11, for you always have the poor with you. That means what? We've got them here today, right? It's not like this was just for for back then. This is for today, for now. And when Jesus made that statement, he said that there was supposed to be a even a balance in our lives. If we gave every dime to the poor, we'd still not meet the need. In this case, Judas is actually saying that uh trying to make an excuse for giving the the money for the uh the perfume that uh Mary poured out on the feet of Jesus and you know kind of anointed his feet, wiped them, wiped them with her hair. Jesus is saying, you know, this money could have been given to the poor. And Jesus says, you'll always have the poor with you. Uh don't think that you have to give every dime to the poor. You know, there's also other priorities that have to be taken care of. And in this case he says, I'm the priority right now. I'm the priority. But still, uh Jesus is giving uh us a a command for for the poor, or to give resources to the poor. And uh the Bible adds some uh definition uh around who these poor people are, uh because there's a lot of people who say that they're poor that actually aren't, right? The poor in Scripture were not those who refused to work, but rather those who were victims of their circumstance. Nowhere in the Scripture are we commanded to give money to the drunk so that he can get another drink, right? Nowhere in Scripture are we commanded to give to the lazy so he can refuse to work. That's the kind of helping that actually hurts people. Scripture actually warns against that kind of thing. In 2 Thessalonians 3. 10 For even when we were with you, we used to give you this order. It's a command. We gave you this order. If anyone is not willing to work, then he is not to eat either. It was a command. To guard the the kind of giving that those in the church were to do and from the church just being taken advantage of uh by people who just wanted to to receive uh without being responsible uh with that. But um So we're not to uh support evil habits, uh, but we are to be open and free with those that have legitimate needs. And there's uh different categories of of need For example, there was uh those that were known as sojourners or foreigners. Uh that was the person who was uh maybe escaping a place where resources had dried up. They're coming to another land, maybe looking for work. Again, Ruth was an example of that. Ruth and her uh Uh actually Naomi and her husband traveled to uh Moab during a time of famine. They're looking for food uh to eat. Uh so so that would have been an example of that in the in the book of Ruth. Uh during times of war, during times of famine, people would travel to to different places uh to other lands seeking provision and we should welcome that kind of thing, look to support people like that. In a similar way, the the widow and the orphan were placed in their situation because their source of income had actually died You know, so they're also uh looking for for charity and God says we're supposed to be open to people like that. And uh then there were other people who became dependent on charity because of some kind of infirmity. You know, they became beggars. You have the the man who was born blind, who was a beggar, in John chapter 9. You have the crippled man who was born lame in Acts chapter 3 and then you have those that were diseased To give in these situations was a righteous thing to do. And God recognizes that as a righteous thing to do, to give to those that are in need. In Acts chapter 10 There was a devout man by the name of Cornelius who feared God, and God actually says, your prayers and your alms have ascended before me as a memorial. I mean, I'm well pleased with this sacrifice. That you gave, that you're praying. Luke chapter 19, Zacchaeus was visited by Christ, and the way that he responded to the call of the Lord, he says, Half of my possessions I'll give to the poor. And Christ returned and says, you know what, salvation has come to this house today. That's an evidence of your salvation that you're willing to open up your hands and give to the poor. And even Jesus and his disciples, we read it just a little bit earlier in John chapter 13, they kept the money box for the purpose, not only for the purpose of meeting their needs, but also for giving to the poor. We just read it in John 13. Remember when uh Jesus told Judas, you know, what you do, do quickly? And his disciples said, oh, he must be talking about the money box. You know, maybe he's going out to buy things that we need, or maybe he's going out to give to the poor. Jesus was actually involved in giving out money to poor people. We don't hear about it often in the scripture, but Jesus actually had a money box for the purpose of giving money to the poor Amazing to think about. We often forget things like that. The Son of God was involved in giving money to the poor. So Jesus was serious about this. And he was so serious about it. Turn over to Luke chapter 12 So serious about this was Jesus that he even encouraged people to sell what they had in order to obey this command. Look at Luke chapter 12. Luke chapter 12, starting in verse 33. Look what he says. He says, sell your possessions and give to charity. Make yourselves money belts which do not wear out, and unfailing treasure in heaven, where no thief comes near, nor moth destroys, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. And this could be a sermon all by itself, right? All by itself that we need to give to the poor. Because back in Matthew, and we're going to turn back there if you want to flip back to Matthew chapter 6. What Jesus assumes in this section of Scripture is that we will be giving to the poor. He's just telling us how to do it. He's assuming that we are doing it and telling us this is the proper motivation for doing it. This is the proper way to do it. But he assumes that we're going to be giving to the poor. That is convicting. It's convicting. Because we as Christians should be given. Let me ask you a couple questions. And this sermon is really going to be a lot more practical than doctrinal. Not that doctrine isn't practical, but you get what I'm saying. You know, some of the distinction there. But um basically I want to try to get into your kitchen a little bit Do you, maybe in your wallet, you might want to say, right? Do you budget money just to give to poor people? Do you do you leave space in your budget to give? Or is everything that you have coming in going out? You need to ask yourself that question. In 1 Timothy chapter 6, Jesus made it clear that those that had an abundance 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verses 17 and 19 says, Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches. But on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy, instruct them to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, storing up for themselves the treasure of a good foundation for the future. Again this treasure is in heaven so that they may take hold of which is life indeed. Do you actually set aside a portion of your budget to give? And uh when it talks about the rich there in uh uh uh 1 Timothy 6, you might not think about it, but uh the United States is pretty wealthy as it comes to the rest of the world, right? We are the rich. We are the rich Do you set aside a portion of your budget to give? Do you model that for your family? You know, when it later on it talks about not letting your left hand know what your right hand is is doing. That doesn't mean that you and your wife aren't supposed to be on the same page and thinking through that together because you're one, right? Doesn't mean that you're not supposed to be an example for your children. Do you model that for your family? That we're actually a family that gives And some of you might be saying, well, you know, I I I really don't have it to give. I don't I don't have, you know, any extra in my budget. Well, that's fine. Do you have something extra at home that you might be able to sell for it? Is it that important to you? Because what Jesus says in Luke chapter 12 that we just looked at, sell your possessions to give to charity. Is there anything that you might have at home? Have a couple extra of something lying around that you could actually sell in order to give. Think outside the box. This is what Jesus is saying. You don't have it with you? That's okay. Sell something so you can have something with you. It's that serious. And I'm not just talking to you. This is convicting for me. Do we set aside in order to give? Like I said, Jesus is assuming that we're going to do it. He's just giving us instruction about the right way to do it. And I'm really uh convinced that when we start thinking about these uh needs, you know, given to those that have legitimate needs. I'm convinced that where we're mostly going to see the opportunity to get to these kinds of needs is really going to be outside of the United States. I really believe that. And I believe that uh we as a church uh need to be making it a priority. And we're a young church and we're still developing and coming up with you know plans and everything else. I think that we as a church need to be looking to how can we set aside a portion of the budget that we just give. That we just are able to send out to people that that are in need, that we look for the the needs that that come up that arise and say how can we how can we give to those that are part of the body of Christ in other places of the world? How can we do that? How can we practically be involved in this kind of work It's important work. It's work that our Lord calls us to do. And there's two commands related to our giving in Matthew 6, which are really both saying the same thing. Matthew chapter 6 and verse 2. Do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do. And then in verse 3, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. Both of them commands, both in the imperative. And uh for those of you who are at the the Journey Through Scripture on uh Friday night, uh this is really the controlling phrase, the main idea. Everything else hangs off of these commands right here, and both commands are really saying the same thing Do not call attention to your giving. Do not call attention to your giving. And then it gives us these few little illustrations or metaphors to make the point. Let's look at the first metaphor together. The first picture is of the public blast, putting it on public blast. Look at verse 2. So when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets So that they may be honored by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. Putting your giving on, public blast. No evidence that this literally took place, that there were literally people who walked around with trumpets before them as they gave. Some point out that the offering chests in the temple were actually called shofar chest or trumpet chest uh because the opening of the the the receptacle for you know the giving in the the temple was actually shaped like a trumpet and uh some uh it was kind of wide at the the top you know narrow at the bottom And uh some say the sounding of trumpet could be a reference to these, you know, shofar trusts, these trumpet chests, and people kinda like violently throwing their money in so it makes a loud noise so everybody else can hear. You know, I'm putting in a lot over here You know, the temple sitting in the jackpot with me today, you know, just ching, ching, ching, ching, ching, ching, ching, right? So some people say it might be that, but uh the text actually says That it was to be given to the poor, not to the treasury. Okay? Given to the poor, not to the treasury. And it's given in the synagogues and not in the the streets or uh in in the not not in the temple. It's given in the synagogues and streets, not in the the temple. So likely that wouldn't have been the uh the the the immediate application for that. I mean if if if you're in here trying to you know throw money into the the offering bag you're not gonna get a lot of noise out of it in the first place. But uh you know you shouldn't be trying to call attention to to whatever you're giving Oh my goodness. I d and I didn't write this in my notes, but I mean how many of you have actually been to churches where they, you know, kind of wave the money, walk up to the front, and you know, it's just, what in the world is that? What is that about? I I remember being in a church where I was asked to be a guest speaker and uh you know the the pastor he's saying, you know, hey, uh write down such and such on uh Put put put put on my uh my my tab such and such for the offering today, you know, just kind of announcing what he's gonna give before the con. For what? For what? Who is that for? A lot of times it's people trying to prime the pump, you know what I mean? It's like, let's get it going. I'll give this. Who's jumping in with me? The church is not the place for that. It's not the place for that. That's not the kind of giving that we're to do, to be blowing the trumpet before us. But here the blowing of the trumpet, it's a metaphor. It's a metaphor for calling attention to yourself publicly. Sounding the trumpet. The trumpet was the loudest instrument that we know of in scripture, the loudest wind instrument that we know of in scripture. It was often used for gathering people together for an assembly to make a public announcement And the purpose for this gathering was to put on the great show of my generosity. You know, let me just make sure that this is on display, that the assembly knows about how generous I'm going to be The theater for this show was to take place in the synagogue. The synagogue is literally an assembly, a bringing together of people. And uh when you think about the ancient synagogue, the synagogue really served as the center of the Jewish life Both the religious life and the community life for the ancient Jewish people. This is where people congregated. In addition to being a place of worship, the synagogue was uh where instruction was given. It was the schoolhouse Uh the first school was at home, but then at some point you were transferred over to the to the care of the synagogue. So the synagogue was a place for training. There was a meeting place, social gatherings were held at the synagogue. Some ancient synagogues actually had uh dining halls where people would come together to eat. It was a place where judgment was given. Many questions of law were decided in the synagogue. A person could be banned temporarily from society, given a public reprimand, corporal punishment. It all happened at the synagogue. It was a place where charity was also given, synagogues were places where poor people were fed, needy were clothed, the dead were mourned over, you know, captives were ransomed, orphans were cared for. I mean, it was just a bustling place So if there's anywhere that I'm going to go to get the most bang for my buck, it's going to be the synagogue. I'm going to go to the synagogue so that people know that I'm giving. And one of the greatest fears was to be, if you remember, to be cast out of the synagogue, right? Because it was so central to their life. So this was like the perfect opportunity for somebody who wants to put on a show to say, hey, I'm going to do it right here. Right here. This is the place for it. And the streets outside of the synagogues as well would have been crowded by people. It was customary among the Jews to give alms to the poor who assembled before the entrance. of the temple or the entrance of the the synagogue. This is what was referred to in Acts chapter three, where you have uh Peter and John are walking. They pass by the gate and they notice the man who's there, you know, is lame. You know, he's at the he's at the front of the of the entrance there. That's that's where everything happened. That's the street that they're probably talking about here. And word would have spread quickly if you did it right there. Right there in the open view of everybody. So it shows that the care for the poor was really not the goal. It was the applause of people. And uh the people that gave in this way are said to be hypocrites. Actually it comes from the the word for for the uh the the actors in the Greek plays that put on a mask. You know, so they could, you know, they had different faces that they had on these masks so that people way in the back could see, you know, over exaggerated everything that they did so that people in the audience could see. And this is exactly what these people were doing. Exaggerating every move so that people could see and notice them. That's the first picture. You know, sounding this trumpet, the blast. The next picture that's given is not the public blast, but the private buzz. Look at verse 3. It says, but when you give to the poor, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. So this is the person who doesn't have the audacity to make a public show. He just starts the whisper campaign. You know, he doesn't do it out in the open, but you know, he does it and then he starts telling people that he did it. And again, this is a metaphor, you know, not let your left hand know what your right hand is is doing. It was a a common proverbial expression that was uh used in classical and uh uh rabbinical writings about not letting your left hand know what your right hand's doing. It's just another way to say keep a secret. Keep a secret Just like sounding the trumpet was a metaphor here, not letting your right hand know what your left hand is or left hand know what your right hand is doing. It's another metaphor. Just keep a secret. We often we often hear about you know these secrets that are too good to keep to yourself But giving to the poor should be a secret too good to share with anybody else. A secret so good you don't want to share it with anybody. It would be and it actually would be a healthy practice. To see how much righteousness you can get away with. How much righteousness can I actually do without people seeing? Because then you have a good idea who you're doing it for. We're often tempted to live our Christian lives backwards. You know, the things that we should be hiding we're displaying, and the things we should be displaying, we're hiding. We we live it backwards. When it comes to being salt and light before a dark world, we're we're tempted to crawl into a closet somewhere, right? And then when it comes to to being uh uh bold about the the gospel, we're you know we're the people who who want to want to hide away. But that's where you need to shine, right? You know, before the the watching world we're supposed to be a a light. Uh further up in uh chapter five of uh Matthew and verse sixteen, let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who's in heaven. But but that's where we're tempted to go dark, you know, to go off the grid, assume some kind of secret identity when we're before a watching world. And it's so easy to keep quiet, isn't it? when we should be be open about our faith. I I remember uh I mean even this past week I remember failing at this. I was at a at a gas station and I I walked out, I'm pumping my gas and I See this guy and his son jump out and you know they're just kind of cursing up a storm and sat back in my car and like, man, I wish I had a track on me. I looked down in my car, I was like, hey, there's a track right there. So uh so I'm thinking about like kind of the way to enter into this conversation, you know, just don't want to feel awkward jumping in here and talking to them. And you know, as I'm thinking about you know what to say, they drive off, and I'm just like, good grief You know what I mean? It's like here here's the opportunity, you know, and the Lord kind of put it on my heart and here's the resources right here, not like I need to attract a witness in the first place But uh but here it is, the Lord gave me an opportunity and and and let it go. But but but how how often do we do that, right? You know, we have these fits and starts when it's time to do the right thing and it's just like uh I don't want to feel out of place and awkward doing it. But that's why the Lord tells you to shine. Go ahead, shine, shine bright. Let your light be seen. Don't hide it under a basket But then we get together in a church, and that's when we want to say, hell the gospel! I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The power of God unto your salvation. We have all kinds of ways to get around it, don't we? We have all sorts of ways to get the word out, you know, when we're doing something right. Like uh I'll just give you a list. How about prayer requests? You know, brothers, sisters, you know, uh just just please pray for for this family they're having a hard time. You know, I drop by their house to to drop off something for them this week. And uh I I just want everybody to just be praying for 'em. You know, I I just wish I could do more for this family, but you know, just can you can you just pray Little way to kind of you know start the whisper campaign. We leak it out when we try to encourage others to give. You know, we're taking up a collection for this brother and I'm giving X amount and uh just want to know who else might want to join me here. Leak it out on social media. Another kind of modern invention that's leak it out. We're posting and tweeting and blogging our eternal rewards away. Just want to tweet. Just want to tweet to say, you know, hey, just uh so thankful for the opportunity to give to my neighbor. You know. Hashtag giving to neighbor LOL. And then then you've just you've just tweeted your rewards away. A lot of Christians try to motivate people in the wrong ways. In the old days, they used to actually have a board that they put out in the front of the church with everybody's giving on it so you can see what you gave That is a bad way to get people to give, let me tell you. Because what are you teaching? You're teaching hypocrisy You're teaching gifts so you can be seen. We're going to put it up on a board somewhere. You know, put your name up on the on a wall. You know, so-and-so gave so many dollars to our building fund, we're going to put his name on a brick. And there you go, your eternal reward in a brick. Don't give to be seen Public blast and then the private buzz. And in both sections, we're given the reason and the result of public versus private charity. First of all, what's the reason behind broadcasting giving in verse 2? Back in uh chapter six again. So when you get to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets? Why do they do that? So that they may be honored by men. That word for honored is the it's from the Greek word doxadzo, the word for glory I want to glorify you. Not glorify God. Glory belongs to God, right? But here the giving is intended to glorify me. I want people to see what I've done. I want to receive some of that glory, kind of upstaging God. You know, kind of getting in the way. You know, God's trying to direct glory to himself, and you're kind of getting in the spotlight, you know, because you want to be seen And this is the recognition by men that we so often crave. Now there's sometimes that we can't help that something gets out that we've done. Turn over to Acts chapter 4. Acts chapter 4 is an example of an instance of giving that was recognized publicly by the church In Acts chapter 4 you have uh Barnabas, whose uh name was was actually Joseph. That's that's Barnabas' real name, his given name Uh but he was nicknamed Barnabas because uh he was such a person of encouragement to others. Barnabas means son of encouragement. Uh and here we have the first mention of of Barnabas in um in scripture in Acts chapter Chapter 4 and verse 36. Says now Joseph, a Levite of Cyprian birth, who was also named Barnabas by the apostles, Which translated means son of encouragement, and who owned a track of land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostle's feet. That's kind of hard to keep quiet. You know, Barnabas used to have a field and now he doesn't. You know, there 's no way you're going to keep that to yourself. There's uh not a lot that you're going to do to keep that a secret And the church knew about this. Barnabas was recognized by the church, but his his desire wasn't to do it to be recognized. He just wanted to meet a need. That's all he was trying to do. You know, selling his land was just the way to meet that need. But it wasn't for the purpose of being recognized. And this is contrasted by what we find in chapter 5. And you know the couple already, a man named Ananias with his wife Sapphira. Sold the piece of property, cut back some of the price for himself with his wife's full knowledge, and bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostles' feet. And and Obviously what was going on here is that Barnabas was receiving some kind of recognition from the church, some kind of public recognition, and they said, we want a piece of that. We've got a land that we can sell. Now I don't want to give all of it, you know, but we'll we'll say that it was all of it. Because we want the same kind of recognition that Barnabas received Verse 3. But Peter said, Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land? While it remained unsold, did it not? remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart, you have not lied to men but to God? As soon as he says, I'm going to give it all, then God says, I own it all then. Right? And now you're keeping back part of it for yourself. It's a lie, and you're robbing from God at that point. It belonged to you when it was sold. You didn't have to say you were going to give any of it. But as soon as you say it, you better follow through. And as he heard these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last, and great fear came over all who heard it. And you better believe it. The fear came upon all who heard it. So it was a calculated effort to gain glory, and their glory was short-lived, literally. Short-lived glory. Whatever they gained by walking down the aisle and laying it down, that was all they got. It was over. Christian giving is to be marked by self-sacrifice, self-forgetfulness, and not by self-congratulation. Not the blow of the trumpet, that's what uh John Scott says in his commentary. So what's the result of people broadcasting their giving according to the verse 1? So they they have their reward That's it. The Greek word for uh they've received their reward, received was originally a technical term for providing a receipt that was marked paid in full. You you've been paid in full. There's nothing more that you're gonna get. Paid in full. And the point of the applause is the the the the reward. I mean that's that's it. They got their applause, that's their reward, and you're done. And I really believe that this is in part what's meant by uh the wood, hay, and stubble in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Remember that? Talks about each man's work in verse 13 of 1 Corinthians 3. Each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. Some of us may be busy constructing structures that look impressive on the outside, but when it approaches the fire of God's judgment, it's all going to melt and dissolve away. There's nothing going to be left. It's going to burn up, incinerate it. One of the saddest statements. That's all you get. And if you're a part of this this play, the the reward you get is the applause at the end of the show. That's it. That's it. And this is contrasted with uh the secret giving in verses three and four of uh of chapter six. This is giving that stays between you and the Father in heaven. Look at verse 4. It says so that Your giving, you know, not letting your left hand know what your right hand's doing, doing it in secret, so that your giving will be in secret, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Saying here that the reason behind giving in secret is so that it can stay in secret, so that it can stay between you and the Father. And keeping it secret doesn't mean that there's not an audience for your giving. There's always an audience for your giving Because the Father always sees what you're giving. The Father knows what you give. And that's a truth that's taught all throughout the scripture that God knows. Jeremiah 17, 10 Says, I, the Lord, search the heart, I test the mind, even to give to each man according to his ways, according to the results of his deeds. God saying, I'm I'm looking at everything. I'm keeping track. I don't think I've missed anything Hebrews 4 13, and there is no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Psalm 44, verse 21, He knows the secrets of the heart. God knows what you do and why you do it. He's looking at your heart. And our aim should be to please him. And what's the result? The result of this kind of giving is that those who give in secret, they're rewarded by the Father. That's the result. The result is the heavenly reward. So here's here's the picture. Here's the picture. Okay? This might be a helpful illustration. All right, here's the picture. Picture yourself on a circular stage. Alright? A circular stage, not just a stage facing one direction, a stage that's kind of facing all the way around. Now you have a choice that you can make Because there's two audiences. On one side, there's the audience of the world, people. On the other side, there's the audience of God. Alright? You can turn towards the people and get an immediate applause for what you do. And it might feel right. You know, it's like, hey, I'm doing the right thing. I mean, why not? And kind of turn your Your face towards the people and your back on God. The other option is you can turn to face God, let Him be the audience for what you do, turning your back on the people. And letting your audience be God and God alone. But here's the difficulty: God will silently smile at our obedience and our sacrifice, but he does not immediately applaud it. Doesn't immediately applaud it. I've been to a lot of graduations in my life, but uh there's one graduation that sticks out in my mind It was uh my own graduation at the Master's Seminary, and uh wasn't necessarily because I was in it. I mean that's that's one thing that I remember about I was in it But it was also because of the way it was done. The way it was done. The vice president at that time, Dick Mayhew, asked the crowd to do something that I've never heard any other you know person during a graduation ask the crowd to do. He he asked the crowd Not to make any applause. Don't I don't want you to applaud any of these graduates that are coming across the stage. I don't want you to make any noise. I don't you know I know you're gonna see your son you know coming across or your friend or family member I I don't want you to make any applause. And I I mean I've gone to graduation where there's like air horns, cowbells, you know, whoop whoop, yeah, right He says, I don't want anybody to make any any noise at all. You know, during the time that we read off these names, what I want you to do is I want you to save all your celebration for the end. And at the end, we're all going to join in celebration. And he says, I promise you, it will be the most joyous experience you've ever had. So every name was read, and we walked across in absolute silence. to pick up our diploma and then return to our seats. And at the end, at the you know, and like the anticipation was just kind of building, you know, as they're kind of, you know, going through the names, you know, T, you know B, W, it's like it's getting close, right? Finally, after the last name was was read, it says, now I want you to celebrate. And the entire auditorium just broke out in this like celebration, you know, and all kinds of noise was made. And for me, that was just a small picture of the joy that's going to be in heaven. See, see, God saves all of his applause for the end. He saves all of his applause for the end. He might, he'll sit there, he'll smile at you silently, watch you. He's recording everything. It's not that he's displeased with you. He's watching what you do, he he he he notices what you're doing, he's recognizing you. But he's saving his applause for the very end And after the last graduate walks across the stage, there's going to be this eruption of joy and celebration that far exceeds any mini celebration that you could have on your own. Save it for the end. Save it for the end. That's the day that we're aiming for. 2 Corinthians 5, 9 and 10. It says, Therefore we also have our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body. The time to receive the reward is then. It's not now. Don't look for your reward now. Save the applause for the end. And uh just as we think through some practical ways to apply this to our own lives We need to think about ourselves individually, individually, checking our motivations. Why do we do what we do? Why do we do things where we do them, how we do them? Can you actually make it a practice to say how how much can I can I get away with without anybody noticing? I just want to do right because I want to be honoring to God. My ambition is to please Him. It's not about the people that see You ever think about the work that you do? That the work that you do is actually a part of God's plan for your life to give to others? And that I should actually be trying to set aside a portion of my budget just to give? Just to give? As a church, as I mentioned before, we need to be looking for ways to do this as a body collectively. Having you know different ways that we're we're you know looking and trying to focus on different areas of the world or different groups of people that are needy, that fulfill the requirements found in Scripture that have legitimate needs that we can actually be giving towards, we need to be doing that. Like I said, if we even need to sell something to do it, right? We need to do it. Husbands, are you leading your your wives in this way? Are you leading your families? Does your family know that you're a giving family? And uh if you're an unbeliever here, the sober reality that I want to remind you about is that your good works don't mean a hill of beans before God Because God is not looking at your actions alone in isolation from the motivation of your heart. The Bible says that without faith, it is impossible to please the Lord. There's so many people out here trying to do good works. They're all about charity. All about charity. Look at all that I give, look at all that I do, look at all that I sacrifice. There's people that do much more than I do. Unbelievers that I know of who sacrifice much more than I do. But the problem is that none of that matters to God. Because God is looking at the heart. And if your heart hasn't been changed, he's not recording any of it. Praise God for our salvation. And that we can actually do things now that can please our Father in heaven. And throughout this passage, I just want to point this out quickly in Matthew chapter 6 again. There's a way that it refers to God that's important. In verse chapter 6, verse 1. It says, you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. Father who is in heaven. Verse 4, so that your giving will be in secret, and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Until you have God as your Father, you will not have God as your rewarder He 's not recognizing any of it. He's not rewarding any of it. The first step that you need to take, if you're here and not a believer, is to bow your knee to Jesus Christ. Accept his sacrifice for your sins. And it's only after that point, after you've repented, after you've trusted in him, that any of these good works will count for eternity, and that you can store away eternal rewards, because everything here is going to burn up. Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but but uh 100 out of 100 are gonna die. Right? 100 out of 100. We don't know when our time is is is is up, and uh we want to make sure that we're honoring the Lord with the time that He's given us. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for this passage and uh uh the conviction that it brings. And uh uh Father, I just pray that You would help us to store away eternal rewards, Father, that we would be working towards that which is spiritual, that which is uh eternal, uh that which is heavenly, and not just for the the things here on this earth. And uh uh sometimes we uh work towards things that aren't possessions, but we work towards things just because of the the pleasure that it gives us, the pride For people looking at us, glorifying us, giving us recognition. Father, I pray that we would erase that from our minds. And that we would live our lives in such a way as to be pleasing and honoring to you. My God, I pray that you'd make that true of us. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.