The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we take our Bibles and open up to the book of Matthew? We're back in the book of Matthew this morning, and we're in a section of Scripture where Jesus' credentials are being put on display. Uh the proof that Jesus has the right and authority to rule is made abundantly clear in every situation that Jesus encounters. And I found this uh helpful outline as a way to remember uh chapter eight. In chapter eight Verses 1 to 17, we see that Jesus had authority over disease. Jesus had authority over disease in the healing of the leper, the Gentile centurion servant and Peter's mother-in-law. And we find that Jesus' healing was immediate. It didn't have any z gimmicks. You know, there's no kind of oil or water or whatever kind of medium that uh people might use. It was complete without any follow-up visits required, you know, for you to come back and see Jesus and uh, you know, hey, see me in two weeks. Um no recovery period. Uh Jesus' healing was uh miraculous. Jesus had authority over disease in Matthew chapter 8, 1 through 17. Matthew 8, verses 18 to 20, 22, we see that Jesus had authority over his disciples. There wasn't an acceptable excuse for disobedience to Jesus Christ. His command alone was sufficient uh for us to have uh reason to follow. And uh what made Jesus think that he had the right to tell grown men what to do with their lives, where they should go, where they should travel, what Jesus what made Jesus think he had the right to tell them where they should even travel for the night, where they should spend the next couple of days. If you understand Matthew's perspective, he is the messianic king and rightful ruler over all men. He has that kind of right In chapter 8, verses 23 to 27, we see that Jesus had authority over disaster. He owns the remote control for the entire universe. With the word, he's able to silence the storm, still the waves, and after his disciples catch their breath, they manage to blurt out this question, what kind of man is this? What kind of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? And they're about to find out what kind of man this is. Uh get an answer to that question in this next section that we're going to consider today in Matthew chapter 8 and verses 28 to 34. where Jesus demonstrates his authority over demons. Jesus has authority over demons. So we have Jesus has authority over disease, over his disciples. over disaster and over demons. And that's what we're going to read about today in Matthew chapter 8, verses 28 to 34. Follow with me as I read. When he came to the other side into the country of the Gadarenes, two men who were demon-possessed met him as they were coming out of the tombs. They were so extremely violent that no one could pass by that way. And they cried out saying, What business do we have with each other, son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now there was a herd of many swine feeding at a distance from them. The demons began to entreat him, saying, If you are going to cast us out, send us into the herd of swine. And he said to them, Go. And they came out and went into the swine, and the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and perished in the waters. The herdsmen ran away and went to the city and reported everything, including what had happened to the demoniacs. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him, they implored him to leave their region. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, as we uh come before you this morning, Father, we pray that you would open our eyes to behold wonderful things, wondrous things in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Father, that as we look at uh the presentation of the King, the demonstration of his divine credentials, Father, that you would uh allow our hearts to be encouraged. uh that we would uh grow in our confidence and belief and trust in the Savior. Father, that we would grow in our worship and adoration and uh just uh to to stand in awe. of who he is. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people as we uh think about and proclaim these wonderful truths. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So here's the question I want you to think about today. How do you respond to clear, unmistakable proof of supernatural authority? How do you respond to clear, unmistakable proof of supernatural authority? And I say that with the assumption that that all of you or most of you believe in the supernatural. I know we have uh many today who will try to deny a spiritual side. uh to reality, but in the ancient world the unseen was virtually universally accepted. Uh we know this was true in uh Judaism from the earliest texts of the Hebrew scriptures. Uh we are introduced to an unseen world Uh the book of Job, which according to scholars was likely the first book of the Bible which was uh ever written, acknowledged the unseen world In Job chapter 1, verse 6, it says, Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. And so you have uh uh the sons of God here, which was a phrase used to refer to the angelic beings who were present in creation. In uh Job chapter 38, verse 7, it speaks about that. And uh uh Job, uh, like I said, according to scholars, it's likely the first book to be written. It was uh during the patriarchal times. And if you remember when Moses writes the first five books of the Bible, it's after the patriarchs have already passed on. So you have in Job, one of the first, like I said, likely the first book that was ever written of a Hebrew scripture, you have angelic beings mentioned, these sons of God. And uh Job didn't have a clue that he was the topic of conversation in heaven, uh, but it's clear from the earliest Hebrew scriptures that people of faith believed in an unseen world that could wreak havoc. in the lives of people. Paganism had a belief in the supernatural world. We know that before the children of Israel entered, the pagan land of Canaan, the Lord warned them against the evil practices that they would witness when they crossed over into that land. And Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 10 to 12. It says there shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or his daughter pass through the fire. They'd actually offer up their kids in the fire. It's some way to kind of appease their deities. They'd offer up their children in this land. Who use divination, one who practices witchcraft, or one who interprets omens or sorcery, or one who casts a spell or a medium or spiritus, or one who calls up the dead. For whoever does these things is detestable to the Lord, and because of these detestable things the Lord your God will drive them out before you One of the reasons that the children of Israel were able to come in and take over the land of Canaan was because of these wicked practices that were rampant among the nation. So the Lord said, these people are out, and I'm allowing you to come in and take over that land. In other words, part of the reason God was kicking these nations out was because of what they did, because of their involvement in the spiritual world. And it's clear that they accepted the supernatural there. Greeks and Romans had beliefs about the unseen world in the first century A. D. There was a philosopher by the name of Apollonius, Apollonius of Tyana. uh who was believed to be some kind of wonder worker, first century A. D. uh in the the life of Apollyonus the story is told about his life that once in Athens a young man was listening to the philosopher 's lectures and broke out in loud immodest laughter He laughed when no one else laughed. He wept without a cause and sang and talked to himself. He appeared to be drunk, but he was believed to have a demon. And the story goes on that when uh Apollyanus looked at him, he cried out like a person who was being branded or otherwise tortured, that there's these shrieks and cries that came from this individual. When Pollyanus addressed him angrily, commanded him the demon to come forth visibly, he cried, I will throw down that statue, and pointed to a statue in the king's portico, and the statue started moving and fell over. And I I don't share that because I believe that uh he actually had that kind of power. I share that because I want to just show and demonstrate that, you know, even among the Greeks and the Romans they believed in the supernatural. They believed in demons, they believed in supernatural spiritual beings. And then there was a belief known as Gnosticism, and for that, why don't you turn over to Colossians chapter 2? Colossians chapter 2. were introduced to uh kind of like a a pre-Gnosticism, kind of before it was kind of fully blown. Uh there were uh kind of Gnostic tendencies in the uh uh Colossian kind of vicinity where the Colossian uh the Church of Colossae would have been. Gnosticism comes from a Greek Greek word gnosis uh which is uh the word for for knowledge. Uh they kind of uh believed that they had some kind of higher superior form of of knowledge. And it was an ancient belief which taught that there was a a whole system of demons and angels that had to be navigated if you're going to reach God. You kind of have to kind of climb up the ladder to reach God. And Paul deals with the form of this kind of teaching in the book of Colossians in chapter two, if you want to look over there. This is the kind of teaching that Paul is arguing against in the book of Colossians in chapter 2 and verse 18 where he said this. Listen what he says. Let no one keep defrauding you of your prize. Don't let anybody rob you. Of your prize by delighting in self-abasement and the worship of the angels, taking his stand on visions he has seen inflated without cause by his fleshly mind. There was this belief, like I said, in order to get to God you had to first connect to angels, to demons in order to kind of receive worship, for God to receive worship. And and Paul says it's it's robbing you. You're being you're being you're being taken. Don't don't get fooled. Don't be tricked by this. That's why Paul in uh verse ten of chapter two says this, and in him, Jesus Christ, in him, you have been made complete And he is the head over all rule and authority. And rule and authority are just the categories of angels, same thing that's mentioned over in Ephesians chapter 6. And what Paul is saying is, in other words, there is no reason to worry about some spiritual force preventing you from getting to God when you have the head over all spiritual authority and power. You have everything that you need in Jesus Christ. Why wh why would you think you have to go to some intermediary to get to God when you have Jesus Christ? You have everything that you need in him. So there is no need to worry about anybody getting in the way. So it really doesn't matter where you turn and kind of the religious systems, traditions, there's some kind of belief in supernatural beings, Judaism, paganism, the Greek and Roman religions, Gnosticism. And I find it interesting that even today, in a in a country where many people want to deny the existence of God and claim to be more sophisticated than our ancient relatives. That many people are still fascinated by the unseen spiritual world and actually seek to have some kind of connection and uh some kind of direction, receive some kind of direction by the unseen world. And if you don't believe that, why else would our streets be filled with uh palm readers and tarot card readers and you know people who try to communicate with the dead? Why why is that Sometimes I look around in the city and I wonder who's who's keeping all these places open? You know, it's like every corner you go on there's the you know the the palm is is looking at you. It's like you know, speak to the hand, right? Like w where are all these people coming from to keep these places open? Somebody's keeping them in business There are people out there looking for spiritual answers and they're looking in the wrong places. Uh not too long ago I was in uh downtown Baltimore and I ran across a a young girl who was advertising for a palm reader uh down there in uh in the inner harbor and uh stopped to to share the the gospel with this uh young lady and uh All of a sudden, like out of nowhere, the shorter, older lady from like across, you know, the the way just started yelling at me. Leave her alone! Don't you talk to her! It's like, how do you even know what I'm talking about? How do you know what I'm talking about? But she's yelling from across the the way. Leave her alone. Don't don't speak to her. And I went over to to speak to the lady and found out why she was yelling, because she's an enemy of the truth She didn't want anything to do with the with the gospel. There is a real unseen world out there. You may not want to admit it. There is a real unseen world and there is a real concern. that people would have had in following Jesus. And the question would have been, does he have the power over that world? Does Jesus Christ have the power over that world? He may be able to cure disease, but does he have authority over Spiritual beings who don't recognize physical boundaries. He may have authority over disciples, but what about the spiritual enemies who rebel against God in Christ? Maybe he's able to offer me protection from a disaster, but can he protect me from the disaster in my soul? Can Jesus Christ do that? And if Jesus was going to prove himself as a king, he had to demonstrate that the forces of evil were not going to thwart his plans whatsoever in the least. And the Messiah, according to Genesis 3. 15, is able to crush the head of the serpent. We find that in 1 John 5, verse 13, it talks about the whole world lying under the sway of the evil one in the lap of the evil one. Does he have power over that? 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 4 talks about Satan being the God small g of this world. Does he have power over that? Does this king have the supernatural authority to rule the unseen? And that's a question that's answered by this text. But the question that this text text asks to us is this, how will you respond to the clear, unmistakable proof of his supernatural authority? Because what you're you're faced with in this passage is the clear proof of Jesus' authority. And there's two different responses that we have to the authority of the king. Two different responses that we have in our text. Here's the first one. The demons ask Jesus if they can leave. Recognizing the supernatural authority of Jesus Christ. The demons ask Jesus if they can leave. Look at uh Matthew back over in Matthew chapter uh uh uh chapter eight again. Look at verses uh twenty-eight down to thirty-one. It says, Now, when he when he came to the other side into the country of the Gadarenes, two men who were demon-possessed met him as they were coming out of the tombs, so extremely violent that no one could pass by that way, and they cried out, saying, What business do we have with each other? Son of God, have you come here to torment us before the time? Now there was a herd of many swine feeding at a distance from them. The demons began to entreat him, saying, If you're going to cast us out, send us into the herd of of swine. This scene takes place likely after the the morning that Jesus calmed the seas, after the night that Jesus calmed the seas. This is the the morning after. If you remember from our last time here in Matthew, Jesus orders the disciples to the other side of the lake. likely to get some rest and refuge from the crowds that pressed in around him in Capernaum. Jesus spent the entire day of the day before on the other side of the sea ministering to large crowds. It was uh what interpreters have called the long day because of everything that happened to Jesus on this day. And uh Mark chapter three to four kind of describes the day in more detail. It was filled with healing the sick Addressing his family, teaching the crowds, explaining his parables, rebuking the Pharisees, challenging half-hearted believers, and then deep into the night the day ended with the trip across the sea. where Jesus was woken up out of his sleep so we could calm the storms. I mean this is the kind of day that Jesus has just faced. We've all had rough days. I'm not sure if we've had days Quite like this. And uh we observed that in the space of just a few short verses that the scriptures describe Jesus as a hundred percent man and a hundred percent God He's fully man because he became tired and weary and exhausted because of the events of the day. But he's also described and demonstrated to be fully God because he could still still the winds and the waves with nothing more than just a word. Just hush, be still. And immediately it obeys. Even while he slept, he was in total, absolute control of the universe. In Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3 it says that he upholds the universe by the word of his power. So even while he slept, he was upholding the universe by the word of his power. And the winds and the waves recognized the familiar voice of the Creator. And they reach a place on the other side of the sea that's called the uh in different uh portions of scriptures by different names, it's the place of the Garasines, the place of the Gergosen, the place of the Gadderenes. And you might wonder, you know, why all these different names. Uh one brief description explains why the different names. Uh the small town of Gerasa or Gergasa was on the northeast shore of the Sea of Galilee, about six miles across the water from Capernaum. The steep cliffs nearby fit the geographical setting, so we know that this is the place. And the town of Ghidara is located further south and it's inland. But the general region, including Garasa, was often referred to as the country of the Gadarine. So the reason why some of these uh different uh names are are mentioned is because uh uh the the town of Ghadaro, which is located south, kind of uh gave its name to the rest of the the region, kinda like Baltimore. You know, you have Baltimore City giving its name to the rest of the county. You know, so I'm in Owens Mills, but I say I'm in Baltimore. You know what I mean? Kinda doesn't matter. It's like if you're in the county you just say, you know, it's it's Baltimore so people don't get confused. Especially if they're from out of town and they don't know what you're talking about, right? So you just kind of call by whatever the main city is. So, you know, that kind of describes the region. Same kind of thing going on here. But as they cross to this other side, there uh Jesus and his disciples disembark and uh they're faced with what might have been considered by some to be an even greater potential threat to the ministry of Jesus Christ. And it's the encounter with demons. And this is the first extended look that we have of Jesus' encounter with the demonic. In uh Matthew chapter 4, we saw that Jesus was victorious over Satan in the temptation. Uh we learned that he cast out spirits in uh uh Matthew 4, 24 and Matthew 8, 16. But here we have for the first time any kind of detail about the kind of encounter. And it seems like like Jesus doesn't even get a break, you know, after a full night, you know, being woken up and traveling across, and here he is, kind of early morning. And the first thing, right after Dikan on the shore, greeted by two men howling out of the tombs. One writer says this scarcely had they landed when blood curdling cries of raging lunacy and human distress sounded from the rock hewn tombs of the nearby precipice. In the dim light of the moon two exceedingly fierce madmen Issuing from the sepulchres and coming toward them, they had just passed from the experience of the raging sea to one now of human fury and degradation, even more terrible cast as it was against the background of the Gathering tombs. And the Bible has no problem as labeling this kind of activity as demon possession. No problem with that. And just to be clear, the Bible does make Some sort of distinction between madness and possession. The Bible has a category for madness. For example, if you want to flip back to 1 Samuel 21. When uh David was running from for for his life from from King Saul, he fled to the to the place of uh of Gath. Fled to Gath Fled to the king of uh of Gath uh named Akish. And uh you might recognize that name Gath because there was somebody else who was from the the town of Gath. His name was Goliath So David here is fleeing from Saul to the place where he had defeated his greatest enemy The place where where that enemy was from, the the the town of Gath. So he's fleeing to a Philistine city for protection from from Saul. You know, supposed to be the Israelite-like king here, hoping that somehow maybe they wouldn't recognize him You know, here I am, the giant slayer, you know, coming to your town, you know, to the very birthplace of the giant, and uh here he's trying to hide in the in the crowd somehow. 1 Samuel chapter 21, look at what it says here, 1 Samuel 21. Starting in verse 10, it says, Then David arose and fled that day from Saul, went to Akish, king of Gath. But the servants of Achish said to him, Is this not David? The king of the land, did they not sing of his of this one as they danced, saying, Saul aswain is thousands and David is ten thousands? David took these words to heart and greatly feared Achish, king of Gath, so he disguised his sanity before them and acted insanely in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, let us alive or run down into his beard Then I said to his servants, Behold, ye see the man behaving as a madman? Why do you bring him to me? Do I lack madmen that you have brought this one out to act the madman in my presence? Shall this one come into my house? So so people recognize, you know, some people are just crazy. You know. We we have a few of those in Baltimore, right? We've we've got a few crazies out there, right? There's people that are just just mad And they recognize that. In Acts chapter 26, verse 24, while Paul was speaking in his defense before King Festus said in a loud voice, Paul, are you out of your mind? Your learning is driving you mad. And he uses the Greek word mania, where we get our English word for madness and sanity. You know, you're manic, you know, mania. But the Bible also has a different category, and this is the category of not just the insane, but the demonized. In Matthew chapter 8, it uses the Greek word diminisimine, literally to be demonized. And they all had the signs of demon possession, the symptoms of demonic possession back in Matthew chapter 8. They had these unnatural habits coming out of the tombs. Ancient tombs were were basically uh caves that were cut out of the hills. Rather than dig a hole in the ground, sometimes they'd cut a hole into the rock and bury their their dead there, put a put a rock over the top. And it would have been unnatural to make a make a home in the tombs. Tombs were considered ceremonially unclean places which defiled the living. Those who touched dead bodies were considered unclean, unable to offer sacrifice, even sent outside of the camp of Israel, according to Numbers chapter 5. So this Jewish concern for uh for defilement, you know, from the from the tombs from the dead, it was so well known that in the the 1500s, this is kind of interesting, in the 1500s, it's believed that the Islamic Ottoman Empire when they gained control of the Temple Mount there in Jerusalem, uh, that one of the things that they did was they purposefully built a cemetery Right outside the east gate of the temple. Right outside the east gate of the temple mount. And the reason they did this was because according to Jewish tradition, the Messiah was supposed to enter into the temple from the east. This is the Jewish tradition that they had. So they built a a cemetery right there. Why? Because they wanted to prevent the Messiah from entering in. As if, right? They also walled up the gate, you know, it's got blocks in front of the eastern gate if uh if you ever travel to Jerusalem there, you can look at pictures of it. The whole wall is blocked up and there's a cemetery right in front of it. As if they're going to prevent the Messiah from entering in because of some dead bodies lying around. This is the Messiah is the one who can raise the dead, right? All this to say that that it would have gone against everything that was natural to make your dwelling place among the dead. But here you have this these these two men with these unnatural habits. Mark chapter five adds this description. It says about one of these two who had met Jesus that he had put on no clothing for a long time and was not living in a house but in the tomb. So here they are, living in the tombs naked. No kind of protection from anything. Just living out in the in the tombs. It's an unnatural habit. In addition to this, they they did unnatural harm. In uh verse twenty-eight it talks about this again. There's uh another sad detail that uh Mark uh picks up. We can we can assume that the living in the tombs would have been dangerous enough, but Mark lets us know that they inflicted harm on themselves. Not only did they live in the tombs naked, but they also inflicted harm on themselves. Mark chapter five, verse five says this constantly, night and day, he was screaming among the tombs in the mountains and gashing himself. with the stones. The demonized were identified by unnatural harm that they inflicted to themselves. Why don't you flip over to Luke chapter 9? Just to kind of draw this out just a little bit more about the uh the harm that the demons made on those that they possessed, in Luke chapter 9, verse 38. If you're looking for a Father Today message, here it is. Look at Luke chapter 9, verses 38. Actually, I'll start from verse 37. It says, on the next day. When they came down from the mountain, a large crowd met him, and a man from the crowd shouted, saying, Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy. And a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly screams and it throws him into a convulsion with foaming at the mouth, and only with difficulty does it leave him, mauling him as it leaves. I beg your disciples to cast it out, and they could not. And Jesus answered and said, You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you and put up with you? Bring your son here. And while he was still approaching, the demon slammed him to the ground and threw him into a convulsion. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the boy and gave him back to his father, and they were all amazed at the greatness of God. Looking for a Father's Day message. There it is, right? Bring your boy to Jesus. Bring your boy to Jesus, right? And you hear this kind of desperation, you know, in the father's voice. This is my only son. This is my only boy. You know, I I tried tried your disciples but they couldn't help and he brings them to to Jesus. It's often thrown into the fire and the water. Matthew uh points that out in the parallel passage. But this dad was willing to stand in the gap uh for his son to bring his child. to the savior and we need more kind of dads like that, right? Uh but my point here is just to show you that the demons inflicted harm. Not only did they uh have unnatural practices, you know, these habits and uh unnatural harm that they inflicted. They also had the supernatural strength. Uh back in uh Matthew chapter eight it says that that these two demon-possessed men were so extremely violent that no one could pass by that way. People were terrified of these demons. And Mark fills it out again and says that the people around them tried to bind them with chains and they tore their fetters apart. possessed some supernatural strength and terrorized anybody who would pass by their way. This is a a no-pass zone. Nobody goes that road. We all know what that road is. You know, everybody back then would have known what that road would have been Not only did they have supernatural strength, they also had supernatural knowledge. Back in uh in verse 29 of uh of Matthew 8 again, look at verse 29. It says, and they cried out saying, What business do we have with each other, son of God? You say, hold up a minute. How do they know who this is? He just shows up on the on the side of the beach and they run down, they rush towards him to say, What what are you doing here? What what business do we have with each other, son of God? It was a supernatural knowledge. This is the first time they've laid eyes on Jesus, and from the first meeting, they know something that the disciples haven't even figured out by this point. If you remember the night before on the sea, the disciples ask the question, What kind of man is this? The next day at the first meeting with the two men, the demons cry out, What business do we have with each other, son of God? The disciples are saying, Who is this? The demons are saying, This is the Son of God. Immediately they know who they're dealing with. Supernatural knowledge. In Matthew 16, when uh Jesus asks his disciples, Who do you say that I am? Peter says, You're the Christ, the Son of the living God. Remember that? And then Jesus says, Blessed are you, Simon, bar Jonah, son of Jonah. Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you. This is supernatural knowledge that you have here. Flesh and blood didn't reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. But what we find out here is that there are others who have supernatural knowledge as well. There's others who can give supernatural knowledge. And here the demons had the spiritual vision to see something that that we can't see with our eyes. They knew exactly who this person was. They knew that he was the Son of God. The phrase son of in scripture, it's a phrase that's often used uh to mean equal with. Uh in uh 2 Kings 2 verse 3, the sons of the prophets were the prophets. In uh Nehemiah chapter 12, verse 28, the sons of the singers were the singers. And in John chapter 10, when Jesus calls himself the Son of God, The Jews immediately pick up stones to throw at them. Why? Because they understand that calling yourself the Son of God is saying that I'm equal to God. In John chapter 10, verse 33, that Jesus answered him, For a good work we do not stone you, but for blasphemy. And because you, being a man, make yourself out. To be God, they understood exactly what they were saying, and the demons knew exactly what they were claiming about Jesus Somehow I think that uh you know maybe like the on the Mount of Transfiguration, like that that kind of unveiling that Jesus did on the Mount of Transfiguration for his disciples, I think that's the kind of vision that the demons had like all the time. Like any time Jesus just showed up it was just like this bright glory that nobody else could see but the demons knew exactly who they were dealing with. From a far distance away they run down. Why would they do that? How would they recognize him? Just from the sight? Not even hearing his words? There was something going on here where demons were able to see something more than what we're able to see. And Jesus often silenced the demons so that they wouldn't speak because who needs publicity from a demon, right? Mark chapter 1, verse 34, he wasn't permitting the demons to speak because they knew who he was. But they had the supernatural knowledge, supernatural strength, unnatural harm, unnatural habits. There's other things that we could suggest about demon possession. We could go down the list of fits of rage, fear of Christ, the obliteration of the human personality, possible alteration of the voice, and I'm certain that there are people today who are diagnosed with some kind of mental illness who could better fit in this category. I'm I'm convinced of that. Today we lock up people like that, you know, in padded rooms and put them in a straitjacket But as it's been uh one source points out, during this time there's no hospitals, no penitentiaries, no asylums, and those who are too dangerous and too desperate could only be driven away from their fellow men and restrained from mischief by measures inadequate and cruel. So the the method that they use is just drive them out. We don't take care of them, we don't put them anywhere, you just get rid of them. Get rid of these guys. But here's what Matthew doesn't want us to miss. He doesn't get bogged down with you know trying to define all the symptoms of demonic possession. What he wants us to focus on is the the solution. Not just the possession, but the solution. It's the entrance of the Son of God. Jesus and the demonic, they're not gonna make home together, right? They're not gonna be comfortable in the same place at the same time. And when Jesus shows up, they know that the jig is up. You know, they're they're used to terrorizing everybody as soon as Christ shows up. These same demons who are known for tearing chains apart and striking fear into the hearts of men are the same ones who are now fearful at the feet of Jesus. In James chapter 2 verse 19 it says, you believe that God's one, you do well. You know, that's a good job. You know, I'm happy for you. But guess what? The demons also believe and they do what? They tremble, they shudder. They're in fear of who God is, because they know that their end is doom. They know what their end is. Like I said, personally, I think that the demons saw somehow the glory of Christ when he showed up and they terrify he terrified him just by his presence, even from a distance. And they pull up on the chair and the demons rush down and gravel before Jesus Christ. This kind of submissive approach. You know, seeing Jesus from a distance, they ran up, they bowed down before him, Mark says. They're fearful. They cry out, what business do we have with each other? Literally, this phrase means what to me and to you. It's like the literal rendition. Basically it's like, you know You know, if you leave us alone, we'll leave you alone. You know, we'll leave your stuff alone just like can we can we separate here? You know what is it? Can can we separate? What is it with us and youth like here together? Like that's what the dis the demons are saying. What what what's going on here? What gives? But uh the question I had is, you know, did Jesus really have a business with the demons? I say the answer is yes Because he came to destroy the works of the evil one, right? That's what 1 John 3 verse 8 says. The Son of God appeared for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil. That's what he showed up for. Sin, sickness, suffering, all the business of Jesus. Especially uh a reference to sin there in 1 John chapter 3, but everything that we've read about here, sickness, suffering, demonic possession, it's all a result of sin, isn't it? If Jesus Christ came to destroy the works of the devil, he's coming to destroy all of it. All of it. And the word that it's used for these demons, it's a Speak to Jesus, it's the Greek word kradzo, it's a scream. They run down to Jesus and they scream out Uncomfortable with close proximity to Christ because they know that Jesus is their tormentor. And some people have uh this idea that, you know, demons are going to be around tormenting people in Christ, you know. You have those uh medieval pictures of uh you know demons in hell, you know, poking people with pitchforks and you know walking around or whatever. That is not the picture at all. That is not at all what these demons were expecting to do, you know, have a some kind of party in hell. And here's the thing: whatever terrifies the demons is what we should be afraid of. You know, these demons who could terrify anybody else, they reached Christ and now they're terrified. That's who we should truly be afraid of, not the demons. We should be afraid of Jesus Christ. In Revelation chapter 20, it speaks about the torment that demons are referring to here. In Revelation 20, verse 10, it says the devil who deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and brimstone. Where the beast and the false prophet are also, and they will be tormented day and night for ever and ever. Whatever torment demons can produce is nothing. Compare it to the torment of Jesus Christ. And the and the question is, is is that who you fear? Do you fear Jesus Christ? Luke chapter twelve it says I say to you my friends don't be afraid of those who kill the body and after have no more that they can do but I warn you whom you're to fear Fear the one who after he has killed has authority to cast you into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. That's the one we're supposed to fear. Matt, uh uh Pastor Matt reminded me that uh one of our seminary professors said that we fear what we have no control over. And who do we have less control over than God? I mean, demons, somebody's there to stop the demons. Somebody might be there to stop your tormentor. Who is there to stop God? God is the most uncontrolled power in the universe. Nobody's going to stop God. Who's going to stop them? If God has decided to torment a person Who stops him? That's why Hebrews chapter 10, verse 31, says it's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Other people have a limit. God has no limits. God has no limits. And if you're not sure that you know Jesus Christ, if you don't know him as your Savior, you'll have to know him as your judge. If you don't know him as your deliverer, you'll have to know Jesus Christ as your tormentor. It's just that simple. It's just that simple. It's one or the other. That's why Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5. 20 that to be reconciled to God, the only one that saves you from God is God. That's why 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That's the only place of safety is in Jesus Christ. And you don't know when your time is. These demons knew that their time wasn't yet. They knew that that time was coming, but they didn't they didn't know when their time would come. They knew their their time wasn't wasn't yet, but uh they knew their time would come in the future. Uh for us we don't know when our time will come Demons say, if you cast us out, it's uh what's known as a first class condition in the Greek. It could be translated, since you cast us out, it's assumed to be true. You know, we know what's gonna happen. You know, since you're gonna cast us out. They give this request, can we can we at least go into the pigs? Can we can we just go into the swine? I mean, like allow us to do something, please, right? Like this laser, you know, if this is it, you know, can we at least Just a little more havoc, please. Demons cry out for it. And why do they ask Jesus Christ for permission? This comes back to our main question. Who's got the authority? Jesus Christ has the authority to say yes or no. Satan, when he wants to torment Job, who does he have to come before? It's got to go to God. Do I have permission to touch what he owns? Do I have permission to touch his body? Who has the authority? Jesus Christ has the authority. And Jesus Christ is God. This is the supernatural authority that we're confronted with in this verse. Flip over to Matthew chapter 12. I just want to show you something here. We'll get here soon in Matthew chapter 12, but I want to show you something. Because the Pharisees have a lot of explaining to do, right? Because the power that Jesus had to cast out demons was just remarkable. Nobody could even come close. And it's not just the fact that Jesus could cast out demons, it's that he could do it with ease. It's like it's no sweat. Just the word. You're gone And the Pharisees have have a problem. They have a hard time with this because they had sons that could cast out demons. You know, they they tried to cast out spirits. They had exorcists during this time. And the Pharisees have a hard time explaining, how can Jesus Christ do it with such ease? Doesn't use any gimmicks, it's no holy water splashing around, it's no kind of you know commotion and everything else going on, it's not a prolonged time. Just as he calmed the storms instantaneously, he could cast out demons instantaneously. There's no recovery period. We see that other people tried to cast out demons. If you remember in Acts chapter 19, the seven sons of Skeva. you know, try to cast out the demon from one man. And uh, you know, after they tried to adjourn by the Jesus Christ whom Paul preaches, the the one man sent seven men out, naked and wounded. One man jumped on him and sent him out running. And here comes Jesus, one man, and he's able to cast out thousands of demons just by a word. Just by a word, just by a word. Left and right, demons are just flying out. And the Pharisees are like, What do you do with this? How do you explain this? Look at Matthew chapter twelve. But when the Pharisees heard this, they said, This man casts out demons only by the Elzebal, the ruler of the demons. They they say they have to be in cahoots. You know, maybe he is he is the Lord of the demons, and that's why he can do that. You know, he's he's one of them. And knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and any city or house divided against itself will not stand. If Satan casts out Satan is he divided he is divided against himself, how then will his kingdom stand? If I by Beelzebub cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason they will be your judges, but if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. What he's saying is that the kingdom of of God is here. Or how can anyone enter the strong man's house and carry off his property unless he first binds the strong man and then he will plunder his house? Well Jesus was demonstrating by his miraculous powers, first of all, I'm stronger, and second of all, I have the authority. I have the authority. And the kingdom authority is here because the king is here. This is what all this demonstrated that Jesus Christ was the king, instantaneous, permanent, divinely powerful. It was nothing like what they tried to imitate. And this demons are overcome by the power of Christ, and back in Matthew 8, they beg for one last ride before it's all over. They asked to be sent into the pigs. And the the pigs do a swine dive. MacArthur said it's uh it's suicide. Suicide. And some people have a problem with this, as these uh these pigs rush off the cliff and down into the steep bank into the sea. In verse 32, Jesus says, go. Went out into the swine, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, perished in the waters. And some people have a problem with that. It's like, you know, why why would Jesus allow that to happen? Now some people have the have pity for the pigs, you know, poor little piggies. You know, why why would Jesus allow that to happen to the pigs? Well, sorry to break it to you, but uh the herd wasn't there for pets. But these pigs are gonna die anyway, right? You know, these these pigs were were food. This is livestock. They're gonna die. And isn't it better than asking for another human being to be sent into? Can we go into the pigs? I mean they don't ask for one of the disciples, hey how about how about that guy over there? Can we go go there? You know, why not why not Judas? He already belongs to us anyway, you know what I mean People are more important than pigs, right? Cast them into the if they they want to go do their damage with the pigs, just just get out of here. Get out. Right? So the pigs are entered into and they they rush off the the cliff. So some people have a pity for the pigs, but don't pity the pig. They were going to be lunch anyway. All right. Some people have pity for the herdsmen. Poor herdsmen. You know, Jesus allowed these demons to destroy their possessions. But if they were Jews, they shouldn't have been farming pigs in the first place. I don't believe they were Jews, I believe they were Gentiles. And if they're Gentiles, the question to ask is, who owns the pigs? Does the herdman own the pigs Or does the one who owns the cattle on the thousand hills also own the sheep on a uh or the pigs on a thousand hills, right? He's not taking anything that doesn't belong to him. You know, if he allowed the pigs to to perish, that's that's his prerogative. What if if it belongs to him, how can you tell him what to do with what belongs to him, right? It's his own We don't know all the reasons that Jesus allowed this to happen, but one thing that we do know is that it was a visible illustration of powerful deliverance. In Mark chapter 5, verse 13, it lets us know that the number of the pigs was 2,000. 2,000 pigs. And Mark also lets us know that the number of demons in these men were in the thousands. One of the demon-possessed men said that his name was Legion, and a Roman Roman legion often consisted of uh up to 6,000 troops. One man. Thousands of demons in one man. Up to six thousand demons in one man. Can you imagine the kind of terror that this guy lived in? You know, people talk about voices in their head, you know, 6,000? The power of 6,000 demons? So the demons It's demonstrated that these uh demons are clearly, unmistakably sent out of this man because of all these pigs that rush down the field. The demons ask if they can leave, and uh Jesus allows them to leave. Jesus allows them to leave. And this should really kind of help answer some of the questions that we have today with, you know, some of this kind of word of faith, you know, movement and you know, people casting out demons. I send you to the pit, I bind you, I put you in the pit, I cast you down. If Jesus wanted all these demons in the pit, don't you think he would have sent them there? There's a purpose for God's divine reason for allowing the demons to wreak haven and do what they do for this time. You know, there's a time when they're going to be dealt with, but for this time, you know, with all these people, you know, binding Satan and casting Satan and putting him into the pit, you wonder who's letting them free, right? It's like everybody's sending them down. Who's letting them out? We we don't have that kind of power to send any demons to the pit. We don't have that kind of power. And even Jesus here, he allowed the demons to go. He didn't cast them into the pit, didn't he cast them into the abyss. Not in this in this instance anyway. So the demons ask Jesus if they can leave and they're allowed to leave. And next, you have the next response to Jesus' supernatural authority. The city asked Jesus if he can leave. Look at verses 32 down to 34. Actually it says, and he said to them, Go, they came out, went into the slime, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, perish in the waters. Verse 33, the herdsmen ran away and went to the city and reported everything, including what had happened to the demoniacs. And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they implored him to leave their region. You've got to imagine the scene. The herdsmen are probably watching this whole scene unfold before 'em. They're some distance away, watching their pigs. They see the d demoniacs run down to the shore and they're just like waiting to, you know, grab the popcorn, watch the show. It's like we know what's about to happen now and, you know, we know these guys. They're just waiting for these demons to just terrorize. But instead of seeing these demons terrorize Christ, they see these demon-possessed men terrorized by Christ falling down before him in in a position of of worship and submission. They knew that nobody went down that way and to see Jesus would have just been been an opportunity to see the show. So here here are the herdsmen watching over the cliff. To see what's going to happen. But all of a sudden, the same kind of maniacal behavior that they were used to, seeing in the demoniacs, these two men, all of a sudden it's transferred to the pigs that they're watching over. The same kind of behavior, the blood-curdling shrieks of torment, the horrible cries, distress, raging lunacy, gashing themselves against the rocks. That's what they're watching take place in the pigs that they used to see in the demon-possessed. So here the the herdsmen they run in panic. It says they ran away. The word is to flee. Fuego. They got out of there in fear. Because these two I mean can you imagine imagine two thousand suicidal demon-possessed pigs and you're in the middle of them and they're shrieking and crying out? I mean of course I I'd run away. I don't know what she would do And it seems like as they uh reach the city, they're much much more eager to tell what happened to the to the pigs than what happened to the demoniac. Verse 33 it says they went to the city and reported everything. Including what happened to the demoniacs. So it almost seems like they wanted to talk about the pigs first. And then talk about this guy who was delivered And here the whole city drops in to see what's going on. I mean, this would have been big news. This would have been the buzz around everywhere. So the city comes to Jesus and you would have just loved for this verse to say, when they saw him, they thanked him and invited him to stay in their region. I would even be happy if the verse said, when they saw him, they spoke to him to find out what happened. You know, just to get some more information But here's what you read. When they saw him, they implored him to leave. Leave their region. It was clear that Jesus had supernatural authority. Nobody doubted that, right? But they knew that it was a power that they couldn't control. And here the here the whole city is terrified of Jesus. Luke chapter 8, verse 35, it says, People came out to see what happened, and when they approached Jesus, they discovered from they discovered the man from whom The demons had come out sitting at his feet. He was clothed and in his right mind. And instead of being seized with joy, they're seized with fear. Like what kind of man is this that can control the demon-possessed? What kind of man is this that can send 2,000 pigs over the side of a cliff? This isn't the kind of man that we want in our region. We can't control him. We have no authority over him. They want him gone. It kind of reminds me of the mob at the crucifixion. Remember that in Matthew chapter 27? When all the people are crying out for Jesus' crucifixion and saying, His blood shall be on us and on our children. Let his blood be on us. We don't care. We will not have this man to rule over us. And here comes Jesus, the supernatural authority, and they're saying, We want none of it. We don't want a person that we can't control. We're asking you to leave. We'll deal with the consequences. We just don't want you. And they turn away from their only source of salvation. And there is absolutely no excuse for their behavior, right? One author says they preferred their sin, their swine, and their demons above everything else. Here they had an opportunity to be the ministry retreat for Jesus Christ. You know, Jesus Christ came over for rest, for refuge. Here they had the opportunity to be the retreat center for Jesus Christ. And instead they preferred their swine. If they could even see just a small vision of what the demons could see, they wouldn't ask them to leave. Maybe they'd ask if they could leave, but you wouldn't ask Jesus to leave. What reason do they have to turn away the Savior? What reason does anybody have to turn away the Savior? Maybe maybe you fear that he'll remove your possessions You need to ask, who does it belong to anyway? And what wouldn't you trade in to have what Jesus Christ offers? Maybe you think that if I receive Jesus Christ, he's going to remove my pleasures. But your pleasures are nothing compared to the the bondage of sin that you're in. Maybe he'll remove your freedom, but why would you want to be free to gash yourself yourself against the stones of sin and rebellion? Martin Luther said about this verse that the mass of men would gladly hold to the gospel if it did not touch their kitchen and their income. If Jesus gives them good things, they can very well endure him. But when he inflicts damages here, they say, Be gone, Jesus, gospel and all They want nothing to do with them. Affected our pocketbooks. Affected our kitchen tables. What's your reason for refusing Jesus? These citizens should have looked over at this tender soul who had just been delivered, these two men who had just been delivered, set free, and say, what what a picture of what Jesus Christ can do for every one of us. Look what Jesus Christ can do. He can set us free. And where was the joy over this deliverance? All they could do was cast this man out. Get out of here. Rush him out. Get him out of here. Send him to the tombs. We don't care But here's this guy who's just been delivered and you have no heart? You have no compassion? And maybe you're sitting here saying, well, I've never seen anything like this Every time a person's been born again, you've seen the supernatural deliverance of Jesus Christ. Every time you've seen the person born again. And Christ is still delivering people and putting them back in their right minds, right? The demons ask Jesus if they can leave. The city asked Jesus if he can leave. But that's not where it has to end for you. I want to show you one more response to the supernatural authority of Jesus Christ, and it's found over in Mark chapter 5. Flip over to Mark chapter 5 and we'll end it over here. Mark chapter 5, verses 17 to 20. Because you got one more response to the supernatural authority of Christ. The demons ask if Jesus can if they can leave. The city asks Jesus if he can leave, but those who are delivered ask Jesus if they can leave with him. If they can follow Jesus. Look at Mark chapter 5, verses 17 down to 20. It says, and they began to implore him to leave the region. That's the reaction of the crowds. As he was getting into the boat, so Jesus. Acquiesce to their request. I'll leave. As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been demon-possessed was imploring him that he might accompany him. And he did not let him, but he said to him, Go home to your people and report to them what great things the Lord has done for you and how he had mercy on you. And he went away and began to proclaim in Decapolis. Decca 10, Polus cities, the 10 cities in the region, what great things Jesus had done for him, and everyone was amazed. That's a great story, isn't it? Proof of the supernatural authority of Jesus Christ can elicit different responses from us. And the question is, how are you going to respond? Are you going to ask Jesus if you can leave? Are you going to ask Jesus if he can leave? Or are you going to ask if you can leave with Jesus? And until he takes us home to be with him, he's left us here to be what? We're witnesses, aren't we? This uh demon-possessed man who's just been delivered wouldn't be able to follow Jesus Christ physically, but he'd be able to follow him spiritually Just do what I've called you to do. You won't be able to follow me physically, but you'll be able to follow my command. Stay here and be a witness and share what I've done with the rest of the people who are here. And I pray that you're responding in the right way to Jesus Christ. Martin Luther was a man who was Definitely concerned about the spiritual world. If anybody actually had a legitimate reason to believe that he was being attacked by Satan himself, it was probably Martin Luther. Oftentimes there's different occasions when when Martin would throw an inkwell in his room towards where he believed Satan might be and just said, get out of here, you demon. And he wrote these uh words just to talk about his confidence in God, and I pray that these are the words that all of us Can sing and resonate with. A mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark never failing, our helper he amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing. For still our ancient foe does seek to work us woe, his craft and power are great, and armed with cruel hate, on earth is not his equal. Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing? You're no match for Satan. Were not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing? You ask who that may be, Christ Jesus, it is he, Lord Sabaoth his name, from age to age, the same, and he must win the battle And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undue us, we will not fear, for God has willed his truth to triumph through us. The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. They know their end. One little word shall fell him. All Jesus Christ had to do was say the word That word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them abideth. The Spirit and the gifts are ours, through him who with us ideth. Let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also. The body they may kill But we don't fear those who can kill the body, right? We can fear the one who can kill the body and send the soul to hell. We don't fear them. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. Amen. Let's pray and give God thanks. Heavenly Father, we uh I thank you, God, so much for uh this great opportunity That we have once again, Lord, to take a look at your word. My Father, I pray that you would use it in our lives, that you would transform us by the power of it. Father, that you would help us to have confidence in the great champion, the one who has all supernatural authority. We fear no demon, we fear no devil, because we know the one who has the keys. Father, we know the one who has the authority, and we're found in him, we're found in Jesus Christ, and he came to destroy the works of the devil. Father, I thank you that we have his word that abides with us. We have the Spirit of Christ who dwells within us. And Father, we look forward to that day when our faith shall be sight. And uh Father, when we will see the enemies of Jesus Christ vanquish forever. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files