The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Today, bringing Conrad and Bayway with us, you can thank God for him being here. Uh but brother, we're very grateful uh to have you here uh with us and come and minister the word of God to us. Well, brethren, it's uh a real joy on my part to uh uh be with you this week. As you heard from your pastor, we uh have become friends over the years. I did not realize that the Lord would lead um me to the point where I would be with you as a congregation. So I am uh carrying with me as I head back to Zambia uh wonderful uh memories and I'll be able to share with our own people back home uh that uh Brother uh George Lawson does have a congregation by people. Yeah, we have quite a number of people going by the name Pastor who survive on podcasts and so on. Uh with no real congregation to speak of. But I do bring you greetings from uh Kabuata Baptist Church, uh the church that I've had the the honor and privilege of uh pastoring next year I'll be cloaking 40 years. Nothing compared to Dr. MacArthur but uh when I first got involved with that church I had no idea that that was going to be my station for for most of my my life. And I will gladly be taking your greetings with me. As uh I will be heading back. Please do pray for my return trip. Thankfully it is in two weeks rather than tomorrow, uh, because I'm flying through Dubai And I think most of you know that that airport is currently closed because of uh uh the the fighting that is taking place in that region Um and also as I was sharing in the first hour, if the Lord does prompt you to participate in any way with this great project which is on our hands In Zambia, please do get in touch with your pastor here and he will give you the final details as to how you can do that. I felt that this would be like the the the final project that I'd like to really uh engage in before the the Lord takes me uh to to my rest. And so if we can work together in that project I will certainly be very delighted. Do turn with me to Genesis and chapter 39. It's really part of the story of Joseph. However, my interest is not so much in Joseph himself as in Joseph's God. the the the God that was present with Joseph. And because that God was present with Joseph There is much that took place in the life of this gentleman. And I specifically want to use this to encourage you as you are sitting there to see that your greatest treasure in life must be God Himself. I'll begin by reading just the first um four verses, which will really occupy us, but I will for now go as far as halfway through verse six. Genesis chapter 39. Now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt. And Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard in Egypt, had bought him from the Ishmaelites. Who had brought him down there. There 's two, the Lord was with Joseph. And that's the point I want us to keep noting. And he became a successful man. And he was in the house of his Egyptian master. His master saw, there it is again, that the Lord was with Joseph or with him. And that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands. So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him. And he made him overseer of his house and put him in charge of all that he had. Let's just finish off the paragraph. From the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake. The blessing of the Lord was on all that he had, in house and shield. So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge, and because of him, he had no concern about anything but the food that he ate. Generally speaking, we we know about the life of this man, Joseph. In many ways, he is a type of our Lord Jesus Christ. In the sense that Of all the individuals in the Bible that in the Old Testament that are a type of Christ, this specific individual, nothing particularly negative is said about him. We have individuals like Joseph, Brother Moses, who no doubt represents Christ, but along the way you you soon discover that the Bible in a very realistic way shows us that this man had clear feet. Here and there you see his humanity and indeed his sinfulness Which is why he was not allowed to go with the Israelites into the promised land. But Joseph stands out As an individual who showed grace and love and forgiveness And patience, and so much more that causes his life to stand out as one we want to emulate. However, he went through very difficult times. And it is that background that I want us to begin with. So you notice, for instance, in the very first verse of this chapter. Something of a reality that we all go through, and it is this that life Is often out of our control. We plan our lives We've got our vision. We have our aspirations. We have our ambitions. And we set out on that path. But we soon discover as so many individuals who have thrown God out of their lives that in fact we desperately need a higher hand to help us. Because life spirals out of control. That's what happened with Joseph If you look at the first verse, you'll notice that it's not about him doing something, but it is about other people doing things to him and bringing him to the place where. He would not have chosen to be. Look again at verse 1. Notice now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt. He didn't bring himself to Egypt. He was brought down to Egypt. And we're told, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, the captain of the guard, an Egyptian, had bought him from the Ishmaelites. who brought him down to Egypt. In other words, he didn't go looking for a job And go to the second highest office in the land and offer his services based on his expertise He was bought and brought into this house But when you go backwards, you know that his brothers tried to kill him. And therefore they snatched him away from family life and life that he had enjoyed especially with his father. Rescued by one of his brothers by being sold as a slave, he finally found himself in Egypt. Literally as a slave. And the point I'm making here is that life can easily be like that. Through the decision made by some government somewhere, your life can find itself going into a tailspin. A decision that might be made by a spouse can end up landing you in a place where you've got court case upon court case upon court case. You lose your wealth, you lose your property, you lose your station, you lose your children, you lose so much That's not where you wanted to be. But life would have brought you there. Decisions made by employers. Exactly the same thing. One moment, you are in the job of your dreams. The next, you are given a letter of dismissal, a letter that terminates your job because they have decided that that position is no longer wanted in that company. From a sense of security and everything made, the next moment you are jobless. Interview after interview Nothing is coming out of it. And the funds that you'd have accumulated are beginning to run out. A negative trajectory becomes part of your life. One wishes that life wasn't like that. The life was like the way bedtime stories end. They got married and they lived happily ever after. Yeah, kids may enjoy it, but adults know that ain't gonna happen. And that's not just for the people that don't believe in God, that don't respect God, that don't worship God. Is true about both God's people and those who are not. God has never said that because you are my child Life will now be one of milk and honey until we meet in glory. That's not the case. Any pastor will tell you of the countless hours that we often spend with church members going through the most difficult difficulties. They will tell you. You've prayed, you've counseled, you've prayed, you've counseled. Weeks are turning into months and months are turning into years. And there still seems to be no light at the end of the tunnel. And this is a dear, dear child of God. Perhaps even beginning to think that I have sinned against God. Why else would this be happening to me? And the truth is, God allows a child of light to walk in darkness. He does. What makes a difference, however, in such a downward spiral is having the Lord's presence with us. And that's what we see with respect to Joseph here. Twice over in verse 2 we have this statement. The Lord was with Joseph. And he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his master. And then verse 3. His master saw that the Lord was with Joseph. Him. That's what made the difference in coming into this land initially as a slave. It was the fact that he was experiencing God in his life. Now, in a way, God is omnipresent And in that sense, he's with everybody. Because he is everywhere Sure you've heard of the story of uh of a uh a child in in a home, Christian home, having a meal with the parents probably because of the lesson just learned in in church, the child asked the parent, is God everywhere? And the parent at the table said, yes, he is. And the child then went on to ask , is God with us at table here? And of course, if you're a Christian parent, the answer is yes. But it's when the child now asks the question, is God also in this empty cup? The parent began to think, where is this gone? But again, theologically you know the answer, yes, is in that cup. And the child began to slowly move towards the cup. And at a certain point, quickly put the hand on top of the cup. And said, I've caught you, God. It's plain logic. God is there in that cup. But he's not only in that cup. He's everywhere. But that's not what we have in this text. It's not the omnipresence of God. Rather, it is God being present in terms of a helping presence A helping presence. It's what we find in Psalm 73, the famous Psalm of Asaf. When he is almost bitter because of the difficult situations he has been going through, in contrast to The the way the wicked seem to be getting away with their wickedness That's what you find in in uh verse four, all the way down to to verse eighteen. I won't read the whole of it, but notice the way he speaks about the wicked. He says in verse 4 For they have no tongues until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They are not in trouble as others are. They are not stricken like the rest of mankind. It says at the end there in verse 13, All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. For all day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. He's contrasting the two. On one hand, the wicked seem to be getting away with their wickedness On the other, here I am trying to live a righteous, upright, godly life, and then I am suffering extremely for it. In fact, he's beginning to think, as he says there, that it's in vain that I have sought to live a life of uprightness. But he makes the point that that's the way he was thinking until he says in verse 17, I went into the sanctuary of God, then I descend their end. He there was a mind shift that took place. And notice where it took place in the sanctuary of God. Or to put it a little differently, in God's presence. I 'll skip the way he understood their end from verse 18 down to verse 22. But I want you to notice as he contrasts their end to his situation that what makes his situation a thousand times better is God 's helping presence. Verse 23. Nevertheless, I am continually with you, which is really, as we read in Psalm 23 You are with me. But notice that it's not just a presence The second half of that verse, you hold me by my right hand. In other words, it is a presence that upholds me. In the midst of the storm, I find myself being upheld. It's like a child who is walking through a neighborhood and there are huge dogs that are barking. Everything in that child wants the child to turn around and head back. But there is a hand that is holding that child. staging that child as the child is trembling but still walking forward through that difficult path You hold me by my right hand. But notice the next verse. You guide me with your counsel. In other words, the decisions that I am making in the midst of that storm, I realize Are guided by your wisdom, your counsel, and of course, largely through his word and through his spirit. But the point nonetheless is That I am able to make decisions that go against the way I feel. Left to myself, this is what I would do. But there is a wisdom that is apart from me that is enabling me to make the right decisions. And then he ends that little verse by saying, and afterward you will receive me to glory. In other words, it is a presence that inspires hope. That inspires hope. That makes me look beyond today and see what your promises are for me For the future. And friends, the hope makes a big difference in people's lives when they are going through trial. I mean think of Joseph himself for the moment. After the period that we are looking at now, and I'll move into that in a moment He ended up being accused of wanting to rape the master's wife. He's thrown into jail. And is in that jail for a pretty long time He has an opportunity to get out when he helps uh Pharaoh's uh baker and um the guy who looks after the his making sure no poison is put into his drink. But when the guys leave that prisoner , one is killed but the other one is free, they forget about him. One year passes after the other. Life can be like that. But in this particular case, it is the recognition that today is not everything. The God who is there is one who is an eternal God with an eternal purpose. And therefore, that's where I anchor outside the current strife And that's the reason he is able to say, whom have I in heaven but you, and there's nothing on earth I desire besides you. Even though forsaken by others, I know you, O God, have not forsaken me. And you're the only one ultimately that I desire. And then he puts it this way. My flesh in my heart may fail, and here it is, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Your presence is enough. Because though inwardly I may be failing, but there is a strength From above that is helping me. We need to appreciate this, friends, because It is this helping hand from God that makes a world of a difference. I was speaking about a pastor who's Speaking to a child of God who seems to feel as though his feet or her feet are sinking in sand There's an opposed experience that uplifts a pastor's heart. And it is often when a child of God perhaps is um has been unwell for a while and results from the doctors seem to be only going from bad to worse and before you go to visit, the you you you've already someone has already whispered to you that there is extra bad news that the child of God has received And so you get all ready with your Bible verses and chapters and perhaps a little booklet to leave behind and so on You pray, you get there, and upon getting into the room of a child of God, you find a smile. And the child of God says to you, Pastor, Pastor, sit down, sit down. Let me tell you what the Lord has been ministering to me about. And by the time the child of God finishes speaking, you think to yourself, so why was I so worried? The Lord has been here. The Lord has ministered to his child. And all you can do upon reading a verse or two is to say, Let's pray. And in that prayer, it's largely thanksgiving. It's largely thanksgiving. This is the God who ministers to his children, an ever -present help in times of trouble, in times of need. Now, I don't need to quickly hurry on to say that that kind of presence is one that is secured by Jesus Christ on his cross. Because it is through Jesus dealing with our sins That we now have access into that place of grace. Let's turn with me to the book of Romans and chapter 5. Romans and chapter 5. I want us first of all just read the first two verses. The Bible says there, therefore, since we have been justified by faith The point there is that we have been not only forgiven, but we have been declared righteous. By faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, we have the peace of God, but the point here is primarily we have reconciliation with God. We can therefore now dwell in his presence. And that's the point that we read now in verse 2. Through him, that is through the Lord Jesus Christ, we've also obtained access by faith, here it is, into this grace in which we stand. So we are no longer in a relationship where he's dealing with us according to our sin and therefore he's dealing with us in wrath. We are now in a position where he is dealing with us in grace. In other words, it is no longer what we deserve, it is the exact opposite of what we deserve. Because of what Jesus has done on the cross in paying for our sins The result of that is this, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. We are individuals who look forward to being with Christ in God 's presence forever. I'm saying we we have hope now, but look at the circumstances in which we have this hope It says then verse 3, not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character, and character produces home. I need to quickly squeeze in a point here. Notice he is saying, we rejoice in our sufferings. Our sufferings don't end because we have entered into this state of grace. We are rejoicing in the midst of our suffering There's the Christianity that gives people the impression of uh once you become a Christian, suffering ought to be behind you. You are now a king's kids, they say Now that might rhyme nicely, but it's not true. Part of what God uses for our sanctification is our suffering. And we've already spoken about Joseph. We've been told at the beginning of chapter 39 That God was with him, well when you begin to read the story, it doesn't look like God is with him. Especially by the time he finally lands in that jail or prison or dark dungeon. But that's what happens to God's true children. There is no guarantee that because your sins are forgiven, therefore suffering is behind you. No. The difference, however, is that because of his abiding presence, his helping presence, he upholding you emotionally. Giving you wisdom, inspiring hope, as we see in the text already in Romans and chapter 5, you rejoice in the midst of yourself. And it's not just a philosophical position because you've added one plus one and arrived at two because of all these things, therefore I'm going to glory. It's mediated by the Spirit of God who is in you. Look at the way he puts it there in verse 5. And hope does not put us to shame. Because God 's love has been poured into our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. Through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. That's the joy. That's where the joy is coming from. It is that in the midst of all these negative circumstances around your life, there is a joy, an inner joy A fountain of joy that the world cannot take away. And it's part of the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, and so on. You are experiencing this in a very real way. What a blessed presence is it. And Joseph, though an old testament saint, would have known something of this mercy drops. Which have now come to be given to us in full measure. But I also want us to quickly notice That the result of God's presence can be seen by those around us By those around us. This is what happened with Joseph. His master immediately noticed it. And he noticed it primarily through his fruitfulness. Back to Genesis and chapter 39. Genesis chapter 39. We read there Verse 3. Maybe let me begin with verse 2. The Lord was with Joseph and he became a successful man and he was in the house of his gift and master. His master saw that the Lord was with him, and here it is, and that the Lord caused all that he did to succeed in his hands. So Joseph found favor in his sight and attended him. And he made him overseer over his house. and put him in charge of all that he had. The same thing happened when he was in prison, verse 21. Verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph. There it is again. And showed him steadfast love and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. Verse 23. The keeper of the prison paid no attention to anything that was in Joseph's church. Why? Because the Lord was with him. And whatever he did, the Lord made it succeed. There's nothing mysterious here. This is not dabracadabra, you know, somehow it touches something that is made out of silver, it becomes gold. That's not the point here The point is that that same being upheld emotionally Being given wisdom, looking into the future with hope, having holy contentment for the now. Those attributes coming together are producing an individual who in the midst of the storm is able to still be productive. He's not sitting in a corner, sulking, miserable, saying, Oh, you know my brothers. This is what they did to me, these brothers. No. The Lord is with me He knows what he's doing with my strange and negative providences. He's put responsibilities in my hands today. Let me get on with what needs to be done. While he sings the praises of Almighty God. That's what we have here. In Acts and chapter 7, verse verse 9, this is the way it is put. Acts chapter 7 and verse 9. We read there Acts seven and verse nine And the patriarchs, jealous of Joseph, sold him into Egypt. And here's the phrase again. But God was with him and rescued him out of all his afflictions And gave him favor and wisdom before Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household. The Lord gave him favor and wisdom. We know the story. In the process, Pharaoh says to him, Well, look. A guy who knows all this is now telling me to find someone to look after my business. I think I've found that someone. It's you. And he gives him the role for him to play. But again, remember, it was not overnight. If it wasn't for God's providence to remind Pharaoh that there is a guy in prison after he saw those dreams That would never have resulted in him coming up. But God, in his providential working brought about the circumstances that finally turned everything around. And the goodness with that in God's providence is this that though therefore it's the wisdom He's given you, the abilities He has given you, in the midst of the storm. When now you are being brought out of whatever the situation might be, you don't go around like a peacock with your tail up in the air saying, Look at me, look at me You know exactly where to point. It is God. God receives the glory. You know He upheld you in the midst of your most difficult time. You know that he's the one who's given you the ability to deal with the challenges that are there. You know that in the midst of your trial He is the one who gave you eyes to look beyond the storm into the hope that lies ahead of you. It is him who kept you buoyant in the midst of your difficulties. He's the one who put a song in your heart. He is present with you. And therefore, the worship goes to him. And that's what God ultimately wants to bring out of everything in life. It is that praise and glory and honor might come to him. Fast forward 11 chapters, we are in Genesis and chapter 50. Joseph's brothers, fearful that now that his dad is dead, he was going to revenge. What they had done. They cook up some stories. That before Dad died, he told us to come and tell you. Joseph is not interested. He basically says to his brothers, Do not fear verse 19. So am I in the place of God? Nah I'm not. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. God gave me the the capacity, the wisdom to not see this as the end of it all, to look right past all this. And and recognize that in his sovereignty he has some good, great, and glorious purpose. And therefore, I'm not going to play God in this situation. It is enough that we worship this glorious God. His intention was for good, to save lives, and thankfully here we are seeing it with our own eyes. Now we may never have the opportunity to see the end of the story in this life. But brethren, as I close, let me tell you this. When we get to the other side, and God enables us to see all the details of history. Working together like the back of a mechanical clock with some circles going this way and others going this way With some faster, others so slow you can't even see that they are moving. When we see history in all its details At that point, we will see that even in what looked extremely negative, God had a glorious purpose To his own praise. Thankfully, we don't need to wait until we're there. Let's enjoy his presence. His blessed presence. Today, I may be speaking to someone who's going through a most difficult part. Because other people have pushed him there. They've pushed her there. I'm saying don't concentrate on the circumstances. Concentrate on God and His presence. Therefore, two or three words by way of conclusion. Number one The most important step in life is what we saw in Romans 5 and this one. It is being reconciled to God. It must be terrible to be a non -Christian, especially when things begin to go wrong. What do you hold on to? What? And yet he is the God who is saying, come to me. That you may go through all circumstances of life with me. I will uphold you. Come to me. I plead with you to be reconciled to this God through Jesus Christ. Go to him that he might be your father in this world. Upholding you, giving you counsel and wisdom, giving you hope, enabling you to be content with him in life's most difficult times. That even on your deathbed, instead of you being bitter, you'll be saying, Father, I'm coming home. Um coming. And then lastly, those of us who are Christians If there's anything Satan wants to do, it is to spoil your relationship with God. To mess it up. That's what he wants to do. And therefore, that's what you should treasure the most. Whatever in heaven but you, and earth has nothing I desire apart from me. Make sure that when those temptations come, the chief reason you do not yield to them is because of this loving relationship. you have with God. And if for any reason you have compromised already, rush to the foot of the cross. Repent that your sins may be washed away. Because you want to have an unbroken child. Channel of communion and fellowship with God. It's for your own sake, it's for your peace, it's for your joy in the midst of life's turbulentity. Times. Make sure there are no controversies between you and God now. You need His Presence. Let's pray. Our Father in Heaven, thank you for The behind the scenes information that you give in Genesis 39 That what people were seeing about Joseph was primarily because you were with him. Lord grant that in the midst of our own difficulties, trials, and suffering That might be the testimony of our lives that you are with us. And through that, may we glorify your holy name in handling our trials. Lord, we ask this that you might truly be honored and worshiped because you gave us life and you gave us eternal life. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.