The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well I want you to take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans. We're back in the book of Romans today, and uh this week we're turning back uh to a chapter that's primarily known uh for its discussion about the believer's struggle with sin. In Romans chapter 6, we learn about our freedom from sin. In Romans chapter 7, we learn about our struggle with sin. And over in Romans chapter 8, we learn about our victory over sin. And while we would love to skip over the struggle and get right to the victory, God sanctifies us through our struggles and gets glory for himself even in the midst of our struggles. In the middle of a perfect garden, there was still a tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And it would have brought God great glory for Adam and Eve to say no to the temptation. So there's glory to God, even in the testing of our faith. Everything that God created was good. Behold, on the last day in Genesis 1 and verse 31, it says that he says that it was very good. So everything that God created was was good. Even the tree in the middle of the garden was for good. It had a good purpose No, it's to glorify God. And if Adam and Eve obeyed the Lord, it would have glorified God for them to say no to that temptation. So there's glory for God, even in the testing of our faith. But before we get to the thick of the battle in Romans chapter 7 with Paul, there's an important question that has to be answered, and that question is about the law. What is the place of the law in this battle with temptation? Well so far in the book of Romans, we've been told that the law brings about condemnation, chapter 3, verse 19. The law cannot justify us, chapter 3, verse 20 and 28. Righteousness comes apart from the law, chapter 3, verse 21. The promises of God are not through the law, chapter 4 and verse 4. The law brings about wrath, chapter 4, verse 15. The law brings about the imputation of sin, chapter 5, verse 13. The law increases transgression, chapter 5, verse 20. We're no longer under the law, chapter six, verse fifteen. We're dead to the law, chapter seven, verses one and four The law is a widower and has been joined. We've been joined to another, chapter 7, verses 2 to 4. The law was used to arouse sinful passions, chapter 7 and verse 5. And we have been released from the bondage of the law in order to serve in the newness of the Spirit. Chapter 7 and verse 6. And the question after that list that you might naturally have is then what's the purpose of the law at all? I mean, if we have this long list of things that could be perceived as negative, why was the law even instituted in the first place? Aren't we better off without the law? And uh for those who are from a Jewish background who love the law, this kind of discussion would have been highly offensive. I mean what are what are you trying to say, Paul? Are you trying to denigrate the law? Are you disrespecting the law of God? I mean, first of all you said that we need to die to our sins, and now you're saying we need to die to the law as well? Are are you calling the law sin? And that's the objection that's raised in chapter seven and verse seven, where Paul says, What shall we say then? And he's speaking the objection of those who would come against his teaching. He says, What shall we say then? Is the loss in That was their question. And it's a legitimate question. And what's Paul's answer? May it never be. Meganoita. Let there not even be the possibility of the thought that this would ever be the case. On the contrary, he says, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. The law was necessary. The law has an important role in our salvation. 1 Timothy 1 verse 8 says, but we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. There's a lawful use of the law. And the conclusion that we read in Romans chapter 7 and verse 12 says that so then the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. The law is good. James chapter 1 verse 17 says, every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow. The law comes from the Lord of heaven, the Lord of glory, the Father of lights. It comes from him. And as such, as that that comes from him, the law of the Lord, Psalm 19, verse 7 says, is perfect. It's a good and a perfect gift. The law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul, it says in Psalm 19, 7. Psalm 12, verse 6 says, the words of the Lord are pure words, a silver tried in a furnace on the earth, refined seven times. Psalm 119 verse 97 says, Oh how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day. And Paul does nothing to take away anything. From the perfection of the law. The law is holy, the law and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. The law is not the problem. That's not the problem. The law itself is not the problem, as one commentator put it. The villain is sin. That's the villain in the story. And a Spirit writes, how terrible must be sin that it would take a good gift, God's perfect gift, and use it in the way that it has. Smurgeon says this, listen to this. He says, it must be a terrible power which gathers strength from that which should restrain it. The law should restrain sin, but instead sin gathers strength from the law. It rushes more violently in proportion as it is reined in. Sin kills men by that which was ordained to give life. It makes heaven's gifts the stepping stones to hell. It uses the lamps of the temple to show the way to perdition. Sin is that strange fire that burns more fiercely after it is damped. Sin finds fuel in the water which was intended to quench it. The Lord brings good out of evil, but sin brings evil out of good. In Romans chapter 7, verses 7-12, Paul honors God by honoring God's law. But he also lets us know that we can honor the law of God without placing our hope in it. Our hope is not in the law. We can honor God's law without placing hope in it, because the law does not point to hope in itself. The law actually points us to hope in Christ. Let's take a look at Romans chapter 7, starting at verse 7. You can follow me as I read. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to no sin except through the law. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had said, Ye shall not covet. But sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, produced in me coveting of every kind. For apart from the law, sin is dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin became alive, and I died. And this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me For sin, taking an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me. So then, the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, and righteous and good. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, our Lord, and uh Father, we are grateful for your word. Now, Father, your word gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. And our Father, I pray that you would use Your word to speak unto our hearts and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen There are those who heard what Paul wrote about the law who are tempted to think that we're better off with the law altogether. And as I mentioned particularly for those who are of a Jewish background, this kind of discussion would have been highly offensive that Paul is making these comments about the law of God. You know, again, you know, you're saying that we have to die to sin, but now we have to die to the law. Like are you equating the law with sin? And throughout the book of Romans, Paul is answering all kinds of objections to his teaching with direct and striking clarity. And he does the same thing in verse 7. You know, what shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. And this is the sixth time Paul uses this phrase, may it never be. Let there not even be the possibility of a thought that this would be the case. And not only is that a negative statement, it's also a statement that expresses revulsion. It's not just a no, it's a no with some disbelief behind it. Like I can't even believe I have to answer this question. Like absolutely not, certainly not. Of course not. And Paul gives four reasons why the law should never be considered sinful before summing up his argument in verse 12 that the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. So that's where we're going. We're going to Paul's summary statement about the law, but there's four reasons that he gives why the law should never be considered sinful. And the first reason is this, the law does not condone sin. The law does not condone sin. Doesn't make an allowance for it. Does it make an excuse for it? The law is not soft on sin. So how can you consider the law sinful when the law is attacking sin? I mean that's what the law does Again, look at verse 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. The law is what pointed out sin to me For I would not have known about coveting if the law had said, ye shall not covet. So Paul says, how could the law be sinful? It's the law that points sin out. It's the law that tells me what not to do. And by the way, that's the difference between a test and a temptation. A test and a temptation. You know, God puts the tree in the middle of the garden and he says, don't eat. Don't eat from it. You know, the the the tree was a test. Satan takes a look at that same tree and he says, eat from it He lures us in. So the same tree can be used as a test or a temptation. Satan lures us in. God warns us and wards us off. So here you have the law which warns us against sin. It's the alarm bell that says, don't do this. So sin is pushing us away from temptation. So Paul says, how could you consider the law to be sinful when the law is what instructs us about sin and warns us against sin? I would not have come to know sin except through the law. The law teaches me what sin is. Back in Romans chapter 3 and verse 20 he says, For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. That's how I learn about sin is through the law. And this is not to say that sin did not exist before the law of Moses, but it was the law that specifically defined sin for us. And presented it as a clear violation of the law of God. There's no second guessing after the law of Moses. You know, how could you possibly imagine that the law is sinful when the law is what defines sin? for us. And then what Paul does is he makes this observation about the law very personal. And he switches from his use of the second person plural and first person plural to the singular. First person. First person singular. He goes from in verse 4, therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law. Verse 6, but now we have been released from the law. But now in verse 7 he says, On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. He makes it very personal. This is a personal testimony from Paul. We catch a glimpse of Paul's testimony over in Philippians chapter 3, just to flip over there real quick, Philippians chapter 3. Take a look at verse 4. Philippians chapter 3. This is right after he says, we put no confidence in our flesh. Look at verse 4. He says, although I myself might have confidence even in the flesh If anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more circumcised the eighth day. You know, the eighth day was what was prescribed by the law of God, Leviticus chapter 12 and verse 3, to be circumcised on the eighth day. He said, I did that Of the nation of Israel. You know, God set aside Israel as a special people, a kingdom of priests, holy nation. He says, I'm part of that nation. And even more than that, I'm of the tribe of Benjamin. You know, Benjamin was one of the faithful tribes that remained loyal to David. You know, Judah and Benjamin both remained loyal to David according to 1 Kings 12. He says I'm a Hebrew of the Hebrews as to the law, a Pharisee. I was a professional practitioner of the law, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church. I was committed to what I understood to be the truth. And then he says this, as to the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless. But that's not the whole of the story. Because at the same time that Paul was found blameless by those that would look at his life, examine his life, internally, Paul was still convicted as a sinner. When Paul says as to the righteousness which is found in the law, blameless, the word blameless does not mean sinless. When he says that I was found blameless, he's talking about by all external appearances. From when anybody could look at me, they examined my life, they looked at me and they said, no, he's he's blameless. He's not violating the law of God. There's no cause for complaint. And we can't bring him under reproach. Nobody could look at him and bring a charge against his life from the outside. But that doesn't mean that he was considered sinless. And back in Romans chapter seven, if you want to flip back there, back in Romans chapter seven, the one commandment that took Paul out, that he identifies among out of the ten commandments, the one that convinced him that he was a sinner is the command that makes it clear that sin is internal and of the heart, not just what comes on the outside. Look again at Romans chapter 7 and verse 7. He says, I would not have come to know sin except through the law, for I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, ye shall not covet. Every other violation of the Ten Commandments was something external. It was something that you could see Something that the outside world would have been able to observe. If you had another God, if you made yourself an idol, everybody could see that. Took the name of the Lord in vain, you know, people could hear that. People could observe that from the outside, and just to let you know how serious it was to take the name of the Lord in vain over in Leviticus chapter 24 Verse 10, it says now the son of an Israelite woman whose father was an Egyptian went out among the sons of Israel, and the Israelites, uh Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel struggled with each other in the camp. The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the name and cursed. So they brought him to Moses. Now his mother's name was Shelemith, the daughter of Debri and the of the tribe of Dan. They put him in custody so that the command of the Lord might be made clear to them. And basically they put him in prison. Until they could figure out, you know, what does Moses say about this guy who just blasphemed the name of the Lord? Verse 13, it says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, bring the one who has cursed outside the camp, and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head. and then let all the congregation stone him. It was that serious to take the name of the Lord in vain. Violation of the commandment. It was something that could be heard By those who are around you. We'd also be able to see externally from a person's action if they honored their father and mother, if they took the life of somebody else in murder, if they committed adultery. All these things are are on the outside. You could see it. But out of all the commands and the Decalogue, out of all the commands and the Ten Commandments, what was the one that caused Paul the most trouble? You shall not covet. You shall not covet. You can't see that. It just means to have a strong desire. That's on the inside. It's the one command out of all the ten that's explicitly internal and examines your heart He was found blameless as to the righteousness which was in the law, but nobody could see what was going on inside of his heart besides him and God. And that's where the Lord brought the knowledge of sin to Paul and exposed him as a transgressor. How often do you think about coveting as a violation of the law of God? How often do you think about that one? If you're going to come up with your your top ten list of sins, I'm going to put the ten biggies on a piece of paper. Do you think you'd ever put coveting on that list? Having an internal desire for something that belongs to somebody else. But that's where the Lord brought the knowledge of sin to Paul. If you were going to post a list of sins for the nation to remember, who would think about put putting covenant on that list? I mean, how does covening hurt anybody? How would you even know if somebody was doing it? How could you enforce it? Like I I see you. I know I know you're desiring what I have right now. I I know you are Like how could you enforce that? Nobody knows what's going on inside your mind. I would be able to tell if you stole something, if you bore false witness against somebody. How how could I ever tell what you were desiring in your heart? And this is actually one of the laws that distinguishes Israel from the nations around Israel. You can find similar lists of laws. Against stealing, murder, lying, there's a what was called the Code of Hammurabi, which is a Babylonian legal text written somewhere between 1755 and 1751 BC. It includes laws against false witness, theft, adultery, murder, even dishonoring your parents is mentioned there. But it mentions nothing about covening. It's one of the commands that separated Israel from all the nations around it That's the only command that focuses on the heart. And it's such a subtle shift in the heart because it's not just saying, you know, I'd like to have a spouse. I'd like to have a house. I'd like to have a wife. I I wish I was in a position where, you know, I was, you know, in charge of a company and people would work for me or, you know, I wish I had a donkey. Or in our case, you know, I wish I had a new car. I wish I had a car. I mean there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with desiring that, is there? There's nothing wrong with I mean he who desires a wife desires a good thing, right? Husbands, you better be saying something right now. If you desire a wife, you desire a good thing. It's right to desire a wife There's nothing wrong with that desire. But what does the tenth command prohibit? Exodus chapter 20, verse 17. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. Wishing to have the house is fine. Wishing to have your neighbor's house is wrong. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife. Desiring to be married, that's not a wrong thing. Desiring somebody else's spouse. That's the wrong thing. His male or female servant, you know, I wish I had his job. I wish I had the people that are working for him working for me. Nothing wrong with wanting a a new job. It's wrong with wanting your neighbor's job. His ox, his donkey, anything that belongs to your neighbor. I wish I had his stuff Coveting is a lack of contentment with what you have, a lack of satisfaction in what God has provided for you. 1 Timothy 6. 6 says, but godliness actually is a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment. What covenant says is I I can't be content if I don't have what somebody else says. It's always hungry for more. It's often been repeated that a reporter asked Nelson Rockefeller, who was part of the wealthy Rockefeller family, how much money does it take to be happy? And do you know what his answer was? Just a little bit more. How much money does it take to be happy? Just a little bit more. Because more is never enough. And you're always thinking that it's it's just around the corner. If I could just close this deal I'd finally be content. Just a little bit more, but it's never enough. Covenant makes a God out of our desires. Kevin DeYoung writes, covenant is idolatry. It says, I can't live without that person, that place, that possession. It makes a God out of our desires. God is saying, I'm all you need. And covenant says, no, you're not enough. That's what coveting says. And it's a fitting summary command because it's impossible to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself and still covet. It's impossible to do both. How can I be satisfied in God and love my neighbor and still want his stuff to be mine? How does that love my neighbor? How does that show that I'm content with God, that I'm loving him with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength, and I'm saying, God, you haven't given me enough It's a serious sin. It's an internal sin. And guess what? This sin will keep you out of heaven. That's how serious this sin is. It made the top ten less for God. And Paul says, without the law, I would not know how guilty I was. I would have thought I was fine. Maybe I can get away with it. It's all on the outside. Now I've never slept with anybody's wife. I've never stolen anybody's property, but inside my heart there's that secret desire You know what? Why why does he get that spouse? Why does he have that house? Why does he have that job? Why can't that be mine? And within your heart you're coveting. And God says that would be enough to cast you into hell. That would be enough. So how can I imagine that the law is sinful when the law does heart surgery like that? Like that's the kind of heart surgery that the law does. It points into the very core of who you are and says, you are in danger. That's how holy the law is. Hebrews 4. 12, for the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. The law does not condone sin. Number two, the law does not create sin. The law does not create sin. Back in Romans chapter 7, verse 8. It says, but sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, produced in me coveting of every kind. For apart from the law, sin is dead. The law aroused these sinful passions in my heart, but it doesn't create it Romans chapter 7 and verse 5 says, For while we are in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. And we could think that, you know what, if it wasn't for the law, we wouldn't have any problems with our sin. And if it wasn't for that law that told me not to do it, I'd be just fine. And the members of my body would not bear fruit for death. If if God never put a sign up there and told me not to go, I would have been fine just walking in my own way. But now he puts up a sign and now I'm a transgressor It was fine to walk on the grass before, but then you put up that sign that told me not to do it. I was I was fine walking on the grass, then you put up the sign, and now I I just I just have this urge to step over it, and it's your fault that you put the sign up. Because now you made me the transgressor. No, it's it's what's going on in your heart that makes you the transgressor It's not the law's fault. It's not the science fault. We could think that if it wasn't for the law, we wouldn't have any problems. But you can't blame the mirror for showing you what you look like. And you can switch out the mirrors as many times as you want, but if it's a real mirror, it's still going to be you when you look at it. Still like you look like you and every one of them. The mirror doesn't create anything. And the law does not create sin. It just shows you what's already there. No, no, no, that that desire was already in your heart. And the law just showed it up for what it is. The law doesn't create the sin, it doesn't produce the sin. So what produces the sin? Verse 8. But sin taking opportunity through the commandment produced in me covenant. What is it that's creating the sin? It's it's sin creating the sin. I mean basically that's what it's saying. It's the sin. And the the sin is is kind of described as this like you know personality, this entity, this this principle. It's this this thing in me that desires the wrong. And then when it has the opportunity, it goes after it. But there's something in me that just desires to do the wrong thing. It's like uh uh Augustine when he talked about you know uh this pear tree that he and his friends went to go and rip the pears off a neighbor's pear tree, but he says, I don't even I didn't even like pears I'm just doing it because it's the wrong thing to do and I enjoyed it. Just enjoy the thrill. I can get away with it. And then he took the pears and threw them to the hogs. He didn't even want to eat them. But there's something inside that just says, I just I just want to go there. You know, you go to Airbnb and have that one room and all Airbnbs and say private This is for the owner. This room's for the owner. And you just come over like, what what's behind there? What what are you what are you what do you what are you hiding behind there? It's just like there's something in you that's what What's behind door number three? I just have to see it. Even if you don't want it. You know, I just want to get in there so I can say, I did it. Nobody tells me what to do. That's how sin is. That's how sin works. It entices us. It takes us in. It schemes. It manipulates. It produces more sin. This internal principle works out in our desires and multiplies itself in more and more sin. It's like the virus that multiplies itself and infects everything around it. Verse 8 says that sin takes the opportunity. The Greek word is a forme. It's a word that was used for base of operations, like in a battle, military conflict. An army sets up camp and starts to plan a strategy for its mission. And that's what Sin does through the commandment. It takes the commandment, says, Oh, that's the commandment? That's what you shouldn't do? Then it kind of plants its flag and sets up a tent. It's like, okay, how are we going to do this? How are we going to accomplish this? And this the command becomes the host for the virus that is sin and manipulates it for its own evil purposes. And we see throughout scripture that sin takes the good gifts of God and twists God's good gifts for sinful purposes. Like I said, that the tree was there for a good purpose in the middle of the garden. But sin twisted it. Twisted it. Satan used what God created for his temptation Satan doesn't create his own trees. He can't create his own trees. He takes God's trees and then tries to twist them for his purposes. And that's what sin does. It takes what God gives and say, how can we flip this around? How can we pervert this? How can we distort this? Exodus chapter 20, the children of Israel are at the bottom of Mount Sinai. They've just received the Ten Commandments. Actually, flip back to the book of Exodus, because I'm going to turn you to a couple passages here. The book of Exodus, look at Chapter 20. So yeah, God speaking all the words of the Ten Commandments, the Ten Words as it's been called. And in verse 18, it lets us know how those commands were received by the people of God. Verse 18, it says, all the people perceived the thunder and the lightning flashes and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, and when all the people saw it, they trembled and stood at a distance. And they said to Moses, speak to us yourself, and we will listen, but let not God speak to us, or we will die. I mean, this is like panic. This is terror. Don't I don't want to hear the voice of God anymore. This is terrifying, Moses. You just, you know, get the message and relay it to us. You go and speak to God. We don't want to hear from them directly. So this is this is all fresh in their minds. God has just given them the law, warned them about disobeying And then you have chapter 32, chapter 32 of Exodus. What happens here? Look at verse 1 Now, when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people assembled about Aaron and said to him, Come, make us a God who will go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. Like commands one and two, like already down. Already have the desire. It's like who knew if they even had the desire to make an idol before God said, Don't do it. But now all of a sudden it becomes tempting. Like we've been waiting here for too long. Can you bring us to the promised land, Aaron? We don't know what's happened to Moses. We we can do this ourselves. I mean whose idea was it to bring them out of Egypt to the promised land? Whose idea was that? God's idea? But now they take God's idea. Twist it and say we can do it and we can use this golden calf to do it with. I'm gonna take God's idea and do it my way. God's idea and do it my way. Aaron said to them, Tear off the gold rings which are in your ears, in the ears of your wives, your sons, your daughters, and bring them to me. Hold on a minute. Where do you think they got the gold from? God was the one. Who who opened up the hearts of the Egyptians to give them the gold, gave them favor, so that the Egyptians said, Hey, get out of here, and I'll give you my gold, my silver, just get out and take your plagues with you So now they take God's good gifts and pervert it. Then all the people, verse 3, tore off the gold rings which were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. He took this from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it into a molten calf. And they said, This is your God, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. Sin manipulated the very gifts of God, the very commands of God, and it started producing coveting of all kinds. All kinds of sin started to multiply. This is God's idea to lead them out, to bring them to the promised land, who gave them the gold in their ears. And they take the very gifts of God and twist it. We can multiply examples with just one more, Joshua chapter six The Lord was clearly the deliverer here. In Joshua chapter 6, the Lord delivered Jericho into the hands of the Israelites. It was clearly the Lord's victory. I mean, who who who makes a battle plan and says, you know, hey, let's let's start this battle by just like walking around seven times around the city? Let's let's do that. And you know what 'll really get them? Like bring the trumpet players with you. And blow the trumpet on the seventh day. Like who who comes up with a plan like that? I mean, obviously this is God. So God is the one who grants them the victory, and what does God say? Chapter 6 and verse 17. What's the command from the Lord? Chapter 6, verse 17. The city shall be under the ban. It and all that is in it belongs to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot and all who are with her in the house shall live because she had the messengers. whom we sent. The only thing that's coming out of here is uh Rahab and her family. Everything else dedicated to the Lord. Don't bring anything out. It's all going up in smoke. But since it's the opportunity at exactly this point, look at chapter 7, verse 1. It says, but the sons of Israel acted unfaithfully. In regard to the things under the band, for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah from the tribe of Judah, took some of the things under the band. Therefore the anger of the Lord burned against the sons of of Israel. The very same deliverance that God provided for them became the source of temptation. I'm giving you the victory Like you didn't have to do anything to win this battle. All you had to do was walk around and blow your horns. I'm giving this to you. I'm just saying don't touch anything in it. That belongs to me. But no, that's not enough. Aiken Aiken is achen for something. He's like, no, I just gotta have something. What the Lord gives is not enough How many of us operate in the same way? Take take God's good gifts. Good gifts. Sex, it's a good gift. But how many people take that and distort it? Taking the good gifts of God and saying, I'll do what I want with that. My body belongs to me. Don't want to give God the glory. Very same deliverance that God provided became the source of temptation When Paul says apart from the law, sin is dead, it doesn't mean that sin doesn't exist back to Romans chapter 7 And again, the command is not the problem. It's sin that's the problem. But he says that apart from the law, sin was dead. And he doesn't mean that sin doesn't exist. It's not that sin doesn't exist. But but like the the sin principle in me didn't want to take advantage when there was nothing to take advantage of. Like it didn't understand. But when the the sin principle in me saw something that it could take advantage of, I mean that's where my heart went It becomes more active the more that it knows. The more that it knows to do that's not right, it's like the more that the sinful heart desires to do it. It's like the the viper that lies still until it's ready to strike. Not too long ago I was walking with uh with Jennifer walking down a a path and laying across the the path was a was a black snake. Wasn't moving. I thought it was dead until I picked up a stick to try to move it off the path, and then all of a sudden it reared back into that S shape, ready to strike. And thank God my stick said no. My stick said no. But it was laying still until it had the opportunity. Laying still. And that's what sin is. Sin lays still until it has the opportunity to strike. I mean, sin is vicious. Just talking about snakes, I remember cutting the head off a snake. And when I, you know, went near the the head that was already cut off, it s still opened his mouth and tried to bite me. It's like, what in the world is wrong with you creatures? Like their head is off and you're still trying to bite me. Like what in the world is up with you? But but sin takes any opportunity again. If I'm close enough to get you, I'm trying to get you. This is what sin does. It's waiting for the right opportunity. It's waiting for its moment. Sin takes the opportunity through the commandment, produces covening of every kind. For apart from the law, sin is dead, sin lies dormant. And then as soon as it sees a command, you know, something I'm not supposed to do, oh yeah, I'm ready now, I'm ready. It rears up, it wakes up, sin becomes alive. But the law doesn't create the sin. Sin creates the sin. That sin principle creates more sin. And the law just provides sin the opportunity to show its ugly face. Number three, the law does not condemn the righteous. Why should we not think of the law of sin? The law does not condone sin, the law does not create sin, and the law does not condemn the righteous. Take a look at verse 9. He says, I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died. You know, maybe you could consider the law to be sinful if it condemned righteous people, people who were doing the right thing. But the persons that the law condemns are the people who are doing the wrong thing. And here Paul says, you know, I was once alive apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin became alive, and that's when I died. Sin condemns guilty, or the law of the law condemns guilty people. It doesn't condemn the innocent people, it condemns the guilty people. And interpreters wrestle with this one. They say, you know, what does Paul mean when he says that I was once alive? Apart from the law. And what does he mean when he says, you know, that I was once apart from the law and that that the commandment came? You know, like there was a time when I existed without the commandment? I mean, what what's he talking about? You know, is Paul talking about a time when there was no Mosaic law? You know, back in chapter 4, Paul talks about Abraham being the father of the faith even before the Mosaic Law. Chapter 4, verse 15, where there is no law, there is no violation. So some people think that, well, you know, maybe Paul isn't talking about himself. He's talking about a time period before the Mosaic Law came. Or maybe even further back than that, maybe Paul is talking for Adam, you know, because Adam existed before there was any death. And he says, when the the law came I I died. So maybe he's talking for Adam and that, you know, like in Romans chapter 5, verse 12, you know, talks about how through one man sin entered into the world. So maybe he's talking about a time before there was any sin at all You know, so is he talking about Adam? But I believe the explanation is a lot more simple than that. In Romans chapter 7, verse 9, when he says, I was once alive apart from the law. And when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died. When he says I, I believe he's talking about himself. How about that? He's talking about himself. And when he says that he was apart from the law and the commandment came, he's not talking about the first command that was ever given or the commands that were given at Mount Sinai. In the context, he's talking about when the commands first came into his understanding. Because look at verse 7. Look back at verse 7. It says, What shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know. sin except through the law. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said you shall not covet. So what is it talking about when the commandment came? When the commandment came to me To my understanding where when I first understood this, when the commandment came to him, the command finally came with force And when he says that sin became alive and I died, he's not saying that this is the you know uh that I died spiritually because you know we're we're born spiritually dead. You know, that's what Romans 5 talks about, and Adam all die. Ephesians 2. 1, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins. So he's not saying there was a time uh when I wasn't spiritually dead. I mean that's our factory setting. You know, you come out the womb and you're already broken. Brand new out the box and you're already dead in your transgressions and your sins. We're conceived in it. But what Paul is talking about is his personal experience with the commandment. I had a personal experience with the commandment, and when I understood the command, I died. I realized that I'm on the path to hell. I died. Like I I finally realized like I there there's nothing I can do here. You know, the more I try to sweep it up, you know, the dust just keeps flying. I'm trying to mop up the water, but the faucet's still running. Like there's nothing I can do to take care of my sin problem. And especially when you let me know that it's on the inside. It's not just something I can take care of on the outside, like this is coming out of me. These desires. I I I have these longings and I can't stop myself and I'm looking here and looking there and desiring this, like something's wrong on the inside. And when Paul realized that, it's like he died. When did that happen? Maybe it happened when he was knocked off of his beast and he saw the blinding light from heaven. And the Lord said, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? You know, maybe it was then when he finally realized that I'm in trouble. And all this covenant that I've been doing, it's finally, you know, time to pay the bill. You know, the bill comes due. You know, maybe that's when he realized it. Maybe it was before that. We don't we don't know when it was. But at some point in Paul's history, he realized that I can't fake it anymore. I'm not righteous. I'm not righteous. Everything that I've been doing has been on the outside. It's what people could see, but God sees my heart Does that testimony describe anybody here? At one time you thought you were alive, that you and God were good, you know, you had an understanding, you and God were okay. You might even consider yourself to be a good person, a lawkeeper, on your way to heaven. Maybe you didn't even think about heaven. You know, maybe it's not serious enough for you to think about. You know, I don't really give heaven much consideration, but if there is a heaven, I know I'm going. But when the commandment invaded your conscience and brought you the conviction in your heart, now all of a sudden you see sin for what it is and judgment for what it is. And now you realize that no I'm not okay. You're not okay, I'm not okay. Like something is wrong here. And the law actually aggravates my sin because now I'm conscious of it and it's like it's worse now. Now I'm seeing like covenant everywhere. Like when I didn't see it before. Now you told me what it is, and it's like, no, it's everywhere. It's worse than I realize. I can't defeat sin in my own strength. I'm dead. I mean I can remember my own testimony. I I would have called myself a believer before I came to Christ. And I was trying to walk in obedience, falling over and over again. And then I finally realized, you know what, I don't have the power on my own to do this. I don't have the power. I'm worse than I think I am. It's like the command kills you. Talk with some of you here who have had a similar testimony. I've even talked to people who, you know, one brother who said he was taking an evangelism class, and, you know, not only is he committed to the gospel, he's out there sharing it. And then as he's sharing it, it's like, you know what? What I'm sharing is actually convicting me. I don't believe that I've actually responded to this message. It's like all of a sudden the the like like you you wake up to the sin that you're living in. It's like Lord I like I can't fix this. The commandment comes and you die Remember a story I read about George Whitfield and there were some opponents that he had that made fun of him in his sermons. George Whitfield was actually uh cross-eyed. You know, you look at some of the the depictions of George Whitfield, you'll kind of see the the eyes crossed and you know, they were making fun of Whitfield and crossing their eyes and, you know, preaching one of his sermons And while the this one person who's trying to insult Whitfield is preaching one of Whitfield's sermons all of a sudden and he comes under conviction of what he's preaching. And get saved himself by preaching somebody else's sermon. It's like the law starts to do a work in your heart, like, no, you are the man. Who is the law convicting? It's convicting the sinner. That's who it's convicting. So who's the person that it's that it's killing? It's like Paul says, it was it was killing me I finally understood what the law was saying, and I died. I used to think I was alive. But now the commandment comes: sin becomes alive, I'm dead. The law can't be considered to be sinful because the law actually condemns those who are sinners The law does not condemn the righteous, it's condemning the sinners. Number four, this is the last one. The law does not conceal the truth. The law does not conceal the truth. Look at verses 10 to 11. It says, and this commandment, which was to result in life, proved to result in death for me. For sin, taking an opportunity through the commandment, deceived me, and through it killed me. The law Was used by sin, deceived me, and killed me It's sin that conceals the truth. It's sin that's the deceiver. But sin tries to use the law for its own purposes, but it's not the law that's deceiving. It's the sin that's deceiving. For sin taking an opportunity through the commandment deceived me, but it's not the law that conceals the truth. It's sin that conceals the truth. The law is not like the contracts that we sign where all the details are in the fine print. Most of you know that my wife is a realtor and just this week we're looking at this beautiful house. you know, two -car garage, you know, single-family home, and it said it was forty-five thousand dollars. It's like you're looking at this thing like, what in the world? What kind of deal is this? Large Print says, yes, this house is being sold for $45,000. But when you start looking into the details, It says you couldn't actually move into the house because the person who lives in that house still wants to stay there for the next ten years And there's all these other conditions, but like, no, you can buy it for $45,000 if you actually basically buy it for me so that I can live in here. And pay all my bills and expenses and everything else. It's like, well, but you can buy it. It's like it's it's all in the fine print. And the the fine print was behind a wall, like behind a realtor wall, so you can even see the fine print. You know, all it says is, yeah, that's right, $45,000. What a deal. And that's how how sin does. It presents it up front. What a deal. Presents you all the the pleasure, excitement, the joy. Look look at what you can get. And then it's it's hiding the fine print behind its back. Don't worry about the man behind the curtain. Don't worry about that back there. Just look at all the joy you can get from this. The Bible says that sin is pleasurable for a season. It doesn't last. It doesn't last. But the law lets you know everything up front. The the the wall is all up front. Flip over to Leviticus chapter 18. Do you mind flipping for a minute? Leviticus chapter 18 The law is upfront with its demands. Leviticus eighteen. Take a look at verse four. It says, you are to perform my judgments and keep my statutes To live in accord with them. I am the Lord your God. So you shall keep my statutes and my judgments, by which a man may live if he does them. I am the Lord. So you you want to know the the path to to life here? If if you're able to to live by all my commands? The law's not hiding out behind its back. The law's right up front with that. Actually in Deuteronomy 4 verse 1 it says, Now O Israel, listen to the statutes and the judgments which I am teaching you to perform so that you may live. Flip over to Deuteronomy chapter 28. Deuteronomy twenty eight. Take a look at verse one. Deuteronomy 28, starting at verse 1. It says, Now it shall be if you diligently obey the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments. All his commandments, which I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. All these blessings will come upon you and overtake you if you obey the Lord your God. Deuteronomy 28 is a chapter that talks all about the blessings for Israel. You know, that's where we get that phrase, you're blessed in the city, you're blessed in the field, blessed when you come and when you go. We love that, don't we? You know, we we sing songs about that Blessed, blessed. But there's another side of that. Moses said, when you cross the Jordan I want to put half of Israel to stand on Mount Gerizim, call out the blessings, and the other half on Mount Ebel, and call out the cursings. Look at Deuteronomy 28, look at verse 15. 28 verse 15. But it shall come about if you do not obey the Lord your God. To observe to do all his commandments and his statutes with which I charge you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the country. We don't sing those songs, do we? Cursed, cursed Cursed is he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them, and all the people shall say Amen. The law did not conceal the truth about the demands of the law. The law doesn't conceal that, it doesn't hide that. There's no guesswork in that. And this is so instructive. Flip over to Deuteronomy chapter 31. This is so good. Deuteronomy 31. Take a look at verse 26. The law doesn't conceal anything. And guess what Moses tells them after presenting them with his law, with the law of the Lord. Which was later on called the Law of Moses. Look what he says. Verse 26. He says, take this book of the law. And place it beside the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, your God, that it may remain there as a witness against you. Listen what he says. For I know your rebellion. And your stubbornness. Behold, while I am still alive with you today, you have been rebellious against the Lord. How much more than after my death? Look at verse 28. Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak these words in their hearing, and call the heavens and the earth to witness against them. For I know that after my death you will act corruptly. And turn from the way which I have commanded you, and evil will befall you in the latter days, for you will do that which is evil in the sight of the Lord provoking him to anger with the work of your hands. Then Moses spoke in the hearing of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song until they were complete. Now think about this. Think about this. This is Moses the lawgiver He's just giving them the law. But even Moses, who gave them the law, did not trust in the law to save them. He says, I'm giving you this law, but you know what you're going to do? You're going to be rebellious just like you've always been. You're not going to follow the law. There's no hope for you in being saved by the law. You know what? All the curses are going to come upon you. I know that after my death you will act corruptly. So what does Moses hope in? Moses, he's the lawgiver. What is Moses hoping in? Put back to Deuteronomy chapter 30. Let me show you what Moses hopes in. I love this. What is Moses hoping in? Look at verse 6. He hopes in the promise. He doesn't hope in the law. He hopes in a promise. Look at chapter 30, verse 6. Moreover, the Lord your God will circumcise your heart. And the heart of your descendants, to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul, so that you may what? There's not going to be any living by trying to obey the law because you can't. It's going to be because God circumcised you on the inside He does the work internally. He gives you a new heart so that you have a desire now to obey God. That's where the hope is. He will circumcise your heart so that you may live. The Lord your God will inflict all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you, and you shall again obey the Lord and observe all his commandments which I command you today. Then the Lord your God will prosper you abundantly in all the work of your hand in the offspring of your body and in the offspring of your cattle and in the produce of your ground, for the Lord will again rejoice over you for good, just as he has rejoiced over your fathers. You know what the hope is? The hope is that you would have a circumcised heart. And you know what God has done for us in the gospel of Jesus Christ? He's done a work on the inside. He's done a work on the inside. We don't hope in the law. That's not where our hope is found. My hope is found in Christ. Who can transform my heart? Who gives me his spirit? Who changes my life? That's where my hope is found. The commandment can't bring life, and Paul understood that. That's why he says in Romans chapter 7 verse 10, that this commandment, which was to result in life, proved uh proved to result in death for me. For sin taking an opportunity through the commandment deceived me and through it killed me. You know what the the commands do, the law does He says it's it's used by sin to try to deceive me. And what's the what's the deception here? The deception is, you know what, I think I can actually obey this I think I can do this. I think that there's somehow, some way that I'm able to do what the law actually commands me to do. That's the deception. Sin uses the law, uses the commandment, and tries to deceive us. Luke chapter 10, if you remember the story of the Good Samaritan. Actually flip there real quick. Story of the Good Samaritan. Don't worry, we're wrapping up. That's what all the preachers say when they're just getting ready to get going. We're wrapping up, don't worry. Coming to a close, coming to a close, y'all. Coming to a close. Look at uh Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10, look at verse 25. It says, And the lawyer stood up and put him to the test, saying, Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And he said to him, what is written in the law? How does it read to you? And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. And what does Jesus say? Verse 28. And he said to him, You've answered correctly. Do this and you'll live. You know what the lawyer's next statement should have been? But Lord, I can't. I can't love the Lord with all my heart, soul, mind, and strength. I don't do that. I don't love my neighbor like myself. Lord, is there another way? That's what he should have said. But instead, what does he say? Well who who is my who is my neighbor? Because maybe I can actually do that. And then the Lord tells them the parable of the Good Samaritan to say, no, you can't. Because I'm not just saying that you love your friends like this, I'm saying you have to love even your enemies like this. There's no way to get from here to there through the law. It's only through Christ. It's through through throwing ourselves upon His mercy, like, Lord, I can't do this. The law can't help me to do this. But the law isn't sinful because the law froze me on Christ. That's what the law does. The law, as Galatians says, is like our tutor that leads us to Christ The law shows me how sinful I really am, so that I can come to Jesus, and that's where I find my salvation. So what do we learn here? We learn that we need Jesus. The law is good, the law is holy, and that's how he wraps it up in Romans chapter 7. The law is good. The law is holy. There's nothing wrong with the law. The law is holy. It comes from God. It's of a divine origin. The law is just. It's right. It tells you to do the right thing. And the law is good. And even though sinful men couldn't keep it perfectly, it still brought blessings to men when they attempted to obey the law. The law was good. God blessed even in perfect attempts. To follow the law. The law was good. There's nothing wrong with that. But don't you dare think that you can be saved by it. Don't you dare think you can be saved by it. Flip over to Galatians chapter three. This is it. This is it So why the law then? Galatians chapter 3 verse 19. So why the law then? It was added because of transgressions. Having been ordained through angels by the agency of the mediator until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made. Now a meter is not for one party only, whereas God is only one. Is the law contrary to the promises of God? May it never be, for if the law had been given which was able to impart life, then righteousness would indeed have been based on the law. But the scripture has shut up everyone under sin. Why? So that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. What does the law do? The law shows you how sinful you are and how desperate you are of Jesus Christ. Because he's the only one who could fulfill the law in our place. He's the only one that could provide God with perfect holiness. He's the only one that has always done what pleases the Father He's the only one that we can trust in. And when he died on the cross, all of our sins were nailed with him there. On the cross. All of our sins were taken care. On the cross. That's where our sins were taken care of. And the full weight of the wrath of God fell upon him And now because of his righteous life, his substitutionary death, and his resurrection from the grave to prove that he had power over death. He can now offer life, eternal life, to anyone who would believe, not through the law, but through faith alone in Jesus Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. Amen? It's only through him that we find life because the law could not give it. Why? Because of you. You were the problem. And Jesus is the answer. Let's go to the Lord and pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, uh God, so much for This opportunity that we have to look at your word. Your word is rich. Your word instructs us. It just gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. And Father, I pray that you would use this word in our lives, Lord, that you would bring conviction to our hearts. Father, that uh that we would examine ourselves in the light of your word And Father, that we would rush to Christ, where it's the only place where we can find any kind of hope, any kind of help. Through Jesus Christ and through him alone. So Father, I pray that you would use your word to do a deep work in our hearts. And if there are any who are here who have not yet trusted in Christ, Father, we pray that today would be the day. Do the work, God, we pray. The only work, only the work that you can do. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files