The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. All right, why don't we open up our Bibles to the uh book of of Matthew? Uh this morning we're gonna continue In our study of the uh uh the Lord's Prayer or the Our Father Prayer or the Disciples Prayer, uh whatever you might wanna want to call it, uh we're gonna continue to uh uh to learn about uh prayer uh this morning, and we have a couple more weeks to go. Uh but I was talking with uh with a friend of mine in in uh Little Rock. Um actually it's uh uh the the church in uh in Little Rock that's uh um that early in our ministry has uh supported us. And uh he said that he's been uh talking about prayer for the last year, so uh we're uh we're in good shape for only being a couple weeks in uh talking about prayer. So uh why don't we uh actually recite the prayer together, Matthew chapter 6, and uh we'll use uh uh debtors. and debts instead of uh transgressions and uh or whatever other you know thing you might want to or trespasses you know you might want to throw in there. So we're gonna gonna use uh uh debts and debtors, all right? Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh I do thank you uh so much for uh being able to think about prayer, uh to be taught from the uh the greatest prayer warrior whoever uh walked this earth, Jesus Christ. The one who knows how to uh have petitions heard uh by the Father, uh the one who was recognized and rewarded uh by the Father, and he teaches us. how to pray in a way that's meaningful. So Father, I pray that you would deepen our prayer lives, that you would grow us in our communion with you. And Father, that as a result of what we learn, that we too would be faithful in our prayers. And that we would see the things that we ask for being done because we're praying according to your will. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, this morning, like I said, we come back to the uh uh the subject of of prayer, uh, the prayer that uh the Lord taught his disciples how to pray. And uh probably the the one request that's uh the most foreign to us, uh thy kingdom come. And uh there's different reasons why this might be a foreign concept to to many of us. Uh one reason it's foreign to us is because We have uh a very very little experience with kings and kingdoms, right? I mean none of us lives in a in a kingdom in the in the first place. R. C. Sproul uh recounted how uh uh there was uh an Englishman who came over uh to the United States, one of his friends who was uh uh visiting the United States And uh for the first time he was uh uh brought into the United States. He was run into this little antique store uh that displayed, you know, some of the battle slogans from the revolutionary uh war era. He saw phrases such as, uh, you know taxation without representation, and uh don't tread on me. But he said that the one that stood out for him the most was a sign that read, We have no sovereign here We serve no sovereign here. We have no king. And uh his friend wondered, how do I preach the kingdom of God uh to a people Who have a strong cultural resistance to even a kingdom in the first place? How am I going to preach the kingdom of God to people uh who have a uh this strong aversion to a to a king and a in a kingdom? So kings and kingdoms aren't part of our daily experience. So praying for the kingdom sometimes might be a little strange. Another reason that praying for the kingdom is foreign to some of us is because uh there's so many different understandings of what the kingdom is. Um is the kingdom something that we can help bring in, or is it something that only God can do? Is it something that's in the hearts of men, or is it something that's found in society at large? Is it in heaven or is it on earth? And uh this is the one question uh within the the commentaries that generates the most discussion. You know, what what is he talking about? when he says, Thy kingdom come. And there's so much scripture that we could uh take you to that talks about the the kingdom to explore this idea of the the kingdom It's a it's a really deep mine and there's drools all the way down. Uh but as uh one writer uh said I can console myself in praying that we'll spend the rest of our lives wandering through the vastness and enjoying its wisdom and its wealth. We'll we'll spend the rest of our lives, you know, learning more about the kingdom and uh on into eternity uh enjoying the kingdom. So uh We don't need to get it all in now, even as uh as much as we might want to. And the third reason praying for the kingdom might be foreign to us is because we know of nothing like it We know of nothing like the kingdom of of God. There's nothing like this this kingdom. It's like praying for internet before the phone's been invented, you know? Uh or praying for uh space travel before the first automobile is rolling on the on the earth. I mean how do you pray for something that it's like I've never seen anything like this before? I mean I don't even have a a way to kind of categorize uh this kingdom. We haven't seen it in operation yet. Uh but this is what we're to be praying for constantly. Jesus uh makes this a a matter of uh of our our constant prayer uh before the Father. According to the uh Jewish Talmud, um uh prayer is is is something that um uh uh prayer is something that should always include the kingdom. They actually said that a prayer in which there is no mention of the kingdom is not prayer at all you know, that that always you're to be praying for the the kingdom. And there's a sense in which that's true, uh, because any prayer that is completely satisfied with the world as is You know, any any prayer that's uh that has no desire to see God break through into our history to rule over it isn't really praying according to the to the will of God. We we don't we don't accept the world as is. You know, we're praying for God to break through uh into this world. Um yesterday I was uh uh reading uh Theology for breakfast with uh uh s some of the men uh here at BBC and and we're reading the storyline of the the Bible. They call it the story arc sometimes, you know, the big picture. of the Bible. And we came across this line in the discussion that said, everybody today will admit that something is wrong with the world and with the people in it. Everybody admits that, right? I mean something is is wrong with the world. And uh while I'm sure that the authors didn't interview every person in the world to come up with their conclusion that, you know, everybody says that you know, th or admits that there's something wrong. I mean, who have you talked to who doesn't admit that something's wrong? Who doesn't admit that things are are wrong in the in the way that they live life or things on the outside. And the the funny thing is is it it doesn't matter what background you have religiously. You know, it doesn't matter where you come from. Uh people still admit that things aren't the way that they ought to be. Even an atheist admits that things aren't the way they ought to be. And and w what kind of what what kind of uh uh claim are they actually making when they say that things ought to be a certain way? And and if if if they're really consistent with their world view, nothing ought to be anyway, right? Because everything's an accident. You know, nothing ought to be anyway. But it's uh even in in them admitting that you know things ought to be this way, things are supposed to happen this way, it admits that they believe in a God who orchestrates everything. They believe in purpose, not just blind chance. They're admitting that there's a world that's been created with with design and and purpose. And that's what we as Christians believe. We believe in a world that's been created uh by God with uh design and purpose, but We also recognize that things aren't the way that they're supposed to be. They're not operating in the way that they were were meant to operate, and they'll only function correctly. when they're brought under the submission of God's rule. And that's what we're praying for when we pray thy kingdom come. And there's uh really so much that's included in this uh this prayer for the kingdom uh that we won't have time to cover it all today, but uh Matthew's gonna give us many more chances to talk about the kingdom. It's uh one of the favorite terms throughout the book of Matthew, so we'll get to this over and over again. So um If you don't get all your questions answered today, don't worry, we'll be able to get to some of those later on. But there's at least four truths that we can learn about the kingdom from this passage. Four truths we can learn about the kingdom from this passage. First of all, the kingdom is defined by God. Defined by God. It's his kingdom. Thy kingdom. Come, right? He owns it. He establishes it. It's characterized by God. It's thy kingdom. Okay? Uh the the kingdom is also ruled by God. It's it's a kingdom. Okay? It's a kingdom. It's not a democracy. It's his kingdom Uh the kingdom is also introduced by God. Uh we're praying that the God's kingdom would come, be introduced uh to us. And uh the last thing is um Is that the kingdom is desired by God's people, okay? Desired by God's people. We're to pray for this. We're to desire that this kingdom would come, okay? So the kingdom is defined by God, it's ruled by God, it's introduced by God, and it's desired by God's people. Four things that we learn about the kingdom. First of all, the kingdom is defined by God. One of the fascinating things about this discussion of the kingdom that we find here is that it's proclaimed in Matthew's gospel without any explanation. Without any explanation. It just appears on the scene like without warning. Uh back in uh Matthew chapter chapter three, if uh you look back there Where you have John the Baptist who's preaching. Verse 1. Now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. No explanation. Just repent. The kingdom's coming. Same thing happens in Matthew chapter 4, verse 17. Jesus preached an identical message to John the Baptist. Verse 17 of chapter 4, it says, From that time Jesus began to preach and say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. No explanation. Repent. And you know what I'm talking about. You know, basically that's that's what the uh the assumption is or the implication is. And today among uh conservative Bible scholars, there's all kinds of questions about, you know, what is this kingdom that he's talking about? You know, like I said, is it figurative? Is it literal? Is it coming? Is it already here? Does the Messiah have to be present? Can it happen while he's away? But for some strange reason, nobody seemed to be confused about the announcement when it was made. Why do you think that is? When they heard the word kingdom, nobody said kingdom. You know, what kingdom are you talking about? What do you mean that there's a kingdom? You know, why not? It's because it was already revealed by God previously God had already talked to them about the kingdom. As far back as uh as Genesis, if you want to flip back there, Genesis chapter 17. You have uh Abraham being visited by God here while he was in uh Canaan. Uh God already promised that he would make out of him a great nation uh back in chapter twelve. In chapter 17 is 23 years later where God speaks to them again in chapter 17 and gives them a little bit more definition. uh to that promise he says he'd make him a great nation and and bless uh Jacob and his seed and give him land, but in uh Genesis chapter seventeen it gives a little bit more definition of that In verse 5 it says, No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, I will make nations of you, and kings will come forth from you. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your descendants after you. So right right here he he promises Abraham that kings will come forth from you. Kings are going to come forth from you. This is part of the blessing that God gave them. The kings would come forth, and uh that there would actually be a possession, possession of a of a place where these kings would be Later on in uh Genesis chapter 49, uh Jacob, who's uh Abraham's grandson, is about to pass off the scene. And he prophesies to his sons about their future, what they had waiting ahead of them. And in uh Genesis chapter 49 and verse 10 it says, uh talking to Judah, he says, The scepter shall not depart from Judah. nor the ruler staff from between his feet until Shiloh comes, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. That word uh uh Shiloh meant the one to whom it belongs You know, the scepter shall not depart until the one to whom it belongs comes. And it's this is here is a reference to the to the Messiah. In God's time kings did come uh out of Abraham and uh David was one of those kings in 2 Samuel chapter 7. We have near the end of David's life. The Lord gives him this word in 2 Samuel 7. In verse 16, it says, Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. And the description of that kingdom is expanded over in Psalm chapter 72. If you want to flip over there, Psalm 72 describes this kingdom. In Psalm 72, David speaks about a future king who would be much greater than his son Solomon in chapter 72. He talks about the kingdom that this king would have in verse 5. It says, uh, let them fear you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon throughout all generations. So whoever whatever this kingdom is going to be, it's going to be eternal. As long as the moon uh sun endures and as long as the moon throughout all generations. Verse 7, it's going to be a righteous kingdom. In his days may the righteous flourish and abundance of peace till the moon is no more. Verse 8, this is the king who is going to have global rule. Look at verse 8. May he also rule from sea to sea and from the river to the ends of the earth. And this is a king whose rule will actually transform the earth itself. In verses 16 and 17 May there be abundance of grain in the earth on top of the mountains, its fruit will wave like the cedars of Lebanon. May those from the city flourish like vegetation of the earth. May his name endure forever, may his name increase as long as the sun shines, and let men bless themselves by him. Let all nations call him blessed. But it doesn't stop there. Flip over to Isaiah. I know I'm flipping you around a lot today. I told you I was trying to get a lot in. Isaiah chapter, Isaiah chapter 9. We're familiar with this prophecy here. Prophets are really filled with the descriptions of this future kingdom, but uh just want to point to a couple of them. Isaiah chapter 9, uh verses 6 to 7. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, the government will rest on his shoulders, his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government, or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it, to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and for evermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this Over in chapter eleven, verse four. But it says, But with righteousness he will judge the poor, and decide with fairness for the afflicted of the earth, and he will strike the earth with the rod of his mouth. And with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked. Also righteousness will be the belt about his loins, and faithfulness the belt about his waist The wolf will dwell with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the young goat, the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and the little boy will lead them. You don't have to worry about your kids getting attacked by Animals, right? It's like a little boy's gonna gonna lead them. Also the cow and the bear will graze. Their young will lie down together, the lion will eat straw like the axe, the nursing child will play in the hole of the cobra. And the winged child will put his hand in the viper's den. They will not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. I'll just read the rest of them to you, Jeremiah 33, verses 15 and 16. In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous branch of David to spring forth. He shall execute justice and righteousness on the earth. Ezekiel 37, and verse 21, say to them, Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will take the sons of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, and I will gather them from every side and bring them into their own land. And I will make them one nation in the land on the mountains of Israel. One king will be king for all of them, and they will no longer be two nations, no longer be divided into two kingdoms. This is after the um uh this is during the exile uh time, so this is I mean, there's no kingdom that's come up after this, okay? Uh they will no longer defile themselves with their idols or with their detestable things or with any of their transgressions. But I will deliver them from all their dwelling places in which they have sinned, and will cleanse them, and they will be my people, and I will be my and they will They will be my uh people and I will be their God. And the biblical record just keeps going and going and going with descriptions of what this this kingdom is. Charles Feinberg wrote this. He says, Among the twelve so-called minor prophets, there is but one, Malachi, who does not directly or by type speak of the kingdom age. Although he deals with the day of the Lord and the fact of the visible coming of the Son of Righteousness with healing in his wings. And he says this, with such a prophetic testimony. To guide them and shape their thinking. What kind of kingdom do you think the Jews of those days and we who studied the Word of God in this day should expect? What were they expecting? What were they expecting? When he talked about the kingdom, they weren't scratching their heads, saying, you know, what in the world are you talking about? A kingdom to come? I didn't know about a kingdom. Did you know about a kingdom? You know, nobody's saying that Everybody's saying this is exactly what's been predicted. This is exactly what the Bible instructed us about. One of my professors, Dr. Baric. In a journal entry titled The Kingdom of God, he points out several aspects of this kingdom of God that's described in the Old Testament. He says, first of all, the kingdom of God will be characterized by redeemed people. The kingdom of God will be characterized by righteous standards. The kingdom of God will be characterized by an end to warfare, the establishment of peace. The kingdom of God will be characterized by social justice among every race and every class of people. The land itself will be changed. The climate will be changed. The animal kingdom will be changed. There will be an end to physical deformities, disease, sickness. And this is what the Old Testament expectation was for the kingdom. So when Jesus arrives and he's preaching the kingdom, And then he starts preaching righteousness, healing diseases, eliminating hunger, controlling the elements I mean just just think about it. There is no question about what kind of kingdom he was preparing these people for. Um this is what the kingdom looks like. Elimination of disease. Everybody's fed. You know, I can take, you know, what is it? Two two fish and uh five pe loaves of bread, and I can feed thousands. I can feed thousands with this. You know, this multiplication of food in Matthew twelve and verse twenty-eight uh he uh said this, he says, But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. It's it's here, right? You're speaking to the king. This is the one who's ushering in the kingdom. And you just think about the contrast. There's uh the what he what he were to pray for is Thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven, right? Praying, praying heaven, heaven down. There's no evil tolerated in heaven Evil 's not tolerated in heaven. Uh but we contrast that with what we see today, you know, the crime just crawls the streets, right? The criminals call crawl the streets. There's no hunger in heaven. Uh but many of the the stomachs of our day still grumble. There's no poverty in heaven, but many who struggle today just to make ends meet. No sickness in heaven But we spend billions trying to find cures for disease. There's no death in heaven, but the earth is digging fresh graves every day Just think about the contrast in what Jesus is introducing here and uh what we experience uh today. Uh God revealed what kind of kingdom was to be prayed for, you know, the kind of kingdom that was to be expected. Uh this kingdom was revealed by God. It wasn't figurative. Uh it wasn't, you know, uh one that only existed in the hearts of men and nowhere else. You know, that's not the kind of kingdom that he was trying to introduce. Uh it wasn't brought about by political or social means. We can't bring the kingdom in by those means. It wasn't one that the Messiah didn't have to be there for. The Messiah had to be there for all these things to to start to happen. Uh none of this happens without the Messiah Uh so uh there's literally dozens and dozens, if not hundreds, of of prophecies that that told them about what kind of kingdom they should be expecting. Uh so the idea of the kingdom wasn't vague. And uh even as we uh uh even in our uh memory verse today in Acts 11 it talks about you know Christ coming back physically. You know, Christ, just as you saw him go up, and how did you see him go up? You know, visibly, physically, right? You're gonna see 'em come down in the same way. You know, it's not some kind of vague spiritual, you know, coming of Christ that nobody knows about. You know, you're You're going to see him come down in the same way you saw him leave. So we're to expect this physical return of Jesus Christ. And because of this, the early church fathers, the early church fathers, so when we go back in the history of the early church, the early church fathers were almost unanimously premillennial. Unanimously, just about unanimously premillennial. And uh they believe that when the prophets spoke about you know this this coming of blessings and you know even the physical uh creation being changed and grapes and wine and grain and bread that they meant by that grapes and wine and grain and bread. You know, they didn't mean something else, you know, by those terms. Uh it was Origen and and Augustine uh who popularized the the figurative view of the the kingdom, that it's a figurative thing that we're to expect instead of a a literal thing. So that's where we can uh look to you for the the popular uh view of of the kingdom that that some people have today. But the kingdom was uh defined by God. It was defined by God. Number two, the kingdom is ruled by God. Okay? Kingdom is ruled by God. It's his kingdom, like I said, not a democracy. It's called the kingdom. It's where where God rules When we speak about the kingdom of God, we're talking about the reign of God, where God reigns. And uh when we speak about the the reign of God where where God reigns, we're we usually talk about that in three different senses. First of all, there's the universal kingdom of God. God rules from eternity without question, right? Without rival, God rules, right? Psalm 47, verse 2 says, For the Lord most high is to be feared, a great king over all the earth. Psalm 103, verse 19, the Lord has established his throne in the heavens. His sovereignty rules over all. His throne rules over all, right? Psalm 145, verse 13. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. God is ruling right now. Right now, God is ruling. He always has been, always will be, right? Nothing's gonna change that universal rule of God. So we don't have to pray for that. Okay? We're not praying for the universal reign of God. That's already happening. God is already reigning universal universally. God universally reigns. Number two, people often talk about the spiritual kingdom of Christ. When we talk about where God reigns, where God rolls, people talk about the spiritual kingdom of Christ. um which was established during his first coming when he inaugurated uh the kingdom. And uh we understand that Jesus was born a king, right? When Jesus came, he came as a king. Uh Jesus spoke of his spiritual kingdom when he stopped in uh John eighteen and verse thirty-six, uh Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting, so that I would not be handed over to the Jews But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Okay? So he talks about the spiritual kingdom that didn't belong to this physical realm. And uh every time somebody repents of their sins and trusts in Jesus Christ, they're added to that kingdom, right? Added to that spiritual kingdom. In uh Colossians chapter one. In verse 13, it says, For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved son. Jesus Christ had the kingdom. Everybody that gets saved repents, turns from their sins, trusts in Jesus Christ, they're transferred. Transferred from being under the domain of Satan, you know, the God of this world as he's called, to the domain and the kingdom of God's dear son, Jesus Christ. We've been transferred into his kingdom. But that's something that has come already as well. That's something that's already come. That the church is here. The local churches have filled, you know, people with uh you know those that have uh uh come to know Jesus Christ as uh as Savior and Lord So in that sense, the kingdom is growing, is extending, and that's really the only sense where we can talk about extending the kingdom is in souls coming to know uh Jesus uh Christ as Lord and Savior. But there's also a kind of rule that God is exercising in heaven right now that he's not yet exercising in the earth. Okay? There's a kind of rule that God exercises in heaven. That's different from what he exercises in the earth. And it's the kind of rule that's visible, observable, and undeniable. Okay? A visible, observable, and undeniable rule of God on the earth. And uh When we pray for God's kingdom to come, this is what we're we're praying for. We're not praying for God to rule. God rules already, right? Uh uh we're not praying for, you know, God, can you become king? God is already king, right? Christ is already king. Uh but it's similar to the prayer when we say, Hallowed be thy name. We're not praying for God, can your name be holy? Right? God's name is already holy. What are we praying for? I want everybody else to recognize that your name is holy. I don't want there to be one person on this globe who does not revere and honor your name. So when we pray, hallowed be thy name, we're saying, I want everybody to recognize who you are. When we pray, let thy kingdom come, we're saying I want everybody on this planet to recognize the rule of Jesus Christ. That's what we're praying for. That his rule would be visible, observable, undeniable. Let thy kingdom come. Let nobody ever refuse again to bow the knee to Jesus Christ. That's what we're praying for. That men would recognize that rule. And when does that happen? It happens when the kingdom's introduced by God. Flip back to Zechariah chapter 14. Zechariah chapter 14. If you go back from Matthew a couple books, you'll hit Zechariah. We'll get familiar with the Old Testament, don't worry. From Matthew to Malachi to Zechariah, Zechariah chapter 14. This is where Christ demands He demands the respect and honor that He deserves. Zechariah 14, look at verse 4. And that day, his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives, which is in front of Jerusalem on the east And the mountain of Olives will be split in its middle from east to west by a very large valley, so that half of the mountain will move toward the north and the other half toward the south You will flee by the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains will reach to Azelle. Yes, you will flee just as you fled before the earthquake in the days of Zehah. King of Judah, then the Lord my God will come and all the holy ones with him. In that day there will be no light, the luminaries will dwindle, for it will be a unique day. which is known to the Lord in neither day nor night, but it will come about that at evening time uh there will be light. And in that day living waters will flow out of Jerusalem, half of them toward the eastern sea, and the other half toward the western sea. It will be in the summer as well as in the winter. And the Lord will be king over all the earth in that day, and the Lord will be the only one, and his name the only one. So what are we praying for? We're praying that everybody will recognize that Jesus Christ is the only King. The Lord is the only King. For everybody to recognize who he is. This is the kind of rule that was uh predicted in in Psalm chapter two, if you remember that, in uh Psalm two verses uh nine to twelve Where it talked about the Messiah. It says, ye shall break them with the rod of iron. You shall shatter them like earthenware. Now therefore, O king, show discernment. Take warning, O judges of the earth. Worship the Lord with reverence and rejoice with trembling. Do homage to the Son. Recognize him. That's what he's saying. Recognize the Son. That he not become angry and you perish in the way, for his wrath may soon be kindled. How blessed are all who take refuge in him! This is this is not the the kind of kingdom that just kind of comes in subtly, right? It's uh not the kind of rule that that merges with any other existing kingdoms This is a a sudden instantaneous coming. Actually the word for thy kingdom come, that verb come is an aristense, which talks about a completed action. It's the instantaneous coming, and the prayer looks for uh for God to take action, not for the for the worshipers to bring that kingdom into being. It acts for the establishment of the kingdom of God by God. for us, not by God, through us. Okay? It's God who's bringing this this kingdom in. So there this is this is gonna like I said, it's not going to be subtle. This is a violent takeover You know, where where where God shows up and takes over uh the world that that he's created. In uh Daniel chapter two, if if you remember in Daniel chapter two, uh Nebuchadnezzar had that dream That he wanted to get an interpretation for. Remember that? Had the dream and uh couldn't get any uh answers from his uh wise men and the magicians and everybody else in the kingdom And uh and Daniel says, you know, well, you know, doesn't don't interpretations come from the Lord? You know, comes to Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter two. And he tells the king what his dream was. He says, You continued looking until a stone was cut out with hands. Remember he'd had this dream about a statue. And he says, You had a dream, you know, describes the statue. And then he says, Ye continued looking until a stone was cut out without hands, and it struck the statue on its feet of iron and clay and crushed them. Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, the gold were all crushed at the same time and became like chaff from the summer thrushing floors. And the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them was found, but the stone that struck the statue became a great mountain and filled the whole earth You know what you know what chaff is, right? You know, the outer husk of of the wheat is just like the little, you know, brittle shell that's on the outside, and as they broke up the the chaff, you know, they the wheat would fall to the ground and the little chaff would just s blow away. And he's saying that's what's going to happen to all the kingdoms of the earth. This stone is going to come and crush every kingdom on the earth. And it's just. All gone. Jesus Christ shows up and everybody withers in the presence of Jesus Christ. In those days, in these days. O king. In those days, those kings, the God of heaven, will set up a kingdom which will never be destroyed. And that kingdom will not be left for another people. It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms. But it will itself endure forever. Daniel prophesied about this coming kingdom. And uh so when Jesus is talking about praying, Thy kingdom come. Uh you're also praying for an end to every kingdom on this earth as well. You're praying for an end to it. Every corrupt system, you know, regardless of of how well you think our you know government might be running or whatever else, it's all gonna go Everything's gonna go. Every other kingdom is gonna be crushed in the chaff. That doesn't mean that we we shouldn't fight to protect our country or the people of our country. Uh it just means that we shouldn't confuse our nation with the kingdom of God. Our nation is not the kingdom of God. We haven't seen a truly Christian nation yet. You know, call it what you want to. It's not a Christian nation. It might have been founded on some Christian principles and use uh use of the Bible and different things like that, but it's not a Christian nation. We're not a nation of converted people, okay? So it doesn't mean like I said we shouldn't fight for the nation. You know, we shouldn't uh uh promote you know good works in the nation. It like I said, it just means that we shouldn't confuse our nation with the kingdom of God. Our nation is not the kingdom of God. When God brings his kingdom, every other kingdom is gonna gonna vanish. Also doesn't mean that that our voices shouldn't be heard in our nation as well, to to be heard about what's right and and wrong. You know, we should be heard about what's right and wrong. We should be involved in promoting righteousness. Uh but as MacArthur points out, he says, no human kingdom or society can ever merge with God's kingdom, even partially. That's why we can never advance God's kingdom by trying to improve the morals of society Good and noble causes may be worthy of support, but they have no impact in helping to usher in the earthly kingdom of Jesus Christ. The church has but one mission in this world. To lead people destined to spend eternity in hell to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and an eternity in heaven. You could be pro-life, traditional marriage, flag-waving conservative who's on your way to hell, right? None of that's gonna change your eternal destiny. None of that's gonna change your eternal destiny. And that's why we as a church we need to keep focused on the mission. What is our mission? What what makes us different than any other person who walks on the planet? What any other institution, any other group of people? What's the difference? We've been given a different mission. We have a different mission. Does it mean Christians aren't supposed to do good works? No, of course not. Of course we're supposed to engage in good works. The Bible talks about that. But it's to be a platform for the mission. As a church, you have a mission from God and you need to keep your eyes focused on that. And uh throughout history people have uh attempted to merge their kingdoms with the kingdom of of God, uh the kingdoms of God and the kingdom of men, and every attempt is a failed attempt. Uh Constantine identified the kingdom of God with the Holy Roman Empire. He was wrong about that Didn't last, right? Didn't endure. Some of the the reformers attempted to create Christian states, and they did that unsuccessfully. Christopher Columbus wrote this about the New World. Jerusalem and Mount Zion are to be rebuilt by the hands of Christians, as God declared. And then uh some of our Puritan brothers that settled here early in America, they believed that they could bring about the kingdom as well. You know, set up the kingdom over here. We're you know, start from scratch and we can build a Christian nation right here. Christian kingdom If they could only see us now, right? If they could only see us now, there has not been a place or time where believers could stop praying for the kingdom to come. Regardless of how good things are, you're always praying for the kingdom. Always praying for the kingdom to come. We're still looking for it. We're still looking for the kingdom. After uh World War II, there was a German theologian who stood in the the ruins of uh University Chapel in Hamburg And he said, We must not think of the coming kingdom as a gradual Christianization of the world, which will increasingly eliminate evil. Such dreams and delusions, which may have been plausible enough in more peaceful times, have vanished in the terrors of our man-made misery. Who can still believe today that we are developing toward a state in which the kingdom of God reigns in the world of nations and culture and in the life of the individual? We're not doing a good job of that, right? Not doing a good job. The kingdom of of God is uh not only uh defined uh by God and ruled by God and introduced by God. It's also a kingdom that's desired by God's people. This is something that we should be eager to see come. Eager for it. Do you really pray for God's kingdom to come? Do you make that part of your your daily request? You know, whether you say the words or not, are you are you always Wishing for things to be different than the way that they are now, and that you understand that God is the only solution for the problems that we face in the world today. Do you realize that? Do you anticipate that? Do you pray for that? I remember there was uh you know different times like uh like before I was married, I used to say, you know, oh Lord, you know, don't come back yet, because I want to get married first, you know You know, you say other silly stuff. It's like, oh Lord, I want to do this first, or I want to do forget all that, right? God's kingdom, I mean, as good as marriage is, God's kingdom blows it away, right? We should be eager for the day of the Lord. This is the kind of prayer that the Father recognizes and rewards to pray for the kingdom. One of the earliest prayers of the of the church is preserved in the in the New Testament and it's the prayer Maranatha. Maranatha. It's an Aramaic phrase that's found in 1 Corinthians 16 verse 22. And instead of giving the translation for it, it was just translated to uh transliterated, which just gave the pronunciation. You know, we don't have the translation, we have the pronunciation It's an Amer Aramaic phrase, like I said, that's found in uh 1 Corinthians 16. The translation of it, though, is actually found in uh Revelation 22 and verse 20, where the apostle John says, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Maranatha means come, Lord. Even so, come, Lord. Come, Lord. The same prayer shows up in an early collection of Christian writings called the Dokang. It's a part of a prayer that was actually offered during the time of communion, during the Lord's Supper. They'd offer this prayer, and they would say, Come, Lord. And when we observe the Lord's Supper, even today, as we observe the Lord's Supper, according to 1 Corinthians 11, verse 26, it says that we do this As a proclamation until he comes. We continue to remember the Lord until he comes. We're looking forward, looking back, what the Lord has already done, but we're also looking forward to the Lord's return. Maranatha. You know, come Lord Jesus. We're doing it in anticipation. But listen to this prayer from the ancient church. This is what they said. Hosanna to the God of David. If anyone is holy, let him come. If anyone is not, let him repent. Maranapha. Amen. Maybe maybe we should start using that at our communion services. You know, if anybody's holy, let 'em come. If anybody's not, let 'em repent. Come, Lord Jesus. You know, that's it. That's it. How about uh fencing the table like that, right? But there's this longing for the return of Jesus Christ that believers should have because we we understand that our true citizenship is in heaven, right? Our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's our blessed hope. Chapter 2, verse 13, it says, looking for the blessed hope and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, and all the kingdoms. All the kingdoms of the world, like I said, will one day become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. And the kingdom blessings that we read about a little bit earlier in Matthew, the Beatitudes. It's in the kingdom that we receive all these blessings. We experience the full comfort of God. We inherit the kingdom of the earth. We're filled with righteousness. We see God's face. We're filled with joy. We receive our reward. All of this happens in the kingdom. All of it happens in the kingdom. One hymn writers calculated it like this. He says, Oh, the joy to see thee reigning, thee my own beloved Lord. Every tongue thy name confessing, Worship, honor, glory, blessing, brought to thee with glad accord, Thee my master and my friend, vindicated and enthroned, Unto earth's remotest end, glorified, adored, and owned. That's what we should all be praying. Oh, oh, oh the joy to see thee reigning. It's like I can't wait to see Jesus Christ come back and reign over this place. So because of that we compel unbelievers to come in. In uh Matthew chapter thirteen it uh uh talks about the uh the pearl of great price, you know, which a man, you know, sold all the little trinkets that he had so he could get that one pearl. You know, the the treasure that's buried in the in the field. It's like I'll sell everything, they get that. And and and and we need to be compelling people to come in and get the prize. You know, forget what you have going on in your life. This is what you need to be selling everything for. Come for the kingdom. Compel people to come in. And Matthew chapter 22, it talks about this great banquet that's prepared. And the Lord says, you know, go out to the highways and the byways, compel them to come in. Tell people to come into the kingdom. We need to compel unbelievers to come. We also need to commit ourselves to living for the kingdom that matters in everything that we do. We need to be seeking the kingdom first. Seeking his kingdom first, and everything else will be added to us. But our our our good works, they can glorify our Father who's in heaven. So regardless of what you're doing, you're always supposed to have a kingdom mindset Whether you're calculating accounts, checking lab results, serving a meal, filling a sippy cup, right? Do it all for the glory of God, looking towards the the kingdom with an attitude of honor to the to Christ your king, seeking opportunities to make the king known. And then finally, we need to live in anticipation of our coming king and pray for that day. The victory's already been won. We're just waiting for the celebration of it, okay? Jesus Christ has already won the victory. We're just waiting for the celebration. Um it's often been uh uh likened to the uh the coming of the of the kingdom has often been compared to the to the way the Allies defeated Germany in nineteen forty four. Uh for all intents and purposes, World War II was over on D-Day when the British and American troops established a beachhead in France. There were still battles to be fought, lives to be won and lost, but from that point on the Germans were fighting a losing battle. All that remained was for the Allies to liberate Europe. The work for securing the kingdom was already won. Christ already secured the kingdom. It was already won on the cross. So all we're waiting for is just the the final day of celebration. We're just waiting to celebrate, you know, the victory of the final liberation of the of the kingdom, when the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever. Christ wins, okay? Christ wins, and uh we pray for the day where everybody knows it. All right? That's what we're praying for. We pray that uh that the Lord's kingdom would come. What I'm going to do now is just ask you to spend a couple moments in silent prayer. It is a time of preparation for the for the Lord's table today. So I'm going to ask you to spend a couple moments in uh in silent prayer. If you haven't prayed about the kingdom in a while, you know, make that a part of your prayer even today. You know, pray that the Lord's kingdom would come. And uh that we would uh uh be anticipating that day, eagerly anticipating uh that time when when Christ cracks the skies and uh and and uh just uh secures this this world and makes it obvious that this world is his own. Uh so spend a couple moments in silent prayer, praying for that. And then I'm going to have uh Steve Schufer come up in a in a um in a while and close this. But uh let me close in prayer and then uh I'll invite you to uh join me in silent prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for this opportunity to talk about the kingdom to come. Father, we uh we love the Lord Jesus. Uh we we say with the Apostle John, even so quickly come, Lord Jesus. Father, we uh uh we we look forward to that day when uh Christ will be made known to all of the earth, where every knee will bow and every tongue will uh give glory and honor uh to the you, the Father. Father, we are we're just so grateful that we belong to the kingdom now, that we're kingdom citizens, that we've been transferred out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of your beloved Son. And uh Father, I pray that we would live as uh citizens of that kingdom. Uh Father, that even though it it hasn't yet been made known who we really are to this uh world, uh the world doesn't really uh know us because it really doesn't know Christ. But one day the whole world will know. And Father, we look forward to that time when Jesus Christ will reign supreme as he's already reigning in heaven, that that reign would come to the earth. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.