The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's uh open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 6. Uh this week our focus is Back on the Lord's Prayer or the disciples' prayer , the prayer that uh our Lord taught his disciples uh how to pray. And uh this week our Focus is going to be on the section Thy Will Be Done. Thy Will Be Done. But before we uh uh get there, why don't we uh recite the Lord's Prayer together from Matthew chapter 6? Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Heavenly Father, we do thank you that we come before a God who is hallowed, a God who is absolutely holy. A God who is king and who will set up his kingdom, and uh a God whose will is right. And uh Father, we submit ourselves to you uh even this morning, and I pray that you would use me uh to be a blessing to your people as we Take a look at your word. Father, may you speak to us through it. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, like I said, this uh week we get to the section of the prayer. that says, thy will be done. Thy will be done. And uh there may be no request in this prayer that strikes a more direct blow to our pride. and self-centeredness than uh then this one, thy will be done, uh, because we're taught to uh uh that we're to approach God in prayer not with with our desires first on our lips uh but with his desires on our lips. And and think about this for a moment. We're to come before God, right? We're to come before God and to ask for what he wants. We're to come before God and to ask for what He wants. Prayer is not primarily about us. It's about God. It's not about getting what we want from God. It's really about God getting what He wants from us. Um but it only makes sense that we would pray. uh like this uh once we recognize who we're praying to. Uh we're addressing a a God who dwells in the heavens, light years beyond the furthest star that our eye can see His very name is worthy of being held in highest honor, and even uh uh at in times past, you know, to to use his name in a disrespectful way was considered a capital offense, and one day it will be again. He rules eternally, invisibly, universally in the heavens, and one day he'll bring that visible rule to earth in an unmistakable way that will crush every kingdom that exists on this planet to powder. And uh why wouldn't we first ask ask a God like this, what what do you want? You know, understanding who this this God is before we bring him our desires. It's it's gracious to God. would even give us room to come before him with with our petitions. But once we gain a correct perspective on who we're coming to, the glories of his majestic name and his kingdom in his will, then we're prepared uh to bring our request before uh God like this. Uh but this prayer has a way of uh putting us in our place. Our prayer sh like I said shouldn't be about us. And uh Jesus teaches us that prayer is uh not about uh bending God's will to ours, but us bending our will to to God's. Uh this prayer is a a prayer of denial. It's a prayer of of self denial, personal denial. Uh because right up front we're declaring that Uh if there is ever a conflict between our desires and God's desires, that we stand ready to lay our desires down, right? Thy will be done. We're ready to lay our desires down for the sake of your will. It's a prayer of personal duty as well, because it's a prayer that all of God's creation would faithfully carry out his will and his desires in the earth. And uh we come before God and we we conform ourselves to His will, and uh we're asking for His will to be done, to be accomplished. Um one author said that it's It's a mockery to come before God with this request if we're not prepared to make his priorities our main business. That's our main business when we come before God. What is your will? What do you want? And it's also a prayer of a personal desire as well, because what we do in prayer is we move beyond just acknowledging truth to saying that this is what we want. We're saying more than just that your will should be done. We're saying I want your will to be done. This is what I desire myself. That's what we do when we come before God in prayer. So it's a prayer that all of our thoughts All of our desires, all of our actions would be conformed to the to the will of God. This is a prayer of total surrender to Him And as J. C. Raoul once said, that our truest happiness is perfect submission to God's will, and it is purest love to pray that all mankind may know it, obey it, and submit to it. It's it's the the truest happiness that we can find in the will of God. And that's the best thing that we can pray for other people that that they would be found within the will of God. And there's uh three primary observations that we'll make about uh this request that uh demonstrate the priority of this p petition. Uh why are we to pray for God's will to be done? Uh we're to pray for God's will to be done, number one, because earth does not experience the same expression of God's will that heaven does. There's an expression of the will of God that we don't experience on this earth. Also, we should pray this way because earth does not experience the same submission. to the will of God that heaven does. Uh heaven is the place where God's will is done at all times. Uh we don't have that kind of experience in in our life. And also we're to pray for God's will to be done because earth does not experience the same completion of God's will that heaven does. And in heaven, God's will is done, it's performed, it's accomplished, there's no growing into it, it's just done. It's completed And uh here we we we grow into submission to uh the Lord's will. So we're praying uh for uh the same expression, the same submission, and the same completion of the will of God So let's look at uh number one. We're to pray for God's will to be done on earth because earth does not experience the same expression of God's will that heaven does. Earlier this week for our nation, there are many of us who uh set aside time to remember what was uh considered the darkest day, one of the darkest days in United States history. And uh isn't it hard to believe that it's already been fourteen years? Fourteen years since uh since 9-11. It was a time when people, buildings, and planes fell from the sky. Uh when four flights changed the world. Four flights. And I I still remember the disorientation that I had when I first learned about uh the attacks I was working downtown in in DC and uh the shock of personally seeing the smoke rise up from the Pentagon. I could actually see the Pentagon. uh from where I was uh uh standing uh in DC, you know, the smoke rising up from the the Pentagon and uh just the the shock of of you know what in the world is going on. And whenever a tragedy strikes our nation or any nation, one of the questions that that comes to the believers, to the to the Christian, to the church, is where was God? Right? Where where was God? Where was God during the attacks on nine eleven? If if God is so powerful and mighty, if God is so wise and all knowing, if God is so good and uh loving Why didn't he step in to stop a handful of uh fanatics from taking the lives of thousands? You know, where was God? And uh the same question could be asked of uh every tragedy that the world faces, you know, where is God? And there there's a number of uh biblical responses to that question. Uh the first flash uh the first answer that I'd give to, you know, where was God on nine eleven, I'd say he was the same place he was on nine ten, right? Uh He was the same place he was on September 10th and every day before that. God is no less sovereign during a time of human crisis than he is during a time of human prosperity. And uh that's what Isaiah discovered on the day that King Uzziah died. Uzziah uh reigned as king in uh Judah for 52 years, 52 years. This is the the longest reign of any king up until that point in Judah. And during his reign, the land of Judah experienced great peace and prosperity. According to 2 Chronicles chapter 26, Uzziah did what was right. in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord strengthened him. The armies of Judah were made strong, the enemies of Israel were defeated. Judah's territory was expanded. The capital was fortified. And even the the land itself was fertile and the the livestock flourished under the reign of of King Uzziah. But this period came to a screeching halt, period of blessing when uh Uzziah's life came to a tragic end. And uh Uzziah took it upon himself to to burn incense in the temple of the Lord. It was a task that was only reserved for the for the priest, and because of its arrogance the Lord struck him with leprosy. In 2 Chronicles chapter 26 and verse 21, it says, King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death, and he lived in a separate house being a leper. For he was cut off from the house of the Lord, and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land. This is the historical context for Isaiah chapter six. Why don't we flip back there real quick? Isaiah chapter six When the king died, Isaiah was probably wondering the same question, you know, where where's God? And how could something that started so right end so wrong? And here you have uh Isaiah and the the response that uh that he receives from the from the Lord. And in Isaiah chapter 6, God stops Isaiah from looking around and tells him to start looking up. Start looking up. Isaiah chapter 6. Look at this. Says, in the year of King Uzziah's death, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, lofty and exalted, with the train of his robe filling the temple. Seraphim stood above him, each having six wings, with two he covered his face, with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called out to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the threshold trembled at the voice of him who called out while the temple was filling with smoke Isaiah look up heaven's not in a panic. Heaven's not in a panic. God's not trying to come up with some kind of a emergency plan. You know, there's no red phone in heaven, you know, for anybody to make a call. God's throne is not in danger of being uh toppled over. There's not so much as a drop of sweat from the throne. You know, there there's no no no worry and heaven, no panic. There's a God who's high, who's exalted. He's going to receive glory. His glory fills the whole earth, it says, regardless of what the circumstance is. The whole earth is still filled with There's one who sits on a throne, and the only throne that matters is God's. God is still in charge. He's over it all, he's above it all. So one question one answer we could give is that God is above it. You know, God is over it. You know, any kind of tragedy that we experience, God is over it all. Another biblical way we could uh answer that kind of question is uh Not only is God ruling above it, but God is also working in it. God is also working in it. Satan, sin, suffering, sickness. And even death itself is no obstacle for God's will to be carried forward. There's temporal good that God brings out of tragedy. Even temporal good God brings out of tragedy. Remember the story of Joseph? Everybody remember the story, Joseph? One one day out of an evil heart of jealousy, Joseph's brothers shut off all natural and family affection that they would have had for their own brother. and carried out a plot that was attempt that was an attempt to snuff out his life. Snuff out their own brother's life. They refused to even listen to his pleas for mercy. We learn over in Genesis 42, verse 21 When his brothers are thinking back on this event, they said to one another, Truly we are guilty concerning our brother, because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us. Yet we would not listen. Therefore this distress has come upon us. You know, it's Joseph is pleading with his brother. They saw the distress in his soul, and they still shut off all compassion for their own brother What they did was undeniably evil, but uh Joseph was able to see the hand of God in it in uh Genesis chapter uh forty-five. In verses 5 to 7 it says, Now do not be grieved or angry. This is Joseph talking to his brothers. Do not be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are still five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvesting. God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth and to keep you alive by a great deliverance. Uh why don't you turn back to uh Genesis chapter 50? Uh this is a a verse that we should uh commit to to memory. Genesis chapter uh uh fifty. What Joseph understands is that That everything that happened in his life was actually part of God's plan to fulfill his covenant promise to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And uh that everything that that happened before, then e even the the the things that were distressing to him personally was still God's plan uh uh to to fulfill his covenant promise. In Genesis chapter 50 and verse 20, look what he says here. He says, as for you, you meant evil against me. But God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result to preserve many people alive. Therefore, so therefore do not be afraid. I will provide for you and your little ones. So he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. Uh we might not always be able to put the pieces together, you know, to make all the connections, you know, when uh difficulty uh comes into our lives, but uh one of the things that we can say for sure as believers, those that trust in Jesus Christ, is that God causes all things to work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. God is working out something good. I may not understand it all. I may not be able to connect all the dots, but I know there's a God who works in all things. He's not just above it. He doesn't just rule over it. God is actually in it, working through the details to carry out his own will. And there's also eternal good that God brings out of Tragedy, the most heinous crime that this world has ever seen was the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, but it was through his death that were given the hope of eternal life. God used godless men to accomplish his plan of redemption. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, this man delivered Jesus. He was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. This is God's plan. And you nail to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. It's still evil. He still considers it evil. The nailing of Jesus Christ to the cross was evil. But God is the one who was working in that in order to bring about the salvation of mankind. And uh There's there's tragedy that that happens, but um uh still it can point to an eternal result. Jesus used the the tragic events of uh of uh people who uh had their lives taken by uh the falling of a tower. In uh Luke chapter thirteen, if you remember that, there was a tower that fell, took the lives of of a number of people unexpectedly. And in Luke 13, verses 4 and 5, it says, this is Jesus talking here. He says, Do you suppose that those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them were worse culprits than all men who live in Jerusalem? I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. He says, don't don't miss the point, okay? Don't miss the point. Yes, it's tragic. Yes it happened, but don't miss the message. You know what the message is? We're all going to die and we don't know when. We're all going to die and we don't know when. Repent or you will likewise perish. Don't face the same fate without Christ. Judgment's going to fall. And if you haven't trusted in Jesus Christ, it doesn't matter whether it's a tower or whether it's a heart attack, right? It doesn't matter what it is. If you don't repent, you'll likewise perish. So we can say that God is above it, God is in it, God is also alongside of us in our tragedies as believers. We don't serve a God who shouts a word of comfort from afar, you know, doesn't stand back and say, Hey, you know, have comfort over there. You know what I mean? God comes right alongside of us to bring us comfort. In 2 Corinthians 1 verse 4, it says, He comforts us in all our affliction, so that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted. by God. We're reminded that uh the God entered into our sufferings through the person of Jesus Christ, right? Jesus Christ in uh Isaiah 53 verse 3 it says he was despised, forsaken of men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. He was acquainted with the griefs that we bear. He wasn't a stranger to the suffering of our lives. Jesus knows personally what it's like to suffer and offers grace and comfort to those that are in a time of need. And uh these are just some of the some of the a few of the biblical answers that we could give in answer to the question, you know, where is God? You know, he's above it, he rules above it. He works in it and through it. He comforts alongside of it. But there's another thing that we can say. We can also say that God is beyond it. And he's pointing us beyond it as well because suffering and tragedy isn't all that this world is going to know. Okay? There's something beyond it, okay? And we're praying for that day. That because we don't experience the the same expression of the will of God as it exists in in heaven. Uh suffering and tragedy won't be all that this world will know. Uh There's no 9-11 in heaven. There's no radical Islam and terrorism that exists there. There's no unrest in Ferguson in heaven or in Baltimore. There's no uprisings, right, in heaven. There's no reprobate Supreme Court rulings in heaven. There's no divorces, abortions, planned parenthood centers to expose. There's no abductions. or child abuse or pornography. There's no racism, no poverty, no drug addiction. And uh because none of this is the will of God. It's not the will of God. There's an expression of the will of God in heaven that we don't currently experience in this life now. So when we talk about the will of God, just to help you out here. There's three primary senses that are referred to in Scripture. When you think about the will of God, you might want to write these down. First of all, there's the will of God. Which is discussed as uh uh the the ordination of God, what God ordains to happen, the will of of ordaining. This is uh often called by theologians the uh the sovereign or efficacious will of God Uh the will of decree, this is what is going to happen. Okay? What is going to happen? Uh some people call it the permissive will of God, but it's better to say that God actually ordains or decrees uh everything that takes place because God works in it. Okay? God works in it. This includes all that God ordains to take place, the good, the bad, and the ugly. Okay? Good, the bad and the ugly, God is over all of it. The Bible teaches that God works All things, not some things, all things after the counsel of his will. Now listen to what some of these all things include. I love what John Piper wrote about this. He says, This all things includes the fall of a sparrow. The rolling of a dice, the slaughter of his people, the decisions of kings, the failing of sight, the sickness of children. The loss and gain of money, the suffering of saints, the completion of travel plans, the persecution of Christians, the repentance of souls. The gift of faith, the pursuit of holiness, the growth of believers, the giving of life, the taking in death, the crucifixion of his son. Everything. Everything's included underneath this all things. Works all and God works in all things after the counsel of his own will. There's nothing that occurs in this entire universe that's outside the will of God in that sense. Okay There's a will of God that oversees everything. There's nothing that God didn't plan for. There's nothing that God didn't ordain to happen. And God's eternal plan is being carried out on the earth and in heaven. Without any hindrance at all. Okay? Nobody's going to thwart the plan of God. The eternal counsel of God is not going to be thwarted at all. So we can be confident that God is working in all things after the counsel of his own will. Um but this is not the will that we're praying for. Okay? So when we come to God in prayer, we're not praying, you know, God may your sovereign will that's already going to happen, you know, may that be done. You know, that's not what we're we're praying for here. That's being carried out in heaven as well as on earth, even right now. Okay? There's there's nothing that's beyond uh the reach of of God's will in in that sense. Uh in Isaiah 46 verse 10 talks about God. It says that he declares the end from the beginning From ancient times, things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. Okay? This is what God does. So that's one sense of the will of God, the sovereign, efficacious will of God, what God ordains to happen. Okay? There's a second uh uh understanding of the will of God. Um to say that the God ordains all things that happen is not the s the same thing as saying that God commands all things that happen. Okay? Theologians refer to this as the will of command, uh precept, command or precept, the preceptive will of God. Uh this is what people should do Okay? So you have, you know, God's eternal decrees, and then you have what God actually commands people to do. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 3, for this is the will of God. Your sanctification. That is that you should abstain from sexual immorality. This is what God commands you to do. You're to obey, okay? Romans chapter 12, verse 2. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable It's the will of God that you not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That is the will of God expressed. in scripture. And there's plenty of uh you know places that we could go to talk about the the will of of command in scripture. Uh God commanded Adam not to eat of the fruit in the middle of the garden, right? Not to eat from the the the tree in the middle of the garden, you're not supposed to eat the fruit, right? And God commanded Adam not to do that. But was that included in the eternal plan of God? It was. God told him not to. Was it st did God still plan for it? Did God still ordain it? Yes, God still still planned for it. Even before the foundation of the world, God planned for a Savior to come to be the remedy for what Adam would do. God had a plan for all this. This didn't catch God by surprise. Yet that was not what God commanded Adam to do. He didn't command Adam to go and eat the fruit. He knew that he would. He planned for him to eat it. But God commanded him not to eat it. So there's a difference in the uh eternal counsel of God and what God actually commands people to do. God never tempted Adam or Eve to eat the fruit. And then there's a third Uh way that we can look at the the will of God, uh uh theologians call this the will of desire, uh similar to the will of command but it's slightly different This refers to the things that were part of God's good design for the world that uh you know the God's good design for the world that were affected by the fall. Okay? God's good design for the world that were affected by the fall. So uh the world was made healthy. You know, everybody in it was healthy. It was not God's desire for the world to be filled with sickness, disease, death. But the fall introduced that into creation. It's not God's desire, but that's what the fall introduced into creation. The world was made whole, and it's not God's desire for the world to be broken by earthquakes and floods and natural disasters, but the consequences of sin introduce that into the world. That's not God's desire. God made man innocent God made man innocent. It was not God's desire for the world to be filled with rebels who turn away from his love and his goodness. And his truth, and uh 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 9, says the Lord is not slow without his promise, as some count slowness But is patient towards you, not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance? It's not God's desire in that sense to see people die and turn away from him and cast themselves into hell. But it's a result of the fall that men are now born sinners and will spend eternity in in hell. So it's important that when we talk about what the will of God is, that we're clear about what we mean. We're clear about what we mean. If your parent dies, it's in the eternal counsels of God. The day was already written on the calendar. Should you pray for your parent to die? You know, of course not. Of course not. You know, is it it does does uh well some men die and perish in their sins? The answer is yes. Should you pray for that? Is that the will of God that you should pray for that? No. So we need to be careful when we uh talk about the will of God that there's different senses that we're using that word in. So sometimes I think sometimes people kind of cross each other, you know, they they speak past each other when they're talking about the will of God. You know, they talk about some tragedy, oh that's the will of God. Well like in what sense do you mean that, right? It's not God's will that that people die and perish and sickness happens and disease and everything else. But is it in the eternal council of God? Yes. So we just have to be careful about how we're using the will of God that we're explaining things correctly. Uh so everything that happens on this earth is is not the will of God in the sense that it's it's not what God commands and it's not what God desires. It's what God ordains. Everything that happens was ordained by God, but it's not what God commands, it's not what God desires. It's only in heaven that every command is obeyed and every desire is fulfilled. So that's what we're praying for. The same thing that's happening in heaven, bring it down to earth. We want to see every command obeyed. We want to see every desire fulfilled. We're praying for that will. of God. Let your will be done on earth just as it is in heaven. And we haven't seen that kind of expression here on on this earth, regardless of what the faith teachers might want to tell you. Okay? Um Hank Canagraff in his book he documents the A book by Benny Hinn called Rise and Be Healed. And he exhorts his followers. Listen to what Benny Hinn says. Never, ever, ever go to the Lord and say, if it be thy will. Don't allow such faith-destroying words to be spoken from your mouth. When you pray, if it be your will, Lord, faith will be destroyed Doubt will bill up and flood your being, be on guard against words like this which will rob you of your faith and drag you down in despair You know, don't ever say, Lord, if it be thy will. You know, you just name it and claim it, and this is the will of God. You know, don't worry about if it's the Lord's will or not. You just you just take it. And this he uh agrees with other faith teachers like uh uh Frederick Price, who uh, for example, he instructed his followers that uh listen to this, praying for the Lord's will to be done is really stupidity. We're not making this up, okay? Praying for the Lord's will to be done is really stupidity because such prayer is a farce and an insult to God's intelligence. He says, if you have to say, if it be thy will, or thy will be done, then you're calling God a fool. Why don't we turn over to James chapter four real quick? James chapter 4. Because what we're we're taught in Scripture is to submit Every desire that we have to the will of God. Every desire. Look at James chapter chapter 4, verse 13. Who among you is wise? Let's talk about foolish, right? Who's wise among you? Who among you is wise in understanding? Let him show by his good beh behavior, his deeds and gentleness of wisdom But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, oh look at that. I'm looking at the wrong chapter. Let's look at chapter four. I guess I just wanted to read that to you too Come now. Come now, you who say today or tomorrow, we'll go to such and such a city and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or do that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. Therefore, to the one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it, to him it is sin. If you come to the Lord without that qualifier If it be your will without understanding, if it be your will, you know, may we do this, may we do that? If you just come in there just kind of, you know, pushing your way through and this is what's going to happen and this is what you're going to do, the Bible says that that's arrogance. You have no idea who you're talking to to come before the Lord and just saying, this is what's going to happen, this is how you're going to do it, and uh, you know, I'm already making my plans for it. You don't come before the Lord like that. You submit every desire that you have to the will of God. One author said that our asking is often based on our limited knowledge. And all too often it's covered by our self interest. And we can only praise God that He didn't answer every prayer that we had when we came before Him, right? Uh Ruth Bell Graham, the wife of Billy Graham, she said, if if God answered every prayer of mine, I would have married the wrong man seven times. Another minister said this. He said he pounded the gates of heaven to marry a girl in high school. He said when he saw her twenty years later, he took two aspirin and thank God that the Lord didn't pay any attention to him. We trust the sovereignty of God, okay? Even for our disappointments. Even for the things that we say, oh, this is what I really wanted, but it didn't it it didn't happen. We trust the God even in our our disappointments. There was a lady by the name of Adelaide Pollard. Adelaide, she believed that the God wanted her to go to Africa as a missionary. But she was unable to raise the funds to go. And uh in an uncertain state of mind, she uh she attended a prayer meeting and uh she heard this elderly woman pray, you know, it's all right. Lord, it doesn't matter what you bring into our lives, just have your own way with us. Just have your own way. And I'm not sure if uh Adelaide ever got to go to the mission field or not, but She's probably encouraged more people out of her discouragement and disappointment because she went home that night being encouraged by what this lady prayed for, and she wrote this hymn, Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way. Thou art the potter, I am the clay. Mold me and make me after thy will, while I am waiting, yielded and still. She's probably encouraged more people through that hymn than uh whatever she might have been able to do in Africa out of her disappointment. That the Lord would use that in his kind providence. So we we pray for uh for God's will to be done because earth does not experience the same expression of God's will that that heaven does. And in heaven God's commands, God's desires, all fulfilled. You know, on earth, not yet, not yet. And that's what we pray for. So we pray for God's will to be done because earth does not experience the same expression of God's will. Uh number two we pray because uh for God's will to be done because Earth does not experience the same submission to the will of God that that heaven does. The same submission. All of creation can be divided into two categories. You think about all of creation, all creatures before the Lord. Everybody can be divided into two categories, those who obey God and those who don't. Those who obey God and those who don't. Uh A. W. Paint said, heaven is what it is because the will of God is done by those who dwell there. What makes heaven heaven? The will of God rules. The will of God reigns. Everybody does the will of God. That's what makes heaven heaven. There's no conflict in heaven Those who struggle with the will of uh of God are the people right here in this room. That's who struggles with the will of God. In heaven there's no struggle with the will of God Uh the people right here in this room is along with the the fallen angels, you know, we're the ones that struggle with the the will of of God. After the rebellion in heaven All conflict ceased. There is no more conflict in heaven. The only angels that are left in heaven are called holy angels. Holy angels. In uh Mark chapter 8, 38, uh Revelation 14, 10, they're called holy angels. And the Bible actually says they're elect. Elect angels. 1 Timothy 5. 21. There's there's no possibility that they'll ever fall. Because they're preserved by God. In the same way that we're preserved by God. If you're a true believer, you've been elected, you've been set apart. And there's no fear of falling. If you've been chosen by God, the same thing for the angels in heaven, they're elect. There's no way that they're going to fall away. There's no rebellion left in heaven. And I I love the the picture that Philip Riken paints of the of the angels. Listen to this. He says, imagine a workforce comprised entirely of angels. Not fallen angels who hate God and his work, but perfect angels who always serve him with joyful praise. Angels on the payroll. It would be every employer's dream. For there are no slackers in heaven. Angels never go on strike. They never demand a raise or hold out for more benefits. They never call in sick, show up late, or take long coffee breaks Angels never even complain. Night and day they work as well as they can, as fast as they can, as cheerfully as they can. What makes angels such ideal employees is that they always follow their instructions Consider the outstanding performance review there given in Scripture. Psalm 103, verse 19, The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his sovereignty rules over all. Bless the Lord, you his angels, mighty in strength, who perform his word, obeying the voice of his word. That's the kind of thing that's going on in heaven. Bless the Lord, all you as hosts who serve him, doing his will. Heaven is a place where God's will is done perfectly. by the the spiritual beings who who dwell there. Not only that, the saints in heaven, uh the saints who dwell above in in heaven obey God's will perfectly. In uh Hebrews chapter twelve, verse twenty three, it says the spirits, they're called the spirits of righteous, made perfect, righteous men made perfect. They always do the will of God. And then you have the Son of God who came from heaven who lived to do the will of the Father. In John chapter 4, verse 34, Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. This is what I live off of. I live off of the will of God. John chapter 6, verse 38, for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And even when he was uh Overwhelmed at the contemplation of that most wretched and loathsome and horrific prospect of taking on the sins of the of the world, he cried out in humble surrender, not my will, but Thy will be done, right? Not my will, your will be done. Jesus was the perfect model and example of submission. And uh it's us in this room who struggle with the will of God The will of God that's holy and righteous and good, and we struggle with it. We struggle with it. And uh 1 John chapter 5. In verse 3 it says, For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. His commands are not burdens burdensome or uh grievous is another way it's translated. The the word actually means heavy. God's commands aren't heavy. It was a word that was used for heavy burdens like the scribes and Pharisees used to tie on people's backs. It says that the commands of God aren't aren't heavy. In comparison to what uh the you know the scribes and Pharisees and what they burden people with, Jesus says, My yoke is easy and my burden is light. You know, come to me and have have some rest for your souls. Why don't you come to me? My commands aren't burdensome And yet we we struggle and kick at the commands of God. Almost like you know, Adam and Eve, you know, God is holding out Look at that one tree. Why wouldn't you let us get that one tree when there's all this the God's giving you to enjoy? And then we look at the one tree that God says no to, and that fruit, and we want to eat that. The commands of God are not a burden. It's not heavy to obey God. Why do we struggle so much with the will of God? And when we disobey, we actually share more in common with the enemies of God than we do with the friends of God, the sons of God. Listen, hell is full of people who want to have it their own way. Hell is full of people who want to have it their way. As believers, we don't want it our way. We come before the Lord, have your way, God, have your way. We submit to your will. Even as believers, the the evil will is still alive. As uh one author put it, the soul is painfully conscious that there's still much in him that is in conflict with God. But in in this prayer we're we're taught to fight against that tendency. Give up your rights, give up what you believe, you know, you you've earned and Give it over to God. What is your will, God? That's what I want to do with my life. My life is to do your will. That's my food. That's what I live off of. That's what Christ taught us to do. So why are we praying for God's will to be done? Because earth doesn't experience the same expression of God's will. Earth doesn't experience the same submission to God's will. And uh the third thing is uh earth doesn't experience the same completion of God's will, and this will be quick. In heaven, God's will is done, it's performed, it's accomplished, there's no growing in it. Like I said, obedience is complete. God's will is done. The verb for uh for done that's used here in uh Matthew chapter 6, it's uh it's an eras tense verb, uh which is a verb that naturally speaks of a completed, decisive action. It just happens. It's not a steady growth that kind of sneaks up on you. It's just a decisive action that brings this about. And uh just like the other uh uh uh petitions here and And this uh uh this prayer. Uh this looks to a future expectation of a time when everybody's going to holler the name of God, when everybody's going to recognize his right to rule, and everybody's going to submit to his will. And uh Isaiah chapter 45. Why don't we turn back there? Isaiah chapter 45 We have a a prophecy of of what's going to take place in the future. And this is what we pray for right here. Isaiah chapter 45. Look at verse 22. Actually, I'll s I'll start up at verse 20. Gather yourselves and come. Draw near together ye fugitives of the nations. They have no knowledge, who carry about their wooden idol and pray to a God who cannot save Declare and set forth your case. Indeed, let them consult together. Who has announced this from of old? Who has long since declared it? Is it not I, the Lord? And there is no other God besides me A righteous God and a Saviour, there is none except me. Turn to me and be saved all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. I have sworn by myself the word has gone forth from my mouth in righteousness, and will not turn back to me. That to me, listen to this, every knee will bow, every tongue will swear allegiance, they will say of me, only in the Lord our righteousness and strength. Men will come to him, and all who were angry at him will be put to shame. In the Lord, all the offspring of Israel will be justified and will glory. There's coming a time in the future where everybody's going to stand in awe of God, and every will is going to submit to him. All human rebellion is going to be crushed. All sinners will be punished. And God's people will enjoy heaven on earth. Heaven on earth. Why? Because the will of God is going to be done The will of God is going to be done. Everybody's going to swear allegiance to God. The will of God is going to be done in the earth. Is this what you desire? Is this what you desire? Is this what you pray for? Like I said, heaven is what it is because God's will is done there. And our truest happiness is perfect submission to his will. And uh Martin Lloyd Jones said it well. He says, what is it that troubles and worries our minds? Is it that the manifestation of sin? Is it that the manifestation of sin that we see in the world? You know, just because things aren't the way that we want them to be? Or is it the fact that men do not worship and glorify God as they ought to do? And he goes on asking this question, he says, if we've never prayed like this, have we ever prayed at all? If it's all just about what affects you You know, this is going wrong and that's going wrong and that that affects me. Affects my wallet, uh, you know, it kind of, you know, stops me from doing what I gotta do or whatever else. It's a hindrance Disturbance in my life. It's all about, you know, what affects me. Have we really prayed? Have we really come to God and said, God, what what are your desires? What do you want to see in this earth? And I'm I'm more troubled that people aren't obeying you. I'm more troubled by the fact that men don't glorify you the way that they ought to. I'm more troubled by the fact that people don't holler your name, that they don't look for your kingdom. I'm more troubled by that We need to be praying in this kind of way to that the Lord would have his way over everything. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for This opportunity to look at your word, to consider uh your will being done on earth as it is in heaven. My Father, we pray that every command, uh, that every desire uh that you have would be done on this earth And Father, I pray that you would start that work in us. Father, that even now, Lord, that we would desire to lay our wills down before you. That there would be no competition between what we desire and what you desire. Father, that uh we would make it our business to bend our wills to yours Father, we uh I pray that if there's any sins that we're holding on to, Father, I pray that today that we'd give it up. Father, what what makes us hold on to our sins in the light of such a God? Why would we hold on to our own selfish wills, knowing that we have a Father who sits in heaven, who rules over the world, who will come as king? What makes us hold on to our own wills instead of freely giving them up to you? Father, we pray that you'd have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.