The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. I want you to take your Bibles and open up to the book of Romans. We're in Romans chapter 7 today as we uh turn the page to Romans chapter 7 I was talking with uh one of the brothers here a couple weeks ago and he says, he said, I I wish we could just skip right over chapter seven and go straight to chapter eight. And for those of you who are familiar with Romans chapter 7, you'll understand why he would say that. Romans 6 talks about our freedom from sin. Romans chapter 8 talks about our victory over sin, but in Romans chapter 7, right in the middle, we're addressing our struggle with sin. And it's like, I wish I could get straight over the struggle and go right to the victory. You know, why why do we have to spend this time in Romans chapter seven and be dragged through this uh you know struggle with sin? You know, we wish we could skip past the struggle and get straight to the victory. But um As Gary Ragg and Paul Shirley write in their book, Free to Be Holy, we naturally want things to be easy, comfortable, without a struggle, and all completed by this weekend. But sanctification doesn't work that way. God doesn't offer a secret formula or previously hidden insights that will now somehow make sanctification a breeze. We're tempted to think, well, I just want to be holy right now so I can please the Lord in everything. But if you think that God gets more glory from making your sanctification quick and easy, then you haven't understood how sanctification works. It's true, God could take us all home right now, and wouldn't that be glorious? Take us all home right now. And there wouldn't be another sin committed by any of us, and in God's perfect timing that will happen when all is accomplished and all sin is finally ended. But for now, he saves us and leaves us here to serve him in faith for whatever purpose he calls us. And every time you believe his truth, Desire his will above your own, resist the flesh, stand against temptation, obey Jesus Christ, you put on display his perfections of power, mercy, grace, and love, and bring him glory which will be made known throughout all of eternity. So in the struggle, just keep in mind that you're glorifying God through that struggle. That I'm glorifying God by by struggling to hold on to Him, by saying no to flesh to the flesh and to temptations, by saying yes to Christ, I am glorifying God even in the middle of the struggle. And this week we turn to the chapter that's primarily known for the struggle against sin. We've got a couple weeks before we get into the thick of the battle, as Paul uh speaks about at the end of the chapter, where you start wondering, is this the same guy that wrote chapter 6? You know, in chapter 7, verse 19, for the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. It's like, is this guy still an apostle? I mean, what's going on here? You know, speaking about like almost like he's out of control. I'm doing what I don't want to do. And we'll get there if the Lord wills in the weeks ahead, but and this week in uh the first six verses of chapter seven Paul wants us to understand that we have help in our battle against sin. He gives us a little bit more help before he gets into the middle of the struggle. And surprisingly, that help is found in freedom from the law. Surprisingly. Freedom from the law is where this help. and hope is found. So take a look at Romans chapter 7. We'll read verses 1 to 6 and then we'll dive in. Romans chapter 7 starting at verse 1. Or do you not know, brethren, from speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives? For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband So then, if while her husband is living she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. Therefore, my beloved brethren, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we do come before you as we do every Lord today. My Father, pleading with you for your help that you would open up your word to us, help us to understand the things that we read in it. Now, Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, not just to look at the words on the pages, Lord, but that these would be truths that we We pull close to us, Lord, that we would embrace these things in our hearts and that we would seek to live these things out in our lives. Help us not to be like the man who sees his face in a mirror and forgets what he looks like. My Father, I pray that we would be changed by the word that we read. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned, this week we're returning to our study in Romans 6, 7, and 8, which is the central passage of Scripture that covers the sanctification of the believer or the Christian's pursuit of holiness. This is one of the first places that you would turn in your Bible when you want to understand the growth in Christ-likeness in Christian obedience But like I mentioned the last time we were here together, the counsel that Scripture gives us often seems to be counterproductive. But it's exactly right I grew up in upstate New York and one of the things that I had to learn fairly early on was how to drive in the snow and ice, which actually helped me out a lot a couple weeks ago right here in Baltimore with all the snow and ice. And what you're taught to do seems like the last thing that you would want to do. If you feel like your car is skidding on the ice, the first thing that you want to do is slam the brakes And turn the car away from the direction you're skidding in. That's the first thing that you want to do. But what's the right thing to do? Don't slam on the brakes. Because it locks the wheels and makes the skid worse, but take your foot off the accelerator to allow the car to slow down. And then the craziest advice, gently turn the wheel in the direction that the rear of your car is skidding into. That's what you're supposed to do. If the back of the car is skidding to the right, you turn to the right. If the back of the car is getting to the left, you turn to the left. The exact opposite Of what everything inside you is telling you to do is what you're supposed to do. And it's only after you straighten up the wheels then you've Gently apply the brakes. And uh, like I said, what seems to be counterproductive is actually the most productive. And in the same way, some of the strategies of scripture They seem like it would be the exact opposite of what you'd want to tell somebody to do is actually the most important thing that you could tell them to do. Because you think that if I'm going to help somebody to do serious battle with sin, the first thing that needs to happen is they need to be threatened that the grace of God might run out You know, don't don't keep on sinning. You don't know how long. You don't know how long the grace of God is going to last. There's limits to this thing. You know, you might come to God for forgiveness and He'll say no. Because that's the last time you're going to come to me about that one. You know, don't don't don't run out ahead of the grace of God. You might go where he can't find you You know, that's what you'd want to tell somebody, but is that what Paul says? Chapter 5, verse 20. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. That there is more grace that we're told about. More grace than your sin. And like I said, Paul's opponents hit the panic button. You know, like what what are you saying, Paul? Are we to continue in sin? The grace may increase I mean you're going to tell people there's more grace than their sins? You're going to just encourage people to sin all the more. You don't want to tell them that there's more grace than their sin. That's the last thing you want to tell people. But no, that's the exact thing that you want to tell people because it's God's grace that gives us the power over our sin. Titus chapter 2 verse 11, for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us. The grace of God instructs us, it gives us power to deny ungodliness and worldly desires. and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. The grace that's the power to forgive is also the grace that gives you the power to fortify yourself against this present evil age. So the last thing that you want to tell somebody is that the grace of God is going to run out. Another thing that you might think you need to do is you need to place somebody underneath the law. You know that the law comes with threatenings if you disobey and blessings if you obey, and if you ever expect to work on your sinful habits, you need the law of God to keep you in check. You need to be threatened with the cursings of the law. You know, slam on the brakes and turn hard to the right. You know, that's what you think needs to happen. But what Paul says is the exact opposite. Chapter 6, verse 14 For sin shall not be master over you. Why? For you are not under the law. The very thing that we want to tell somebody that they are under, you're under the law. How could you do this? Paul says, no, you're not under the law And sin shall not be masked over you because you're not under the law. So again, you know, the opponents, they they hit the panic button again in verse 15 of chapter 6. What then shall we sin because we're not under the law, but under grace? I mean, Paul, you're just giving people a license to sin however they please without consequence. How do you expect people to battle sin if you don't place them under the law? But what seems like it's counterproductive is actually the only hope that we have of pleasing God. Because what gives us the power to obey is a grace-enabled obedience. Grace-enabled obedience. It's not law-directed obedience, it's grace-enabled obedience, that it's the grace of God that enables us to obey God. And there's something that's changed about our hearts. We become obedient from the heart to what we've been taught. Grace-enabled, spirit-empowered obedience that comes from within, not from being underneath the law. But that teaching that Paul gave in chapter 6 needs an explanation. Because it could be assumed that if we're not under the law, then it means that we're lawless, that we have no dis we have a disregard for the for any authority over us, that we reject any authority. But that's not the case, and Paul explains that. Freedom from the law does not mean freedom from obedience. It does not mean freedom from God. And I love how Paul just simplifies his arguments and he appeals to what we already know in order to make his point. He's building an argument and if you can agree with the premise, you have to agree with the conclusion. Take a look at verse 1 again. He says, or do you not know? So he's appealing to, you know, guys, don't you know this already Or do you not know, brethren, for I'm speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives? What's the argument here? There are no responsibilities for a corpse. There are no responsibilities for a corpse. And I believe that that Paul here, when he speaks about you know, those who know the law, that he's referring to the Mosaic Law, you know, those who would have been of Jewish background or very familiar with the Jewish scriptures. Later on in verse 7 he speaks about uh the Mosaic Law when he says, ye shall not covet, so directly quoting from the Mosaic Law. But this illustration would work whether we're talking about the Mosaic Law, Roman law, any law in general And the point is, is that the law only has jurisdiction over you, literally, for whatever time you live. After a person dies or she dies, he or she is no longer responsible to the law. No dead person is responsible to keep the law. The law can only govern living people. And that's the point that Paul is making here. That's the illustration. You know, dead people don't pay taxes They don't go to jury duty. They don't pay bills. I think I've told you before our sister Shereen passed away on September 1st, 2022. And it's hard to still receive mail at our home with her name on it, but it brings me great delight to see a bill come through the mailbox. Because I know she will never have to pay that bill. You know, asking you to come for jury duty. I hate jury duty. You are she will never have to respond for jury duty. I mean, there's no obligation. And I'm not going to forward her mail to the cemetery The power of the law stops at the grave. It doesn't matter what's inside that envelope, she has no obligation to respond. The law has no power to exercise over her And that's what's meant by the word jurisdiction. Don't you know that the law has jurisdiction over a person? It's actually the Greek word, the word for jurisdiction is the word kurieto, and it means to be lord over. To be master over, it's related to another word, kurias, which means to be lord or master. It's used for political rulers, masters over a household, or the Lord of heaven himself. And the point is, is that the law can only exercise lordship over living people. It's saying more than just that the law applies to penalties. It's saying that the law exercises dominion. But that dominion stops at death. And then Paul says, don't you know that? It's like a subtle rebuke here, a gentle rebuke, because he also refers to them as brothers. Or do you not know, brethren? So here he's talking to Christians who are confused about the law. He's not talking to people who are opposed to Christianity, to people who are opposed to the gospel. He says, brothers Brothers, don't you know this? He's talking to the family of God here. He's not talking to those who are condemned by the law. Romans 2 and verse 12. He says, all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. There he talks about the condemnation that comes for those who hold on to the law. But here in Romans chapter 7, he's talking about those who are confused. Who still think that, you know, I still have some obligation to the law of Moses, and he knew that there would be people like that in the Roman church. So Paul speaks to them and gives them this gentle rebuke. Don't you know that once you're dead, you're done? Leon Morris writes this. He says, for them, you know, the Jewish people specifically, the law was the greatest good, the mark of God's kindness to his people, and that he had given it to them. They studied it with great diligence. Regarding even the minutest detail is important. They took it as central for any pious person as he sought to live a life of service to God. It seemed to them that Paul was rejecting this greatest of goods that God had given. And as true as it was that That Moses had given the law, they had to admit that Moses did not give the law to corpses. Even when Moses gave the law, he gave it to living people And it only had jurisdiction over those who were living. So Paul moves from that illustration, you know, that kind of simple statement, you know, the law only has jurisdiction over those who are living, to the second illustration. In verse 2, take a look at it. It says, For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living. But if her husband dies , She is released from the law concerning the husband. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. Point number two, there are no restrictions for a widow. There are no restrictions for a widow Now this isn't the full teaching about marriage. We'd have to go back to Matthew chapter 5, Matthew chapter 19, 1 Corinthians chapter 7, to compare all that Scripture has to say about marriage and divorce and remarriage. So this isn't the full teaching on marriage and remarriage and divorce. But the simple truth that's pointed out here is that when you recite your wedding vows , And the preacher says, until death do you part, it means that as sweet and as permanent as your bond and marriage is during this life, That once one of the spouses die, that commitment is done. The commitment is over. Jesus makes the same point in Matthew chapter 22. Verse 30 where it says, for in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. The bond of marriage is broken. Once one of the spouses dies, and whatever laws bound the married woman to her husband no longer apply after his death She is no longer living under the husband in the way that she once did. The normal word for married is the Greek word gameo But that's not the word that's used in Romans chapter 7. Paul actually uses the word for married here in verse 2 for the married woman. He uses a word that's only used here in the entire New Testament. This is the only time this word appears for marriage, and it's the Greek word houpandras, which literally means under, hupa , andras, a man. Under a man. So it's speaking about those who are married, this woman who's married, being underneath the man, as Ephesians 5, 22 to 23 speaks about, wives be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord. And for those who don't like that verse, verse 23 goes on to give the explanation. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body But the married woman, if she loses her husband, she's no longer underneath that submission to a man. She's no longer under his authority. And maybe there were certain things that as a married woman you submitted to because that was your husband's desire. But if your husband goes home to be with the Lord, you're no longer under those obligations to continue to fulfill those desires. You have the freedom to pursue a different desire as long as that honors the Lord. You don't have to fulfill his dream. You're released from the bonds of marriage Romans chapter 7, verse 2 again says, if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband. But in addition to that, she's also free to marry another. Look at verse 3. So then if while her husband is living she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. I was just speaking to my mother about this earlier on. We had a neighbor. And uh when my parents first moved into the uh into the our townhome, uh she was married to somebody and that person died. You know, I forgot what the name of the guy was. And then she married a another guy or had another guy who was living with the name Bob and uh or James and it was Bob? It was Bob. Another guy, Bob, and then he also left and I He died. And then she had another guy that was named James. So like three guys in the short period of time that you know this you know woman was connected to and uh my father forgot that the the last uh guy name was James and it she he thought his name was Bob so he's getting confused about like which one is which. So uh he says, man I haven't seen I haven't seen Bob in a while, you know. And he goes to ask our neighbors, like, you know, hey, how's how's Bob doing? And he's thinking he's talking about the last one, not the second one. It's like how's Bob doing? She said, Well, Bob's dead. He said, Bob's dead. It's like, how many people are you killing over here? It's just like everybody you connect with is dead, you know? So I just had to mention that. So, verse three. So while so then, if while her husband is living and she's joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law. What law? The law of adultery. She's no longer considered an adulterer. So that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. So this restriction that a widow doesn't have to live under is the restriction regarding remarriage. As long as she marries in the Lord. She's free to remarry and belong to another. Adultering would be a selfish act that destroys the beauty and the covenant of marriage. That's what adultery is. It's a selfish act. But if your spouse dies and you marry another, you're not destroying the covenant. It's creating a new covenant that glorifies and honors God. You're not doing anything to denigrate, disrespect. The last marriage by entering into a second marriage after your spouse dies. You're free from the condemnation from outside. No one can rightly call you an adulterer. You are free from that accusation. What's the point in all of this? Verse 4. Therefore, my brethren, and again he's trying to help out Christians here, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another. To him who was raised from the dead in order that we might bear fruit for God. And if you're following Paul's logic, here's the clarity of this, because if you agree with what he said at first, it's like you have to agree with his conclusion He's saying that if if you're dead, you have no more obligations, right? And then he says here, and you were also made to die. You're dead. He also says that if the if one spouse dies, that spouse is now free to marry another. And it's not saying anything negative about the first marriage, the first covenant. You can enter into a new covenant. And it's totally fine. It's acceptable. Why? Because you're free from that first covenant. And now you can enter into a second. And this is what he says, you've been made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another. Instead of being joined to the first, you're joined to another and not considered to be violating the law. You're not considered to be an adulterer. You're not in any kind of violation. The logic seems to be pretty clear. And in the same way that a widowed spouse can be joined, because of her bond was broken at death, we can be joined to another. And who are we joined to? We are joined to Jesus Christ. We're joined to Jesus Christ. To put it simply, and here's the third point, we are no longer under the reign of the law. No longer under the reign of the law. Verse 4. Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. And all of this takes us back to our union with Christ. We're united to Jesus. Chapter 6, verse 3. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? And our baptism into Jesus, which is not talking about a physical water baptism, it's talking about our union with Jesus, a spiritual immersion into the life of Jesus. that we're now united with him in his death, his burial, and his resurrection. In him we died to all the demands of the law The law could only follow us to the grave and no further. The law chased us all the way to the state line, and then it had to turn off its sirens because we've crossed into another jurisdiction. And because of Jesus, all the demands of the law were met. He fulfilled all of the law's requirements. He suffered all of the law's punishments. And then he died for us, and we died in him. And when Jesus died, because you're united to him, you also died. There's nothing left to pay. We don't owe the law a dime. Or as some say, we don't owe the law a red cent. I've died to the law, and I don't owe the law anything. And what you notice here in verse 4, and I love this, that even your dying to the law is not something that you do. It's not not you dying to the law, like of yourself. Verse 4, you were also made to die to the law through the body of Christ. This is a reminder that our salvation and our union with Jesus is accomplished at God's initiative. The God is the one who does this. He doesn't wait for me to draw near to him because I never would. He didn't wait for me to come and die. Because I would have resisted him even until now. You have to be made to die. And it's God that causes that work to happen, that you are going to die with Christ. And God causes that work to happen. It's something that we would not have the desire to do apart from the working of God. God caused this to happen. It's God who causes us to die, and it's God who causes us to be born again 1 Peter 1 verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again. to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. If it wasn't for God causing this to happen, you'd still be dead in your transgressions and sins. God had to cause this to happen. He caused us to be born again. He caused us to die through our sins. And all of this was accomplished through the body of Jesus Christ. Verse 4 again makes that point. It's through the body of Christ. And what what does it mean through the body of Christ? It was through his death that this happened. Like I mentioned earlier, God sent his son to die. In order to make this happen. It's through his body. Romans 5 verse 9 says, much more than having been justified by his blood. Very physical. He gave up his life unto death so that we might be saved from the wrath to come. It was through his death that our sins were forgiven. We were made to die to the law's demands, but that's not it. There's more That death to the law had a purpose, and what was that purpose? Again, verse 4, that you might be joined to another. To him who was raised from the dead. And again, we're we're kind of connected back to this widowed spouse. Remember, if she joined herself to another while her husband was living, she would have been called an adulteress. But if her husband died, she would be free to marry another. And instead of Paul saying that the law died, because that wouldn't be accurate because the law still applies, you know, to some people, he's not saying that the law is dead, he's saying that you died. And that that that covenant was broken between you and the law. So there's a separation out. So so now because there's that separation, you can rightfully be joined to another. You can rightfully be joined to Jesus Christ. And in our death with Christ, the bond of the law, the obligation to the law was broken, and now we're joined to him who was raised from the dead. We're joined to resurrection life. We have a new life in Christ. We've been joined to him and that bond that attached us to the law was broken. And just like if your spouse dies, you can marry another, you can now join Christ. And when you remarry, you're joining a new covenant that glorifies and honors God. And by joining that new covenant, you're not saying that anything was wrong with the old covenant. You're just saying that I'm broken, that old covenant is broken, and I'm now joined to another. Which makes a lot of sense with what Paul says later on. Because he says, I confess that the law is good. There's nothing wrong with the law. But we're no longer under the law as a system. So I'm not putting down the law by saying that I'm not under the law. I'm just saying that I'm now under a new covenant, that I'm connected to Christ, and I'm not connected to Moses in that sense. I lawfully belong to another. And the imagery is so rich here because the church has been betrothed to one husband, and that husband is Christ. We're connected to him. Second Corinthians eleven, verse two, for I am jealous with you for a godly with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband, so that to Christ I might present you as a pure virgin So whether we're talking about the law of Moses for the Jews or the law written in the heart for the Gentiles, the purpose was to show us our sin and to point us to Christ. And now I'm connected to Jesus. The law, Galatians 3. 24 says, became our tutor to lead us to Christ. So as soon as Christ shows up, you're no longer under the tutor or the babysitter. You know, when your parents show up, the babysitter's responsibility is done, right? So the law was the babysitter to lead you to Christ. I'm just keeping you safe until you get to him. Now when you're with him, it's like I've done my job. My job is done. The law's job was to lead you to Jesus And once we're with Jesus, the law's job is done. So now I'm connected to Christ, and he becomes the new Moses. He becomes the new lawgiver. He becomes the authority in my life. Jesus says in Matthew 28, all authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. And we teach the disciples to obey all that he's commanded them, right? He's the authority. And again, that's not to say that anything's wrong with the Mosaic Covenant. It was holy, it was righteous, it was good. But the problem with the Mosaic Covenant is that it didn't enable the people to obey it. Do you get that? The law could do nothing to change your heart. All it could do is point out your faults, but it could not change your heart And since Israel failed and broke the Mosaic covenant, God promised that it would be superseded by a better and a new covenant. Jeremiah 31. 31, Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. I love what MacArthur's biblical doctrine says. He puts it this way. The end of the Mosaic covenant was as a rule of life, occurred with the death of Jesus. Because he fulfilled the demands of the covenant and established the new covenant with his blood. Paul explained, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. He also said that Christ became our peace by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. The writer of Hebrews similarly stated, and speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one, the Mosaic covenant, obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete is growing old and ready to vanish away. However, that Christians are not under the Mosaic Law does not mean that they are free to sin. They are joined to Christ and are under the new covenant. So in 1 Corinthians 9. 20, Paul declared that he was now under the law of Christ and not the law of Moses. Nevertheless, this is not to say that the Mosaic covenant is not relevant for today, for it most certainly is. All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. The Mosaic Covenant reveals unchanging attitudes, attributes and truths about God's character, which is the basis of his required principles for life. But the Christian is released from the Mosaic Law to serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit. The Christian therefore is not lawless, but is under a better law, the law of Christ and the new covenant. Only this time the Spirit enables The person to obey God willingly. So the Mosaic Law has unchanging principles that we still follow today. And yes, there are moral laws that are unchanging, like nine out of the ten commandments. But why don't we follow the Sabbath laws today? Why aren't we required to circumcise on the eighth day? Why are there no more sacrifices in holy days Why isn't there a physical temple? Why are there no clean and unclean restrictions? Why does the Lord tell Peter in Acts chapter 10 to rise, kill, and eat? It's because we receive the law as it's mediated through Christ. As it's mediated through Christ, because Christ is the new law giver. And we don't have a disregard for the law. We just understand that we've died to it so that we can belong to another. Does that make sense? We've died to it so we can belong to another. And I would actually say that we who understand that actually have a higher regard for the law than the people who are trying to fulfill it. Because at least we understand that hey you can never do it that way. You can never gain salvation that way. There's no way that you can fulfill all of the law. That's why I came to Christ, because I couldn't do it I came to Christ, I held on to him because I knew that there was no way to get there that way. In uh Bunyan's pilgrim's progress, there's a mysterious traveler who overtook faithful. Remember uh Pilgrim's friend Faithful, if you read Pilgrim's Progress, overtook Faithful on the road, and this this mysterious traveler who overtook Faithful on the road Hit him, knocked them down, and left them for dead. And then Faithful tells Christian how relentless the traveler assaulted him He says, when I came to myself again, I cried to him for mercy, but he said, I know not how to show mercy. And with that he knocked him down again. Who was the abusive man? Krishna replied, I know who that man was. That man who overtook you was Moses. He spareth none, neither knoweth he how to show mercy to those who transgress his law. You transgress the law of Moses, there's a curse attached with that. There's no mercy that's attached with that. There's a curse attached with that You know, cursed is he who does not abide by all things that are written in the law. You can't get to heaven that way. And just in case you're wondering, people never got to heaven that way. Even under the old covenant, they didn't get to heaven based on their law-keeping. It was always trusting in Jesus Christ, the one who was to come. That's the whole point of Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15 where it talks about the seed that would crush the head of the serpent. Who's that? It's talking about Christ. So even from the very first parents that we had, they were looking forward to the promise that was to come. And that was the hope that they had. From the Old Testament, they looked forward to Jesus Christ. from the New Testament, we're looking back, but it's always been Jesus. Jesus has always been the answer for our salvation. It's never been about the law. But now we're underneath a new covenant. We're directly relating to Christ, not through the law, but going through Jesus Christ. So we have a actually a higher regard for the law than most people who are trying to keep it. Because we understand that the law is so high and holy that I could never keep it. And that's why I had to come to Jesus. Because he's the one who kept it for me. So the believer is not lawless now. We're not antinomian. We understand that we have an obligation now to obey Jesus Christ. And we have been raised up in new life to bear fruit for God. That's what we do now. We bear fruit for him. Charles Hodge wrote in his commentary, as far as we are concerned, redemption is in order to produce holiness. When you're saved, you're not done We're not saved to sit and soak and sour. We're saved for holiness. We're saved to be obedient to him. We're saved to bear fruit unto him. So God hasn't saved you in order to be a shade tree. You understand what I'm saying? God has saved you in order to be a fruit tree. He doesn't just want to see leaves on your branches. He wants to see fruit on your branches. You need to bear fruit as a believer. Remember in Matthew chapter 21, Jesus came to the fig tree. He was hungry. Matthew 21, 18, it says, now in the morning when he was returning to the city, he became hungry, and seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And the leaves were actually supposed to be an indication that the fruit was already present. So when he saw leaves, he was expecting to see fruit. Where's the fruit? Remember that old commercial, where's the beef? It's like, you know, where's the fruit? So he comes to it, he's looking through the leaves. There's nothing but leaves here. There's no fruit. And then he said to it, No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you. And at once the fig tree withered, which was an illustration of uh Israel during the time that Jesus walked the earth, because as he came, as the king came, as he approached, instead of seeing the fruit of repentance, all he saw was the leaves of religion. There was no fruit. They had nothing but the leaves of religion and they were cursed. But the believer is saved to bear fruit. We bear fruit. And how do we bear fruit? It's through him. It's through Jesus that we bear fruit. John 15, verse 4, do you remember it? Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine. So neither can you, unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit. For apart from me you can do a little bit of stuff. Nothing. Nothing. Apart from him, you can do nothing. Are you abiding in him? That's where I find my fruitfulness. It's through him. It's in him. What does that mean? It means that anything of value that comes out of my life is because I'm connected to Jesus. Anything of value that comes out of my life. And I'm empowered by his grace to bear fruit for his glory. And I work because he works in me. That's the only way I can do anything, is because he's at work in me to work for his good pleasure. Philippians 2. 13 Galatians chapter 2 verse 20. I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live. But Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. And that's why, through my connection with him, through dwelling in him, abiding in him, that I can experience love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. It's by being connected to him. Why? Because I'm walking by his spirit. I'm dependent on his strength. And our obedience is based on our faith, not our feelings. Can I say that again? Our obedience is based on our faith, not on our feelings. We may not feel like loving. Anybody with me? Sometimes you don't feel like loving somebody. It's like, no, that's that's the last time that person's gonna do that. I don't feel like loving you. But we're still called to love We may not feel like being patient, but we're still called to be patient. We may not feel like exercising self-control, but we're still exercising self-control. It's it's not how I feel. It's because I trust in Christ I'm believing that this is what's right and that this is what He's given me the power to do. I don't have the strength in myself to do it. Lord, I'm trusting in you to give me the faith. Like Lord, help my faith, right? You know Help my unbelief. I'm struggling with this one, Lord, but I'm going to take a step of faith because I trust that you're going to give me the power to do what you've called me to do. So I'm stepping in faith. We may not feel like praying or reading or coming to church or witnessing, but we Walk in obedience by faith, not by sight, right? Not by how we feel. I'm walking in faith and responding to the word of God and trusting in Him to do what I can't do on my own. And we're made for this. You've been created anew for this. To bear fruit. You're his workmanship. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God has prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. God has prepared you for this. You have to believe that Lord, you've created me anew so that I would walk in your truth. Walk in obedience to you. And I'm trusting in that. I'm going to take that next step of faith. And finally, this is the last point. Our freedom from the law means no more reaping fruit for death. No more reaping fruit for death. Back in Romans chapter 7, verses 5 and 6. It says, for while we are in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in oldness of the letter No more reaping fruit for death. The scripture makes it clear that those who are under the law are also under a curse. Right? For as many as are of the works of the law, Galatians chapter 3 verse 10, as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 6 says, the letter kills. The law kills. Verse 7 says that the law is the ministry of death. The letter kills, the law kills us. And apart from faith in Christ, the only fruit that we could reap Apart from him is the fruit of death. Even in our attempts to obey the law, the only fruit we could reap was the fruit of death. Romans chapter 6, look back at it, chapter 6 and verse 21. I saw started verse 20. It says, for when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. Therefore, what benefit? That word is the word for fruit. What fruit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the outcome of those things is what? Death. That's what we reaped. That's what we gained. When we were under the law, apart from Christ, you know, just trying to be obedient and I'm going to get to heaven based on my good works. What you were actually reaping was death. You aren't reaping life. Apart from Jesus, there is no life. So all that you were reaping was death. The outcome of those things is death. The wages of sin is what? Death. The fruit that we were reaping apart from Christ was death. And listen to this: the law was powerless to help us. And so many people, when you talk to them, you ask them, you know, if there if there is a heaven, if they believe in a heaven, you know, if they they'd agree to that. You know, is there a heaven? Yeah, I believe that there's a heaven. Well, uh, do you believe that you'll you'll get there? Oh yeah, I believe I'll go there. How do you believe that you'll get to heaven? I'm a good person. I I think I'll I'll get to heaven because uh you know I follow the golden rule. I I try to treat people the way that I want them to treat me. Anybody ever heard that one? I I follow the Sermon on the Mount, and then you wonder if they've ever read the Sermon on the Mount. But they think they're going to get to heaven because I don't bother anybody who doesn't bother me You know, I try to treat people fair. You know, I try to be a good person, and they they just think that they're on their way. But law-keeping, whatever that means to you, will not save you Nobody gets to heaven because they're a good person. You understand me? Nobody gets to heaven because they're a good person. So many people I talk to think that they're going to heaven because of something that they've done. I'm good enough. You know, me and God have an understanding. You know, I'll be able to talk to him and say, hey, you know, don't you see what I did down there? But what does God say about your your works? They're all filthy rags. There's nothing that I can I mean I'm looking for something in there. There's nothing in that. There's nothing acceptable there And then there's people who believe that they'll get to heaven even if they don't believe in God. I I've I've I've read you think I'm joking about this You've I've read surveys where there's there's people who don't believe in God, but they still believe they're going to heaven. Without faith, it's impossible to please me, God says. You can't please God without trusting in Him. You can't please God without going through a Son. There's no way to Him except through Jesus Christ. And somehow people think that they're going to go to heaven based on their good works, but it's all fruit for death. You're going to reap death. How do I know that? Because nobody keeps the law. None of us. Romans chapter 3, verse 19. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law So that every mouth may be closed. All those excuses that you think you're going to give God when you stand before Him, you know, I'll be able to explain myself. Or I'll be able to tell God when I reach him that you know he didn't give me enough evidence to believe in him. You know, you're gonna blame him for your unbelief now. You know, the reason I didn't believe in you is because you you should have done a better job in making me believe that give me a break. The Bible says that that every mouth will be shut I won't be able to say a word. Everybody will be accountable to God because by the works of the flesh Because by the works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. All the law does is show me my sin. In fact, it's even worse than that. Our sinful flesh is actually enticed by the law. Look at verse 5, chapter 7. For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. Note the word flesh here is speaking about more than just the physical body because Paul is saying that believers are no longer in the flesh Talks about a time when you used to be in the flesh and saying that you are now no longer in the flesh. So the flesh is talking about this realm of unbelief. This is a realm that you used to exist in, apart from God. It was the realm of the flesh. And that doesn't exist for you anymore. As a believer, I'm no longer in the flesh. We're not now no longer in the flesh, but in what? In the Spirit. Romans 8. 9. However, you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. If indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. I exist in another realm now. So being in the flesh is describing the old you as an unbeliever. You existed in the realm of the flesh apart from the power of God. You existed in that realm where you didn't have access to the power of the Spirit. That's how you used to live. And while you were living there, your passions were aroused by the law. What does that mean? Somehow the things that you weren't supposed to do seem to be the most attractive. Why why is it that the things that you shouldn't do always seem like they're the most fun? Why is it that the the the fruit that Eve shouldn't have been eating seemed to be the the most desirable? The law came so that transgression would increase. You know, you never thought about doing something until somebody told you you shouldn't be doing it. Now all of a sudden it's like, why not? Why shouldn't I do that? I mean it's it looks fine to me. You know, don't walk on the grass. I'm gonna walk on the grass, because you know, you're not gonna tell me I'm not gonna walk on the grass. You know, who are you to tell me what grass I can walk on? You know. Wet paint, do not touch the wall. You never wanted to touch the wall until somebody said don't do it But that's how it works. That's how sin works. It entices you. All of a sudden you want to do it. What does Paul say? Look to we'll get to this later, but down in chapter 7. Look at verse 7. Chapter 7, verse 7 So what shall we say then? Is the law sin? May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, you shall not covet But sin taking opportunity through the commandment produced in me coveting of every kind. It's like all of a sudden now like I know I'm not supposed to do it and now I'm like, well why not? Why shouldn't I? You know, he has it, why shouldn't I have it? So it's like now all of a sudden the the law shows up and says no you shouldn't do that. It's like that's fine to me Sin uses the law as an opportunity to work evil of every kind. And it's not the law's fault. The law is right. It's good. It's holy. But just as God takes what is evil and uses it for good, sin takes what is good and uses it for evil. Sin uses the members of our body to reap fruit for death. Instead of the law making it better, the law made it worse. So how does God free us from this vicious cycle? Look at verse 6 again, chapter 7. We'll close here. But now we have been released from the law. Having died to that by which we were bound, so that we served in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. What does God do? God frees us from serving under the old system. We're no longer bound to the law as a master. The law has been made a widow. We don't belong to the law anymore. And the entire Trinity is involved in our sanctification. Listen to this. We bear fruit for God. That's God the Father. We're joined to another. That's the Son, Jesus Christ, the one who's raised from the dead. And we serve in the newness of the Spirit. The entire Trinity is involved in our sanctification. And we have something that's better than the law. Or should I say we have someone who is better than the law. The entire Trinity is involved in our sanctification, and specifically it's the Spirit of God who works in our lives to grant you the ability to obey Christ's commands. But do you do you understand what a gracious gift you've been given as a believer? That I've been given the Spirit of God. We read it before, but but just flip back to it again. Jeremiah chapter 31. I just want you to hear this, okay? Jeremiah chapter 31 and think about what you've been given as a believer. Jeremiah 31, verse 31. And this is a prophecy that applies to Israel in the future, but listen to this, believer. You are partaking of this covenant right now. Right now. Jeremiah 31, verse 31. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them. And on their heart I will write it. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Right now, you are a partaker of that new covenant. That God has forgiven you of your sins. That God has written his law on your heart. That God has now enabled you to serve him with the Spirit. And that's a promise, like I said, that's going to be applied to Israel and will be fulfilled with Israel, but right now we are partakers of that new covenant. In Luke chapter 22 verse 20, when Jesus At the last supper, he took the cup after he had eaten and said, this cup which is poured out for you is The new covenant in my blood. We recite it at communion all the time, 1 Corinthians 11, 25. In the same way he took the cup also after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. And that's within the context of the church. We're to remind one another that we're now those who've benefited from that new covenant. That we've now been given of His Spirit, that our our sins have been forgiven, and that I now have an ability to do what I couldn't do before We're partakers of that new covenant. We've been given a newness of life and the newness of the spirit instead of the oldness of the letter. The letter came through Moses and the letter kills because it didn't give you the power to obey But it was necessary to point you to the solution, which was Jesus Christ. One more text. Flip over to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Just to talk about this this new covenant work that we're partakers of. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Look at verse 4. I love this So such confidence we have through Christ toward God. Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God. Who also made us adequate as servants of a new covenant. Not of the letter. We're talking about the Mosaic law, not of the letter, but of the Spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life. But if the ministry of death in letters engraved on stones came with glory, so that the sons of Israel could not look intently at the face of Moses because of the glory of his face, fading as it was. How will the ministry of the Spirit fail to be even more with glory? For if the ministry of condemnation has glory, much more does the ministry of righteousness abound in glory For indeed, what had glory in this case has no glory because of the glory that surpasses it. For if that which fades away was with glory, much more that which remains is in glory Do you have any idea of what you've been given as a believer to bear fruit for God? That you've been made a partaker of this covenant, a partaker of the Spirit. That Jesus Christ Himself has united himself with you so that you could honor and please God. Do you have any idea what you've been introduced to? What kind of power you have in your life I love what one commentator said. He says, God's regenerated servants have new apprehensions of truth and of duty, of privilege and of obligation. New dispositions toward God and man, towards God's word and people, towards his laws and promises, new qualities of heart, loving what they once hated, hating what they once loved. Hoping as they never did before, faith displacing unbelief, love instead of enmity, the penitence taking place of the hardness of heart. And all of this is done with the freshness of the Spirit, which wholly distinguishes it from the oldness of the letter. This is what we've been given. And I love what Charles Fergin said. He says, none can keep the law so well as those who Hope not to be saved by it. Those who don't hope to be saved by the law are those who actually keep the law the best. Because we've renounced any confidence in our works and accepted the righteousness which is of God by faith in Jesus Christ, we're moved with gratitude to a height of consecration and purity of obedience which mere legalism can never know The child will better obey without desire of reward than the slave will under the dread of a lash or in hope of a wage. The most potent motive for holiness is free grace. A dying Savior is the death of sin. We've been connected to the one who's died for us. And we've been given a power, the most explosive power in our lives for holiness and it's by free grace, it's not by threat of the law, not by threat of condemnation. It's by the promise that He's given to us, and we have the newness of the Spirit that uh enables us to do what we couldn't do on our own. Do you understand what you've been given as a believer? We've been given such rich and precious promises. So we'll we'll get to the struggle soon enough, okay? In Romans chapter 7. We'll get to the struggle. But before we get there, just realize what kind of power you have at work in your life right now To accomplish abundantly beyond all that we can ask or think. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we Pray that we would operate by faith and not by our feelings, not by fear, that we would trust in you, that we would trust that you've given us all that we need for life and godliness. Father, we thank you for this hope that we have because we've been given the Spirit. We've been united to Jesus Christ, and we're now those who bear fruit for God. So Father, I pray that we would examine ourselves in light of these things, and Father, that we would just equip ourselves, Lord, to face the battles that we have with sin and temptation. knowing that you've given us all that we need uh to to fight and to win the battle. So Father, we're grateful for our Savior and that we're connected to Him. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Like all God's people said. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.