The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. And why don't you take your Bibles and open up with me to the Gospel of Matthew? We're in Matthew chapter 21 this morning. And uh As you're turning there, I just want to remind you that it is a Reformation Sunday, so we will be gathering together again this evening at 7 o'clock for our Reformation uh service, but uh we'll at least make reference to the to the Reformation uh during this morning's uh service as well. So uh looking forward to that. But Matthew chapter twenty one is uh where we are. Matthew chapter twenty-one uh brings us to the to the final week of Jesus's earthly ministry. Uh this is the week of his crucifixion, and uh at this time his public recognition uh couldn't be held back any longer. Uh for the first time in Jesus' ministry He was openly and publicly recognized as the king and the messiah. The rocks would have cried out if the children of Israel didn't cry out. And it might have been expected that as Jesus is finally recognized as king, that his first public action as king would have been to do something like overthrow the tables of the tax collectors, which represented the Roman oppression, but that's not what he did. It might have been expected that Jesus would stop the business of the prostitutes, those who are considered some of the most despised in society, but that's not what he did either Maybe it was expected that Jesus might visit some pagan temple and kick over their altars and disrupt their worship of their false gods, but that's not what he does. As the Messiah shows up and he's finally recognizes the King, the first thing that he does is he shows up to the heart and center of worship. of the true and living God, which really speaks volumes about what God's priority is. In 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 17, it says, it is time for judgment to begin where? at the household of God. That's the priority. And Jesus is not nearly as concerned about what's happening outside of his house. as he is about what's happening inside of his house. And that should really be a wake-up call to us as a church today. Sometimes people uh wonder, you know, why do we give so much attention to doctrine and to discernment and to the discipline of the church. You know, they wonder why we make critical statements about churches that have strayed away from the purity of the gospel. You know, we even had a conference on it, you know, a couple a couple weeks back. But they forget that Jesus himself made a cord of whips to drive the money changers out of the temple. Jesus didn't do that on the outside. Jesus did that on the inside. That the purity of worship, the purity of the gospel was a priority for Jesus, and it should be a priority for us as well. And there's nothing that angered Jesus like false teaching, hypocrisy, and a lack of compassion for people. And uh the scribes and the Pharisees and the chief priests combined the worst of all of the above. Uh and Jesus had seen enough. In uh verses twelve to seventeen he entered the temple and he wrecked Shap. Jesus physically and violently literally cast people out of the temple, those who are buying and selling in the temple. He overturned their tables, the money changers, the seats of those who were selling doves. Money is flying, tables are turning, seats are rolling, people are physically being picked up and tossed out. Jesus was much more concerned about the religious practices in Jerusalem than he was about the pagan practices in Rome. And in this graphic scene, we really see the heart of our King Jesus Christ. Some people try to interpret the cleansing of the temple as Jesus being out of control You know, like like uh Jesus is just completely inconsistent with his character. But that couldn't be further from the truth. We learn in Psalm 69 and verse 9, and it was quoted in uh John chapter 2 and 17, uh the disciples remembered this, that zeal for your house will consume me. Zeal consumes me. So that there's a passion for the glory of God that Jesus displays. But there's another event that occurs on the same day as the cleansing of the temple, and this miracle is completely different. than any other miracle that we've seen Jesus perform before. On his way to the temple, he curses a fig tree for being fruitless. And we've heard about the miracles of healing, miracles of creation, miracles of compassion. But where do we ever find Jesus performing a miracle of destruction in the gospels? And in Matthew chapter 21, 18 and 19, what we find is that Matthew rewinds the clock back to the morning that he cleansed the temple to give us a miracle that only the disciples witnessed. And uh it's much more profound than Jesus just having a bad day and like punching a hole in the wall. You know, I'm just so upset, I'm just angry at anything that's in my path, you know, and just first tree he sees, you know, let me just curse that tree. This isn't Jesus being unhinged. Everything Jesus did was intentional, it was purposeful, it was meaningful, it was measured. Jesus never lost control, he never acted out of character. So there's a message in the fig tree, and there's some very striking similarities between the fig tree and what took place at the temple, and this becomes for us a great reminder to examine our own lives, to examine our churches. to make sure that we have more than just the leaves of hypocrisy, because a genuine faith will be marked by spiritual fruit. So follow with me as I read Matthew chapter 21, look at verses 18 and 19. It says now in the morning, when he was returning to the city, he became hungry. Seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And he said to it, No longer Shall there ever be any fruit from you? And at once the fig tree withered. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for this text, and we thank you for the profound nature of what we read. Father, I pray that you'd help us to understand. Father, that you'd help us to apply, that you'd help us to think carefully about what we read, that we examine ourselves, Lord, to make sure that we're in line with your word, with your truth. With your son Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In the year 1517, there was a man by the name of Albert of Brandenburg who was seeking to be a bishop of Mainz, Germany. He wasn't old enough to be a bishop. but he was already the bishop of two different territories, and securing a third bishopric would make him the archbishop of Germany. It was a position of great prominence and would also give his family access to the revenues of each territory that he had control over Albert understood that in order to hold such a high office, he would have to settle on a price with the Pope, who regularly sold bishop offices to those who could afford the asking price The Pope at that time was Pope Leo X, who's been described even by Catholic scholars as a man who scarcely understood the obligations of his office He squandered the money of the church on carnivals, wars, gambling, and hunting for sport. Pope Leo was also in the middle of a building project, which was the construction of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. And he could use the extra money. So the Pope's asking price was 12,000 gold ducats. 1,000 for each of the apostles, he said. Albert offered seven, seven for the deadly, seven thousand, so seven for each deadly sin, and they finally agreed upon ten thousand ducats, which is supposedly for the Ten Commandments. I'm not even sure how much 10,000 gold ducats would be worth in today's economy, but this was a large sum of money. But the Pope Albert made a deal, the Pope made a deal to Albert. And in order to help Albert reimburse the money that he would spend to get this bishopric, the Pope granted him the privilege of selling a special indulgence in his territory for a period of eight years. It was called the plenary indulgence that guaranteed perfect remission for all sins. For yourself, or if you bought it for one of the your dead loved ones in purgatory, it would grant them release from purgatory into paradise. The sale of these indulgences was trusted to an experienced Dominican friar named Tetzel, and as he approached the towns of these different territories that he went to, He was met by dignitaries who entered with him in a solemn procession. He would carry a cross with the Pope's flag. Paper, the paper granting the power to remit sins, was placed on a gold embroidered velvet cushion. And the cross would be placed in the middle of the marketplace, and then the sermon would begin. Listen to some of these words from Tetzel. Listen now! God and Saint Peter call you. Consider the salvation of your souls and those of your loved ones departed. Listen to the voices of your dead relatives and friends beseeching you and saying, pity us, pity us. We are in dire torment from which you can redeem us for repentance. Do you not wish to? Open your ears Here the father saying to a son, the mother to her daughter, we bore you, we nourished you, we brought you up, we left you our fortunes And you are so cruel and hard now that you are not willing for so little a price to set us free? Will you let us lie here in the flames? Will you delay our promised glory? Remember that you are able to release them. Because as soon as a coin in the coffin rings, a soul from purgatory springs. Tetzel sold these indulgences, these remittances of sins just outside of Wittenberg, Germany, where an Augustinian monk named Martin Luther was a professor and a preacher. When Luther heard about the practice, he couldn't imagine that the Roman Catholic Church could actually be behind it. He expected more from the Church. He wrote down 95 arguments against what was taking place, and he nailed it to the door of the Catholic Church in Wittenberg, so he would have an academic debate with some of the other professors about this issue. And that happened on October 31st, 1517, which is why we celebrate on the last Sunday of October, Reformation Sunday. When Martin Luther nailed his 95 thesis, he wasn't intending to start a war with the Roman Catholic Church. He didn't even write it in German. He wrote it in Latin, the language of the Academy, the language of the theologians. At the time he was actually thinking, he was assuming that he was acting as a good Catholic in defense of the Church. He had no idea that he was exposing the Roman Catholic Church to be the barren tree that it was. And it's been said that Luther was like a man climbing in the darkness of a winding staircase in the steeple of an ancient cathedral, and in the blackness he reaches out his hand to steady himself and lays his hand on a rope. And he's startled to hear the clang of a bell that was tied to the other end of the rope. And what Luther did was really a wake-up call to the church. In 1517, Luther didn't even have a fully formed understanding of the doctrine of justification by faith alone, that we're saved only by the grace of God through faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't even come to that doctrine yet. That wasn't to come for another year from this point. But when Luther started to peel away the hypocrisy of the Roman Catholic Church layer by layer, he eventually discovered that it was nothing but leaves. And an empty religion that couldn't save. And it had the appearance of life and health and the promise of giving life and sustaining life But it was completely barren and it was an empty religion. And that's what Jesus encountered in the practice of Judaism in his day. God described the devotion of Israel in times past in the book of Jeremiah, chapter 2 and verse 2, where he says, Thus says the Lord, I remember concerning you the devotion of your youth, the love of your betrothals, you you're following after me in the wilderness through a land not sown. This is how he described his love relationship to Israel. But all of that devotion by the time Jesus stepped on the scene had all withered away. Israel could be better described like the church in Sardis in Revelation chapter 3 verse 1, who had a name that they were alive, but they were dead. And that's not to say that there wasn't a remnant of true believers among Israel, but as far as the dominant form and expression of religion, it was all for show. And the withered tree was a perfect picture of all that was left in Judaism. But let's remind ourselves of where we are in Matthew. We're at the beginning of what's been called Passion Week, the week of the crucifixion. According to John chapter 12, Jesus arrived in Bethany six days before the Passover. Bethany was located two miles east of Jerusalem, and this is where Jesus stayed with his friends Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead. There's a number of reasons that uh some have actually calculated that uh uh this this what's traditionally been called Palm Sunday, uh according to chronology by Harold Honor, might have actually been on a Monday. Uh there's a number of reasons for that, but uh it makes better sense of the details, avoids an empty day, where nothing takes place during the the last week of the Lord's life. And as John MacArthur points out, with all the details of the final week in multiple gospels, it would be strange to have a day that we know absolutely nothing about. So this day is probably on a Tuesday, the cleansing of the temple happening on a Tuesday. And that's the morning that Matthew is talking about in verse 18. That's the day that he's talking about. If you flip over to Mark chapter 11, He actually makes it clear that the cursing of the fig tree happened on the day after the triumphal entry and on the same day as the cleansing. Look at Mark chapter 11. Start of verse 9. It says here in verse 9, it says, those who went in front and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David, Hosean in the highest. Jesus entered Jerusalem and came into the temple, and after looking around at everything, he left for Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late. On the next day when they had left Bethany became hungry. So it talks about the day after this triumphal entry. And then in verse 15 It says that he came to Jerusalem the same day. This is the same day that verse 13 says that he saw a fig tree and leaf. It's on the same day that he came to Jerusalem and entered the temple and began to drive out those who were buying and selling in the temple and overturned their table. So the cursing of the fig tree and the cleansing of the temple all happened on the same day. It's on this Tuesday. There's a couple things that I want to point out about the story as it unfolds to us. And the first is that Jesus became hungry And that might seem to you like an obvious point, you know, but sometimes we we miss the obvious. You know, Jesus had a natural and a right desire. Sometimes we miss the obvious. Like the story I heard about Sherlock Holmes and Watson on a camping trip in the middle of the night. You know, Holmes wakes up and gives Dr. Watson a nudge and he says, Hey Watson, look up at the sky. Tell me what you see. And uh Watson says, I see millions of millions of stars. And what do you conclude from that, Watson, says Sherlach? Watson thinks for a moment, well he says astronomically it tells me that there are millions of galaxies and potentially billions of planets Orologically, I deduce that the time is approximately a quarter past three. Meteorologically, I suspect that we will have a beautiful day tomorrow. Theologically, I see that God is all powerful and we are small and insignificant. What does it tell you? Holmes Watson, you idiot, someone has stolen our tent. Sometimes we miss the obvious And with Sherlock, it's trivial, but when it comes to who Jesus is, it's critical that we understand who he is. This is it's a simple point. Jesus became hungry, but that means he was what? He was human. He was human. He was truly a man. He wasn't some kind of super-engineered, superpowered being who escaped all of our human weaknesses. Jesus was truly a man Jesus became tired. He slept through a storm in Mark chapter 4. He became thirsty. He asked for a drink in John chapter 4. Jesus became hungry. He looked for food. Matthew chapter 4, also here in Matthew chapter 21. So he took on all of our human limitations except for our sin. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15, it lets us know that he accepted all of our limitations except for our sin. He was truly a man, which means that he would suffer real pain. And that he would die a real death only a few days from now. Without the humanity of Jesus Christ, we would have no substitute, we would have no salvation Hebrews chapter 10 verse 5 says, Therefore when he comes into the world, he says, sacrifice and offering you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. There are false teachers who try to convince the early church to deny the humanity of Jesus Christ, to claim that he only appeared to be human, but he wasn't really human. And the Apostle John calls them deceivers. In 2 John 1, verse 7, it says, For many deceivers have gone out into the world. Those who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Anybody who says that Jesus Christ wasn't really a man, he wasn't truly a man, is an antichrist. He's a deceiver. Now, like I said, it's an obvious point, but it's an important point to make. The next observation from this text is that Jesus expected to find fruit. Jesus expected to find fruit. Right there in verse 19, it says, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And Mark adds this interesting detail in Mark chapter 11 and verse 13, it says that it wasn't the season for figs. Which makes some people wonder, you know, what was Jesus expecting to find? You know, wasn't it irrational for Jesus to look for a fruit when it was out of season? You know, what was Jesus doing? Our family had the opportunity to travel to Jamaica last year, and one of the fruits I was really looking forward to having was as a fruit in uh in Jamaica we call them Guinness. You know, so it's uh it's kind of hard to to describe. It's also called Spanish lime or uh uh lemoncio or uh mammoncio. In some countries it's uh it's kinda like it looks like a a bunch of grapes You know, it's uh round, it's got a hard shell, green shell on the outside, you crack it open, and uh on the inside there's a large seed, but around the seed there's this fruit and and I I I found it delicious. And uh as a kid I used to used to eat these things all the time when I was younger. But the month that we were in Jamaica was a month or two before Guinness season. So uh so here I am every market I'm going to it's like hey guys got any ginnups guys got any ginnups And I said, no, not the season, not the season yet. You come back in like another month, it'll be here. Every market I went to, and eventually I'm like, you know, why do I keep asking? You know, it's just not the right time, right? What was Jesus expecting to find if the figs weren't in season? And this is where a background study is uh is really, really helpful. One background study in the life of Christ makes this comment. Although the season at which figs ripened had not yet arrived, yet the tree was clothed with leaves. And the fruit of a fig sets before the leaves unfold. This tree looked more than usually promising. Its rich large leaves seemed to show that it was fruitful. And by their unusually early growth, that it was not only fruitful, but vigorous. So when Jesus comes across this fig tree with all these leaves on, he's saying, hey, like the fruit comes before the leaf. You know, there's at least like a a a small kind of immature fruit that's still on the on the tree. So here he comes to this fig tree looking for for fruit. In addition to that, uh the place where Jesus was staying the night before was in Bethany which was a small town right next to another city called Beth Phaga, which is the place where Jesus picked up the donkey, if you remember in Matthew chapter 21, over in verse 1. The word Bethbagay, you know what it means? It means the house of the early fig. So he's in a place, he's in an area. which was known for an abundant produce of early figs. And the leaves would have been a sure sign that the early figs would have already been formed. And the first ripe figs were the best figs, and especially sweet. In uh Isaiah chapter 28, verse 4, he calls these uh first figs, uh the one the the ones which one sees, and as soon as it is in his hand, he swallows it. In Jeremiah 24, verse 2, it calls them the very good figs. In Micah chapter 7, verse 1, it calls these first figs the figs which I crave. So imagine, you know, if again, I'm back in Jamaica. And it's advertised that, you know, hey, there's this place called the house of the early Guinness. And there's a tree that had all the signs of the early fruit. And these were the guinness that were known to be the guinness that you crave, the very good guineps, the ones that as soon as it's in your hand, you swallow it up. You know, I might not be able to expect to find Guinness anywhere else in Jamaica, but this is the place. I'm in the right place, I'm at the right time, I have the right expectation. So as Jesus comes up to this fig treeing, he has the right expectation. There should be figs on this tree. You know, back in Jamaica I just had to deal with the mangoes. It's like, I like mangoes, but I was kind of looking for something else. But here, Jesus had the right expectation. He's looking for the right fruit at the right time in the right place. And he also had the right reaction when he didn't find any. Look at verse 19 again. It says he said, No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you, and at once the fig tree withered. And it's another obvious point, but the the primary purpose of a fig tree was not to grow leaves. Farmers in ancient Israel didn't spend their time planting fig trees for the shade. Fig trees did provide shade and they the picture of kind of resting beneath your own fig tree was a picture of peace. in the Old Testament, but that was a benefit, a side benefit of the broad leaves of the fig tree. It wasn't the primary purpose for a fig tree. The primary purpose for the fig tree was for the fruit. And an illustration of that was used in another context in Judges chapter 9 and verse 11. It personifies the fig tree and says, Shall I leave my sweetness and my good fruit and go and wave over the trees? So basically like the fig tree is saying, like, hey, I'm I'm here for my sweetness and my goodness. I'm not here just so I can wave around. In other words, the fig tree wasn't made to wave over the trees, it was made to produce the fruit on the third day of creation when uh God said, let the earth sprout vegetation. In verse 12, he says, the plants yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit with seed in them. It was the purpose for certain trees to bear fruit. And it didn't fulfill the purpose. And therefore it was worthless. So Jesus is not an environmentalist in the sense that he was concerned with protecting and preserving natural environment, even if it didn't serve a purpose. A fruit tree that no longer produces fruit doesn't serve a purpose. And it was clear that this fig tree had outlived its usefulness. So don't bother calling the EPA. Jesus doesn't answer to them. His reaction was right when he condemned the fruitless tree. And it's really not hard to put the pieces of the illustration together. As Jesus approaches the temple in Jerusalem, his desire was for God to be worshipped. God 's desire is for worship. Don't miss the obvious. We see this all throughout scripture, right? There's absolutely nothing that does not exist. That does not exist for the glory of God. Everything exists for the glory of God. Revelation chapter 4, verse 11. Worthy art thou, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou didst create all things, and because of thy will they existed and were created. Heavens exist for the glory of God. Psalm 19 verse 1, the heavens are telling of the glory of God. The earth exists for the glory of God. Isaiah chapter 6, the angels called out to one another, the whole earth is full of your glory. The angels in heaven exist for the glory of God. Colossians chapter 1 Verse 16, for by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible, invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created by him and for him. And the nation of Israel existed for the glory of God. And Isaiah chapter 43, verse 1 says, but now thus says the Lord your creator. O Jacob and he who formed you, O Israel, do not fear, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by name. You are mine. And in verse 7 it says, Everyone who is called by my name and whom I have created for my glory So it's right for God to desire worship. It was right. And God is jealous for his own glory. Exodus chapter 34, verse 14. You shall not worship any other God, for the Lord whose name is jealous, is a jealous God. And Ossius Lewis says that God is not like some vain, insecure woman who demands compliments. God's not asking for glory because it makes him feel better about himself. For the creature not to give glory to the Creator is treason. Glory is the right of the Creator. And not only is it God's desire, it's also God's expectation, God's right to have an expectation of worship Israel enjoyed the privilege of tremendous blessings over in Romans chapter 9, if you want to flip over there real quick. It talks about the blessings that Israel enjoyed, the tremendous privileges that Israel enjoyed. Chapter 9. Listen what it says here in uh starting at verse 4. Paul talks about how he wished he could be accursed and separated for from Christ for the sake of his brethren according to the flesh. In verse 4 he talks about who these brothers are. He says, who are the Israelites? To whom belongs the adoption of sons? And the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the temple service and the promises. Whose are the fathers and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh, who is overall, God blessed forever. Amen. Look at all these privileges that Israel had Adoption and glory and covenants and the law and the promises, the temple, the fathers, the Christ. I mean, all these things belong to Israel. God had an expectation for Israel. Matthew chapter 15, verse 24, Jesus says, I was only sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. They had a privileged position to hear from Christ first. And for over three years there was this constant call for Israel to produce fruit. You have in Matthew chapter 3 when John the Baptist saw the many Pharisees and Sadducees coming to them for baptism. He says this in Matthew chapter 3, verse 8. Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Jesus preached repentance, Matthew chapter 4, verse 17. From that time Jesus began to preach and say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The disciples preached repentance. Matthew chapter 10, verse 7, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. But up until this point, all this pleading with Israel, all their many privileges, and they still rejected the call of the king. They practiced their righteousness for the sake of men. According to Matthew chapter 6, they gave so that people could see. They prayed so that people could hear. They fasted so that people could notice. They lacked compassion for the sick and the poor. The temple, which should have been a house of prayer, was made into a hangout for hoodlums, a den of thieves. And Israel was like a fig tree with nothing but leaves. And the Old Testament used both the vine and the fig tree as a representation for Israel. Jewish commentator Edersheim says the fig tree served in the Old Testament as an emblem of the Jewish nation. Israel is described in Deuteronomy 8 verse 8 as a land of vines and fig trees. Hosea 9, verse 10 said, I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness. I saw your forefathers as the earliest fruit on the fig tree in its first season. And turn over to Luke chapter 13. There's another important illustration that Jesus gives because Jesus compares Israel to a fig tree. Luke chapter 13. This is where Jesus himself pictures Israel as a victory. This is just such a powerful, powerful parable. Listen to this. Luke chapter 16, look at verse 6. It says, and he began telling this parable. A man had a fig tree, which had been planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it and did not find any. And he said to the vineyard keeper, vineyard keeper, Behold, for three years I've come looking for fruit on this fig tree without finding any. Cut it down! Why does it even use up the ground? And he answered and said to him, Let it alone, sir, for this year too, until I dig around it and put in fertilizer. And if it bears fruit next year, fine, but if not Cut it down. There is every opportunity for Israel to produce fruit by this point. When Jesus began his public ministry, do you remember how it began? One of his first public acts when Jesus began his ministry was the cleansing of the temple. He cleansed the temple when he started his ministry. And now for more than three years, Israel was like a plant that was dug around and fertilized and tended to by the public ministry of Jesus and the disciples. And you would have expected to see fruit after all of the work that was accomplished, more than three years of ministering And Jesus returned to Jerusalem to find the temple in the same condition that he found it in three years ago. Still no fruit. For all of the leaves of their religion, they had nothing of substance. And Jesus' reaction to the fruitless fruitlessness of Israel was right. A nation that does not worship God is like a fruit tree that does not bear fruit. It's not fulfilling its purpose And Jesus' response to their lack of repentance was right. Over in Matthew chapter 23. He weeps over the city. Matthew chapter 23 and verse 37. Listen what he says. He says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her? How often I wanted to gather your children together? The way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling? Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. For I say to you, from now on, you will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. First he cleared out the temple, and then the presence of God cleared out of the temple. The house was left empty. You know, today there's no need to pray towards Jerusalem. Why? Because that spot on the Temple Mount is empty. Not only is the the temple no longer there in AD uh seventy it was destroyed, just as Jesus predicted it would be in Matthew chapter twenty-four and verse two. It says, Truly, truly I say to you, not one stone here will be left upon another which will not be torn down. But not only is the temple not there anymore, the presence of God doesn't reside there anymore. Jesus said in Matthew 23, Behold, your house is being left to you desolate. It's empty. The presence of God is vacated, the premises, no longer here. Jesus would go further to say this in Matthew chapter 21 and verse 43. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. and given to a people producing the fruit of it. It's right for the landowner to enjoy fruit from the trees and from the vineyard that he owns. If is if Israel would not produce the fruit, of the kingdom, he would find the people who would. And you know who those people are today? It's you. It's us. It's the church. 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10. It says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. For you once were not a people. But now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. We're the people of God. And where's the temple of God today? It's not in Jerusalem. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 16, do you not know that you are a temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? 1 Corinthians 6. 19, or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? The generation of Jewish people who rejected their Messiah were rejected by their Messiah. They never produced the fruit of the kingdom. And they still don't produce the fruit of the kingdom until this very day. It was a serious condemnation. And even though God has a future for Israel, a future redemption, a future restoration. It won't be through Judaism that Israel is saved. It won't be through Judaism. Judaism today is a pastate. It's apostate. It's dead. And the hope for our Jewish friends and neighbors and family members is what Zechariah chapter 12, verse 10 speaks about. Zechariah 12, verse 10, I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and of supplication, so that they will look on me whom they have pierced. And they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only son, and they will weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn. It's through turning to the one who is despised and forsaken. Isaiah 53, verse 3, for he was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face. He was despised and we did not esteem him. Surely our griefs he himself bore and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by a scourging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, but the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to do what? To fall on him. To fall on him. And there will come a day, as Jesus says, that Israel will bless him. Israel will bless him. And now Matthew chapter 23, verse 39, he says, I say to you, from now on, you will not see me until So he's promising a future day. You will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. That day is coming. That day is coming, but that day didn't come when Jesus came the first time. And we'll have to stop there for now, but as you think about these words, I want to leave you with a couple of applications. Number one If you're here today and you're a believer in Jesus Christ, God desires and God expects to see fruit from your life You understand that? God expects to see fruit. John chapter fifteen and verse eight says, My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit, and so prove to be my disciples. We we may not think about this often, but we are God's vine. That's what John 15 says, right? We are God's vine. We are the vine. We are part of that that vine, that process. We are his victory. He's expecting to see fruit from us. You know, obviously Jesus is the vine, but we're connected to that vine, right? We're connected to the vine of Jesus Christ. And we're supposed to be producing fruit as we abide where? In him. As we abide in the vine, as we're a part of that vine, as we're united to that vine, we're to produce fruit. We're to produce fruit out of our lives. And the only way that we can do that is by staying in him. We need to dig in. John 15 verse 4 says, abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in the vine. We are the branches of the vine. We're to be connected to Jesus Christ. That's how we're to produce fruit. It's the same lesson we learned over in Galatians chapter 5, where we learn about the fruit of the Spirit. We're to walk by the Spirit Yield ourselves to him. We produce his fruit as we yield ourselves to the Spirit. Galatians 5. 16 says, I say to you, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. And walking by the Spirit, abiding in Christ, is not some kind of passive idea. You know, like some people teach, oh, you just kind of let go, let God, you just kind of like fall back and, you know. It'll just happen. You know, it'll just magically appear. Fruit will just kind of start start appearing. Like that's not how it works. That's not how it works. Don't some people teach it's it's almost like a like a solitary event, like you just kind of go to some prayer service and it'll just happen. You know, you'll just abide. You know, you just get prayed over or whatever else you surrender. Like you'll just start abiding and you'll start producing fruit. That's not the way it happens. We produce fruit as we yield ourselves to the Spirit, as we abide in Christ by abiding in his will through his word. That's the way it happens. How do you abide in Christ? Jesus tells us how to abide in Christ. John 15, verse 7. If you abide in me, and listen to this, and my words abide in you. How are you going to abide in Christ? By abiding in his word. By following his will. That's how you abide in Jesus Christ. It's not just, ah, I'll just kind of let go and like I'm I'm here, Lord, and I surrender. Just let me abide. Like that's not how it happens. You need to follow his will through his word. Those who abide in my word, I abide in them. If you abide in me and my words, abide in you. There's a connection between abiding in Christ and his words abiding in you. In the same way in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18, it speaks about being filled with the Spirit, and that's paralleled with Colossians 3, verse 16, where it says, let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. So how do you how do you how are you filled with the Spirit? You're filled with the Word of God. You yield yourself to the Word of God. You're full of Scripture and allowing Scripture to control your life. That's how you yield yourself to God So we don't just simply let go and let God. We actively pursue God and pursue obedience as we're filled by his word. That's how you're going to abide in Christ. That's how you're going to be filled with the Spirit as you actively pursue his word and you're filled by Him. And number two, if you're here today and you're an unbeliever, you haven't yielded your life to Jesus Christ, you have no idea when inspection day is coming. You have no idea when the inspection day is coming. And what this text lets you know is that Christ will not be fooled by your leaves of religion. It's possible for you to be engaged in a superficial, hypocritical religion that that's all show and no substance. If you don't have a true hatred for sin. If you don't have a true hunger for righteousness, don't be fooled and don't think that Christ is going to be fooled by your external displays of righteousness. And don't think that you're safe just because you attend a religious service. The people that Jesus condemned were the people that were found in the temple of the Lord. Those are the people that he condemned. It wasn't the people that were outside doing whatever they wanted to do. It was the people in the very act of offering their sacrifices, making their exchanges Those are the people that Christ condemned. Jeremiah 7, verse 4. We've mentioned it before. Do not trust in deceptive words saying, This is the temple of the Lord. The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. I'm safe. Ollie Ollie oxen free. I'm safe. I'm in the temple of the Lord. I'm in the church. I'm with the people of God. Everything's okay. Jeremiah goes on to say, Behold, you are trusting in deceptive words, to no avail. Will ye steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, offer sacrifices to Baal, walk after other gods that ye have not known? And then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, we are delivered, that you may do all these abominations. Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your sight? Behold, I even I have seen it Do you think you're getting away from God? Do you think God doesn't see? Do you think God doesn't know what you're going to do when you leave church today? Do you think God doesn't know what you're thinking inside your mind right now? Do you think God is fooled? Because you dress up, you come to church, you carry a Bible, wear a cross, I got my Bible on my dashboard. Do you think God is tricked by that? You don't think God sees? The day of reckoning will come. Proverbs 29, verse 1 says, A man who hardens his neck after much reproof will suddenly be broken, and that beyond remedy. Don't play with God. Don't be deceived, right? God is not mocked. Whatever a man sows, that shall he also what? That shall he also reap. I pray that you're found in Christ today. I pray it's not just the leaves of religion. You know, it looks good for everybody else. But when Christ is coming to look for the fruit, he can't find it. And they will know you by your what? Fruit. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for this opportunity that we've had to look at your word. Father, we pray that uh there would be freedom in our lives. Father, that it wouldn't be an empty show of religion. My Father, that uh that we wouldn't be happy just to be engaged in things on the outside that people can see, but my father, that there would be a true repentance from the heart A true hatred for sin, a true hunger for righteousness, a true love for you. Father, I pray that we'd be like the Israel of old that you spoke about in Jeremiah 2, the one that had a devotion to you. And not the Israel of Jesus' day that was all leaves, withered, dead, empty. Father, I pray that our life would be filled with the fruit of your goodness, of your love, of your spirit, that we'd be filled with your word, that it would be people that walk in the integrity of our hearts before you. And that we are abiding in Jesus Christ, who is the vine. We are the branches. We're connected to that vine. We're part of that vine. We're connected to him. We're united to Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that we would abide in him and that he would abide in us. In Jesus' name, he praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.