The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we take our Bibles and open up to the book of Matthew or in Matthew chapter 20 this morning as we continue our way through the book of Matthew? And it's my joy to be back in And Matthew this morning, and it's my prayer that every time that we enter this book or any book of Scripture, as we uh have the opportunity to uh uh to read God's Word together, to study God's Word uh together, uh it's my prayer that we walk away with more than just information. You know, uh if we if we don't walk away from the the Word of God with anything more than than information, we've missed the point of Bible study altogether. If we're not practicing what we learn as true, if we're not growing in our love and devotion towards Jesus Christ, we've really missed the whole point of Scripture. As one hymn writer says, this is my earnest plea, more love, O Christ to thee, more love to thee, more love to thee. And that's what should be happening every time we open this book that we We have a greater love and appreciation uh for Jesus Christ, the the subject of this book. So let's uh jump into Matthew chapter 20. We're starting at verse 17. Why don't you follow up with me as I read? It says as Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside by themselves, and on the way he said to them, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him, and on the third day he will be raised up. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Jesus with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him, and he said to her, What do you wish? She said to him, Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit one on your right and one on your left. But Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink? They said to him, We are able He said to them, My cup you shall drink, but to sit on my right and on my left, this is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this your word. Father, we pray that you'd help us to meditate on it, Lord, that it would become a part of our lives. Father, I pray that you would help us to grow in our appreciation for your word and our appreciation and our love for you. Father, I pray that we would glory in Jesus Christ. My Father, that He would be the object of our affections. And our Father, I pray that you'd use me this morning to as a weak instrument, Lord, to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned, the last time we were together here in the book of Matthew, Jesus is on his final trip. to Jerusalem. The earthly ministry of Jesus Christ is quickly drawing to a close, and as the time for his departure draws near, like a good shepherd he's preparing his sheep for what's ahead. This isn't the first time that he's mentioned that he's about to depart, that he's going to die. If you remember back in Matthew chapter 16, if you want to flip over there with me, Matthew chapter 16. uh while they were still in uh Caesarea Philippi, right after Peter makes that monumental statement that uh you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God, Jesus rejoices over that revelation that was given to Peter in verse 17, and it says, Jesus said to him, Blessed are ye Simon Barjona, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you. But my Father who is in heaven. So here's this rejoicing over this monumental confession that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of living God. But then look at verse 21. It says from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised up on the third day. Right next to this triumphal statement is a tragic statement. I'm going to die. Over again in Matthew chapter 17. If you look over there in verse 22. While the disciples were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus makes the same prediction. Look at verse 22. It says, And while they were gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men. and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day, and they were deeply grieved. And now here in chapter twenty, for the third time Jesus makes clear exactly what's going to take place in Jerusalem. But this time, they're on their way to Jerusalem. They're on their way to what's about to take place. place, to this place of execution. And now before they get there, Jesus wants to make sure that he prepares his disciples for what's about to take place. The disciples had had no excuse for not being prepared when the time came. Jesus gave them all the advanced notice that they needed to be ready for the day of trial. Jesus wanted them to be prepared for what was going to take place, and he wanted wanted them to be convinced when it happened that he had told them the truth Yeah, told them the truth. Over in John chapter 13 and verse 19, Jesus says, From now on, I'm telling you before it comes to pass, so then it went so that when it does occur, You may believe that I am He. Even if the disciples didn't get it at first, when they finally reflected on it later on, it would come back to them, oh yeah, this is exactly what Jesus told us about. Jesus prepared us for this. Jesus is telling the truth. Jesus tells the truth. And it would give them greater assurance in the words of of Jesus Christ, greater assurance of the words of Jesus Christ. Everything Jesus said would happen would happen. Jesus was right a hundred percent of the time. You know, if you're a weather forecaster, you might be fifty percent wrong and still keep your job. You know, if you're a sportscaster, you might be 50% wrong and keep your job. If you're the Messiah, you have to be right 100% of the time in order to be the Messiah. And Jesus was always right. So as they're heading to Jerusalem, Jesus pulls aside the 12 to prepare them for his crucifixion. And the first point that we have here is Jesus prepares the 12. for his crucifixion. Look at uh verse 17 uh with me again. Verse 17. Just as Jesus was about to go up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside. by themselves, and on the way he said, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death. It's likely that there was a a large crowd that's following with Jesus, that's around Jesus as he's headed to Jerusalem. We know for one that large crowds often gathered around Jesus everywhere that he went. People always followed him. And the other thing that we know is that this is approaching the time of Passover, according to Exodus chapter 23 and verse 17. Three times a year all your males, all Jewish males, shall appear before the Lord God, the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which celebrates the week of Passover, the Feast of Harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering, were three celebrations, pilgrim festivals where all the Jewish males had to appear before the Lord in Jerusalem. So a large crowd of pilgrims would have been making their way to Jerusalem. On the east side of the Jordan, as all Jewish males were making their way to appear before the Lord, Jerusalem was the center of religious worship. It was where God manifested his presence. It was where God put his name, where he promised to listen to the prayers toward the tabernacle in that place. So there's this massive crowd that's heading towards Jerusalem. So Jesus had to pull the disciples aside if he wanted to have a private discussion with them, a private conversation. And that's what he does. He pulls aside the twelve and he gives them privileged information. This is information only for them. And there's five major elements of this communication to the disciples. Number one, we're going. We're going to Jerusalem. Number two, I'll be delivered. Number three, I'll be condemned. Number four, I'll be handed over, and number five, I will be raised. And uh none of the events that are about to take place Catch Jesus by surprise. Jesus knows exactly what's about to take place. He knows all about the plot of the chief priests and the scribes. You know, all of the secret meetings that they had were totally useless. In Matthew chapter 26 and verse 4 it says they plotted together to seize Jesus by stealth and kill him. What's the need for the stealth? What's the need for the secrecy? They might as well have had an open meeting and invited Jesus to participate because Jesus knew about it all along. He even knew who it was that was going to betray him In John chapter 6, verse 44, it says, Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. And it just struck me this week that as Jesus is talking about this, that this is about to take place and I'm about to be delivered over, Judas is standing right there in front of them. As Jesus is telling them what 's about to happen. This is what you're about to do. I mean, can you imagine being Judas? Knowing that Jesus can read every thought on your wicked mind Jesus knew everything. It had to be terrifying to be Judas, you know, to try to come up with some kind of secret plot as if you're going to get over on the son of God. Jesus knew exactly what was going to happen. Jesus also knew how the trial before the chief priests and the scribes was going to end. Jesus never hoped for a fair trial. He knew that wasn't the plan. He knew all along that what the outcome would be, that they would judge against him, even though they couldn't come up with a testimony against him. Matthew chapter 26, verse 59, it says, Now the chief priest and the whole council kept trying to obtain false testimony against Jesus so that they might put him to death. They did not find any. No duh, right? They couldn't find anything against Jesus. Even though they had many false witnesses that came forward. They couldn't even agree with one another He already knew that this trial was going to be a joke. And even without evidence, he knew that he would be convicted. Jesus also knew that the method of his execution would be by crucifixion. He would be handed over to the Gentiles, and this is the first time in the Gospels that this word crucifixion is mentioned. He already told the disciples that he would be killed. But he hasn't told them that it would be by Gentile crucifixion yet, and here he reveals that. Crucifixion was a death that was reserved for the slaves, for the traitors, for the worst criminals and the scum of society. It was an excruciating and torturous way to die. That word excruciating even comes from the word crucifixion. It's like a new word had to be born just to describe the pain of crucifixion. And among the Jews it was especially feared because the crucified were hung on a tree. And Deuteronomy chapter 21, verse 23 says He who is hanged is accursed of God. Even the method was according to the plan of God. Galatians chapter 3 verse 13 says Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. having become a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. And Jesus also knew that he would be raised. As Psalm 16 says in uh in verse 10, For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, nor will you allow your holy one to undergo decay. You will make known to me the path of life, in your presence is fullness of joy, in your right hand there are pleasures for evermore. All the promises of the kingdom rested on the crucifixion and the resurrection. If there was no resurrection, none of the covenant promises could be fulfilled. Jesus had to be raised from the dead in order to fulfill the promises of God. There would be no kingdom to come. There would be no salvation without the resurrection. So Jesus is determined to go to Jerusalem. And he makes that clear by the first statement that he makes. He says, we're going. We're going. It's a statement of fact. It's not we might go, we should go, I'm thinking about going. No, we're going. We're going to Jerusalem. It's a determination to reach Jerusalem. And this is the only active verb that shows up in verses 18 and 19. Everything else describes what will happen to him. He will be delivered. He will be condemned. He will be handed over. He will be raised. This is the only active statement of what he will do. We are going. He will go. Like the hymn writer said, the cross before me, the world behind me, no turning back, no turning back. Now the painful bite of the whips. The excruciating torture of the cross, the brutal mocking of the crowds did not turn Jesus away from the cross. He was going. And Jesus became for us the model of what it means to endure hostility when you have a choice to avoid it. And there are certain times in our life when we're forced to endure something over which we have no control, right? You know, like when the doctor tells us that we have a terminal disease and we'll have to endure the pain that's associated with that disease. You you have no choice. You just have to go through that, right? Or when we lose a loved one, and then we have to endure the emotional pain that comes along with that. We didn't choose that for ourselves, right? That that happened to us and and we have to endure that. But there's another kind of endurance that Jesus Jesus models for us here, and it's the endurance of hostility against yourself when all you have to have to do to avoid the pain is just give in to the temptation. Just give into the temptation. Keep quiet about the gospel. You can avoid persecution. Don't identify with Christ. You'll be criticized. You know, compromise for the sake of your job or for a relationship to avoid trouble. No, Jesus could have avoided the crucifixion. All he had to do was stay out of Jerusalem. That's all. But he endured the hostility and he pressed through. He didn't back down, and we have other examples of that in scripture. For example, you have the three Hebrew boys who simply had to bow before the image of gold in order to avoid the furnace. But they refused, Daniel chapter three. Or you have Daniel, who simply had to give up praying for a month to avoid the lions then, but he refused Or Jeremiah, who simply had to give up preaching to avoid the pit, but he refused. Or Micaiah, who simply had to repeat what the false prophets are saying. Just say what they say, and you'll be all right. We'll keep you out of prison. But he refused. Or Peter and John, who simply had to stop preaching in Jesus' name to avoid being beaten and thrown into prison, but they refused. Or Paul, who was warned that he would be bound hand and foot. If he continued to preach, if he continued to minister? But what did Paul say? Acts chapter 21, verse 13. What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I'm not ready not only to be bound, but even to what? Even to die. I'm not going to back down. He refused Or Jesus, who simply had to stay out of Jerusalem to avoid the cross, but he refused to give in to the temptation. He's our perfect example of what it means to endure. Why don't you flip over to Hebrews chapter 12? Hebrews chapter 12. The book of Hebrews is written to a group of persecuted Jewish believers who are tempted to abandon the faith. All they had to do to avoid the persecution was to say, you know what? I'm coming back home to Judaism. Coming home to mama. I'm no longer following Jesus. It was just a phase. Coming back home. And Hebrews is written to warn them of the consequences of turning their back on Jesus and to encourage them with the blessings of perseverance. Look at Hebrews chapter 12. Let's see how. How we're they're encouraged here. Hebrews chapter 12, starting at verse 1. It says, Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us. And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross. despising the shame, and he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. Look to Jesus. Jesus is our perfect model of one who saw what was coming and he went anyway. He endured the torture, he endured the hostility of sinners, he endured the cross. Jesus is our perfect example. And if that's you today, if you're feeling weary, look to Jesus. Look to Jesus. He is the author and perfecter of our faith. He's our perfect example. So Jesus is resolute and he informs his disciples that crucifixion is ahead. And you would think that just having heard this, that the disciples would be sober, that they'd be reflective, they might be sorrowful. I mean, your leader has just told you, I'm about to be crucified Well about to die. You you you'd think that this would just cause a hush over the disciples as they they think about the words that they just heard. This is definitely not the time to make sure that you have your reservation for the best seats in the kingdom. But that's exactly what takes place. And two disciples recruit their mother as the booking agent. You know, Mom, can you reserve the seats for us? Look at look at Matthew chapter 20 again. Look at verse look at verse 20. It says, Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to Jesus with her sons, bowing down and making a request of him. And he said to her, What do ye wish? She said to him, Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit one on your right and one on your left. This is sad. This is sad. It's not surprising, but it's sad. If if you were to turn over to Luke chapter 22, even on the night that Jesus was being betrayed. Jesus is just hours away from the cross in Luke chapter 22. Luke chapter 22. Just hours away from the cross. Jesus has said, I've earnestly desire to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say to you, I shall never again eat it until it's fulfilled in the kingdom of God. Guys, this is my last supper. This is the last meal that I'm going to eat. I'm about to suffer. And look what it says in Luke chapter 22, look at verse 21. Look at verse twenty-one. It says, But behold, the hand of the one who is betraying me is with mine on the table, for indeed the Son of Man is going as it has been determined. But woe to that man by whom he is betrayed, and they began to discuss among themselves Which one of them it might be who was going to do this thing? And there arose a dispute among them as to which one of them was regarded to be greatest. Are you kidding me? Like like seriously, you're gonna have this discussion now? Which hey, which one of us do you think is greatest? I think I'm the greatest. I'm the greatest. I am the greatest Jesus has just said this is my last meal, guys. I'm about to suffer, and you got the nerve to have a conversation about which one among you is the greatest? The greatest one is the one who's about to suffer. This conversation shouldn't be coming up at all. For whatever reason, these disciples just didn't get it. And that's exactly what it says in Mark chapter 9 and verse 31 and 32 on another occasion when Jesus predicted his death. Listen to what it says. It says in Mark chapter 9. For he was teaching his disciples and telling them, The Son of Man is to be delivered into the hands of men, they will kill him, and when he has been killed he will rise three days later. But they did not understand this statement, and they were afraid to ask. As Luke chapter 24, verse 25 says, the disciples were foolish men and slow of heart to believe. They didn't get it, and they were afraid to get it. And the glory of the kingdom was so much in their eyes that it blinded them from seeing anything else. The disciples were constantly concerned about their own position. Who's the greatest in the kingdom? What will there be for us? Remember we looked at that with uh with Peter. What's there going to be for us? And may we sit on your right and on your left hand? But this time it sinks to a new low because these two disciples get their mother in on it. Like I said, they get the mother as the booking agent. Mama 's boys make a request. Mama 's boys make a request. Even though this request comes from the mother, it's clear that she's only asking for what her boys desire And in the parallel account in Mark chapter 10 and verse 35, it doesn't even mention the mother. It simply says in James and John, the two sons of Zebedee came up to him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. So it's clear that even though they got the mother in on it, it's really the the the request that's coming from James and John. You might say, you know, Jesus, you know, you might say no to us, but you know, you can't say no to mama. You can't say no to mama. They're like the first Catholics who try to get the get a saint to intercede for them. And it didn't work then and it doesn't work now, okay? But bringing in their mother was for more than just the uh the emotional support of the emotional value of it. How could you say no to me in front of my mom, you know? But it's more than that. There's also another kind of pressure that they hope to put on Jesus, and you'll have to follow me to get this point. I want you to look over in Matthew chapter 27. We're going to flip around a little bit. Matthew chapter 27. Verse 56, we're told that there were three women who were close to Jesus, who followed him all the way from Galilee to his crucifixion. Look at Matthew chapter 27. Actually, I'll start at verse 55. Matthew 27, look at verse 55. It says many women were there looking on from a distance who had followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to him. Among them was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. So here you have the mother of the sons of Zebedee, James and John's mother, who was in this kind of inner circle of ladies who followed Jesus. She was close to Jesus. So we know that the mother of the sons of Zebedee was close to Jesus. She's listed with Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, over in the book of Mark. We actually found out what her name was because the same three ladies are mentioned. Flip over to Mark chapter 15. Mark chapter 15, look at verse 40 Talks about these same ladies. But this time it gives her name. It says, there were also some women looking on from a distance. Among whom were Mary Magdalene, we've already seen her, Mary the mother of James the Less, and Joseph, or Joseph, we've already seen her, and Salome. Salome, who's Salome? Salome is the name of the mother of the sons of Zebedee. You know, it's talking about the same lady. Same three ladies are mentioned here again. Instead of identifying her as the mother of the sons of Zebedee, she's identified by her name, Salome. She's also mentioned by name over in Mark chapter 16 as one of the first three ladies who shows up at the tomb who brought Spices to anoint the body of Jesus. But there's a there's another interesting connection between Jesus and Salome or the mother of the sons of Zebedee, and you'll find that over in John chapter 19. Look over at John chapter 19 John chapter 19, verse 25. Now you have to keep in mind that three ladies have all been mentioned together at the crucifixion. Three ladies have been mentioned at the tomb, same three ladies every time. And over in John chapter 19 at verse 25, we find the same three ladies, but this time we get more information about Salome, the mother of the sons of Zebede. Look at uh John chapter 19 and verse 25. It says, therefore the soldiers did these things and follows up on how they divided his his garments and cast lots for them. But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. Standing with the mother of Jesus were three ladies. There was Mary Magdalene. We already know who that is. She's already been mentioned. There's Mary, the wife of Clopus, and she's the same one who's the mother of James and Joseph. But who is this sister of Jesus' mother? Any ideas? There's only one person we haven't mentioned yet. You know who this is? This is Salome. This is Salome. This is the mother of James and John. This is the mother of the sons of Zebedee it's Salome, the mother of the sons of Zebedee. Mary and Salome are what? Sisters. Sisters. So think about this. If Mary, the mother of Jesus and Salome, the mother of the sons of Zebedee are sisters, that means that Salome is Jesus' what? His aunt. Hey, auntie. Hey, Auntie. It's Aunt Salome coming to Jesus, bowing down, and saying, When you enter into your kingdom, can you make these two boys, these two sons of mine One on your right, one on your left. This is more than just emotional pressure. This is this is the mother of the disciples. Who is Jesus' Aunt Salome? With James and John, who would have been Jesus' cousins, to make a request. That puts a new spin on it, doesn't it? She bows down in a sign of reverence and respect. She recognizes Jesus as King, but somehow she imagines that the family connection would carry some weight I mean why why else would she say, these two sons of mine? She's making a family connection. And it's a request, but it's a pretty bold one. It's a pretty strong one. Command that in your kingdom these two sons of mine may sit on your right and on your left. The right and the left hand of the king represented the seat of authority, the seat of power. The closer you sat to the king was the more authority and honor you had. You know, how many times do we read of Jesus being seated at the right hand of the Father? You know, Psalm 110, Matthew 26, Acts 2, Hebrews 1. It's a picture of authority, power, honor, and these disciples think they can get the highest seats in the kingdom just because Aunt Salome asked for it. And it was motivated by a desire to be elevated above their brothers, to exercise authority, to lord it over them. They were thinking like unbelievers and using worldly tactics. Family connections don't get you anywhere in the kingdom. Don't get you anywhere. Jesus made that clear back in Matthew twelve and verse forty-eight when he said, Who is my mother and who are my brothers? Verse 50, for whoever does the will of my father who is in heaven, he is my brother and sister and mother. Don't fool yourself into thinking that your family connection gives you some kind of spiritual advantage in the kingdom. You could be the son of a pastor, the daughter of a missionary, an evangelist, or even the son of Jesus' aunt And it won't get you anywhere. We all have to stand before God alone, right? We all have to stand before it's nothing about the family connection. So we have the the mama 's boys making this request through their their mother to Jesus, but the family connection doesn't get them anywhere. Next you have the mama 's boys defending their requests. Look at verse 22 back in uh in Matthew 20. Look at verse 22 It says, but Jesus answered, you do not know what you're asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? And they said to him, we are able. And and here we see that that it was plainly James and John who are behind this request all along because Jesus turns to them when he says, You do not know what you're asking, it's using a plural form of the pronoun here. You is plural, so he's no longer speaking to Atsalome, now he's speaking to the boys. He says, You guys, you plural, you don't know what you're asking for. And from the response to Jesus' question, it's clear that they had no idea what they were agreeing to When when Jesus says, Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? They quickly said, We're able. Oh, oh, we can do it. We can do it. Yes, sir. Sign me up. Now put yourself in the disciples' shoes for a minute. If Jesus just said, are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? What do you think your next question should be? Can you can you tell me what's in that cup? Before I say I'm gonna drink it, can you describe for me like what's what's inside that cup, Lord? What's inside that cup With absolutely no idea of what's in the cup. These disciples claimed, Oh, I'm ready. I'm ready to drink it. Give it up. They didn't understand what he was talking about. They were afraid to ask him, but now they're ready to drink the cup. Wouldn't you first like to know what you're agreeing to? And to answer that question, you know, what what's in this cup? What is Jesus about to drink? To answer that question, all you have to do is look into the context and ask yourself, what was Jesus getting ready to do? He says, Are you able to drink the cup that I'm about to drink? What is Jesus about to do? What did he just say? We're going to Jerusalem. The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes. They will condemn him to death. Hand them over to Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify. The cup is the cup of suffering and death. That's what the cup is. And without even asking a clarifying question, these disciples just say, Hey, sign me up. I'm ready. Ready to drink. We're able. Oh, we're able, Lord. Peter wasn't the only disciple to stick his foot in his mouth. James and John did the same thing. We often think about Peter as the foot and mouth disciple, right? You know, always tripping over himself, saying things he shouldn't say. James and John did the same thing. It was Peter who said, You know, even if I have to die with you, I'll not deny you. But then we forget that the rest of the disciples said the very same thing The very same thing. It's so easy for us to say what we're able to do or what we're not going to do before the battle starts, right? So here you have these disciples place way too much confidence in their own ability and power. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 12 says, Therefore let him who thinks he stand do what? Take heed lest you fall. Take heed. Romans chapter 12, verse 3, for through the grace given to me I say to everyone among you, not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think, but to think so as to have sound judgment. As God has allotted to each a measure of faith that the Lord knows exactly what you can handle and what you can't handle. The Lord knows. It's not up to you to say, oh, I'm able. The Lord knows if you're able or not, right? And if the Lord just told you you don't know what you're talking about, you should assume I don't know what I'm talking about, right? This is what Jesus just told. You don't have any idea what you're saying. You don't have any idea what you're agreeing to. Oh, but we'll we're we're able. And praise God that He doesn't listen to our foolish requests when we ask for more, right? 1 Corinthians 1013, God will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. Just because you say you're able doesn't mean that you're able, right? So in verse 23, their request is denied. Mamas, boys denied their request. They're denied their request. Look at verse 23. He said to them, My cup ye shall drink, but to sit on my right and on my left, this is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. The request is rejected, but I don't want you to miss the encouragement that's contained in the verse as well, because Jesus says, my cup ye shall drink. What does that mean? It means that James and John would both stand for Jesus in the face of suffering. They would be counted worthy to suffer For Jesus. And even to die for Jesus. When Jesus says, my cup you shall drink, he's not talking about suffering in general, but a specific kind of suffering That's connected to standing for Jesus. It's connected to him. Enduring it for the sake of Jesus Christ. Why don't you flip over to Colossians chapter 1? Over in Colossians chapter 1, towards the end of that first chapter in Colossians, Paul is talking about the joy of being made a minister. Colossians chapter 1, he talks about the joy of being made a minister. Verse 25, he says, Of this church I was made a minister, according to the stewardship from God bestowed on me for your benefit. that I might fully carry out the preaching of the word of God. But then look at what he says in verse 24. Colossians 1. 24. He says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake. And in my flesh, I do my share on behalf of his body, which is the church, in filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. And there's a lot of discussion about the end of that sentence because Paul says that he's filling up what's lacking in Christ's afflictions. What does that mean? And you want to say, you know, hold on, Paul, what does Christ's afflictions lack? The Roman Catholic Church has actually used that phrase in order to promote a view of righteousness, saying that your righteousness and suffering actually contributes to the work of Christ. One commentator observes that uh that Romanist commentators have found in this passage an assertion of the merits of the saints as if you know some saints were so holy they had more than enough works. that they could actually, you know, share them with other believers. You know, I have more than I need for heaven. Like I can give mine to you. Because I've done more than enough. And uh actually that's what they say about Paul. Like he was like some kind of super saint. And now he's sharing in the afflictions of Christ so he can share what he's merited with with other people, which is not an idea that's at all found in the scriptures. It's not what Paul's talking about. Paul's sufferings don't add to the finished work of Christ. He just said in verse 20 that our peace was made through the blood of his cross. We can't add to that. But what Paul is saying is that when he suffered. . in identification with Christ, that when he suffered as a member of Christ's body, that when he suffered as a servant of Christ's church, that he was suffering affliction for Christ. Jesus is still being afflicted. But people can't get to Jesus anymore. They can't reach heaven. They can't bring Jesus down And since they can't reach him, who do they reach? They reach us. They can't get to the head, who do they reach? They reach his body. And that's why Jesus said in Acts chapter 9, verse 4: Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting who? Me? Was Jesus on the earth at the time? No. But his church was. And every time you persecute the church, you persecute Christ. You're afflicting Christ. Jesus is still hated in the world, but the world can't get to the head, so they attack the body. John fifteen and verse eighteen it says, If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own, but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you And there's a connection between the suffering that we endure for the Savior now and the joy and the glory that will be ours to enjoy in the future. Matthew chapter 5, verse 11. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad. Why? For your reward in heaven is great. Romans chapter 8, verse 16. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God, and if children, heirs also heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him, so that we may also be what? Glorified with him. There's a connection between suffering and glory. 2 Corinthians 1 verse 5. But just as the sufferings of Christ are ours in abundance, so also our comfort is abundant through Christ. And then 1 Peter 4 13. But to the degree that ye share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. To the degree that ye suffer, to the degree you should rejoice. Why? Because there's a connection between what you received and what you suffer now. So the disciples rejoiced in the suffering that they received in Acts chapter 5. Paul encouraged Timothy to Suffer with me. Suffer with me. Because there's glory to follow. And Jesus promises these two brothers in the passage, My cup you shall drink, you will suffer for my sake, and they'll be rewarded for it. They'll be rewarded for it. MacArthur writes this about James. Since James wanted a crown of glory, Jesus gave him a cup of suffering. He wanted power, Jesus gave him servanthood. He wanted a place of prominence. Jesus gave him a martyr's grave. He wanted to rule, Jesus gave him a sword, not to will, but to be an instrument of his own execution. Fourteen years after this, James would become the first of the twelve. First of the twelve to die, to be killed for his faith. And the scriptures record his death under Herod Agrippa in Acts chapter twelve, verses one to three. James asked for a cup and he got it. He got it. This was the cup that the Lord put in his hand. He didn't get the Jesus cup Just like he doesn't get to choose the seat. You don't get to choose what you suffer. Jesus doesn't leave the cup for the disciples to fill any way they want it. John also received the cup. John was the last to drink it according to church history in AD 81. There was an emperor by the name of Domitian who came into power in Rome, referred to himself as Lord and God He actually forced his subjects to refer to him as commander in God. And you can imagine that didn't go well with the Christians. And uh we find out later on that uh John was exiled to Patmos, a prison colony. Under this Emperor Domitian in Revelation 1 verse 9, he speaks of the exile in these words. He says, I, John, your fellow brother and fellow partaker in the tribulation. He says, I'm a partaker of this tribulation. MacArthur writes that it was a harsh environment for an aged man. He was cut off from those whom he loved, treated with cruelty and reproach, made to sleep on a stone slab with a rock for a pillow as the years passed slowly by. This is how the apostle was treated. By most accounts, he died around the age AD 98 during the reign of Emperor Trajan. And according to Jerome, the age John was so frail that in his final days at Ephesus he had to be carried to church John ha also had no choice in the cup that he drank. This is all in God's hands. Just like uh Jesus told Peter, you know, if I if I want him to remain until I come, if I want John to remain until I come, you know, what's that to you? We don't we don't get to pick our cup. And we don't get to pick our seats. And those who desire a better seat have no idea what kind of cup they're asking for. You have no idea. When Jesus says to sit on my right and on my left is not mine to give, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared, you have to connect that back to what he said about the cup. Because the suffering is connected to the sea. There's a connection between the two. And this is not talking about you know people who foolishly place themselves in a harm's way or you know persecuted for doing what's wrong. You know, they're obnoxious and they they call it down upon themselves. And 1 Peter 4. 15 says, make sure that none of you suffers as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or a troublesome meddler. You know, a suicide bomber is not a martyr, he's a murderer. Right? You know, so putting yourself into harm's way, you know, calling persecution on yourself, you know, doing foolish things, you don't get rewarded for that. But if you do what's right and you suffer for it, the Bible says you can rejoice in that. So when James and John come to ask Jesus for these chief seats in the kingdom, they weren't asking to suffer, but that's what they were asking for, right? They weren't asking to suffer, but they were asking to suffer. And Jesus says, You have no idea what you're asking for. You know, when you're coming to me to ask for a better seat, do you know what's attached to that better seat? Are you ready for the persecution? Are you ready for the suffering? Are you ready to drink the cup? Because that's what it's attached to. So it's so Jesus isn't saying it's not mine to give because I'm not the king and I don't have authority. What he means by that is it's not mine to hand out to whoever asked for it. You don't receive the signal because of a family relation. You don't receive the sign or because you're ambitious, because you claw and scratch your way to it, you know, elbow everybody else out of the way to get it. That's a worldly view of leadership. If you're going to receive this honor, it's because you've been prepared by the Father to endure what it takes to receive that honor. Which means that you have to be prepared for the suffering. So James and John had their own cups to drink. It was prepared by the Father. They drank it, and each of us has a cup to drink. Prepared by the Father. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10 says, There's good works which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. The Bible also lets us know that we all have a measure of suffering to share. Philippians 1. 29, for to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. There's suffering for all of us. 2 Timothy 3 verse 12. Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And like I said, that's not to say that we go out looking for persecution. Or that we can't exercise our rights to avoid persecution like Paul did. You know, in Acts 22, 25, Paul was flogged for his preaching, and he says, is it lawful for you to To can to scourge a man who's a Roman and uncondemned? You know, so so he he sought for ways out of persecution, but he sought that by lawful means, not to compromise his faith. You don't compromise your faith to avoid persecution. So there's nothing wrong with exercising your rights, but we can never do that at the compromise of the of the truth. We can't do it to protect ourselves We can't do it for a friendship. We can't do it to save a job. We can't do it to avoid criticism. That's just where we're called to drink the cup. And we're encouraged just to endure it. Whatever the hostility might be, because we're taking a stand for our faith, that's just what you receive. And Trust in the Lord that he'll give you the grace to endure it, right? And Jesus himself, like I said, he's our example of enduring hostility when he could have avoided it. And he knew this all the way to Jerusalem. All the way to Jerusalem. He knew it was about to take place, but he was willing to endure the suffering. And like I said, he becomes our example. And just one more point I want to bring out here And leave you with is that Jesus knew that this was the plan even before he left heaven. Even before he left heaven. The sufferings were the part were part of the plan of redemption. In Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 to 8, it says, Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death even death on a cross. Jesus knew what was going to take place before he picked the cup up. He already knew what the contents were going to be when he picked the cup up. He knew that was going to take place before he left heaven. He knew what he would have to endure. We know that Jesus' cup was filled with even more than just torture and agony of death. Jesus drank the cup of God's wrath. There are several Old Testament passages where the wrath of God is referred to as the cup of his wrath. Isaiah 51, Rouse yourself, rouse yourself, arise, O Jerusalem. You have drunk from the Lord's hand the cup of his anger. Jeremiah 25, 15, for thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, says to me, Take this cup of the wine of wrath from my hand. Ezekiel 23, verse 33 calls it the cup of horror and desolation. And this cup was used as more than just the physical punishment of the nations. It was used for the wrath of God. And even a greater significance is the cup that was mentioned over in Revelation chapter 14, if you want to flip there real quick. Revelation 14. In the book of Revelation, the cup is not used for the temporary wrath that men experience on earth, but it's used for the eternal wrath that men experience in hell. Revelation 14. Look at verse 9. Says then another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast in his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, He will also drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed in full strength in the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the holy lamb of the lamb, and the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever They have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast in his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. This is the wrath that These in the end times deserve because turning away from God and receiving the mark of the beast, and this is the same wrath that's talked about. as the experience of hell throughout Scripture. In Romans chapter 2, verse 5, it says, Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath. And revelation of the righteous judgment of God. That's the kind of wrath that the Bible's talking about. The wrath of God for our sins, our disobedience. Romans chapter 5, verse 9 says this: Much more than having now been justified by his blood. We shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. Jesus saves us from the wrath to come. How does Jesus save us from the wrath to come? He takes that wrath on himself. The the the the torture, the pain of an eternity in hell where the smoke goes up forever is the same torture that Jesus received on himself. When he picked up that cup to drink that cup of the divine wrath of God, he was taking upon himself the punishment of sins for eternity That's what Jesus was picking up. He bore on his own shoulders the wrath of God, and he was crushed for our sins. Our sins were laid upon him, right? Our sins were laid upon him. And because of the depth of Jesus' suffering, there is no greater seat in heaven than the seat that belongs to Jesus Christ. The seat that belongs to Jesus Christ. If suffering is connected to the honor. If suffering is connected to the glory, if suffering is connected to the seat, who has the greatest seat? The one who had the most suffering. Who had the most suffering? Nobody but Jesus Christ. Nobody but Jesus Christ. Jesus deserves the top seat. Philippians chapter 2 verse 9 says, for this reason, what reason? Because he gave himself up to death. Because he offered himself as the sacrifice for sins. Philippians 2. 9. For this reason also, God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name. So that the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And we're called to join in exalting Jesus Christ because of his suffering. Because of his suffering. Like I said, we all have a cup to drink. We don't get to choose our own cup. We don't get to choose our own seat. You know, if it was up to us, we'd choose the smallest cup and the biggest seat. But God knows what's best, and He's the one who prepares us for what He'll give us. So don't worry about reserving your seats. Don't worry about what you'll get. Just see Christ. Just seek Christ. And honor the one who has the greatest seed in heaven because he's the one who endured the most suffering and hostility of sinners against himself On the end of that, another line in that song, More Love to Thee, it says, Once earthly joy I craved, sought peace and rest, now thee alone I seek, give what is best. This all my prayer shall be. More love, O Christ, to thee. More love to thee. More love to thee. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for the opportunity once again to look at your word. Father, I pray that Jesus Christ is exalted. Father, I pray that we would exalt him for his sacrifice, for suffering for sin, enduring the hostility against himself. A body you prepared for him so that he could take upon himself , Lord, the price of our sins. Father, even more than the physical pain and the torture was the agony of bearing the weight of the wrath of God. Father, I pray that we would glorify him for that. He's the one who deserves the chief place. He's the one who all knees will bow before and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. May we honor your Sun today. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.