The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. The cry of every true believer is that we love the appearing of Jesus Christ. We look forward to and hasten the appearing of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And I pray that as we uh uh continue uh studying through the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 24, uh that that uh uh that that anticipation would just grow. As we continue to learn about Jesus Christ and the return of Jesus Christ, that we would be filled with anticipation and also that our lives would be transformed. As a result of our focus on Jesus Christ, that as we focus our eyes on him, that we would be made even more purified in our lives, that we would be pure in our hearts as He Himself is pure, knowing that when we see Him We will be like him, as the Bible says. So let's turn our attention to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 24. Matthew 24 takes us back to the end of Passion Week. This is the final week. before Jesus' crucifixion. By the end of this week, only a few days from this point, short days from this point, Jesus is going to hang on a cross He was determined to drink the bitter cup that the Father gave to him, and he knew that it would end in his death. Jesus actually predicted his death several times in the Gospel of Matthew already, and not just that he would die, but pinpoint accuracy, the details about how he would die. In Matthew chapter 16 and verse 21, it says, from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem. and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed. And on Matthew chapter 17 and verse 22 it says, and while they were Gathering together in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. Matthew chapter 20 and verse 19, actually 18 and 19, it says, Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death. and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him. And then later in Matthew chapter 26 and verse 21 it says, As they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, that one of you will betray me. Jesus understood that this would be his final week. And he understood that this week would end in his death, and there was absolutely no question about that. He predicted what would happen, that he would be killed. He predicted how it would happen, that he would be crucified. He predicted where it would happen in Jerusalem. He also predicted who would be involved. He will be delivered by one of his disciples. To the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles. Just think about how many players are involved in that. The disciples, to the chief priests, the scribes, who hand him over to the Gentiles to finally be crucified. He predicted all of that And he also predicted the circumstances surrounding it, that he would be betrayed, handed over, condemned, mocked, scourged, crucified, and every word that Christ spoke was fulfilled perfectly. Perfectly. There wasn't one syllable of all that Jesus said that he had to correct, that he had to edit, that he had to take back, you know, strike that from the record. He didn't have to do any of that. His words were fulfilled literally and completely. But that wasn't it. Just as confident as Jesus was about the events of this week, he was just as confident that his death would not be the end of him He was confident that death wouldn't be the last that we saw of him. And Jesus spoke confidently about his resurrection as well, just as he did about his death. He spoke just as confidently about his resurrection, speaking about himself as the Son of Man. Jesus said this in Matthew chapter sixteen and verse twenty-one, that he must go to Jerusalem and be killed and be raised up. On the third day. In Matthew 17, 23, they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. Matthew 20, verse 18, it says, The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, they will condemn him to death, and on the third day You will be raised up. And in Matthew 26, 31 and 32, then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night But after I have been raised, I will go ahead of you to Galilee. So we see that Jesus was confident about the details of his death, but he was also confident about his resurrection. He would die and rise again, just like the scriptures predicted. Again, there was a literal fulfillment of the words of Christ, his words fulfilled literally, exactly, completely, just as he spoke it. But that wasn't all that Christ had to say about his future. Because resurrection was just the beginning of its exaltation. And we haven't seen the last of Jesus Christ yet Haven't seen the last of them yet. Just as confident as Jesus was about his death and his resurrection, Jesus was just as confident about his return, his coming again to receive the kingdoms of this world. for himself and that he would come in power and in great glory. Great glory. In Matthew chapter 16, 27 it says the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of his Father. with his angels and will then repay every man according to his deeds. Matthew 25, 31. But when the Son of Man comes, in his glory All the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. And in Matthew 26, 64, Jesus said to him, You have said it yourself. Nevertheless, I tell you Hereafter, you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. And again, there's nothing uncertain about that. It's not like a 50-50 chance that this might happen. We're not left to wonder about it It's not doubtful, it's not questionable. This is certain. Certainly this will happen. Just as everything else Jesus predicted is just as certain as this will happen as well. And the day that we're going to read about in Matthew twenty four is just as certain as Jesus' death and his resurrection. It will be fulfilled literally Exactly, completely, just as Jesus spoke it. And what reason did Jesus ever give us to doubt him? What reason did Jesus ever give us not to believe in what he said? And for anybody who would want to debate the accuracy of Jesus' words, I would point out that there is a building that is no longer standing in the center of Jerusalem as it was in the day that Jesus spoke this The temple was torn down piece by piece. An ancient historian compared the temple to a snow-covered mountain. It was like that established. It was that central to Jerusalem. It was like a snow-covered mountain sitting in the middle of Jerusalem. Josephus tells us that Herod built the sanctuary out of a mass mass of white stone, some of which were 40 by 12 by 20 feet. And Jesus said in Matthew 24, do you not see all these things? You know, take a good look at the construction project going on before you. I want to tell you the truth. that not one stone here will be left upon another which will not be torn down. And like I said, do you do you know how unbelievable that would have appeared to the Jewish people as they're listening to Jesus say this? Like I said, it's like uh standing in front of the World Trade Centers and saying, Hey, you see all these floors climbing up into the skies? Not one floor is going to be left standing upon another. And people look at you like, what are you crazy? Do you know how long it took people to construct this? Do you know this is made out of steel? There's no way this is going to be torn down. And then 9-11 happens And oh my goodness, certainly it can. It would be would have been the same way as people looked at the temple, the Jewish temple sitting in the middle of Jerusalem, saying there is no way that that's going to be torn down. And Jesus says, I'm telling you the truth. Pay attention to my words. Not one stone is going to be left upon another. This would have been the same shock to the ancient Israelite. Matthew 24, not one stone will be left upon another. And you can travel to Israel today and you can see the prophecy that has been fulfilled. There's not a Jewish temple that's sitting in the middle of Jerusalem. What are we going to read about here in Matthew 24 is about the future. And just as sure as anything that happened in the past that Jesus said would happen took place. It's just as sure as the future is that we're going to read about. We're reading about history before it happens. This is more relevant than tomorrow's newspaper, because tomorrow's newspaper might have to be edited. They might have to change something that they print tomorrow. This will never have to be changed. Let's take a look at it. Matthew chapter 24. And I'll start at verse 1 just for the sake of context. Matthew chapter 24, starting at verse 1. Says Jesus came out from the temple and was going away when his disciples came up to point out the temple buildings to him, and he said to them, Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, not one stone here will be left upon another which will not be torn down. As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately. saying, Tell us then, when will these things happen and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And Jesus answered and said to them, See to it that no one misleads you For many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will mislead many. You will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not frightened, for those things must take place. But that is not yet the end. For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes, but all these things are merely the beginning of birth bangs. Then they will deliver you to tribulation and will kill you. And you will be hated by all nations because of my name. At that time many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another. Many false prophets will arise and will mislead many. Because lawlessness is increased, most people's love will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end, he will be saved. This king gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place, let the reader understand. Let those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains. Whoever is on the housetop must not go down to get the things that are out of his house. Whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days. But pray that your flight will not be in the winter or on the Sabbath, for then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now, nor ever will. Unless those days had been cut short, no life would have been saved. But for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Then if anyone says to you, Behold, he is here is the Christ, or there he is, do not believe him. False Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. Behold, I have told you in advance. So if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out. Or behold, he is in the inner rooms, do not believe them. For just as the lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west, so will the coming of the Son of Man be. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky. And the powers of the heavens will be shaken, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. And he will send forth his angels with the great trumpet, and they will gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of the sky to the other. Bow with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, and Father, we're so grateful for your word. Father, we're grateful for the accuracy of it. Now Father, as we I look into your word. Your word is considered the word of truth. And now Father, I pray that we would believe and anticipate all that we read here. Our Father, that we would not doubt one syllable of your word. For every word will be fulfilled. And Father, we look forward to the accomplishment and fulfillment of all these things. For your name's sake. And Father, I pray that you'd use me this morning as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's been observed that the Old Testament contains 300 references to the Messiah that were fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And just think about the weight of that. 300 references of the Old Testament already fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Listen to a couple of these references. Messiah would be born in Bethlehem in Micah chapter 5, verse 2. That's fulfilled in Matthew chapter 2 and verse 1. Messiah would be heir to King David's throne. 2 Samuel 7, verses 12 to 13. That's fulfilled in the first verse of Matthew. Jesus Christ born, the son of David, son of Abraham. Messiah would be born of a virgin. In Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14, fulfilled in Matthew 1, 21 to 23. The Messiah would be be rejected by his own people. Isaiah 53, verse 3. Sometimes I speak to Jewish people and they believe that the rejection of Jesus by their rabbis and you know supposed authorities is reason not to believe in Jesus as the Messiah. And I'll let them know that's exactly why you should believe in Jesus as the Messiah. Because the scriptures say that your authorities would reject him. Scriptures predicted it, fulfilled in John chapter 1 and verse 11. The Messiah's hands and feet would be pierced. Psalm 22, verse 16. Fulfilled in John chapter 20, verse 25 to 27. Soldiers would gamble for the Messiah's garments in Psalm 22, verse 18. Fulfilled in Matthew 27, 35 to 36. Messiah's price money, the price of his blood, would be used to buy a potter's field. Zechariah 11, 12-13, fulfilled in Matthew 27, 9-10 Messiah's bones would not be broken, Psalm 34, verse 20, fulfilled in John 19, 33 to 36. And Messiah would resurrect from the dead in Psalm 16, verse 10, fulfilled in Matthew 28. 2 to 7. One author said this. Suppose that we take 10 to the 17th power. Suppose we take that number, whatever that number is, I have no idea. Ten with seventeen zeros after it. Take that, take as many silver dollars and lay them on the face of Texas, and they will cover the whole state two feet deep. Now mark one of these those silver dollars and stir the whole mass together thoroughly, all over the state. Blindfold the man Tell him that he can travel as far as he wishes, but he must pick up the one silver dollar that's the right one, the one that you marked. What chance would he have of getting it right? Just the same chance that the prophets would have had of writing just eight prophecies and having all of them come true in one man. This is the kind of accuracy of the Old Testament scriptures in relationship to the Messiah, to Jesus Christ. It's overwhelming to consider all of the scriptures and what the scriptures have to say about Jesus. And the Bible lets us know that we haven't seen the last of them yet. Haven't seen the last of them yet. There's still so much more to come. And this is real exciting. And even as Christians today, we wait with eager anticipation of what is to come. There's more to come, right? Philippians 3 verse 20, our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jude verse 21 says, waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. Titus chapter 2 verse 13. Looking for the blessed hope. and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. And then the Apostle John says in Revelation 22, verse 20, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus, right? We're eager, we're anxious, we're looking for it, we're longing for it, for Christ to come back And can you imagine the kind of anticipation that the disciples would have had? I mean, here they are with Jesus. I mean, we have an anticipation and we're not standing here with them. Here are the disciples, they had the anticipation, and here they are standing with Jesus in Jerusalem, near the temple And they're asking them, Lord, when is all this going to take place? Lord, can you tell us? We know that you're the Messiah. We know that the kingdoms of the earth belong to you. Actually, we've already been arguing back here if you didn't notice about who's going to be the what. Who's going to be the greatest when the kingdom comes? I mean, they're arguing about it. If you remember back in Matthew 20, the mother of James and John, who happened to be Jesus' aunt, asked if James and John could sit on the right and left hand of Jesus in the kingdom. Why? Because they're anticipating it. It's like I can almost taste it. Here it is. The king is right here. The kingdom's ready. Let's do it, Lord. Let's do it. How how soon is this going to happen? When is all this going to take place? They are anticipating The kingdom of Jesus Christ. Jesus tells them in Matthew 19, verse 28. He says, Truly I say to you that you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man will sit on his glorious throne, You shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And they're just like, I can't wait. I can't wait. He's telling me that I'm gonna have a throne, I'm gonna be able to rule. I mean, I'm the kingdom is here, it's coming. And then Luke chapter 19, verse 11 lets us know that they expected it to happen immediately as they're approaching Jerusalem Luke 19, verse 11. As he was near Jerusalem, they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately. It's going to happen now. So this is what's behind their question. They're like the the children sitting in the back seat of the car, like are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Like is is it coming? Like Lord is it now? I mean here they are, Lord, tell us, please, tell us When will these things happen? What will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And Jesus finally comes around to answering their question here in Matthew 24, verses 29 to 31. When will these things happen? Look at verse 29. Verse 29, Matthew 24. But immediately. When is it going to happen? Immediately after the tribulation of those days. That's when it's going to happen. Matthew 24, verse 30. And then, after the tribulation of those days, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. All of these things are going to take place immediately after the tribulation. The tribulation of those days is one of those markers or indicators that Jesus gave regarding his coming. The kingdom of God was not Going to appear immediately to the disappointment of the disciples. They're expecting it to happen now, and he says, guys, it's not going to happen until after the tribulation of those days. And that's indicated by some of the parables that Jesus told that there was going to be a period of time in between when he spoke to his disciples and when the second coming would actually take place. If you look over at Matthew chapter 24. In verse 48, Jesus gives a parable about an evil slave who says in his heart, My master is not coming for what? For a long time. This is going to be a while. So he tells this parable about somebody who's given stewardship over some property and says, hey, my master's not going to be here for a long time. It's going to be a while Chapter 25, Jesus compares his departure to a bridegroom who delays his arrival. Look at verse 5. It says, now while the bridegroom was what? Delaying. They all got drowsy and began to sleep. Then after in uh Matthew 25 where it says that, look down at uh verse 14. Compares his departure to a man who entrusts his slaves with his possessions, goes away on a journey. Look at verse 14. For it is just like a man about to go on a journey who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them. Actually in Luke chapter 19 in the parallel passage verse 12 it adds this it says a nobleman went to a distant country to receive a kingdom for himself and then returned. He's going off into a distant country. It's going to be a while before he returns. So Jesus indicates that there's going to be a period of time before his return. But immediately after these days of tribulation, all this is going to take place. And we've already spent some time. Taking a look at what this period of tribulation would look like, the metaphor that Jesus chose to describe the beginning of the end was the picture of birth pangs. uh which signals the arrival of of new life. There's going to be an increasing frequency and intensity of trouble upon the earth that's going to be unmistakable. right before uh this period of great tribulation is going to take place on the earth in uh Matthew 24 verse 21. It says, for then there will be a great tribulation such as has not occurred since the beginning of the world until now nor ever will. Jeremiah 30, verse 7 says, Alas, for that day is great, for there is none like it. And it is the time of Jacob's distress. In Daniel chapter 12, verse 1, it says, there will be a time of distress. such as has never occurred since there was a nation until that time. And we covered last time a lot of what will happen during this period of time. That this is gonna be worse than the delusion of false messiahs and destruction of warfare, worldwide famines, earthquakes, it's gonna be worse than that. It's going to be worse than the desertion of true religion, the vision against believers, the deception of false prophets across the earth. It's going to be worse than that. It's going to be worse than lawlessness increasing at a scale we've never seen before? Even natural love and affection dying all over the world where brother betrays brother to death and a father his own child? Children rise up against the parents, it's going to be worse than that. Like I said, you could say, what what 's worse than that? It's the horror that's going to be unleashed by the one Who will stand in the holy place and commit the act known as the abomination of desolation? It's going to be the very opposite, like I said, if heaven come down, it's going to be hell rising up. Hell rising up. Satan's kingdom and Satan's will being done on the earth. And not only does Satan have unredeemed men at his disposal, but an army of fallen angels. who will be unleashed on the earth for the singular purpose of declaring him as God and worshiping him as God. 2 Thessalonians 2 verse 3 says, The man of lawlessness will be revealed, the son of destruction, who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple, displaying himself as being God. The world has never seen anything like it. Unleashed on the world. Spiritual darkness of these days will be unparalleled. Like it says in verse 22 of Matthew 24, unless those days had been cut short, no life would have been saved. No life. It's not Satan's desire to care for his subjects. I hope you know that. Satan's not some kind of benevolent king who cares for the people who submit themselves to him. He wants your worship and then he wants you dead. That's what he wants. He wants you to bow down and then bow out. That's what he wants from you. He's not here to give you life and life more abundantly. That's what the Savior has come to give, right? I've come to give him life and life more abundantly. Satan comes that he might kill, steal, destroy. He wants your worship and then he wants you out And if it was up to him, no life would be spared. No life would be saved. But it's not up to him. It's not up to him, right? And before he can accomplish his goal, Christ will return and pull the plug on the party. It's coming to turn the lights out. Right in the middle of Satan's party. Look at verse 29. Verse 29. It says, But immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heaven will be shaken. This here is like a return to the to the plagues of Egypt. You remember that? If you remember uh back in Exodus 10, uh there was the a supernatural darkness. That was placed over Egypt for a period of three days. In Exodus chapter 10, verse 21, it says, Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward the sky, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt. Even a darkness which may be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky, and there was thick darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days. They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days. And how do we know it was a supernatural darkness? Goes on to say in verse 23, but all the sons of Israel had light in their dwellings. That that is incredible to think about. Like just this blanket of darkness fell over Egypt. Or or it's like they can't can't light light a lamp. I mean nothing. There's no light at all. Just this blanket of darkness. But right next door The children of Israel will have light. It is a supernatural, thick darkness that came over Egypt, and it's the same kind of darkness that's going to come over the world in the future. There's going to be no lamp, no light. Blanket of darkness covers the entire globe. That darkness is, like I said, is going to be global. The sun and the moon are described in scripture as having like this kind of fixed order. In Jeremiah chapter 31, it says, The Lord who gives the sun for light by day, the fixed order of the moon and stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, the Lord of hosts is his name, that this light is going to go out. Unbelievable to think about it. Scientists tell us that the sun will eventually burn out. You know, for those of you who uh who think this place is going to last forever, even scientists know it's not going to last forever. Sun's eventually going to burn out, but they say it's going to take a while. They say the the sun has enough hydrogen to last another five billion years. But the sun's not going to die out slowly. The scriptures let us know that Christ is just going to turn off the switch. It's going to flip the switch on it. And this is exactly what the book of Isaiah predicted. Why don't you flip back to the book of Isaiah? Isaiah chapter 13. Isaiah chapter 13 Isaiah 13 talks about the judgment of uh of Babylon, uh, but it's uh a reminder That there's going to come a destruction upon the entire globe. And we know that we're talking about a worldwide judgment Because Isaiah makes it clear that he's referring to the entire world in verse 11. In Isaiah 13, verse 11, he says, Thus I will punish the world. For it's evil and the wicked for their iniquity. I will also put an end to the arrogance of the proud and abase the haughtiness of the ruthless. Take a look at Isaiah 13, I'm starting at verse 6. Isaiah says this, Wail, for the day of the Lord is near. It will come its destruction from the Almighty. Therefore all hands will fall limp. And every man's heart will melt. They will be terrified. Pains and anguish will take hold of them, and they will writhe like a woman in labor. They will look at one another in astonishment, their faces aflame. Behold, the day of the Lord is coming. Cruel with fury and burning anger to make the land a desolation, and he will exterminate its sinners from it. Listen to this, for the stars of heaven and their constellations will not flash forth their light. The sun will be dark when it rises, and the moon will not shed its light. Thus I will punish the world for its evil. and the wicked for their iniquity. I'll also put an end to the arrogance of the proud and abase the haughtiness of the ruthless. I'll make mortal man scarcer than pure gold. And mankind and the gold of Ophir. Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken from its place at the fury of the Lord of hosts in the day of his burning anger. Heaven's going to be shaken. Flip over to Isaiah chapter 34. Isaiah chapter 34. Look at verse 1. I have another picture of the same same scene. Exodus chapter 34, look at verse 1. Draw near, O nations, to hear, and listen, O peoples. He's talking about the world again. Let the earth and all it contains here, and the world and all that springs from it. For the Lord's indignation is against all the nations, and his wrath against all their armies. He has utterly destroyed them, he has given them over to slaughter. So their slain will be thrown out, and their corpses will give off their stench, and the mountains will be drenched with blood, and all the host of heaven will wear away, and the sky will be rolled up like a scroll. All their hosts will also wither away as a leaf withers from the vine or as one withers from the fig tree. Let's take a look at one more picture over in the book of Joel. Over in the book of Joel. Hosea Joel. Look at chapter two Book of Joel talks about a physical plague of locusts that Joel describes in this language in chapter 2 and verse 10. It says, before them the earthquakes, the heavens tremble, the sun and moon grow dark, and the stars lose their brightness. But then Joel looks further ahead into the future and says, this is just a faint picture of what will come upon the earth. Take a look at Joel chapter 2, look at verse 31. Actually, I'll start at verse 30. Joel chapter 2, look at verse 30. It says, I will display wonders in the sky and on the earth, blood, fire, and columns of smoke, the sun will be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it will come about that whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be delivered. Apostle Peter picks that up over in Acts chapter 2, right? This is talking about something in the future. It's not talking about what happened in Joel's day. Peter's still looking forward to this. There's going to come a time that the sun will forbear to shine, as the hymn writer says. Flip over to Revelation chapter 6. Revelation chapter 6. Just want to give you one more picture of this. Revelation chapter 6. Terrifying picture for the unbeliever. Look at verse 12 Says I looked when ye broke the sixth seal and there was a great earthquake and the sun became black as sackcloth, made of hair, and the whole moon became like blood. And the stars of the sky fell to the earth as a fig tree cast its unripe figs when shaken by a great wind. The sky was split apart like a scroll, just kind of wraps up, wraps up on itself. When it is rolled up and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. Then the kings of the earth and the great men and the commanders, all the mighty people, right? And the rich and the strong and every slave and free man hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains And they said to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, hide us from the presence of Him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, for the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to stand? The entire powers of the heaven will be shaken on that day. As Matthew chapter 24 points out, this is just a reminder. Of Christ's control over the universe, right? In Hebrews chapter 1, we read it earlier, Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3 says that he is the radiance of his glory, of God's glory, the exact representation of his nature, and he upholds all things by the word of his power. Christ is holding up this universe in a delicate balance. All she has to do is lose his grip a little bit and everything's going to come apart. The scroll's gonna just wrap up. You know, you try to have a like a tightly kind of bound uh paper rolled up and you try to like hold it out. It's it's your pressure that's keeping that open. You you let that go a little bit, it'll just wrap up on itself, just roll over on itself And that's what's going on here. He's just releasing his grip, allowing everything just to roll up, turning the lights out. Men who are so arrogant, who raise their fist against the Almighty, he says, let me just release my grip a little bit and see what happens Let me just release my grip a little bit and see how you like that. He'll barely barely touch the fig tree and the figs just kind of fall off. That's the imagery that's that's being pictured here You know, like the the fig tree, like the stars are like hanging on a tree and all she has to do is shake the tree a little bit and they just all fall down. I remember as a as a young boy I was visiting Jamaica and my grandmother had a mango tree and uh my cousin would climb up And uh, you know, grab the mangoes and kind of toss them down the tree. You know what I mean? And there was one time he's climbing up the tree, he barely like brushed against this mango, and it came straight down, just so right, all he had to do was just touch it and fell down. Hit me in the nose. But this is all Christ has to do. He just brushes up against the stars and they just drop, just fall, like ripe figs. This is the power of your Lord. Jesus just brushes against the stars and they're dislodged. What we're talking about here is a massive upheaval of the created order. And not only will the skies be shaken up, so will the earth. We've already seen it, but look over at uh Luke chapter 21. This is another account of what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 24, just to fill out the picture for you a little bit. Look at Luke chapter 21. Look at verse 25, Luke 21, starting at verse 25. It says there will be signs and sun and moon and stars. And listen to this, and on the earth, dismay among nations in perplexity at the roaring of the sea and the waves Men fainting from fear and the expectation of the things which are coming upon the world, for the powers of the heaven will be shaken. As Isaiah already mentioned, the earth will be shaken from its place at the fury of the Lord. Isaiah 13, 7 says, therefore all hands will fall limp and every man's heart will melt. And this is the same thing that's being discussed here. Men fainting from fear and the expectation of the things which are coming upon the world. MacArthur points out that the word that's used In Luke for fainting, apatsico literally means to stop breathing or to leave off your breath. It says that men who are fainting, the men who are fainting in fear of the expectation, it's like literally they can't breathe. Fainting because they can they can no longer breathe. Basically, like these are men just dropping like flies. Dying on the spot at the expectation of the fear of about what's to take place, of what's about to take place. Just so terrified as the Lord descends that they just they're just done. Can't breathe anymore from the shock of it that the Lord has actually showed up just like he said he would, right? But they're shocked. They're shocked that the Lord would actually show up. Suggest that many died just at the experience of the Lord descending. Unlike anything that the world's ever seen, the fixed order of the heavens and the earth depend upon being held to their foundation. And when the Lord starts to shake the foundation, who is going to stand? Who's going to stand? It's amazing how arrogant people can be when they're so dependent on everything that's around them to live, right? It's amazing how arrogant you can be. You can't create the water that you have to drink to stay alive. You can't create the earth that you have to walk on. You can't create the air that you need to breathe. From the time you were born, you needed somebody to take care of you or you would die. Did you understand how dependent you are You needed somebody to take care of you when you're I mean we're worse off than the animals. At least the animals can you know come out the womb and find some food, right? How how many of the babies that are born here are just like, hey mom, I got it from here, don't worry about me. No, it's not happening. You're you're you're born like immediately like need need want want like I need crying out like mama feed me right immediately you are dependent And then you want to walk around like you don't need God? How arrogant. How arrogant. You have the audacity to raise your fist at God when God created your fist. Someone said we're like the ch the child who climbs up on his father's lap so he can get high enough so he can strike him in the face. It's like you you needed the lap just to get up high enough to try to hit your father. So it's like you prop yourself up on all of God's creation so you can get high enough so you can slap him in the face. I don't need you. Are you kidding me? You needed me even to say that. You needed me even to strike me. Were those who borrow from God in order to rebel against him. And one day Christ will say, that's enough. Man and Satan have had their day, and he's going to come back and shake the tree of the universe. And men are going to cry out in terror. The lights of the sky will be shut out. Next number two, the sign of the Son of Man will come. Sign of the Son of Man will come back in Matthew chapter 24. Look at verse 30. Matthew 24, look at verse 30. It says, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. Back in verse 3, the disciples ask the question, what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? And here Jesus speaks about what that sign will be. Verse 30, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. You want to know what the sign is? Here's the sign, the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky. And people scratch their head and they say, well, what is that sign of man that's going to appear in the sky? There's been been different views on what this sign would be. Older interpreters assumed that the sign that Jesus was talking about was the sign of the cross. And there was this belief that there would be like this kind of bright blazing cross that would descend from the sky, the sign of the Son of Man. And uh there's no question that today the the cross is the universal symbol of Christianity. But to to read that back into this text would be to introduce something totally foreign to the disciples. They had no idea what what what that meant. Like the the sign of the Son of Man, like the cross. I mean they 're not even thinking the cross, right? I mean they they wanted to try to get Jesus away from the cross. They're not thinking of, oh, the cross is my symbol of Christianity. That's not what they're thinking about. It's what's called an anachronism uh a person or thing that's chronologically taken out of place. Like if I were to ask my my grandmother, you know, what cell phone carrier did you use when you were a child? Like cell phone, what are you talking about? We didn't have cell phones. Or like my my kids asking me, you know, who was your favorite YouTuber, you know, when you were a child? It's like, we we didn't have that. It didn't exist Same thing when they say, Oh, you know, the cross is the symbol of Christianity to the disciples, they'd be like, What are you talking about? They would have no idea what what uh what that would have meant. So the disciples are not thinking about the cross. as the symbol of of Christianity. It's not the sign of the cross. Other interpreters say that the sign is the Shekinah glory of the Lord which is a lot closer to the mark. The word Shekinah is a Hebrew word that literally means that he caused to dwell, talking about the presence of of God, signifying that this is the divine visitation or presence or dwelling of the Lord on earth. And even though the expression isn't used in the Bible, the concept is And throughout Scripture, we're told that we're looking for the glory of the Lord at His coming. Titus chapter 2, verse 13, looking for the blessed hope. and the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ, the glory, the shining, brilliance of the Lord. First Peter chapter 4, verse 13. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ Keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. And Jesus just let the disciples know that the lights of the sky would go completely dark. So if anything is going to be seen during this time, it has to come with its own light, right? It has to come with its own brightness. And the Old Testament gives us just a small taste of the brightness of the glory of the Lord. Moses had a glimpse of it, a small glimpse of it, right? On Mount Sinai. It was the glory that was so brilliant in Exodus chapter 34. Listen to what it says. It came about when Moses was coming down from Mount Sinai. The two tablets of the testimony were in Moses' hand as he was coming down from the mountain that Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone. Because of his speaking with him, just just just having a personal conversation with the Lord was enough for the dazzling brilliance of the glory to reflect off of his face. So when Aaron and all the sons of Israel saw Moses, behold the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him. They were afraid of Moses because of the remains of the glory. on the face of Moses. And that even wasn't the full display of the glory of God, right? Because God warned Moses in Exodus 33 and verse 20, you cannot see my face, for no man can see me in what? You can't you can't you can't take it Moses. You can't take it Moses. No, you want to see my glory? You you can't take the full the full display It was that same glory that was put on display in the Mount of Transfiguration. Matthew chapter 17. It says six days later Jesus took up with him Peter and James and John, his brother, led them up on a high mountain by themselves. He was transfigured before them, his face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as light. It's the same blinding light that knocked Paul off of his donkey. Who was then named Saul. Remember that? Acts chapter 9. As he was traveling, it happened that he was approaching Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him, and he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And I would agree that the glory that's being showed here, uh shown here, is is that Shekinah glory of the Lord. But my question here is where does that glory come from? And I think it's clear where the glory comes from. It's from Jesus Himself. It's it's not like like Jesus comes from heaven and he needs a spotlight, you know, to show everybody where he is. Like, hey, can you turn the lights on so people can I can't people can't see me, can you turn the lights on a little bit brighter please? That's not what he has to do He comes and he brings his own light with him because he is that light. He is that dazzling display of light. It's his own glory that's being seen. In John chapter 17, verse 5. Now Father, glorify me together with yourself. with the glory which I had with you before the world was. John 17, 24. Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory Which you have given me for you loved me before the foundation of the world. And in Revelation twenty-one, verse twenty-three, it says, And the city has no need of the sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God has illumined it. And its lamp is the Lamb. Jesus Christ is the light. Listen to how Zechariah speaks of that day. Zechariah 14, verse 5. It says, Then the Lord my God will come, and all the holy ones with him. And that day there will be no light. The luminaries will dwindle, for it will be a unique day which is known to the Lord, neither day nor night, but it will come about that at evening time there will be light. And who is that light? It's the Lord. It's Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the Lord. And actually in Zechariah 14, 5, we actually have another evidence of the deity of Jesus Christ. It says, Then the Lord my God will come. Who's coming? Jesus is coming. Who is Jesus? He's the Lord my God. It's the one who comes and all the holy ones with him. It's Jesus Christ who comes. Jesus Christ is the Lord, and Jesus Christ is the light. And he's his own sign. He doesn't need anything else for a sign. Like like I'm it. I am the sign. That phrase in uh Matthew twenty-four and in verse thirty where it says the sign of the Son of Man, that can be understood either as the sign which belongs to the Son of Man Or the sign which is the son of man. Both ways. And that's how I take it here. It's the sign which is the son of man He will come. He is the light of the world spiritually, but one day he will physically and visibly be the light that illumines the entire planet. Supernatural glory. It's going to be unescapable. The Bible teaches us that the coming of Jesus will illuminate the entire sky from east to west. It's not going to be any competing lights because all the lights will go out. And the only light that we'll be able to see will be his own glory. His blinding glory as he's being revealed. And what are they going to see? They're going to see the Son of Man. Coming on the clouds. Bible calls this his appearing. 2 Timothy 4. 8. In the future there's laid up for me the crown of righteousness. Which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who love his appearing. This is his appearing. The glory, the light, the coming of the Son of Man. This is his appearing. And as we've already seen, there's going to be sheer terror and mayhem from the unbelieving world who wants to hide from the wrath of the Lamb. Kings of the earth, commanders, rich, strong, slave, free, hiding in the rocks and the caves, asking for the mountains to fall on them, because of the wrath of the Lamb. Who can stand? But there's going to be another response, and it's going to be the response of mourning, and we'll go ahead and end here. Look at verse 30 again, Matthew 24, verse 30 Says, and then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn. And they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. I find it interesting here that Jesus uses the word tribes instead of the word nations. Normally when the entire earth is being referred to, it's nations and kingdoms of the earth. Even a little further up when Jesus spoke of the wars that would happen on the earth, look at verse verse 7, chapter 24, verse 7. It says, For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. He doesn't say tribe against tribe. When he talks about this, the entire earth, he talks about nations and kingdoms. He doesn't describe them as tribes. In addition to that, Jesus spoke very specifically. about the nation that would recognize him when he returned. Look at chapter 23 and verse 39. It says, for I say to you, from now on, you Will not see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Who is he talking about? He's referring to the Jewish nation. He's talking to the Jewish leaders. He's saying, until you recognize, until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. You won't see me. Until you say this. He's talking to the Jewish nation. In addition to that, the tribulation period itself is said to have a specific focus. In Jeremiah chapter 30, verse 7, it says, Alas, for that day is great, for there is none like it, and it is the time of Jacob's distress. But he will be saved from it. Jacob is who? It's talking about Israel. It's a time of Jacob's distress, specifically designed for Jacob, for Israel. And then turn back to Zechariah chapter 12. Zechariah chapter 12 speaks about the nation Israel again and listen to what The prophet Zechariah says about the future. This is again what will happen, just as everything else the scripture says would take place, took place. This is something else that's going to take place. Zechariah chapter 12, look at verse 10. It says, I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and of supplication, so that they will look on me whom they have pierced. And they will mourn for him as one mourns for an only son. And they will weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn. In that day there will be a great mourning in Jerusalem, like the mourning of Heda Drimon in the plain of Megiddo. The land will mourn every family by itself, the family of the house of David by itself. They're wise by themselves, the family of the house of Nathan by itself, they're wise by themselves, the family of the house of Levi by itself and their wives by themselves, the family of the Shimeites by them by itself and their wives by themselves, all the families that remain, every family by itself and their wives by themselves And that day a fountain will be opened for the house of David and for the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for impurity. That's a very specific prophecy. Actually talks about the different tribes, mentioning the different tribes. This is talking about the future of Israel. That one day Israel is going to mourn over the Messiah whom they rejected. Not not too long ago, Pastor Matt and I were uh at a Panera Bread and we're sitting next to this this Jewish lady and uh had the opportunity to share the gospel with her, and uh how she responded was really, really insightful. When we were talking to her about the gospel, she said, you know what? She said, my rabbi told me that when the Messiah comes, the first question he's going to ask the Messiah is, were you here before? I mean think about that. She said the first question her rabbi wants to ask the Messiah is, Were you here before? Did we miss it? Did we miss you? And when the Jewish people are prepared to say, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, they're going to be struck fresh with this realization that we are the ones who rejected him. We rejected our Messiah. We put him to death. They're going to weep bitterly over him like the bitter weeping of a firstborn son. Like the grieving that you'd have over like your only son that had passed away. Like that kind of grief. It's like that kind of grief they'll have over rejecting Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Over in the book of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 53, the words of Isaiah's prophecy can actually be looked at as uh looking back instead of looking forward. Isaiah 53, when Israel finally comes to the realization of what they did and rejecting their Messiah, I believe these are the words that they'll say. Who has believed our message? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a tender shoot and like a root out of parched ground. He has no stately form or majesty that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men. Talking in the past tense. A man of sorrow is acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. I believe this is Israel's grief and mourning over rejecting the Messiah. We did not esteem him. We did not honor him. We rejected him. We're the ones, as Zechariah chapter 12 speaks about. They will look on me whom they have pierced. We pierced him. We put him to death. They'll own it. If you ask actually if you look in the book of Acts, how many times did Peter indict the nation of Israel? Saying, you put them to death by the hands of godless men. You handed them over to the Gentiles. And finally, in this day, Israel will actually accept it and say, yes, that's true. That's what we did That's what we did. We stand rightly condemned. It was us. We rejected him. We perished him. It was us who put them to death. They'll finally be able to confess their sins before the Lord. And collectively they understand that they hid their face from him. Revelation 1 7 says, Behold, he is coming with the clouds. Every eye will see him, even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. So it is to be. Amen. There will be tears for the Messiah. There's going to be tears for the Messiah. What we understand is that these tears of Israel will also be turned to joy. Because this is also going to be for the salvation of Israel as well. Matthew, uh actually over in Romans chapter 9, verse 6, it lets us know that not all who are Israel They are not all Israel who are descended from Israel, so all of Israel is not Israel. Well that doesn't mean that none of Israel is Israel. There's still Israel who belongs to spiritual Israel, national Israel, physical, descendants of the nation that still belong to the Lord, the elect, as we'll talk about next week, but I just want to read this passage for you in Romans chapter 11. Romans chapter 11, look at verse 25. That a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved. Those who are left, the remnant. The entirety, all Israel will be saved. Just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. From the standpoint of the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but from the standpoint of God's choice, they are beloved for the sake of the Fathers. Israel will be saved. And over in the book of Jeremiah, where we also learn and Chapter 31 about the Son and how God gives this fixed order. And God also says that there's days coming. When listen to this. Jeremiah chapter 31. I'll start at verse 35. It says, thus says the Lord, he gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night. Who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar, the Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel also will cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured in the foundation of the earth, search out below, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. What he's talking about is this is going to be a restoration. That Israel will be saved. And if you could measure out the expanse of the earth and the heavens above, it says, then I'll cast off Israel. But Israel's not going to be cast off They will be saved. There is a portion, there is a remnant that the Lord will reserve for himself, and they're called the elect. There's going to be mourning that will be turned to joy because the Lord will save his elect. And as we close, I just want to ask you a couple questions as we think about the return of the of the Lord. Is this something that you're excited about? Is this something that you're looking forward to? The Bible lets us know that when Jesus returns, that he will appear in glory. The Lord Jesus Christ will receive the honor that he's rightly due. When Jesus Christ returns, he will judge Satan and destroy the Antichrist. The Bible says the war against Christ will finally be ended and Satan will be crushed. There's coming relief for those who are afflicted. All those who are troubled in this life, the Lord will repay and retribution to those who do not know God, to those who trouble the believer. Not only is there relief for the believer, there's there's the revelation of the believer himself, that those of us who are in Christ, that when Christ is revealed, then we who are his saints, who he brings with them, will also be revealed with him in glory. He's going to be revealed, and we are going to be revealed with him. And when Christ comes back, he's going to set up the kingdom. That kingdom that the disciples anticipated, they longed for, they looked for. That kingdom is going to come. And the Bible lets us know that his saints will be a part of that kingdom. This is what we look forward to, and uh just as certain as Jesus came. Just as certain as Jesus died, just as certain as Jesus rose again from the dead, Jesus Christ will come back. You can bank on it. You can count on it. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for Your word, my Father, we thank you for the blessing that we have of knowing the future before it happens. Reading about the events of the future before they even take place. And Father, with true believers, we anticipate, we love, we look forward to, we're anxious for the appearing of our Savior, our great Savior, and our God, Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that our hearts would just be caught up, Lord, in just greater affection to Christ, in greater love to Jesus Christ. My Father, that our lives would demonstrate just a transformed character because of our longing to be like our Savior. My Father, that is our future. Father, I pray that you would help us as your people today, Lord, that we would look forward to that time to come. There will be joy to the world, as we sang about earlier, that our Lord is come. My Father, may you receive all the glory. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.