The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. It's a blessing to be reminded that we have one sovereign king who rules forevermore. Amen. It's uh wonder wonderful to be reminded of that. As we mentioned earlier in our service, it was on October 31, 1517, that Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses on the Castle Church door in Wittenberg to stand in protest. to the practices of the church over the authority of the scriptures. Luther understood that the authority of the Pope was limited by Christ and the authority of God's Word. Luther understood that it was God's word that was truth. It was the scriptures themselves that eventually led to all the other major teachings of the Reformation, as we mentioned. Salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. And in 2024, we are still protesting. We're still Protestant. We're still protesting any authority over the scriptures. We still believe in God's word as truth. We believe what Paul said to Timothy in 2 Timothy 3. 15, the sacred writings are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation. Through faith which is in Christ Jesus. James 1. 18 says, in the exercise of his will, he brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of first fruits among his creatures. Or 1 Peter 1 and verse 23, it says, For you have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable, that is through the living and enduring word of God. And it was in John 6 and verse 63 that Jesus says, the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. It's by the word that you've been brought forth, by the word that you've been born again. I'll never forget the time I spoke with the Roman Catholic priest and I asked him if it was possible to come to saving faith Through the words of Scripture alone. And he told me, no, you need the traditions of the church. And that's the central point of contention for us because If we can't trust the authority of the scriptures and the words of Christ to lead us to salvation, then who should I be able to trust? Who can I trust if I can't trust the words of Christ? Who can I trust if I can't trust the words of Scripture? And how would you be able to verify anything that you're telling me if I can't back it up by the Word of God? Even the Apostle Paul considered those Bereans noble because they examined the scriptures to see if what he was telling them was the truth. And he was an apostle. He was not afraid to be fact-checked. We hear that a lot today, right? He wasn't afraid to be fact-checked. Fact-check me. Look to the scriptures. See if what I'm saying is true. Acts 17, 11. Now these, referring to the Bereans, were more noble-minded than those of Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so Then Paul says in Galatians chapter 1 and verse 8, but even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. What the Apostle Paul was saying that myself as an apostle or an angel from heaven does not stand above the Word of God. It doesn't matter who you are or where you came from. Nobody stands above the Word of God, as the hymn that we sang earlier says. It's the word above all earthly powers. His word. And it's been a practice of our church to take the Sunday before October 31st to remember the recovery of the Word of God during the period of the Reformation. or other periods of church history. But before we do that, before we take a look at a figure of church history, let's take a look at the scriptures first, and we'll always examine scriptures first before we take a look at any historical figure. So why don't you grab your Bibles with me and turn to the book of Matthew, chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11. And we'll be looking particularly at verses 28 to 30, Matthew chapter 11, verses 28 to 30. This is a text that's been familiar to most of us for most of our Christian lives. And the words are filled with mercy and hope and compassion. It's a very comforting pass passage and on the the surface it's very easy to understand. Uh the the passage presents us with pictures and metaphors that the youngest child can appreciate. You know, I know what it's like to to need a rest. Nap time, right? You need to need a rest. Picture of resting when you're tired, taking off a heavy load when you're weary. Simple ideas that we can all understand to some degree, and because it's so familiar, we can lose the incredible wonder of what Jesus is trying to communicate here. It's an amazing text, so let's just jump right in. Matthew chapter 11, starting at verse 28. Jesus says, come to me. All who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Why don't you bow your heads for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, uh, this Lord today, as we do every Lord today, asking for you to To give us your help, Lord. We need your help to understand your word. Father, I pray that you'd open up to us your scriptures that we may behold wonderful things, wonderful things in your word. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's important, first of all, that we remind ourselves of the context of Matthew chapter 11. Jesus is speaking to a crowd that has largely rejected his ministry. He's denounced them in verse 20. If you look back at verse 20, he's denounced this crowd. He says, then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they did not repent. He pronounced a word of judgment upon them down in verse 21. Woe to you, Corazon, woe to you, Voseidah. He even warned them of the punishment of hell down in verse 23. He says, and you, Capernaum, will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You will descend to Hades. And for the most part, these cities were proud, they were arrogant, they were hardened to the truth. He sarcastically referred to them as the wise and intelligent because that's how they thought of themselves. They thought they were enlightened to the truth because they rejected Jesus. You know, we're so smart that we we've rejected you. But Jesus says the reality is that it's because you're blind to the truth that you've rejected me. It's those who are blind who reject Jesus Christ. But there was another group that Jesus recognized among this crowd, and they were the weary and the heavy laden, those who are weighed down, and to those who are part of that crowd, he offers rest. That's what he offers. He says, Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And if you think about that command that Jesus gives to us, come and find rest. It only makes sense to wearied and weighed down people Because if you don't feel the weight, why do you need the rest? If I don't feel like I'm under a burden, if you don't admit that you're up against the ropes, why would you want to end the fight? If you don't think that you're in a submission hold, why would you want to tap out? This command makes no sense for the self-sufficient, the self-reliant, the self-satisfied. This is a command for the weary and the weighed down, the worn out. That's who he says to come and find rest. The word for weary or for labor, it's an active word. It's the Greek word kopiao, which means to labor to the point of exhaustion. It's a word that's often translated as toiling, striving, struggling. The picture is of a person exerting all of their energy just to put one foot in front of the other, struggle just to stay in place, and sometimes that's how we can feel. It's the idea of uh being active in the struggle, just kind of leaning in, putting all of your weight in and not moving anywhere You know, sometimes you watch those weather videos of the strong winds and you know people are leaning all the way forward and you know they can't even make any progress because of the the force of the wind against them. He says, those are the weary, those who are laboring to the point of exhaustion. Then he speaks about the second word, those who are heavy laden, and this is the passive verb here, those who are weary are the ones who are exerting Energy and the heavy laden are those who are who have just been piled on. You don't want to not only do they wear themselves out, but they're they've been weighed down on top of that, piling on heavy loads. It's not enough that they're struggling, but now they're being thrown off balance because of what's being piled on top of them. And this is the perfect picture of people who are trying to find rest apart from Jesus Christ. False religion. People who try to find rest in false religion. They're worn out. They're weighed down Jesus in Matthew 23 spoke about the burdens that were laid upon the Jewish people by the Pharisees who were known as the professional practitioners of the law. When people came to them to ease their consciences, to lighten their load, these false teachers would only add more weight to what they already had. They came to be unburdened, and now they they've loaded on some more before you go. Matthew 23, verse 4 says, they tie up heavy burdens, lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves are unwilling to move them with so much as a finger. You know, they don't get up under the load. I won't even give you a finger to help you out with the load. And that's the reality of religion apart from Jesus Christ. The Roman Catholic Church teaches, according to the Council of Trent, that the faithful must attain a righteousness that abounds in the soul and makes it permanently holy before God. That's what you're responsible for. A righteousness that abounds in the soul and makes you permanently holy before God. Good luck with that. Islam teaches a path of righteousness that includes fastings, prayers, adherence to rules, rituals. And then God will weigh your good works against your evil works when you come to the day of judgment. Hinduism teaches that its followers need to be liberated from this personal physical existence, transcend into true reality, and that we have to be continually reincarnated until we get it right. I mean talk about a burden. I've got to do this again? Gotta come back and do it over again? Where's the rest in that? You know, you die and you're right back at the beginning again Every religious system apart from biblical Christianity offers nothing but the next assignment. There's what's next. You did that? Okay, great. Now here's what's next. One writer says there's nothing quite so nauseating or pathetic as the flesh trying to be holy. And if that's where you are today, if you've been trying to be holy, trying to present holiness before God apart from Jesus Christ, my my question for you is, are you tired yet? Are you worn out yet? Are you weary yet? Have you finally realized that I can't do this? Martin Luther, he would often talk about just the weariness of his soul trying to present God with perfect righteousness. I can't do this. Why does he add this burden on me? There's nothing I can do to get away from my sin. It's like I'm trying to run away from the clothes that I'm wearing. I can't get away from this. It's in me. It's a part of me. How can I present myself as holy before God? It's useless. But in contrast to all of that, Jesus says, I can give you rest. I can give you rest. Three commands that Jesus gives here. All of these commands center on Christ Himself because we find rest in a person. That's where we find rest. It's in a person. We find it in Christ. First command is come to me. Look at verse 28. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest Coming to Christ is a command that's found all throughout the Gospels. It simply means to turn, to trust in Christ. It's a metaphor for believing in Jesus. Coming to Jesus and believing in Jesus are the same thing. Over in John chapter 6 and verse 35, Jesus uses these two ideas as parallel and shows them as parallel to one another. John 6. 35, Jesus says to them, I am the bread of life, and he who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will not thirst. He's showing that they're parallel. Coming to me and believing in me, you will be satisfied. Coming to him and believing in him are the same thing. Parallel ideas. And what's clear is that you only come to Christ if you recognize your desperate need of him. You will come to Christ if you're thirsty. Now on the last day, John 7. 37 says, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me. You know, you'll come to him if you're you're thirsty enough. You know, he's the only place where you can find a drink. You only come to Christ if you're hungry. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life, John 6. 35. He who comes to me will not hunger. If you want to be done with your hunger, you want to be satisfied, you'll come to me. You only come to Christ if you recognize that you're sick and you need a physician. Luke 5, 31, Jesus answered and said to them, It is not those who are well who need a physician, but those who are sick. Have you realized that you're sick yet? That you need help? Then you'll come to me. You'll come to me. We read the same thing over in Isaiah 55. Why don't you flip to Isaiah 55 really quick? Same thing that it says about the Lord himself. I love this. Isaiah 55, starting at verse 1. And here God makes the deliberate appeal to the nations to come to him. And listen to what he says. Isaiah 55, starting at verse 1. He says, Ho! Like listen up! Everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And you who have no money, come buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money, without cost. Why do you spend money for that which is not bread and your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to me and eat what is good and delight yourself in abundance Incline your ear and come to me. Listen that you may live, and will make an everlasting covenant with you according to the faithful mercies shown to David. Come to me Come to me, you can live if you come over here. There's life over here. Everyone who is thirsty, come to the waters. Why do you spend your money for what's not bread? I have the bread. Incline your ear, come to me, listen that you may live. And these same themes are repeated by Jesus Christ. There's a connection here. God is saying I'm the water, and Jesus says, I'm the water. God says I'm the bread and Jesus says I'm the bread. God says I'm the life and Jesus says I'm the life. Who do you think Jesus is saying that he is? He's God. I can satisfy you. I can give you the bread. I can give you the water. I can give you life. He offers the same things that God does in the Old Testament. Jesus was calling them to turn away from that which is not God and that which cannot satisfy and come to me. Second command, take from me. Back in Matthew 11. Matthew 11, verse 29. He says, take my yoke upon you. Take from me, take, take my yoke upon you. And here we understand that salvation is not a call to inactivity. There's still a yoke to carry. But guess what verse 30 says? My yoke is easy and my burden is light. There's still a yoke to carry as a believer, but the yoke is easy and the burden is light. Which would have been a hard concept to imagine because uh light and easy aren't the words that you would associate with the yoke. The the yoke was basically this this heavy wooden collar that animals would wear around their their necks, an ox or another kind of pack animal. And a beam of wood would sometimes stretch across that collar and attach it to another animal, and then that piece of wood would be connected to a pole. And then that pole would be connected to a cart that would be filled and they'd have to carry that. Does any of that sound easy or light? The piece of wood would become their burden. One resource says the yokes used in the East were heavy, pressed down so much upon the necks that they were unable to bend their necks. Do you know what that means? Their necks are already down so far that they can't bend them any further. It's all the way down. There's no way for you to bend your neck because it's already extended. It's down to the limit. The yoke was used as a symbol for slavery in Leviticus chapter 26. The Lord says, I'm the God who brought you out of the land of Egypt so that you would not be their slaves. And I broke the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect. I made you walk upright. Because you were under the burden of Egypt and you were bent down to the point where you couldn't go any further. And now I come to you and lift up the yoke and say, Now you can stand up. You can stand up. I can give you rest. And Jesus says, I want to give you a different picture of a yoke. The yoke that I give you is easy. The yoke that I give you is light. And there's a great freedom in slavery to Jesus Christ. There is freedom in slavery to Jesus. And just in case you were wondering, you're going to be somebody's slave. Either you're going to be a slave of sin and have the outcome is death, or you're going to be a slave of Christ and the outcome is life. So you can just pick it pick your choice here. Who do you want to be a slave of? What what do you want to have at the end of your service? Death or life? Jesus says, come to me, I'll give you an easy yoke. I'll give you a life burden. And Jesus only restricts us from what harms us. Reminds me of the garden, you know, from any tree of the garden ye may freely eat except one. Adam's Adam and Eve are only restricted from what would harm them. And the only reason we find the commands of Christ difficult is because, as Piper says, the world is a hard place to enjoy Jesus above all. It's not because there's any problem with Christ. It's the world around us. The temptations around us makes us keep getting distracted, thinking that other things can satisfy besides Christ. No, Jesus is the only one who can satisfy us the world that makes him appear burdensome. Jesus is where we find our rest. The burden itself is light, and the commands are right. Commands are easy because they're good. Actually, that's what the word easy means here. It's good. Burden is light because Jesus is not like the Pharisees who don't extend a finger to lift it up. Help you out with your burden. He's not like Pharaoh who commands you to make bricks and doesn't give you straw. Jesus supplies us with all that we need to obey him. He helps us carry our burdens. He gets down underneath your burden to help you lift it up. Luther said Christ's burdens are light because he puts himself under the load with us. Galatians 2. 20 puts it this way. I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. That Christ comes and he lives my life with me It's not I who live, but Christ is living in me. He's the one who's performing these works through me. So he comes up, he gets underneath my load and helps me to carry it. So his burden is light. Jewish teachers commonly spoke of the yoke of the Torah, the law, the yoke of the commandments, but they couldn't give you any power to obey it. They spoke about the law, but they couldn't give you any help with it. But Jesus says, I come to share the load. The difference between Jesus and other religious teachers is that he can give you the power to do what he requires you to do. You know, there's this old statement it says, do do the law commands and gives you neither feet nor hands. Better news the gospel brings, it bids you fly and gives you wings. That the God gives you what you need in order to follow Him. There's rest in following Jesus. He says, Come to me, take from me, take my yoke, put my yoke on you. And then he says, Learn from me. Learn from me. That's the last one here. He says, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. It's the Greek word monthano. It's the word related to Mate Taste, the word for disciple, the learner, the disciple. And what we learn here is that discipleship and taking the yoke of Christ are inseparable. Taking on a yoke was connected to the idea of receiving his instruction. Take my yoke and learn from me. They're connected. Sometimes in Jewish literature the idea of taking a yoke and becoming a disciple were found together. There's an ancient Jewish writing that says, put on, put your neck under the yoke and let your soul receive instruction Receive instruction. Really have the same idea communicated here as well. Put on the yoke and receive instruction and learn from me. You can't separate coming to Christ from following Christ. We come to him so that we can learn from him. The yoke and the instruction are the same here. It's connected. Jesus doesn't allow us to separate the command to come from the command to follow. You don't have that option. The reason we know that these commands are not talking about two separate things is because the results are the same. Come to me and I will give you rest. Verse 28, come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest. Results are the same. Come to me. Learn from me, take my yoke upon you. It's all connected. It's all connected. And if you come to him, it's with the understanding that you're going to receive a yoke and learn from him. It's not like, well, you know, Lord, I'll come to you today and I'll think about that yoke thing tomorrow. No, if you're coming to him, you're also receiving his yoke and learning from him, submitting to him. But here is also this added idea that Jesus himself is the perfect teacher. Because who are you learning from? Learn from me Learn from me. I'm the one who's going to teach you. I'm the one who's going to be your instructor. Instruction comes from Christ. And this is a good place to add that any instruction that is not connected back to Jesus Christ should be rejected. It all comes back down to Jesus Christ. Discipleship is a command to obey Jesus Christ. Go therefore, make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey what? All that I've commanded you. Obey my commands. So discipleship is connected to following Jesus Christ. We read it early in Galatians chapter 1 that the Apostle Paul He was teaching them concerning Christ, and he received his teachings from Christ. He says, I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which is preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man nor was I taught it, but I received it through revelation of Jesus Christ. I got it from him. So it's his instruction that you're following. If you follow me, you're following after Christ. Because I'm giving you his instruction. Learning from the apostles was learning from Christ. In Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 20 it says, but you did not learn Christ in this way. The instruction that I'm giving to you is instruction from Christ. That he's the example, that he's the teacher. If you've heard from him, have been taught in him, just as truth is in Jesus. Jesus is the truth. We find truth in him, and anyone who would distract us from that truth, the truth in Christ, is to be rejected. But not only is Jesus the teacher of truth, he's the example of truth He says, learn from me. And why should you learn from me? Because I am gentle and humble in heart. Really quick, flip over to Matthew chapter 9. Matthew chapter 9. Take a look at verse 36. We see how Jesus viewed the the people of Israel As he looked on the people, it's seeing the people, he felt compassion for them. It's that uh the Greek word splankin, it's the the word for the bowels, the the his guts just turned. Felt compassion for them because they were distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd. That's how he looked at the at the people of Israel. He had compassion on them. He saw the condition of their souls, and his heart ached for them Matthew chapter 9, it's this pitiful spiritual condition that they were under. Word for distressed or harassed here is the Greek word skulo. Word that means to skin, you know, literally to take the skin off of you, to flay, to pull the skin off of the body was used as a metaphor for serious Any kind of serious trouble. And then the the word for uh dispirited, distressed and dispirited, it's the word for being tossed aside. It's like you've been skinned and thrown out As so much refuse. He says, that's how the people of Israel are. They're lying, they're helpless. And sheep are already known for being defenseless animals. But now they're even more defenseless and vulnerable to attack. They've been skinned and left out there for dead. And the question would be, well, where are the shepherds? Where are the shepherds for these sheep? Jesus says they had none. They don't have shepherds. And those who should have been leading them are the ones who are skinning them alive. They're the ones who are taking advantage of them. They're the ones who are afflicting them. And in contrast to what they experience from their religious leaders, Jesus says, come to me because I'm gentle and humble of heart. Come to me. Back in Matthew 11, 29, Jesus says, I'm gentle, the word for meek. It was used for things that were mild, like certain medicines that could have been made stronger, but they made them more gentle, easier to take down. Used for things like winds that were gentle, sounds that were gentle, light that was gentle, not shining the bright light, but like let me temper that. It was used for animals that were tamed, like when a horse was broken and brought under control. He was gentle, gave you a gentle ride. There's a word that was used for people that were kind and pleasant. And Jesus says, that's me. That I'm I'm I'm gentle with you. That even though even though I have all the strength and the power to put you down, I'll come alongside of you to lift you up. I'm going to be gentle as I interact with you. I'm gentle. He says he's humble of heart, which is a word that means to be lowly. The verb was used for the leveling of a hill. It means to be brought low. And Jesus describes his heart as a heart that's gentle and lowly. He comes down to where we are so that he can lift us up. 2 Corinthians 8. 9 says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. He came down to your level. Why? So that through his poverty you might become rich. I'll come down to where you are so that I can pick you up And that's what's perfectly modeled in Jesus' incarnation and his crucifixion. Philippians chapter 2, start at verse 5. It says, have this attitude in yourselves, which was in Christ Jesus. Who, although he existed in the form of God, all power, all glory, he existed in the form of God, but he did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. But emptied himself. It's not saying that he stopped being God. He can't change his nature. He's always God. But he didn't walk around in the glory that was his by right. He voluntarily set aside the voluntary use of his attributes. That I'm not going to come down in all my magnificent glory. I'm going to come down and become like you. I'm gonna get low. Emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant. He did not come to serve, uh to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many I'm coming down as a servant, being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death Even the death on the cross came as low as he could possibly go. And this is something that he did to himself because this is what was in his heart so that he could pick you up. That's what Jesus did for us. What a wonderful Savior, don't we have? A wonderful Savior? Wonderful, merciful Savior. And this is in contrast to the false prophets and the false shepherds. If you look in uh Matthew chapter eleven and verse twenty-nine, you'll see part of it in all Caps. You will find rest for your souls. You know what that's telling you? That's telling you that this is a quotation. This comes from somewhere It's actually a quotation from Jeremiah 6, really quick. Flip over to Jeremiah 6. Jeremiah chapter 6. In Jeremiah chapter 6, we find the warning to the nation before the Babylonian judgment. And he's calling on Judah to repent, turn to God, but at the same time that Jeremiah is telling the nation to repent. There's these false priests and false prophets who are saying everything's okay. What are you worried about? Don't pay Jeremiah any mind Everything's good. Peace, peace. Everything's great. Jeremiah 6, verse 13. It says, From the least of them even to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for gain. And from the prophet even to the priest, everyone deals falsely. They have healed the brokenness of my people superficially. You don't have any solutions. But here you are trying to heal somebody. How are you trying to heal him? By just your your empty words. Everything's okay. Peace, peace. But there is no peace. Were they ashamed because of the abomination they've done? They were not even ashamed at all. They did not even know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall at the time that I punish them. They shall be cast down, says the Lord. Like I've had enough. Thus says the Lord, stand by the ways and see and ask for the ancient paths. Don't pay attention to these false prophets. Look to the ancient past. Look back to my revelation. Look back to my word. Look back to what I've told you before. How have I dealt with people in the past? Do people just sin and get away with it? Look back to the ancient past. Look back to the word of God. Where the good way is and walk in it, and you shall find rest for your souls. You'll find rest for your souls if you listen to my word. You'll find rest for your souls if you look back to the ancient paths. You'll find rest for your souls if you listen to truth. But what do they say? But they said, we will not walk in it And that's what you have in the world. Here's the word, here's the offer. Come to me. Find rest. You can find rest here. There's rest for your weary soul. Come to Christ. Come to God. Come to Him and find satisfaction in Him. But instead of finding satisfaction in the truth, you find satisfaction in the lie. Peace, peace, where there is no peace. Find satisfaction in the falsehood of the false teachers. That's where you look for your rest and satisfaction. As I mentioned, it's Reformation Sunday. This all leads to uh A long illustration, maybe not too long, because I know I've spent enough time in Matthew 11, but I do want to introduce you to a person who spoke about the ancient past, pointed people back to the Word of God. And I want to introduce you to a man by the name of Earl Rick Zwingli. Earlric Zwingli. I've been reading a new biography on the life of Zwingli by Bruce Gordon. It's uh uh speaking about uh Erwick Zwingli and it helped shed some light on some of the uh the truths about his life. Uh Zwingli is one of those forgotten reformers. In his biography, he says Zwingli has long been cast as a lesser man than Martin Luther and as the warm-up act for John Calvin. Neither of you stands up to scrutiny. Zwingli freely admitted that Luther was the towering figure of the early Reformation, but he was no mere dependent. He came to his conviction about God, Scripture, the Church, independently of Luther, the Wittenberg doctor. And that's one of the remarkable things about the Reformation because what was happening all across Europe at the same time is that there was this awakening that was taking place because people were coming into contact with the Word of God. They were giving their attention back to the scriptures. They started to see the inconsistencies between what they found in Scripture and what they were being taught by the church. And it was the scriptures themselves that started to do this work of the Reformation. So as there's this kind of return to the source, you know, let's look in the the the Greek and the Hebrew and see what the scriptures actually say for themselves. As there's this return back to scripture, there's also this awakening that's going on at the same time saying, hold on a minute, I've been lied to Nobody why didn't anybody tell me this? They're starting to look at the scriptures and see that something is different in the the scriptures So it's the word of God that's doing this work, different places all at the same time. I mean there's Reformation going on in England, in Switzerland, and France and Germany. It's like all over the place. People are starting to be awakened to the truth of God's word. Just to give you some background on Zwingli, he was born January 1st, 1484, in Wilhouse, Switzerland. It's a village in Togenburg, in the Togenburg Valley beneath the Alpine. mountains. Uh he would later often reflect on the mountains and you know talk about how, uh, you know, even reflecting on David and his words and the Psalms about, you know, uh the the mountains and the the the the strength of of God in 1489. At the age of 14, he entered the University of Vienna, where he was introduced to the study of Greek and the Roman languages. And in 1502, he returned to Basel To enter a university there, and it was while he was in that university that he came under the influence of a professor by the name of Thomas Wittenbeck. Zwingli said that he learned from him for the first time that the death of Christ was once offered for our sins by which we have been saved. He says he's learning it for the first time. Why is he learning it for the first time when he's been in the church for all this time? It's because the the church had gone dark. At least uh you know what they were calling the church had gone dark They weren't presenting the truth of God's word. So now he's here and listening for the first time and saying, Jesus Christ died for my sins once and for all, that the all the work has already been done by which we're saved It's because of the darkness during this time and this professor Thomas Wittenbeck, who's who's also reading the scriptures, he's now passing this along to his students. And they're seeing that they haven't been taught these things from Scripture. And the more that Zwingli studied theology was the more he was drawn to the priestly office. September 21, 1506, Zwingli was ordained as a Roman Catholic priest in Gloris, Switzerland. And uh he remembered the encouragement of his mentor. Thomas Bittenbach that the reading of the Bible was to be the essential study of his life, and particularly from the original sources. So in 1510, he requested a Greek grammar and wrote to a friend and said, I am so resolved in my intention to study Greek, no one but God could dissuade me from this course. And later he says, when I was younger I gave myself over much to human teaching, like others of my day. When seven or eight years ago I undertook to devote myself entirely to the scriptures, I was always prevented by philosophy and theology. But eventually I came to the point where, led by the Word and the Spirit of God, I saw the need to set aside all these things and to learn the doctrine of God directly from His own word. I wanted to listen to Him. It was a powerful influence for his ringli was Erasmus, who was uh in 1514 began the work of the Greek edition of the New Testament. And Zwingli devoured what came from Erasmus. In fifteen sixteen Zwingli departed from Glarus, Switzerland and came to Einseldeln, uh which uh Einseideln, I think it's how you say it in in Switzerland, where he was assigned to some uh uh local farmers, you know, this like kind of small, you know, uh church among local farmers, and he ministered to people who came. there from the local farms and also who came to this uh abbey to to visit what was known as the Black Madonna. Uh it was a statue of the Virgin Mary with dark skin. And people would come to venerate the Virgin Mary. So that was his responsibility. Take care of the local farmers and the people who come to venerate Mary here. And it was while he was there, he had a lot of time on his hands, because, you know, the local farmers, there's not a lot going on, because they're out in the fields, and he started to do something that was radical. What was radical that he started to do? He abandoned the Catholic lectionary, which was the assigned daily readings from the scriptures that the Roman Catholic Church assigned, and he began to teach the scriptures from the Bible alone. He said, Before anyone among us heard the name of Luther, I had begun in fifteen sixteen to preach the gospel of Christ. When I entered the pulpit I did not preach the words from the gospel lesson appointed for the Mass that morning, but I would rather preach from the biblical text alone. And he would walk through verse by verse exposition of the scripture. And it was sometime during his study of the Lord's Prayer that he describes himself as reaching a mountain so great that he stepped back. He says, what was this mountain for him? That God forgives us. That God forgives us. He says, Lord, as he's studying the Lord's Prayer, forgive us our sins. He gets to the point where he says, Lord, what does that mean that you would forgive me? Forgive us of our sins. Lord, I'm an imprisoned person, he said. Forgive me, Lord, forgive. In 1518 , after this time of conversion, which he describes as his own conversion, 1518 he was elected to become the people's priest. And he moved to Zurich, Switzerland, which is where we really know the connection with uh uh with uh Zwingli. It was a larger city. He became uh the priest at uh Gross Munster Church, where he continued his practice of preaching directly from the Word of God, picking up where he left off just Sunday by Sunday, you know, going through the scriptures. He adopted the motto of Matthew 11, 28 to 30 for his preaching. That's what he considered. This is my motto for preaching. Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light That's what he picked up as the motto for his preaching. Why? Because he saw a difference between what the Word of God was saying and what the Roman Catholic Church was saying. He was looking at the Catholic Church and saying, what they're doing is they're adding burdens to people for their salvation, that there's some work that you have to do. And that you have to continue to do, and if you don't do it enough, that's then you'll go to purgatory and work it out there. They're adding burdens to people instead of lifting the burdens. And Jesus says, I've come that your burden would be easy and light He's come to give rest to our souls, not to add burdens to our souls. In 15, 19, he began taking aim at the unbiblical practices of the church. He started teaching that praying to Mary and using the rosary were unscriptural because they're not found in the Bible He taught against the veneration of the saints, you know, coming to honor the saints and the intercession of the saints in heaven, coming to the saints to pray for us, plucking the dead people. To pray for you that you would have some kind of help. I mean it's it's a deification of the saints as if they have some kind of you know supernatural powers to hear all prayers. They're not omniscient They're not everywhere present. How are you going to talk to the saints to get their help as if they can actually cross the divide and help you out? So he says it's not biblical, it's not found in Scripture. 1 Timothy 2. 5, there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. If you want to get through to God, you go to Jesus. You don't go to a saint. You don't go to Mary. You don't go to an angel. You go through Jesus Christ, he's the mediator. By the end of the year, he was defending the teachings of Martin Luther, even though he had come to some of these conclusions apart from Luther. And in 1522 he organized a dinner, and this was kind of like a, you know, uh, you know, basically a a stunt that he pulled. He organized this dinner during Lent. Okay, keep that in mind. He organizes this dinner during Lent, and he invites all of these dignitaries, city council members to all come to this dinner. And for the meal, he served sausage. Sausage supper during Lent. And that Sunday after the sausage supper, Earl Rick Zwingli preached a sermon titled, On the Choice and Freedom of Foods. We're not bound by these traditions. We're not bound by these things. And he argued that Lent was not in the Bible. It's an unbiblical practice. And the city members couldn't argue with them because they were all just eating the sausage. He says, I believe the Holy Scriptures would say that a Christian life is not dependent on food or drink. Indeed, it is not dependent on external works, but only on true faith and trust. And speaking of Germany and solidarity with Luther He says, all through Germany, people of Christ cry out day and night that they've been wrongfully oppressed until now by the heads of the church. With hard and burdensome regulations, observances, ceremonies, and as a result, such persons are attempting with all their might to cast off and do away with such ceremonies. People are getting tired of it And in 1522, he secretly married, which broke the vow of celibacy for the priests. He argued that even though it's against the vow of the priest, it's according to the natural order of God. And then by the end of 1522, he stopped celebrating the Mass. He resigned his office as the priest, and he became a city preacher, and thousands came to hear him preach. He denied the obligated fast, devotion to Mary, denounced celibacy, declared Christ as the sole authority over his church. He also called for the cleansing of the temples, which was he was critical of the images that were filling the houses of worship Such as the black Madonna that people came to venerate. He says, like, do away with these things. This is idolatry in the what's supposed to be the house of the Lord. Cleanse the temple. And in 1524 the magistrates created a plan, so he's now working with the council there. Because of his influence within the city of Zurich, people are coming to him. And the council passed an edict determining to do away with the images or idols in all places where they're worshipped, so that many turn themselves from the idols entirely to the living true God. And each seeks all help and trust in the one God through our Lord Jesus Christ to call upon and recognize and worship Him alone and the goods and costs have been laid upon these images should be turned to the poor, needy human beings who are the image of God. So what they did is they they started picking down all these idols and you know images and uh whatever like precious metal was there, they'd burn that down, you know, melt it down, and then they'd give that money to the poor. The poor, the people, they're the image of God. Why are we putting this image up? Let's help out the real image of God, the people of God who are out here. So they started selling these things to take care of the people within the church. But the most offensive thing in his eyes was the belief that on the altar of a church that the priest was repeatedly sacrificing Christ That's what the priest is doing. The body of Jesus is right here being sacrificed again. Continual sacrifice of Christ. And for Zwingli, he believed that it contradicted the biblical message that Christ died for sins once for all. It's done. The sacrifice was once offered. And it was a full and a complete sacrifice. It was a perfect sacrifice. He's done all that needs to be done. And even though Zwingli and Luther agreed on many points, this was one of the points when it came to the Lord's Supper where there was some disagreement between them. Because Luther believed that somehow that within, over, under The elements that the body of Christ, not not like spiritually, but physically, somehow physically, he was there. That the body of Christ could be in more than one place at one time. And that in, under, on, whatever, that this is somehow that the body of Christ is here. That he's here. So Zwingli and Luther they they met, only met one time, their only personal encounter. It was a secret meeting in Marburg, Germany. And Zwingli's hope was that the reformers could somehow work together. We can do more together. We're so much on the same page. Let's get together. But Luther insisted that Zwingli had to agree with his view of the Lord's Supper before they would work together. And if there was no agreement on the sacrament, there could be no unity. And again, the disagreement was over whether the body of Christ could be in more than one place at one time. Is the body of Christ really there during communion? Zwingli argued that it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. It's not about the physical body. He still believes that the Lord is present. Spiritually, the Lord is here, but there's no physical presence of Christ here. The Lord's Supper was a memorial celebration in remembrance of the Lord. And Luther in a dramatic fashion During this argument, he lifts up a tablecloth. You know, he's sitting there at a table arguing with Zwingli, and then he lifts up the tablecloth in a dramatic fashion, and then he points to what he scribbled down in chalk on the table before the meeting. This is my body. Like end of discussion. There's nothing nothing more to say. This is my body. And for him, he believed that the scriptures made it clear that the body of Christ was really there. So they departed ways, and Zwingli cried when Luther left. Zwingli cried. What was even more heartbreaking than that, though, was the break between Zwingli and some of his closest friends. There was a man by the name of Felix Mons, who was one of Zwingli's friends and supporters. He set out to make the case against infant baptism. And to demonstrate to Zwingli from Scripture that we don't have any clear example of infants being baptized. His argument was that the scripture makes it clear that faith follows preaching and that baptism follows faith. And man 's argued that baptism should be administered upon one who having been converted through God's word and having changed his heart is now desiring to live a newness of life. But Zwingli and the Council were determined to root out and utterly destroy the threat to the Reform movement. And the opponents of infant baptism were made out to be criminals. And because of the opposing views, and because Zwingli is connected to the state, now a crime against the church is also a crime against the state. So now the state has the power to inflict punishment on those who've disobeyed the state because the church and the state were connected in that way. Zwingli adopted a medieval legacy of doing away with the heretics through banishment and even through death. And the Anabaptists, those who were considered the re-baptizers, you know, those who wanted to baptize again, were not simply heretics, but they were regarded as seditious and deserving of capital punishment. On March 7, 1526, the council declared that the denial of infant baptism was punishable by drowning. And Felix Manns, who was actually his friend, was sentenced to death. Executed January 5th, 1527. And this highlights a problem with trying to establish the kingdom of God without the presence of the king. John 18, 36, Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting. So that I would not be handed over to the Jews, but as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. But Zwingli thought that he could fight for it. You know, we're going to establish this kingdom, we're going to fight for it. We're going to work with the state and start to control things so that it all kind of comes underneath this one kind of doctrine. Thought he could fight for it. He also convinced Zurich to enter into a battle for the territories of Switzerland that were under Roman Catholic control, and Zwingli himself armed himself for the battle, believing that God is going to provide us the victory. And eventually in this battle, there's a number of battles, but in one of these battles he wounded his leg, fell to the ground. Heinrich Bullinger portrayed him as lying with his eyes to heaven. But there was a Catholic historian, Hans Salett, who said that he was face down in the mud. And they see lay alive. Among the dead, the Catholic soldiers looked for his body. They found him still conscious. He refused confession, and then he was run through with a sword. Reminds me of the words of Jesus in Matthew 26, 52, where Jesus said to Peter, put your sword back in its place. For all those who take up the sword shall do what? Die by the sword. And he died by the sword. He perished by the sword. The reformer's last words were reportedly, you may kill the body, but you cannot kill the soul. And the Catholic priest who had known Zwingli in Zurich was reported to have said, Whatever your religious faith, I know that you were always a loyal confederate. May God pardon your sins. And that was the end of Zwingli's life. And why highlight Zwingli today? Why are we talking about Zwingli? It 's like, you know, kind of goes from the highs to the lows. You know, why why are we highlighting Zwingli and talking about his place in church history? You know Why right right across the the hall and the on the door of the Reformation Room we've got Earlwick Zwingli on the door. Got a little plaque there. It says Earlwick Zwingli. Why are we talking about Earlwick Zwingli? It's because God is the God over history. And God used Erlwick Zwingli to bring the truth of God to men. And then we look at some of the things that we still practice today. You know, why why why why today, you know, did we look at the uh the the the Lord's Supper, the you know, that we share in c on communion. Why do we say that this is a memorial celebration? Why do we say things like that? It's because of the truth that he saw in Scripture. And it's not because of what he saw, it's because of what's in the scriptures, right? He was just pointing it out. He's pointing out what was in scripture Some of the same practices of verse by verse exposition, just picking up where you left off. You know, we're going to do away with these kind of lectionaries that tell us what to preach. We're just going to let the word of God tell us what to preach. Why don't we do that? I mean there's a practice that's been passed down for centuries that that's what the people of God do. We go to the Word of God. It's the Word of God that tells us what to believe, how to behave. It's the Word of God that tells us You know, who we are as the people of God. It's the word of God that does that. It's the scriptures that put this before us. And there are so many ways that You have uh Erwick Zwingli who was a model in many of these ways, but then there's other ways that he wasn't a model, where he picked up the sword and trying to fight for the kingdom of God. And even uh used his understanding of doctrine to even condemn those who were fellow brothers in Christ. But that's history. You don't kind of sugarcoat it and you know try to brush it under the rug. No, it happened. So you deal with it, you face it, and you say, Lord, help us to learn from these things. Help us to learn from these things. Let us not repeat the same mistakes of history Now I want to bring up one more thing as we talk about the examples that we have in church history, because what Jesus says in Matthew 11 is not Come to Zwingli and he will give you rest. Doesn't say come to Luther and he will give you rest. He doesn't say, come to Nox and he will give you rest. What does he say? Come to me. Come to me. All you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take whose yoke upon you? Take my yoke upon you. And learn from who? Learn from me. For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. Have you found rest for your soul in Jesus Christ? Have you come to him? Have you learned from him? Do you look at Jesus as the authority over all of your life? The Lord of the church? Is he the Lord of your life personally? Do you go to Scripture in the same way that we have the example of Zwingli going to Scripture that I want to learn directly from him? I want to learn from God, let Him teach me. And then do you submit yourself to what the Scriptures say? And I would argue that where Zwingli went wrong is when he departed from just listening to the Scriptures. And that's the example that we have for us. And my question for us now is what J. C. Rowell asked. He says, have we accepted this invitation for ourselves? There is no other religion that offers to toiling and burden humanity the rest of pardon, peace, and security, fellowship and eternal life that Scripture offers. Do you have sins to be forgiven? Do you have no sins to be forgiven? No griefs to be removed? No conscience to be healed? All things have been committed unto him. He carries the keys. We must go to him for admission to heaven. He's the door. It's through him that we must enter. He's the shepherd. We must hear his voice and follow him. He's the physician. We must apply to him if we want to be healed of the plague of sin. He's the bread of life. We must feed on him if we want our souls to be satisfied. He's the light. We must follow him if we don't want to wander around in darkness. He is the fountain. We must wash in his blood if we want to be cleansed and to be made ready for that great day. And besides Jesus Christ, there's no one else. There's no other name given under heaven among men by which we must be saved except the name of Jesus Christ. And if you reject him, you've rejected your only hope. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had in your word. Father, we thank you for the example of church history, for all the lessons that it teaches us, the good, the bad, the ugly. Lord, we we learn from these things. And Father, we're grateful that these things point us back to the source, back to the truth, the truth that we find in your word Father, I pray that we would not be like those that were called out to in the day of Jeremiah , where he called out to them to come to me, come to me and find rest. And then they replied, but we will not come. Father, I pray that there would not be a stubborn heart, a rebellious heart that does not come to Christ, that does not come to the truth. Help us to come to Jesus because he's the only hope that we have. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files