The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the Gospel of Matthew? We're back in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 27. And for the last number of weeks we've been examining the cross, which is the focal point of all of human history, and what will really be the focal point of eternal history as well, the focal point of all eternity. According to Revelation chapter 5 and verse 12, lets us know that the praise of heaven will be worthy as the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. We will forever praise Jesus for his work on the cross. And last week in Matthew chapter 27, we saw that the Father wasted no time at all showing his complete approval. And satisfaction in the work of Jesus on the cross at Calvary. And there was never a time when the Father was not completely satisfied with Jesus Christ. Jesus' testimony during his incarnation in John chapter 8 and verse 29 was that I always do the things that are pleasing to him. And that didn't stop at Calvary. So when the sun is hanging, he's hanging under the sign of rejection, and the midday sun turns into midnight black, Jesus cries out with this loud voice and he says, Eli elama subactani, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Even at that moment, in the anguish of the cross, in the abandonment by the Father. Even at that moment when multiple eternities of hell are being poured out on Jesus Christ, the Father was at the same time completely satisfied with his son. Actually the scriptures say in John chapter 10 and verse 17, listen to this, John 10, 17, it says, for this reason the Father loves me. Why? Because I laid down my life. I lay down my life so that I may take it again. The Father loves the Son. So even though Jesus bore the eternal wrath and hatred of God for sin on the cross. Jesus never lost the Father's love on the cross. And the biblical illustration of that is Abraham in Genesis chapter 22. who was asked to offer up his son Isaac as a sacrifice, and when Abraham picked up the knife to slay his own son, his only son, the son whom he loved, Isaac. When Abraham picked up the knife to slay his son, Abraham never lost any love for a son. If anything, his love for his son skyrocketed as he saw his son willingly laying down his life like a lamb that was led to the slaughter. Abraham's love for a son is what made the command of God such a painful sacrifice. But we know the rest of the story that for Abraham he never had to actually go through with slaying his son, but that wasn't true for God the Father. God the Father poured out his wrath on his beloved Son. In John 17, 24, Jesus says, Father, you love me before the foundation of the world. John 3. 35, the Father loves the Son. John 5. 20, the Father loves the Son. John 15, 9, the Father has loved me. And Jesus became a willing sacrifice. And was the demonstration of his submission and love to the Father in that sacrifice. Philippians 2. 8 says, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Jesus Christ When he laid down his life, it was an act of obedience and worship before the Father. Jesus speaks of the act of laying down his life in John 10. 18 as the commandment that he received from the Father. This was obeying the Father's command. And he does exactly what the fathers commanded him. Romans 5. 19 says, it's through the obedience of the one Jesus that many were made righteous. And the Father was completely satisfied with the work of Jesus Christ and the submission of the Son. And the very moment that Jesus bowed his head, gave up the spirit, The Father immediately began to show and demonstrate his approval of the Son's sacrifice. And just a couple of ways that the Father showed his approval of the Son's sacrifice, we looked at it back in Matthew 27, this is just review. In verse 51, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And uh if you remember the veil was this thick, heavy curtain that separated the holy place from the holy of holies the Jewish Tabernacle and uh later in the temple, and it was a reminder that the immediate presence of God was inaccessible and off limits to the children of God. It was actually a dangerous thing to come into the presence of God. But Jesus' death provides access to the inaccessible. When Jesus died, the veil of the temple was rent, and there was access that was opened up between man and God. God also shows this approval of the sun sacrifice in verse 51 when we see that the earth shook and the rocks were split. The earthquakes were a sign of judgment in Scripture. And it was a clear sign that the judgment fell, and those that mocked Christ were actually those that were going to be judged by God Himself. Because Jesus is already dead at this point when the earthquake starts to shake and all the laughter and mocking turns into fear and mourning as they leave, beating their breasts. So it wasn't so funny anymore, all this mocking and fun that they made of Jesus, it wasn't funny anymore when the earthquake started. They left knowing that they were wrong and Jesus was right, so the Father was showing again his approval of the Son God also showed his approval of the Son, that he was satisfied in his death and his sacrifice for sins when the tombs were opened up. In verses 52 and 53, the tombs were open, many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised The resurrected Jesus Christ would appear in Jerusalem, but he does allow the saints to go marching in. He sends the saints marching in, the resurrected saints into Jerusalem. And you can just imagine the shockwaves that that would have sent through the city as uh as the resurrected dead started walking through the holy city, as the a faithful remnant came out of the tombs and started walking around the holy city of Jerusalem You know, you could just imagine somebody you know looking out the window and saying, like, like, honey, how how long ago did Joseph die again? Because he's outside. And there's a group of people with him It's absolutely amazing to think about that even though they didn't see Jesus, they saw what happened to Jesus, that Jesus came out from the grave And demonstrated again that God was satisfied with the work of the Son on the cross. And then finally we have the chief priests and scribes, even though the chief priests and scribes refused to recognize Jesus for who he truly was. God didn't leave his son without a witness. And in verse 54, a hardened Roman soldier who was elevated to the place of centurion A man who had himself oversaw the brutality and mockery of the Son of God, that this one can't help but be overwhelmed with Jesus. And he says in verse 54, truly this was the Son of God. And again it shows that the Father was completely satisfied in the work of the Son on the cross, because Jesus' death reaches the unreachable, this hardened Roman soldier. So Jesus' death provides access to the inaccessible, it moves the immovable as the earth shakes, it reverses the irreversible as people come out of the tombs, and it reaches the unreachable as this hardened Roman soldier bows the knee to Jesus Christ. And all of this demonstrates the Father's approval of the Son on the cross. Jesus was loved by the Father. Jesus was approved by the Father. And his death was the most precious death of any saint. In Psalm 116 and verse 15, it says, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints or his godly ones. And what death could be more precious than a son of God, right? What death was more precious than the death of Jesus Christ? 1 Peter 118 says this, that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your feudal way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. as of a lamb unblemished the spotless blood of Christ. Jesus Christ's life is precious, and its death is precious. In fact, his life was so precious that in Romans chapter 3 it lets us know that the blood of Christ was so valuable that every sin that was ever committed by any believer who would ever live was all paid for by the blood of Christ. Romans chapter 3 and verse 23 teaches us that God displayed Christ publicly as a propitiation, and that word propitiation means a satisfaction of wrath, that the wrath of God was satisfied in Jesus Christ, in his blood. And this was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. And what does that mean That means that everybody who sinned before the cross of Christ was still paid for by the cross of Christ. That God passed over the sins previously committed because he knew that the full payment was coming. Jesus Christ is the full payment for sins. We understand in the Old Testament that the blood of bulls and goats could never take away sins. It never took them away. It was a covering for sins, but it never took the sins away. But when John the Baptist sees Jesus Christ, he says, what? Behold the Lamb of God that does what? Takes away the sin of the world. Jesus Christ is the only sacrifice that can take away sin. And every believer who lived before the cross looked forward to the cross of Christ, where the full payment would be made. Jesus Christ satisfies the wrath of God, and God forgives sins, not because of the blood of bulls and goats, but because of what the blood of bulls and goats pointed to. pointing to the death of Jesus Christ, the sacrifice that Jesus Christ would make. So every sin ever committed by any believer before the cross or after the cross It's all paid for by the one sacrifice of Jesus Christ. He gave his life once and for all. So we're brought into the presence of God by the precious blood of Jesus Christ. That's how precious the blood of Jesus Christ is. We know that the death of Christ was precious, but the question is, was God the Father the only one who considered the death of Christ to be precious on that day? We know that God considered the death of Christ precious. But was there anybody else who considered the death of Christ to be precious? Was there anyone else who considered the Savior worthy? Was there anybody who saw the worthiness of Christ? Who was there when they crucified our Lord who considered his death precious in their sight? And that's the question that verses fifty-five to sixty answers for us. It answers who was there When they crucified our Lord, and who was it that considered his death precious? Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 27, starting at verse 55. It says, Many women were there, looking on from a distance, who had followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to him. Among them was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Joseph and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. When it was evening there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus. This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus, then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock, and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the tomb, and went away And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the grave. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning as we always do. Father, asking you for your help, asking you to open up your word to us. To help us to understand the things that are written here as we behold the glories of Calvary, as we sung about just a few moments ago. Father, we pray that you would take us deeper into the glories of Calvary, that you would help us to understand what transpired here. And Father, that you would help us to have a true appreciation for the one who died there. Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. For the last three and a half years leading up to the crucifixion, Jesus took the nation of Israel by storm. There's never anyone like Jesus Christ. Jesus went from being an unknown carpenter from the backwoods town of Nazareth to becoming the household name. And all of that he did without the help of the internet. Nobody had to Google search. Jesus Christ back then, right? This is all by word of mouth. Everybody is hearing about this person called Jesus. The crowds were spelled down by his teaching. Thousands gathered together in the wilderness for days without eating, just to listen to Jesus Christ teach. And Jesus wants to make sure that they don't go away hungry so he would multiply fish and loaves to feed them. Just think about that. Thousands gathering together in the wilderness to hear you teach for three days. Anybody ever skip a meal to listen to you talk? You know, maybe one, but three days worth? I don't think so. I don't think so. Even his enemies were blown away by his teaching. In John 7. 46, there were some men who were sent to arrest Jesus But they came back empty-handed. They didn't come back with Jesus. Why? Because they said, we've never heard a man speak the way that this man speaks. When Jesus finished his words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, literally struck out of themselves. They're just so amazed by what Jesus had to share. He was unparalleled. And the works that Jesus performed were unsurpassed in Israel. I mean, it's one thing to talk with authority. It's another thing to prove your authority, right? When we used to say, you know, don't let your mouth write a check that you can't cash, right? Jesus caches every check He proves his authority over sickness, over spirits, over storms, over disease, over demons, devastation. Doesn't stand a chance in front of the power and authority of Jesus Christ. You know, coronavirus, what? You know, if Jesus is on the scene, it's it's nothing, right? Compared to Christ. Even death itself was no obstacle for this king. What Jesus did was unheard of in Israel. The kinds of miracles that Jesus performed had never been seen in the history of Israel. The man born blind in John chapter 9, he says, since the beginning of time it has never been heard. Did anyone open the eyes of a person born blind? And that could really be said about all the kinds of miracles that Jesus did. I mean who does the miracles that Christ did? It was proof that he was who he said he was In John 7. 31, many of the crowds believed in him, and they were saying, when the Christ comes, the Messiah, he will not perform more signs than this man has, will he? I mean who can outdo this guy? I mean, surely this has to be the Christ. Nobody can do what he does. He himself took our infirmities, carried away our diseases, Matthew 8. 17. And wherever Jesus went, massive crowds. power behind him, pressed in against him. And just this very week in what we traditionally call Palm Sunday, a massive crowd gathered around Jesus Matthew 21. If you want to flip back there real quick, Matthew 21 and verse 8. Let's take a look at what it says here. Matthew 21. Starting at verse 8, it says, most of the crowd spread their coats in the road. Others were cutting branches from the trees and spreading them in the road. The crowds going ahead of them and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. When the Pharisees saw what was going on, they tried to shut the party down. Like, this is too much. Do you hear what the people are saying about you? In Luke 19 verse 40, Jesus says, I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out. You can't hold back this kind of phrase. This is the same week. Think about it. This is the same week that ends in crucifixion. The week began with shouts of praise and Hosanna to the son of David. Praise that couldn't be contained. Praise that was so high that the rocks would have joined in if the people became silent. And now here we are at the end of that same week. And the son of David is being mocked. Where are all the palm branches now? Where's all the praise now? It's like a distant memory at this point. It's no wonder that the earthquaked and the rocks were split. It's like the the rocks literally had to cry out because the praise went silent. But that doesn't mean that there wasn't anyone in support of Jesus. Look again at verses 55 and 56 back in Matthew chapter 27. It says that many women were there. Looking on from a distance who had followed Jesus from Galilee while ministering to him. Among them was Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee And this is who I call the silent supporters, the women of Calvary. Verses 55 and 56. In addition to Jesus' mother and the Apostle John who received Mary into his care, we find out that there were many women who were looking on from a distance, these silent supporters. Back in Matthew chapter 10, when Jesus selected twelve disciples to be named as apostles, he chose twelve men. And that was by design. The authority to teach and to lead the church was an authority that was given to the men of the church. That authority was first given to the apostles, and as the church was established, and the teaching and governing authority was given over to the elders of the church as well, who were only men, and that was by design. You know, there's no such thing as a female pastor or a female elder anywhere in the scripture, and that's made clear by the qualifications themselves, because there's no way for a woman to be the husband of one wife Regardless of what our society wants to tell us, that's just not possible. God's called the men of the church to be the leaders of the church, but that doesn't mean that that women don't play a significant significant role in ministry And out of all the men who Jesus called and appointed and who pledged loyalty to Jesus Christ, we only know of one who showed up anywhere near the cross during the crucifixion, and that was John. Where's all the other guys? Where's everybody else who talked big? But there were many women who were there John Calvin actually makes this comment. He says, Though the Apostle John did not depart from the cross, no mention is made of him, but praise is bestowed on the women alone who accompanied Christ till death. Because their extraordinary attachment to their master was the more strikingly displayed when the men fled. It's like the women like rise up to the top because, like, where are the men? It's like the women are highlighted here because the men fled. And even though these women could render him no serv service, Calvin goes on to say They did not cease to treat him with reverence, even when exposed to the lowest disgrace. When Christ was at his lowest, the women were still there. And he goes on to say this. He says, the evangelist bestows the chief praise on the women, for they deserved the preference above the men. It was in the highest degree disgraceful. to the chosen witnesses to withdraw from the spectacle on which depended the salvation of the world. What Calvin is saying is this, is that when Jesus was being disgraced By men, and the wrath of God was being poured out on Christ for the salvation of the world. It was the women who were those who were brave enough to stay there until the end. And they deserve the highest praise for that. Chief praise to the women. These are incredible women. Incredible support to Jesus Christ. And that That too is just a design by God as well, because while while men are called in Scripture to lead, the women are called by God to be a help and support to that leadership, right? And here you have these women who are faithful right up to the very end. I'm not sure if if I've ever thought about the significance of that or if you've ever thought about the significance of that. But think about this. Back in verse uh 54, it says that there was an earthquake that split the rocks, and the centurion guards shook in fear Matthew 27, 54, they became very frightened, and who's still there? The women. It's true. The people who are around the cross left after the earthquake, wailing, beating their breasts, but the women are there through the entire earthquake. Early on Sunday morning, when the apostles are tucked away in their rooms, moping about in the streets of Jerusalem or on the road to Emmaus, who was there at the garden tomb looking for the body of the Lord? It was the women. And who was there to become the first witnesses of the resurrected Savior? It was the woman. Why? Because they're the only ones who were there. They're the only ones who are there to see it. And when they saw the Savior, they fell at his feet and worshipped and did not want to let him go. Jesus has to say like you can't cling to me now like you gotta let me go the women were there devoted worshipers of Christ There was this faithful dedication and support that these women had for the Savior that surpassed the men around them. And in many ways, this reflects the unique way that God has designed women to be that help and support. for leadership. And just as a side note, if you can find a woman like that, right? You found a good thing. You found a good thing. And you want to make sure that you don't abuse the gift of God that's been given to you in faithful and supportive women. You need to show them honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life. You hear me, man? It's incredible how the how the Lord has gifted women to be that kind of faithful and loyal support. And uh sometimes like uh You see situations, uh relationships, and you just wonder, like, how how is that woman able to persevere in a relationship like that? And I'm sure you you've seen it, I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. It's like, how in the world is she able to stick it out? But that's part of the design of a woman to be the faithful and loyal support. And here they are, faithfully loving the Savior, up till the very end, like beyond the very end. They're still there It's one of the reasons that Scripture says that he who finds a wife finds a what? Finds a good thing. Obtains favor from the Lord. Proverbs 12, 4, an excellent wife is the crown of her husband. In Proverbs 31, 10, her worth is far above jewels. There's a faithful dedication and support that these women show to Christ at Calvary, that they had for the Savior, surpassed the men around them, and this is what the women did for Jesus from the very first days of Galilee. Flip over to Mark chapter 15 just to Because Mark gives us just a little more detail about these women. Mark chapter 15, look at verse 41. Actually, starting at verse 40 Mark 15, starting at verse 40. It says there were also some women looking on from a distance. Among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James the Less, and Joseph and Salome. When he was in Galilee, they used to follow him and minister to him And there were many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem. We don't read about this often in scriptures, but Jesus' followers included a support team of women. who made sure that Jesus and his disciples were cared for as they ministered the gospel of the kingdom. And they they ministered to him by providing for his physical needs. Actually if you flip over to Luke chapter 8 just to show you another portion of scripture that talks about this. Luke chapter 8. Start at verse 1. Luke chapter 8 starting at verse 1. This is what it says here. Proclaiming and preaching the kingdom of God. The twelve were with him, and also some women. who had been healed of evil spirits and sicknesses, Mary, who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, and Joanna, the wife of Chusa , Herod Stewart and Susanna and many others who were contributing to their support out of their private means. They considered Jesus to be of inestimable value and poured out their means as an act of worship to Christ We have another example of that kind of sacrifice back in Matthew chapter 26, and you can flip back there as well, and I'm sure you're familiar with it, but over in Matthew chapter 26, when Jesus was in Bethany You have another example of this faithful and sacrificial sacrifice for the Lord. Verse 6. Just now when Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the leper , A woman came to him with an alabaster vial of very costly perfume, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table. But listen to this. The disciples were indignant when they saw this and said, Why this waste? For this perfume might have been sold for a high price and the money given to the poor. Over in Mark 14 in verse 5, it says that this perfume might have been sold for over a hundred denarii. And uh if you know scripture in uh Matthew 20 lets us know that uh denarii, uh denarius uh singular uh was was a day's wage, a fair day's wage. So 300 denarii is 300 days wages. That's a full year of salary That at one time this woman pours out and opens up onto the head of Jesus a full year's worth of work. And Jesus gets it all in one splash. A full year's worth of work. And while the disciples are arguing about what could have been done with the money, this woman understands that Jesus is worth it. He was anointed before his burial. He was wrapped with spices during his burial. And even after the burial, the women come again to anoint him. They just can't give enough to Jesus. There's this constant devotion to Christ, and they considered the sacrifice of their time, their resources, their affection to be worth it for the sake of the master. And I got a question for all of us. Do you see your service to Christ like that? Is it worth it or is it a waste when you serve Christ, when you sacrifice for Christ? If you lose time or resources or energy that you were planning to use for something else, but you sacrifice it for the sake of Christ instead, do you look at that as like a waste? Because I can't get that back. You know, I've given it up to Christ, of serve him with it. Do you see it as a wasted investment or do you consider Christ worthy of every drop, every penny, every second? These women who were healed by Jesus, delivered by Jesus, in the case of Mary Magdalene, had demons cast out by Jesus. Like no sacrifice was too much to give to Jesus Christ. And their devotion is preserved for us on the pages of Scripture. And particularly back in Matthew 27, 3, women stand out among the rest. There's Mary Magdalene, who was delivered of seven demons and became the first witness of the resurrected Savior. We'll actually take a look at her a little bit more in Matthew chapter 28. We have uh Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and uh James is also known as James the the less or little James, who is an apostle of Jesus Christ. So we have another mother of an apostle who's here And then there was the mother of James and John, who's also known as the wife of Zebedee. In Mark 15, verse 40 and 16. 1, it tells us that her name is Salome. And if you remember our study from Matthew 20, this is the same woman who came to Jesus to ask if her sons could be placed on the right hand and left hand in the kingdom. You know, Aunt Salome came to the rescue to see if her boys could get some prominent sheets. And here Athaleme is at the cross watching Jesus drink the bitter cup that he warned her about. When he says, you know, are are you able to drink the cup that I drink? Now she sees what he's talking about. But she's dedicated to him. She stays there right till the very end. She remains there, out of her love and devotion to Jesus, persevered right up to the end, even beyond what they might have perceived to be the end of Jesus' life. They're there at the tomb as well And they remained because they considered his life to be precious in their sight. They considered Jesus worth it. You have the silent supporters. And then you also have the secret sympathizers. Look at verse 57 back in Matthew 27 again. It says, when it was evening there came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who himself had also become a disciple of Jesus. And here we have the secret sympathizers. You have a death that's considered to be precious, but it comes a little bit late for this man named Joseph of Arimathea. We're told that he's a rich man, which is significant for at least one reason, because it was prophesied that Jesus would be with the rich man in his death. Actually, if you flip back to Isaiah chapter 53, just to show you this, Isaiah chapter 53 This is part of the prophecy regarding the Messiah or the suffering servant. Isaiah 53, look at verse 9 with me Speaking about the suffering servant, the Messiah who was to come, says this in verse 9 that his grave was assigned with wicked men. Yet he was with the rich man in his death, because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. One of the ways that the Father made a distinction between Jesus and the common criminals that he hung next to is that he wouldn't be buried like they were buried. According to one record, the bodies of Jewish criminals seem to have been buried in humiliation and disgrace in the valley of Hinnem. uh also known as the the Valley of Corpses, amidst the unclean trash heaps of the city, the ashes of the burned, uh decomposing uh flesh of animals temple sacrifices, this huge garbage dump that was outside of the city in the valley. Criminals could not be laid with their fathers in the grave, the guilty could not be laid with the just, but they were huddled out of sight, the beheaded, the hanged, those who were stoned, those who were burned, and they were put out in disgrace And humiliation in this garbage heap. This is what happened to the criminals of the Jewish people But this was not to befall the Savior. He would not be treated like the rest of the criminals, because he wasn't a criminal. And that's what it says in Isaiah 53 that he had done no violence, because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. He's not going to be treated like everybody else. Jesus was considered precious in the sight of the Father, and the Father made sure that he was carefully handled. after his death. It was the beginning of his exaltation. We're not told when Joseph of Arimathea became a disciple, but we do know that for a while he kept this secret. Look over at John chapter 19 John chapter 19, just to get to know Joseph of Arimathea a little bit. John chapter 19 and verse 38 lets us know this. John 19, 38. Says, after these things, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a secret one For fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate granted permission, so he came and took the body away. There are consequences for being publicly identified with Jesus, right? We know that uh in John chapter 9, the parents of the man who was born blind, when it When it recognized the miracle that happened with their son, they recognized that a miracle happened, but they didn't want to recognize who it came from. Because as soon as they recognized Jesus Christ They were in fear of being cast out of the synagogue. In John chapter 9, verse 22, it says they were afraid of the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone confessed him to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. And so much of ancient life was surrounded the synagogue. You know, it was tied into the synagogue. The synagogue is where uh social interaction took place, it's where business connections were made, it's where religious instruction was given. So the persons who were unsynagogued were essentially cut off from the Jewish community and treated like outsiders. One author says this, that as if he were a leper, they were treated as if they were lepers. They would keep a distance of four cubits from them, those who were unsynagoged. If those who were unsynagogued died, stones were cast at their coffins. And they were not allowed to study with others. They were not even allowed to be shown a road. They might buy the necessities of life, but it was forbidden to eat or drink with such a one as was unsynagogued. So it was a fearful thing to be cast out of the synagogue. You were basically dead to your own people. And some of the Jewish people, their livelihoods depended on whether or not they were attached to the synagogue. Over in uh John chapter twelve it lets us know that that even many of the rulers believed in him, John twelve and forty-two. But because of the Pharisees they were not confessing him for fear that they would be put out of the synagogue, for they loved the approval of men. rather than the approval of God. So some of these Jewish leaders lived in fear of losing their positions, losing their place, even losing their means of livelihood. And one of those men was Joseph of Arimathea. He was a prominent Jewish council leader of the Sanhedrin. Mark chapter 15, verse 43, it says that Joseph of Arimathea came. He was a prominent member of the council who himself was waiting for the kingdom of God. And it says this that he gathered up courage. He was fearful, but now it says he gathered up courage and went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. What was it that gave Joseph of Arimathea this courage to break ranks, go against the judgment of the Jewish council and say, you know what? I'm going to publicly identify myself with this Jesus Christ. If you remember the Jewish council that Joseph of Arimathea was a part of, is the same council that late into the night and early that morning condemned Jesus to death. And Joseph of Arimathea, who was a part of this council, did not consent to go along with their plans. The council rejected him, and Joseph of Arimathea says, I cannot do that. I cannot reject Jesus. And I wonder if we have any Joseph of Arimatheas out there. You know, maybe when you're around church, you might be happy to identify yourself with Christ. Call yourself a disciple, but then you return to your job, return to your families, return to your school. You don't want to lose your position. You don't want to lose your place Maybe you're not afraid of being unsynagoged, but you might be fearful of being unfriended, disliked, getting a thumbs down on your post. Maybe it's even more serious than that. Maybe identifying with Christ will create tension in your family. Maybe it'll create stress on your job. Maybe you might even lose your job if you identify with Christ. I just want to say that if you're a true believer, that you can't stay hidden. You can't stay hidden. And if God has done a true work in your heart, you won't be able to keep that contained. You won't be able to give consent from the heart to those that believe that Christ is worthy of death. First Corinthians 12, 3 says, Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says that Jesus is what? Accursed. The Spirit of God won't allow you to live in that kind of contradiction. You may lapse momentarily like Peter did in the courtyard. You may even swear up and down that you don't know the man. But in your heart you won't be able to convince yourself that Jesus is accursed. And eventually it'll come out. Why? Because to believers Jesus is precious. Jesus is precious His life is precious. His death is precious. His love to us is precious. And Christians are defined as those who love Jesus Christ. Ephesians 6 verse 24 says, Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ with incorruptible love. 1 Corinthians 16, 22 says, if anyone does not love the Lord, he is to be accursed. You can't be a Christian and not love Jesus. You can't be a Christian and not love Jesus. It's the definition of being a Christian. I love Jesus. And there's a distinction that exists between a believer and an unbeliever. We have a different nature. Something's changed on the inside. We're not the same people that we used to be It's what Paul meant when he said in 2 Corinthians 5 and 17 that if anyone is in Christ, he's a what? He's a new creature. New creation. The old things pass away. Behold, new things are come. And that's what's known as the doctrine of regeneration. And unfortunately, there's some doctrinal systems out there that completely deny the practical effects of regeneration. There's a popular commentary I remember reading a number of years ago where one of the authors states that true Christians can abandon their Christian profession, fall away, and reject the Christian doctrine, and still be Christians. He goes on to say that true Christians can renounce their faith, reaffirm the view of Jesus' enemies, that he deserved to die on a cross and still be Christians. So I can be a Christian and affirm that Jesus Christ was worthy of death? No. See how the the the Bible describes my former manner of life like that. Colossians 1. 21, although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, that was before you became a believer. You can't be a believer and be hostile against Jesus Christ. Romans 5. 10 says, for if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son. We used to be enemies, right? It's not now. It's characteristic of the unbeliever to be darkened in their understanding, excluded from the life of God, because of the hardness of their heart, but that's not true of me once I've been made alive. And uh the the biblical doctrine systematic theology that's put out by the Master Seminary says this, that as the divine light shines into the sinner's heart, Opening his spiritual eyes to the repulsiveness of sin and the loveliness of Christ, the newborn soul turns away in disgust from sin and lays hold of Christ with the embrace of saving faith. His nature has fundamentally been changed from death in sin to life in Christ. The old has passed away, and the new has come. And the first book of John describes the new category for those who have been born from above. For those who have been born from above, we have fellowship with God. We walk in the light, we practice truth, we know him, we keep his commands, we abide in the light We practice righteousness. We're from God. We listen to the Spirit of truth. Those are things that are true of believers. Once we've been made new And Joseph of Meramathea was born from above, which is why scripture can say that he was a good and righteous man who was waiting for the kingdom of God. And which is why he could not agree with the counsel that Jesus was worthy of death. He couldn't come to that because he's a true believer. He couldn't consent to their plan. He could not call Jesus the cursed And he goes to Pilate after the council, and he asks for the body of Jesus. Like this life is precious to me. And if you follow the chronology, there's a number of things that all have to take place within a short period of time before the Sabbath day, which starts at 6 p. m. sundown on this Friday. According to Mark 15, Jesus was crucified at the third hour of the day, which would have been 9 a. m. Would have hung there from 9 a. m. until 3 p. m. You remember the last three hours was uh it was all in darkness. At 3 p. m. Jesus breathed his last. And following that, if you want to if you're still in John nineteen, uh you can take a look at this at verse 31 This happens after the earthquake, verse 31. Says, then the Jews, because it was the day of preparation, this is the day before the Sabbath. So that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day, asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away And you you might wonder, like, why why are they asking for for the legs of these criminals to be broken? It's because uh typically soldiers would break the legs of the crucified victims to speed up their death Because the only way that a crucified person could stay alive while he's on the cross is by pushing up on his feet to breathe. That's the only way he could survive, by continually pushing up. Scraping his back along the rough and rugged cross just to get a breath. So they asked that their legs would be broken. Why? So they could no longer push up. So it was really a death by suffocation. So the soldiers came. Verse 32 it says, the soldiers came, broke the legs of the first man, and of the other who was crucified with them. But coming to Jesus, when they saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. It was clear that Jesus already stopped breathing. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out Uh according to MacArthur, there were uh there's some medical experts who believe that under extreme circumstances that it's possible for the human heart to literally burst under emotional strain, causing blood to spill into the pericardium that surrounds the heart, and for that blood to be mixed with the lymphatic fluid, which would explain why water and blood gushed out when the soldier pierced him in his side. And John adds his own testimony in verse 35. He says, and he was, he who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. And he knows that he's telling the truth, so that you also may believe. For these things came to pass to fulfill the scripture, not a bone of him shall be broken, which is a prophecy from Psalm 34 and verse 20. And again another scripture says, They shall look on him whom they pierced. Which is another prophecy from Zechariah 12 and 10. And then it says in verse 38, after these things, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but a secret one for fear of the Jews, Asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate granted permission, so he came and took away his body. Now all this has to happen in three hours. After he asks for the body of Jesus, he has to get done with everything in three hours before six o'clock, before the Sabbath begins. So Joseph goes to Pilate. Soldiers double check that Jesus is dead. Joseph gets the body. Likely because of his connection as a part of the Jewish council. Pilate orders that you know just give him what he wants. Now he has to prepare the body of Jesus for burial. But does he have any help? Anybody remember the name Nicodemus? Another ruler of the Jewish people who met Jesus by night, wondered about what it meant to be born again in John chapter 3. Nicodemus now joins Joseph of Arimathea, publicly identifying with Jesus after his death. The wind of regeneration finally blew on Nicodemus and he saved. And now he's publicly identifying with Jesus Christ. Verse 39, it says, Nicodemus, who had first come to him by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds weight. So they took the body of Jesus, bound it in linen wrappings with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden a new tomb in which no one had yet been laid. Therefore, because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was nearby, they laid Jesus there. Like I said, all this had to take place in the space of three hours, but in the sovereignty of God all the details lined up They're able to care for the physical body of Christ, the one that they had come to believe in. And just to finish up, you can flip back over to Matthew 27. Just to see the kind of care that was taken for Jesus after his crucifixion, in contrast to how he was treated before. If you remember before the crucifixion, Jesus was roughly handled. He was beaten, he was mocked, he was spit upon, he was scourged. But following the crucifixion, his body is wrapped in clean linen cloth. Back over in uh in verse 59, it says Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth Hundred pounds worth of this mixture of myrrh and aloes were kind of spread in between the layers of the linen wrappings. Would have been an expensive way to prepare somebody for death, but Jesus is worth it. Instead of Jesus being tossed into the valley of corpses, it says in verse 60 that he was laid in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock, and he rolled a large stone against the entrance of the tomb and went away. A large stone is placed over the entrance to guard the body of Jesus from being violated by robbers, by animals, and instead of being completely forsaken Jesus is now accompanied by the women who loved him and followed him from Galilee. Verse 61 says, and Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary sitting opposite the grave, making sure that they had the right one Because they planned to come back again the next day to give more honor to Jesus Christ. These were the ones who were there when Jesus was crucified. And even though their faith might have been weak, they might have been confused, their faith was still real, it was still genuine, because they were born from above. They're real believers. And sometimes I hear tender-hearted Christians and well-meaning Christians say things like. . Like they they wonder like who do I most identify with at the . at the scene of the cross? You know, who are we? You know, like uh I've heard that it's it's It's good storytelling when you can identify with one of the characters in the story. So people ask me, like who do I relate to in the the scene of the cross? And they say things like this, that I identify with the angry mob screaming, crucify him, crucify him. But that's only true of you before salvation. After salvation, that's not the cry of your heart. You're not an enemy of God. You're not hostile against God anymore. You can't say as a believer, I identify with the angry mob. Because you might just feel guilty for your sins. That is no longer you. You're no longer an enemy of God. You're no longer hostile to God. It's no longer in our nature to hate Jesus Christ. We now see Jesus Christ as the most precious value, right? I love what 1 Peter 1 8 says that though you have not seen him, what? You love him. Even though you haven't seen him, you love him. And though you do not see him now but believe in him, you greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. Jesus said that if God were your father in John 8. 42, if God were really your father, you would love me. If God is your father, if you've been born again, if you've been born from above, You would love me. Christians love Jesus Christ. And if you do not love Jesus Christ, you belong in the category of those who are accursed. We may be weak. We may be confused. Sometimes our testimony can lapse. You know, we might not have a bold affirmation for Christ, but we can never call Jesus Christ accursed in our hearts. We can't cry out for his blood like the angry mob. We can't cry out, crucify him, crucify him. Because, I'll tell you why, because there's somebody else That we identify with on the day of crucifixion. And who's that? We identify with Jesus Christ. With Jesus Christ Himself, and through faith in Jesus Christ, my old man has been crucified with Christ. Romans 6. 6, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be done away. Galatians 2. 20, I've been crucified with Christ. It's no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. In Galatians 5. 24 it says, Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh. Galatians 6. 14 says, But may it never be that I would boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. If you are a true believer You're not the same person that you used to be. You don't have a hatred for Christ anymore. You have a love for Christ. You don't have a hatred for God's people. Now you have a love for the people of God. You no longer just sit in your sins, that's not where you live anymore. Now you have a hunger for righteousness, for holiness. Those who Have a hope of heaven of seeing him purify themselves. There's something that changes on the inside of a believer You can't be the same person that you used to be. And what we find with these people who were there when they crucified the Lord is we find true believers. Some believers were shaking in fear. We have some believers that were far off in the distance, but we still have those that truly trusted in Jesus Christ. Even in the midst of all their confusion, they truly trusted in Jesus Christ, and they could not call him a curse. They love Jesus Christ. Even as they were faltering, failing, they still had a love for Jesus Christ. Why? Because they had been born from above. And I pray that if you're here today, and if you don't sense in your own heart a love for Jesus Christ, That you would understand that you now sit under the wrath of God. Those who do not love the Lord Jesus Christ, the Bible calls a curse But we can be transferred from death to life. If we would look to Christ, if Christ would open up our eyes and we would see the beauty of Christ for who he is, we can be transferred from death to life. to life and I pray that that would be true for you who are here today. Let's uh bow our heads in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we I come before you Lord and uh we thank you for your word. Father, we thank you for the uh truthfulness of it and the beauty of it. We thank you for uh our Savior Jesus Christ. And Father, we do have a true love for him. And Father, I pray that our love would increase, that we would uh just expand in deeper ways in our love and admiration for who he is. And Father, I pray that if there are any here who do not know Jesus Christ, who do not love Jesus Christ, who do not hunger and thirst for righteousness, Father, I pray that you would draw them to yourself, that you would open up their eyes, that they would see the beauty of the Savior. And now, Father, we know that that only comes as a gracious gift from your hands. Now, Father, we pray that you would do that work. For the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.