The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to Romans chapter 7? We're going to turn back to Romans chapter 7 and we can't avoid it any longer This week we're finally getting into the thick of the battle with the Apostle Paul. And these are the verses in Romans chapter 7 that most of us know, Romans chapter 7, 4. When we think about Romans chapter 7, we primarily think about the internal conflict and wrestling that Paul describes at the end of Chapter 7. And this wrestling of chapter 7 makes chapter 8 such a relief because there's a real wrestling. Chapter 7 and verse 19, it says, For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. Chapter 7 verse 24, wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death And then there's the cry in verse 25, thanks be to God, through Jesus Christ our Lord, which leads us right into chapter 8. But before we get there, there's the struggle that we find in Romans chapter 7. And it's so fierce. That so many interpreters over the centuries who agree on so many of the details in Romans chapter 6, 7, and 8, that they split at exactly this point in Romans chapter 7. And many wonder, is this the same Apostle Paul that wrote chapter 6? And the same one that's going to write chapter 8? Because what he says in chapter 7 seems so out of place. Romans chapter 6 and verse 17 it says, But thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. And having been free from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. But then in chapter 7, in verse 14 He says, For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am a flesh sold into bondage to sin. How do those two things agree? Later on in Romans chapter 8, Paul will say in verse 1 that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. But back in chapter 7 In verse 23 it says, But I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. So there are a number of interpreters from the church father origin moving forward who would argue that Paul could not possibly be describing himself as a saved or regenerated man in chapter 7. And the conclusion is that Romans chapter 7 has to be the description of an unbeliever How do you have a believer saying things like what Paul says in chapter 7? I mean, this just isn't possible, is it? And we would have to admit that there are good arguments for that position. How could a saved person be described as of the flesh in verse 14? How could a saved person be described as a prisoner of sin and in bondage to sin in verse 14? Why is there a wrestling with the law in verse 14 when we're said that we've been made to die to the law in verse 4? How could a person who saved be described as defeated by sin in verse 19? Where he says, For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. How can that describe a believer? Don't we have power? And where's the power and the aid of the Holy Spirit? Where do we find the Holy Spirit that's found in chapter 8? Why would Paul describe himself in verse 18 of chapter 7? by saying, for I know that nothing good dwells in me. Why would he say that if the Holy Spirit is dwelling in him? How could he say that? And for those reasons and others, interpreters have concluded that Paul could not possibly be describing himself as a believer in Romans chapter 7. This is not the experience of a believer. But then on the other hand, Augustine and a number of reformed interpreters will argue that Paul could not possibly be describing himself as an unbeliever. Or as an unregenerated unregenerated man in chapter 7. And their conclusion is that Romans 7 has to be talking about a believer. Why is that? I mean, how could Paul say that he wants to do good and joyfully concurs with the law of God if he's an unbeliever? Unbelievers are described in Romans chapter 8 and verse 7 as hostile toward God. For they do not subject themselves to the law of God. So I mean how can that be an unbeliever? How can an unbeliever serve the law of God in verse 25? When those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Romans chapter 8 and verse 8. And how can an unbeliever be described as having an inner man? Verse 22, I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. And Paul only uses the inner man to speak about believers. 2 Corinthians 4 16, Ephesians chapter 3, verse 16. And how is an unbeliever described as having this kind of struggle with sin when unbelievers are said to be dead in their trespasses and sins? Dead men don't struggle. So how can this struggle be said of an unbeliever? I mean, where are the unbelievers saying, I do not understand what I'm doing? I mean it makes sense to them, doesn't it? So Leon Morris, one commentator, says this, surely this is the experience of the believer. No believer is completely sinless. He's still a sinner, no matter how much out of character his sin is, and what happens when he does sin. And I love this. This is a lengthy quote, but I think it's helpful to read. He says, what happens when the believer does sin? He feels dreadful about it. Then why does he do it? He simply doesn't understand. In view of all that Christ has done for him and the resources Christ makes available for him, surely he should have resisted his temptations. He does not want to sin, he knows that. He knows that he ought not to sin, but he's weak in the flesh. Because he does not want to sin, he can say with Paul, I do what I do not want to do. When he reflects on that sin, he's apt to say, Nothing good lives in me. But he cannot deny his responsibility. His sin proceeds from what he is. He knows that he did it himself, but his regret is deep and genuine, and he cries, oh wretched man that I am. The sin is not the product of regeneration. It takes place despite his regeneration. There is within the believer which leads him to sin even when he does not want to And when he sins, he cannot but see that there is a power of evil that is too strong for him. That he's enslaved to sin, a prisoner. But his inability to explain how he, a regenerate, redeemed person, falls into sin does not give him license to deny either the fact of his sin or the fact of his regeneration. Paul is giving expression to the horror of sin committed. It matters little that the sin is occasional. This is the way that the sensitive believer responds to sin when it happens. And as you look at Romans chapter 7, you can just ask the question, does this describe me? Does this describe me? Morris goes on to say that it's worth bearing in mind that the great saints throughout the ages do not commonly say how good I am. What do the saints throughout the ages say? How wretched I am. How wretched I am. Luke chapter 5, verse 8. If you remember Peter, he says, Go away from me, Lord. Why? Because I'm a sinful man. Lord, I don't even deserve to be in the same boat with you. Lord, can you just leave my presence? Because it's too much for me to bear being in the same boat. Or Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 6, what does he say? Woe is me, for I'm ruined I'm ruined. God, I have no place to hide. I'm in your presence. I see your glory, the train of your road filling the temple. Lord, there's nowhere to go. There's nowhere to hide. Lord, I'm ruined. Woe is me! Because I'm a man of unclean lips and I dwell among a people of unclean lips. Lord, I don't even deserve to be here right now My eyes have seen the king, the Lord of host. So apart from all the textual arguments and theological arguments that we could give for Romans chapter 7. Being the experience of a believer, there's the practical arguments, the very personal arguments. Because many Christians would have to agree that this describes me. This is me. And it doesn't just describe my experience as a new believer or as a weak believer. This is any stage of being a believer. Doesn't describe my experience before I was converted. Martin Lloyd Jones, who I would I gained so much from. And I've appreciated so much of what he had to say as he looked at this, he would argue that this is a person who's neither unregenerate or regenerate. It's like I can't make up my mind. It's like he's like somewhere in limbo in the middle, like I don't know where to put this person. For they experience conviction, but he would say, I don't know if they're converted. And he struggled with the idea that somebody could delight in the law of God and still be unconverted. So he says, I don't know where to place them. It's neither regenerate nor unregenerate. I mean, but how can you be both? Cranfield, in his commentary on Romans, is helpful at this point. He argues that this can describe even the mature believer. He says the truth is this, the farther men advance in the Christian life, and the more mature their discipleship, the clearer becomes their perception of the heights to which God calls them. That the longer I'm a believer, the farther it seems like the goalpost is. Like, Lord, am I ever going to make it there? Like, the longer I'm saved, the farther I walk, it seems like the farther you are Like, Lord, when is this gap going to close? The clearer becomes the perception of the heights to which God calls in. The more painfully sharp their consciousness, the consciousness of the distance between what they ought and what they want and what they are. The man whose cry this is is one who knowing himself to be righteous by faith desires from the depths of his being to respond to the claims which the gospel makes upon him It's this very clarity of his understanding of the gospel, the very sincerity of his love to God, which makes his pain at this continuing sinfulness so sharp. And he says, while the cry is real and deep, it's not a cry of despair, because when he says, who will deliver me? He said it may be understood as expressing the speaker's earnest longing for something which he knows is surely going to come to pass. When he says, who will deliver me? He says, I know that there is someone who will deliver me. And isn't that what Paul is talking about in Philippi chapter 3? Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, reaching forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Terry Bridges says there is The obvious tension between who we are in Christ and what we see ourselves to be in our daily lives. There's a gap between who we are and what we should be. And even though in Christ we stand perfectly righteous before God in our daily lives, we see so much remaining sin. And if you've battled with the stubborn temptation for any length of time, you can relate to what Paul says. Even though we're adopted as sons, in our experience, sometimes we feel like orphans. Even though we're new creations, sometimes it seems as if the old has not yet passed away. And regardless of where you land in this passage, you'd have to admit what Paul says in Romans chapter 7 and verse 21, I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. I want to do good. I want to do what's right. But it's like evil is right there with me every step I make, every turn. And as Jerry Bridges writes, we have an implacable or unrelenting enemy of righteousness right in our own hearts. What diligence and watchfulness is required of us when this enemy of our souls is ready to oppose every good deed. Right there. Well let's jump into the to the context here in Romans chapter 7 and we'll start to walk through this together. I'll start at verse 12. Romans chapter 7, starting at verse 12. Paul says, so then the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good. Therefore, did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be, rather it was sin in order that it might be shown to be sin, by affecting my death through that which is good, so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am a flesh, sold into bondage to sin. For what I am doing I do not understand, for what I am not practicing, for I am not practicing what I would like to do. But I'm doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law that confessing that the law is good. So now no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me For I know that nothing good dwells in me that is in my flesh, for the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I am doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh just come before you, Lord, today as we do every Lord's Day, uh asking for your help as we walk through another passage. Father, this is your word. We pray that you would open this word up to us, help us to understand these things, help us to apply these things in the right way. My father, as uh one author said, I pray that you would comfort those who are troubled and trouble those who are comforted Now, Father, that you would help us to apply these things rightly to our hearts. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. In law, in medicine and statistics, there's a phrase, the cause of death. The cause of death It's the official language that speaks about the conditions that result in a death, and this is what you'll find recorded on a death certificate. When someone dies, the first question that's often asked is, what was the cause of death? And in some cases the cause of death is determined by a medical examiner, and in rare cases an autopsy needs to be performed to determine the cause of death. And in some cases, the cause of death remains unknown. And there are still some questions about what truly caused a person's death. But in Romans chapter 7, Paul is clarifying, particularly for the Jewish reader, what causes spiritual and eternal death. And this was a necessary clarification because so far in the book of Romans, Paul's made a number of claims about the law of God. Now, so far in the book of Romans, we've been told that the law brings about condemnation, the law brings about wrath, the law brings about the imputation of sin, the law increases transgression. And then in Romans chapter 7 and verse 9, Paul says, I was once alive, apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin became alive, and I died. And this commandment which was to result in life proved to result in death for me. And the natural question would then be, well, well, is the law then the cause of sin and death? I mean, is the law the reason for my death? The question back in Romans chapter 7 and verse 7 was, is the law sin? And now the question in verse 13 is, therefore did that which is good become a cause of death for me? And as I mentioned uh earlier that uh particularly for those who were from a Jewish background, Paul's argument would have been highly offensive. I mean, Paul, are are you saying that the law came to kill us? Is that what you're saying? Is the law the cause of my death? And again, what does Paul say? Look back again at Chapter 7 and verse 13. He says, Therefore did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be. May Genoita. This is the seventh time Paul has had to say this. He uses a phrase that means, let there not be the possibility of the thought that that would be the case. This is a no with disbelief behind it. You know, I can't believe that I have to give a response to this again? Absolutely not God forbid that you would even think that God gave us his law with the intent to kill us. And in verses 13 to 21 Paul gives a number of reasons why the law is not the cause of my death. That's the main point of the passage, okay? The main point of the passage Romans chapter 7 is not, was Paul a believer or an unbeliever as he's describing these things? The main point of the passage is that the law is not the cause of my death. And there's a lot of particulars in that, a lot of details around that, and I'll try to convince you of the details around that, but don't miss the main point. The main point is that the law is not the cause of my death. That's the main point of the passage. So let's jump in. Verse 13. Why is the law not the cause of my death? It's because the law was used by sin. For death, but it's not the cause of it. So the law is the conduit, it's not the cause. Again, verse 13. Therefore did that which is good become a cause of death for me? May it never be, rather it was Sin. Sin is the villain in the story. The law is not the problem. As one commentator put it, the villain is sin. The wages of sin is what? Death. The soul that sinned shall do what? Die. So so it's sin that causes death. Romans chapter five, verse twelve. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin It's through sin that death came. James chapter 1 verse 15. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin. And sin, when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Scripture is clear. That it's sin that brings death. You can't blame the law for passing down the death penalty to a murderer. If he's guilty for his crime, it's his crime that caused his death. It's not the law's fault And there's two results of sin being identified as the cause of death. Number one, in order that sin might be shown to be sin. In order that it might be shown to be sin. When I understand that sin brings about death, I see the true nature of sin. Sin is not a pet, sin is a predator. You can't adopt sin, nurse sin back to health, and imagine that when sin is fully grown, uh that's it's not going to turn around and attack you. Sin is not a pet, it's a predator. Genesis chapter 4, verse 6 and 7, you remember that? Then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? Why is your countenance Fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. You can't nurse the beast on the porch and expect that it won't turn around and attack you. It's not a pet, it's a predator, and it only knows one thing. It knows death. That's what sin knows When lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin. When sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Sin is a death machine. I remember watching a documentary one time. It was a marine biologist who wanted to prove that, you know, sharks don't attack unless they're provoked. And in order to prove his point, he went into these shark-infested waters uh and kind of stood there among the sharks as they're swimming around him and You know, he had his friend on the the beach that was videotaping the whole thing. And he's talking about like, you know, how how these are just like, you know, the the dogs that, you know, you might have in your home, you know, they're docile creatures and You know, unless you attack them, unless they think that you're a threat, you know, they're not going to attack you. So all those talk about, you know, shark attacks, you know, we don't need to think about them like that. It's a a shark incident. It's not a shark attack. Sharks aren't attacking. You know, they they they must think that you know they're they're under threat themselves to attack you. And as he's standing there among the sharks, one of the sharks bumped into his calf and then took a bite out of crime. And all of a sudden like his entire calf was ripped off by the shark. And then he's he's trying to get back out to the to the beach and of course his friend is like videotaping the whole thing And shock, like, I don't know what to do, so he just keeps the camera rolling. And this guy stumbles back onto the beach with nothing but a bone where there used to be a calf. Gets rushed to the hospital, you know, uh almost lost his life, had all this reconstructive surgery, and after he had all this reconstructive surgery, guess what he did? He went back into the same water. To say, I must have done something wrong because the sharks wouldn't have attacked me if they thought I wasn't there as a threat. So he had his friend again on the beach videotaping him for the next attempt Ever heard the phrase there are a lot of dumb ways to die? I mean it's like what what are you trying to prove here? You've you've already proven the point. Sharks attack But now you're going in again, you know, as if like I just did it wrong the first time. Let me let me come in again. You know, I'd I'd rather be proven wrong on the beach I mean just wait until the millennium to swim with sharks, you know? It's like, you know, they'll be tame then and you can swim with whoever you want, but it's like, what are you doing? They're eating machines. Sharks typically have uh five to fifteen rows of teeth in each jaw, acting as a conveyor belt to replace the lost teeth. Some sharks have over 200 rows of teeth, they just keep coming. It's like the the the tooth fairies working overtime here, right? They just keep coming. Some sharks can produce 30,000 to 50,000 teeth in a lifetime They've been built to bite. They're predators. They're not pets. Apex predators. And you know what? Sin is an apex predator. It's an apex predator. It's been built to bites. And its nature is proven when it kills. It's shown to be what it really is when it takes a bite And that's what sin does. It's proven to be what it is. When sin brings about death, it's like, yep, that's that's the nature of sin. That's what it does. It brings about death. That's what it is. So that's what Paul speaks about. Sin is shown to be sin by affecting my death. Its nature is proven And also, another result of sin being identified as the cause of death is that it's also shown to be utterly sinful Verse 13, it says, so that through the commandment, sin would become utterly sinful. The word utterly in the Greek is hyperbole. That's where we get our word hyperbole. Hyperbolic is to go beyond to be in excess to overdo it. And sin goes above and beyond And it's evil. And how does it do that? Sin uses what is good for evil. Shows itself to be utterly sinful. We quoted this from Spurgeon last week. It must be a terrible power which gathers strength from that which should restrain it. It rushes more violently in proportion as it is reined in. Sin kills men by that which was ordained to give life. It makes heaven's gifts the stepping stones to hell. It uses the lamps of the temple to show the way to perdition Sin is the strange fire that burns more fiercely after it's damped, finding fuel in the water which was intended to quench it. The Lord brings good out of evil, but sin brings evil out of good. And when sin uses the commandment of God to bring about my death, it's shown to be utterly sinful. And there's nothing so holy that sin will not be right there to corrupt it. The garden of paradise was There and sin was right there at the beginning. Right there at the beginning to tempt with the fruit. The beginning of the the nation of Israel. There was a a temptation with the golden calf. Forty days after fasting in the wilderness, and Satan was right there to tempt Jesus. In the upper room, Satan was there to fill Judas's heart. At the birth of the church, Satan was there to fill Ananias and Sapphira And right here among us, Satan is busy seeking someone he can devour. Right there. There's nothing so sacred that sin will not attempt to corrupt it. And sin uses that which is good to affect death. It's not the law that causes death, but sin even uses that which is good to bring about death Sin picks up the law like a blunt object and turns it into a deadly weapon against us. Sin uses the very expression of the holiness of God to bring us harm. The law is innocent. The law is righteous, the law is good, and sin attempts to use that which is good for my death sentence. And that was all in the past. That's what sin did. Sin was leading us to death. But then what you have Paul doing is he makes this shift. He talks about the past. This is what sin did. You know, sin was affecting my death. That's all in the past. And now he he makes the shift as he goes forward. Because starting in verse 14, he doesn't speak about the past anymore. Now he starts to talk about the present. And he starts to talk about himself. And Paul lets us know, he wants to let us know that the law was Not what caused my death in the past when I was an unbeliever, and the law does not cause my death now that I am a believer. That's where Paul is going. In verses 7 to 13, Paul uses the past tense nine times. Verse 7, I would not have come to know sin except through the law, for I would not have known about covenant. That's the past. Verse 8, but sin taking opportunity through the commandment produced in me covening of every kind. That was in the past. Verse 9, I was once alive apart from the law. But when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died. That was in the past. Verse 10, and this commandment which was to result in life proved to result in death for me. That's in the past. Even in verse 13. Therefore did that which is good become a cause of death for me May it never be. Rather it was sin, in order that it might be shown to be sin by affecting my death. That was all in the past. But now when he talks about his current state, he consistently points to the present. And in verses 14 to 15, he uses the present tense 26 times. Nine times he used the past tense before this. And now 26 times in this section, 14 to 25, he uses the present tense. Verse 14, I am of flesh. Verse 15, for what I am doing I do not understand. Verse 18, I know that nothing good dwells in me presently. Verse 20, sin which dwells in me And even though he's presently convicted by the law, the law still does not condemn him and put him to death, even as a believer. So the law wasn't responsible for my death when I wasn't a believer, because it wasn't about the law, it was about the sin that was putting me to death. And now that I am a believer, the law still doesn't put me to death Because even though it convicts me, it does not condemn me. And we're just going to scratch the surface today, but uh hang in there with me, okay? This is our second point I am not confused. I am confused. And now I'm confused. I am confused, but not cut off. That's the second point. I'm confused, but not cut off. And there's going to be a series of these statements that we'll make. We won't get to all of them today, but we'll just try to jump in here. Wait, wait in the water without the sharks, okay? Verse 14, take a look at it. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of flesh, sold into bondage to sin For what I am doing I do not understand, for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. Here, Paul wants to again make it clear that the law is innocent. The law is innocent. We know that the law is spiritual. Pneumaticos , it's an adjective that's used total of 24 times in Paul's letters. And in every case where this word spiritual is used, it's used of something that's given by God and inspired by God. So we have spiritual gifts, spiritual blessings, spiritual truths, spiritual seed, spiritual food or drink, the spiritual rock that is Christ. So the law is clearly described as that which comes from God. It's holy, it's righteous, it's good. The law is good. But he says, in contrast, I am of flesh. The law is spiritual. I'm of flesh. And notice that he does not say that I am in the flesh. He says that I am of flesh. And that's significant. To be in the flesh, in Paul's usage, would have been speaking about being in the realm of the flesh, being under the domain of the flesh. To be part of the kingdom characterized by the flesh. That's what it means to be in flesh. If you remember back in chapter 5, to be in Adam was to be in sin and death. to be under his domain, but to be in Christ was to be in righteousness and life. It's described as a realm, a sphere of existence. In the same way, to be in the flesh would be to be under its domain, to be under the rule of sin. And that's no longer true for the believer. If you flip over to Romans chapter 8, look at verse 8 It says, and those who are what? In the flesh cannot please God. However, you are not in the flesh But in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. To be in the flesh describes a natural state apart from the Spirit of God. And in that natural state we bore fruit for death. Back in Romans chapter 7 and verse 5. It says, For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions which were aroused by the law were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. Again, that's that's Past tense. That's what we used to be described as. We were in the flesh, but we're no longer in that realm anymore as believers. We're not in the flesh, but we can still be of the flesh. Because we can still act fleshly. When Paul uses that phrase of the flesh, he's not just talking about our physical bodies or our humanity. The word for flesh or fleshly, sarkonas can be used to describe our physical bodies, our natural descent, or what's earthly, but it can also be used to describe anything that opposes the will of God in this present evil world. Believers in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 were described as men of flesh. Paul shares what he meant by that when he says that they're still fleshly, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. In verse 3 it says, You are still fleshly, for since there is jealousy, strife among you, are you not fleshly? Flesh was used for the The natural desires and attitudes, actions that didn't characterize godliness. It was all that opposes God in this present evil world. And even though we're new creations, there's this unredeemed aspect of who we are that still craves the way that things used to be. There's something in us. It's like we can't explain it, but there's like something something in there that still kind of longs for the old life. It's like when there's an evil dictator, he's overthrown, there's a new regime, new government comes into place. But then you have that group of rebels They're still there like, God, I just I just really like the way things used to be. And they'll never submit. They never change. They're always fighting against the the new government. They'll always fight. The the flesh is that Rebel that says, I don't like the way the things are now. I want things like they used to be, and the flesh doesn't give up. It's always fighting against the new government. Flip over to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5 describes the same warfare. Take a look at Galatians chapter 5 at verse Sixteen chapter five, look at verse sixteen Paul says this, he says, but I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh, for the flesh sets its desire against the Spirit. and the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please Do you know that the moment you come to Jesus Christ, you truly come to Jesus Christ, repent of your sins, trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, the moment you do that, you enter a lifelong battle with the flesh. You're in a battle with the rebels. And you'll always be in a battle with the rebels. Because that rebellious flesh is always in opposition to the way of God. And whatever you give it, it's never satisfied. It's not like, you know, hey, I'll give in to you a little today and then you'll leave me alone. That's not the way it works. You give into the flesh and it strengthens itself. I want more. You know, feed me, see more, you know. It's like I want more. You give in, it wants more. You give in again, it wants more Because it's not satisfied with just the little treats that you throw it. It wants to dominate, it wants to control. And it can't control because now you're a new creation in Christ, but it's still going to try anyway It can't overtake the new you, but it's going to do its best to try to overtake it. I want it all. So you can't just give into the flesh and think that it's going to be satisfied. If you struggle with anger, you don't say, you know, every once in a while I'll I just need to blow off some steam. You know? I just gotta let them have it every once in a while. If you struggle with greed or selfishness, you don't say, you know what, every once in a while I just need to close my heart off to everybody and just indulge myself. It's not going to satisfy it. If you struggle with your tongue, you don't say every once in a while, you know, I just I just gotta say something sarcastic just to make sure I still have it I just gotta make sure that it's still there. I still have that talent to rip somebody to shreds. I just gotta I gotta make sure that I still have that. There are no cheat days when it comes to sin No GTs. You won't satisfy sin by giving into it. You'll only strengthen it. And the flesh will never be submissive to the flesh is never going to be reformed. It's not going to get any better. The flesh sets its desire against the spirit. And the spirit against the flesh. I mean, they're just in opposition to one another. There's nothing good there That's why Romans chapter 7 and verse 18 says, For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. There's nothing good there. And that's the conflict in Romans 7. Back in Romans 6, it lets us know that the old self was crucified with him. That's the old regime. That's dead, that's gone. Why? In order that our body of sin might be done away with. So that we would no longer be slaves to sin. I have been set free. I'm redeemed. I'm a new man. But what remains in this new man? is this sinful, selfish, fleshly rebel hiding out there in the woods somewhere, just waiting for the opportunity. That he can take a hit. He's just waiting for it. You know, guerrilla warfare, you know, hiding behind the bushes in camouflage. Then every once in a while, and then he goes and ducks away again. It's like, wait, wait, wait, where are we? Where did you come from? He's there. He's waiting for an opportunity. He never surrenders. He never submits. He never gets better. Sometimes young people talk to older, godly Christians, and they ask questions like, when did you get rid of pride in your life? Or they say things like, you know, when did lust stop being a problem for you? When did when did greed stop being a problem for you? Stop being a temptation? You know, when when did that happen for you? There's a Q<unk>A where a pastor was asked that question. He says, Well, I can tell you it's not at 60. And then there's like this older gentleman in the The and and the peas and he stood up and said, I can tell you it's not at 85 It's like it doesn't get better Now we can cut off the expressions of those sins. First Corinthians 9, verse 27, Paul says, I discipline my body and I make it my slave. Like this, whipping them, you know. It's like get back to the woods, you beast. You know, you're not gonna come and take me over. You just keep on disciplining yourself. I'm not going to be your slave, sin But you gotta keep it up. The flesh will never stop fighting. That's why John Owen famously said, be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. You're always in the fight. You're always at it. That's why we're not said to tame our sins. We're to kill our sins. Kill it! Mortify it! The Puritan John Owen in his book, Mortification of Sin says this. Even when we think that a lust is dead, Because it is quiet, I love this. He says we must labor to give it new wounds and new blows every day. I know you've been quiet over there, but I'm gonna kick you again, you know, just give you another wound while you're down New wounds and new blows every day. Because it's never going to stop. It's going to keep coming back. He says, even when lust is enticing and seducing And they, it's at its leisure, it's still your enemy. Don't think that because it's laying down that it's tame. I heard this one story about uh you know uh the safari and you know they saw like this group of lions that are just kind of lazy laying under a tree and You know, somebody got out of the out of the truck, which they were told not to do. But they got out of the truck anyway, because I need I need that perfect picture You know, so this lady gets out and she's snapping her pictures. The lines are just lying there, not doing anything. As soon as she turns around, she was pounced on Dumb ways to die, right? It's like a lot of dumb ways to die. What in the world are you doing? They're predators, they're not pets. They look fluffy, but they're ferocious. And those teeth are not just there for show. Get out of the truck if you want to. You give sin a fresh wound and a fresh blow every day. Don't think that because it's quiet that it's it's silent. It's still your enemy Owen goes on to say, when sin lets us alone, we may let sin alone. But sin is always active. When it seems to be the most quiet, and its waters are often deep when they are calm. Never stops being an enemy. That's the old fleshly rebel hiding out in the woods. Never surrenders The new spiritual man has been set free. It's not the new man that's sold into bondage to sin. The new man's free. The new man loves God. The new man loves righteousness. But Romans 7. 23 says, But I see a different law. In my members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, making me a prisoner of the law of sin, which is where In my members. There's something that's still in this fleshly body that craves the old me that doesn't exist anymore. But it's still looking for it. As MacArthur says, it's that lingering part of unredeemed humanness that's still sinful. And that's going to be true until we're freed from this flesh. It's a lifelong battle. We're free from the penalty of sin. We're free from the power of sin. But we're not yet free from the presence of sin. And it still looks to trip us up. There's this war that's taking place within our hearts. And what happens in this internal warfare? We start to sound like we're crazy. Look at verse 15. Verse 15 back in Romans chapter 7. How do we sound crazy? Look at what the Apostle Paul says. For what I am doing, I do not understand. For I'm not practicing what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. What are you talking about, Paul? Sounds crazy. It sounds like there's a conflict. There is. And I'll try to help you make sense of what Paul's saying here, but what's the attitude of the new man against evil? Here we go. Number one, we don't understand evil. The new man doesn't understand it. For what I am doing, I do not understand. Sin doesn't make sense to the new man anymore. The word for knowledge, gonosco, it's a basic word for knowledge, but can also carry the meaning of a personal relationship. Once we come to know God, we don't have the same relationship with sin that we once had. What we once understood as our freedom, you know, I'm free, I'm free. You know, that freedom was actually our bondage. And now we understand it. Like what I thought was freedom was bondage. I don't understand this anymore. Romans 6. 21. It says, Therefore, what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? The things I used to delight in, I'm now ashamed of it. We understand that the sin that brought us joy in life was leading us to the grave, right? We don't get it anymore. We were blinded by our sins, but now we can see. Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the pride of life. Now that that's foolishness to us. And the evidence of a changed life is that we're ashamed of who we once were. One author says to be without shame is a mark of a sin-dominated life. No shame. No shame. Why? Because that's just the air you breathe That's the water you swim in. That's the the mud that you wallow in. That's just home for you. But now that you're a believer, it's like I don't that doesn't make why would I jump in the mud? It makes no sense But when you're a pig you love it. When you're a lamb, you don't. You finally come out and you look back and you say, who was that guy, right? You know sometimes you look at those old photos and it's like I can't even recognize that guy anymore. Because it's not you. You're different now. And now when you do something that's part of that old life, it's like, I don't even understand this. Why did I even do that? It doesn't make sense. I mean, why would I lie? Why would I steal? Why would I try to get people to notice me and boast in myself? I don't understand that anymore. I I have no relationship with that old person And not only do I not understand it, I don't enjoy it. I don't enjoy it like I used to. Romans chapter 7, verse 15. And this expands on sin not being understandable He goes on to say this. He says, for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. I don't even enjoy evil anymore. I actually hate it now. And notice that what the new man hates is not just the results of his sin. I mean, unbelievers hate the results of their sin. Proverbs 13, 15, the way of the treacherous is hard. 2 Chronicles 36, I love this. It says the Lord, the God of their fathers. sent word to them again and again by his messengers, because he had compassion on his people and his dwelling place. But they continually mocked the messengers of God, despised his words, scoffed at his prophets, until Until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people, until there was no remedy. You know, even unbelievers hate that. Revelation 6, you know, in the end when Christ comes back, it's like the unbelievers even cry out for the rocks and the mountains to fall on us. Hide us, hide us from the presence of the Lamb. He's coming. The Lamb is coming back. I don't want to bear the consequences of my sin. That's the unbeliever. The unbeliever doesn't want the consequences, but the unbeliever doesn't mind the sin. It's the consequences we don't like. But it's the believer who mourns over his sin. I don't like the sin itself. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn. Mourn over what? Mourn over my sin. I can't stand the sin anymore. When we hate sin, it's actually a demonstration that we love Him, that we love righteousness, that we've been changed. We're not the same people. It's like the thief on a cross, he goes from mocking Jesus to say, aren't you afraid of God? This man's done nothing wrong. What are you doing over there? Didn't enjoy the sin anymore. We don't understand it. We don't enjoy it. And number three, we don't agree with it We don't we don't agree with evil anymore. Back in Romans chapter 7 again. He says, For what I am doing I do not understand, for I'm practicing what I Would like if I'm not practicing what I would like to do, but I'm doing the very thing I hate. But if I do the very thing I do not want to do, I agree with the law, confessing that the law is good. I don't even agree with sin anymore. I agree with God. I'm not making arguments for my sin, like my sin 's okay. You know what 's the big deal about that? You know, that's not you anymore. You're not justifying your sin. You're not defending your sin. You're not standing up for your sin. You know, look what's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with that I mean everybody does it. You know, I'm not harming anybody. You know, what what difference does that make to you if that's what I do or not? You you justify your sin But when you become a believer, you don't even agree with yourself anymore. Like I don't I don't agree with this. One of the marks of unbelief, Romans chapter 1, verse 32, is That although they know the ordinance of God, those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but they also give hearty approval. To those who practice them. You know, that's the unbeliever. It's like, hey, no problem. I mean, do you? You know, you only live once. Live it up. You know, to each his own. Who am I to say? Who am I to stop you from having a good time, right? That's the unbeliever. Clap it up. Clap it up, guys. Clap it up. Everything's good But as a believer, we don't take pride in our shame anymore. Now it bothers us. Sin bothers us now. I don't agree with that. I can't I can't I'm sorry, but I can't support you in that. I know that this is what you want, that you think this is going to make you happy, but I'm sorry I can't support you in that anymore. Because I don't agree with it. We don't agree with sin. As Paul said, I would not have come to no sin except through the law. It's the law that tells me about my sin. What Paul is saying is, I now agree with the law of God. I agree with God in His Word. We don't judge God as being unjust. Romans 3. 4 may it never be, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. I'm the one who's wrong. God is the one who's right. That's the new man. So when he finds himself doing what he knows isn't right He doesn't understand it, he doesn't enjoy it, he doesn't approve of it. Like, why am I doing this? This doesn't make sense to me anymore. And because of that, sin is not going to be an unbroken pattern for the believer. And there's other texts that make that clearer. But we're not presenting ourselves as slaves to sin anymore. We're not constantly Showing up for duty. That's a willing unbroken practice. We don't do that anymore. Romans 6. 16 talks about that. We stand for God, we stand against sin. And it's confusing to us when we fall into sin, we don't understand it, we don't enjoy it, we don't agree with it, but here's the great news. And we'll come back to this again when we're back in Romans chapter 7. In spite of all the confusion that we have in our minds over our sin and when we fall in it, the Lord still does not cut us off. The Lord still does not cut us off. And we have to borrow from verses 24 and 25 for the hope that's found in the text. But But we find ourselves falling and not understanding and not agreeing and like, Lord, help me, I need help. But when do we finally get out of this vicious cycle? It's not when we're saved in life, but when we're freed from this body of death. When I'm finally set free from this body that I'm walking in. And this the sin that's dwelling within me. Like that's when I finally experience that freedom. Not just from the penalty and the power, but even the very presence of sin will be gone when I'm freed from this sinful body, the body of this death. Verse 24: Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? Thanks be to God. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, there's going to be a freedom one day. From the very presence of sin. I won't have to deal with this anymore. The fight's finally gonna be over. Praise God. Hallelujah. The fight will be done. The bell will ring. I mean it's done. We're over And the freedom from the body of this death, whether that's at the rapture or the departure from this life and the glory, will finally be free from sin's corruption. And listen again to what Paul says in verse 24. Look look at what he says. He says, Wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? He doesn't say, Thanks be to the law. The law can't do this for you. The law can't set you free. All the law can do is condemn you. The law's not responsible for this. Thanks be to God. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. It's through Jesus Christ that we're set free from the corruption of our sin. It's because of Jesus that we're not slain by the law. He saves us from the wretchedness of our corruption. And the salvation here is from the very presence of sin. We're sinful, we're unworthy, but as we look to Christ, we know that the cry for freedom will one day be answered. Philippians 3, 13, brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind , Reaching forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call. When I'm finally released, I'm pressing forward to that goal. The upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Colossians 3:4, when Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. That's the day that's coming. Like the true me is going to come out. I'm going to be revealed with him in glory. I'll be free from the corruption. Or 1 John 3 and verse 2, beloved, now we are the children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be like him because we'll see him as he is. And while it's true that we won't experience our freedom from corruption until that time That doesn't mean that we can't experience greater and greater freedom each day in our lives. So keep pressing on, brothers and sisters, because one day your change will come. Amen? One day your change will come. William Cooper, many of you might know that name, some might not. He was a hymn writer. He wrote the hymn, God Works in a Mysterious Way, Great Wonders to Perform. He's also author of a hymn that we sing often in our church, There is a Fountain Filled with Blood. William Cooper was a another soldier in the battle. He battled personally with depression, often even suicidal thoughts. And then he wrote these words. He says, Dear dying lamb, thy precious blood shall never lose its power Till all the ransomed church of God be saved to sin no more. There's coming a time when we won't sin anymore. There's coming a time when I won't struggle with these thoughts. There's coming a time when we'll be released into the freedom of the children of God. Like that's coming. And then he says this, when this poor lisping, stammering tongue Lie silent in the grave. This this old corrupt body will one day be put to rest. And when this poor lisping, stammering tongue lies silent in the grave, Then in a nobler, sweeter song, I'll sing thy power to save. One day we will sing of his power to save us, even from the very corruption and presence of sin. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Your word is rich. Your word gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. We're so grateful for all that you've done for us through your word. So Father, I pray that you would remind us that this battle that we're in that it won't last always. Now that there's coming a time when this battle will be done, when we'll cross the finish line into glory, whether that's uh when Christ returns or uh we go home to glory, my father, we uh just pray that you help us to stay in the fight. Now, Father, that we won't become weary in doing what's right. And uh Father, I pray that you would point us uh uh to Christ, the one who saves us. It's not the law that saves, it's Christ who saves. It's Christ who frees us. And we thank you for his life, his death, his resurrection, and his soon return. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.