The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well I've shared the story with you before, but in my first uh full-time ministry position, uh I remember being given an office, a laptop, and a list of responsibilities, and I felt absolutely paralyzed. I had 175 students that I needed to get to know. I was a student ministries pastor. I had a staff of 25 volunteers and a secretary that I didn't know what to do with On my calendar, there was a summer mission strip that was already planned and I was already scheduled to go on that as well. There was a fall and a spring retreat that I had to organize There were lake days and lockouts. I had two scheduled teaching times every week. In addition to that, I had senior high and junior high discipleship that I had to conduct I had a number of invitations from outside organizations to partner together with them for gospel ministry. And on top of that, there was a squeaky belt on top of the youth room in the AC unit in the the roof above the uh the uh the the roof above the youth room. Uh so I did the first thing I knew how to do since I had uh used to do AC repair and uh climbed up onto the roof and fixed the squeaky, squeaky belt. But I remember just feeling paralyzed, like all this stuff to do, you know, what what do you start first and what are my priorities? And as a senior pastor, I've faced similar questions about what to do with my time. You know, we don't have any squeaky belts here to fix But I've been invited to go to fundraisers. I've been asked to join prayer groups with other denominations. I've received requests to participate in community programs and mentorship programs and government programs. I've been asked to join food banks, to participate in youth sports leagues, and I still receive a number of invitations from outside organizations to partner together in what's considered to be gospel work. And there are so many opinions about what should be done with the church's time and what should be done with the pastor's time. I was listening to this radio program where the guest on the program was saying the the church and the community needs to have a supermarket for the people. A bank for the people, a school for the people, a manufacturing and distribution network to hire out men and women in the community And when the talk show host asked, But is that the responsibility of the church, though? The guest said, Well, it historically was the responsibility of the church. What's changed? Was it really? It might be what the church did, but was that the church's responsibility? Now to be clear, I'm not against supporting any of those things. individually or as a citizen, but is that the priority and the responsibility of the church? This morning I hopped on Google And one of the top searches in Google under What is the Church Doing was What is the Church Doing about climate change? When did that become the responsibility of the church? You know, go ye therefore and change the climate. You know, when did that become the responsibility of the church? What is the responsibility of the church? What is our priority? How do we decide where to invest our time, our talents, our treasures? Last week someone reminded me, if you aim at nothing, you'll hit it every time. You can also add to that that if you're trying to accomplish everything, you'll accomplish nothing. And sadly, too many churches have either become a jack of all trades or and a master of none. Or they've become a master of a trade, but it's not the trade that their master has assigned them to do And as we close the year of twenty twenty four, I want to ask the question, what are we doing here? What are what are we doing here We all have a measure of time that's been allotted to us by the Lord. We have limited resources, limited energy. We don't want to come to the end of our time here having wasted it. Our desire should be to present ourselves to the Master and to say, like Jesus did, I glorified you on the earth, having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. We've got a job to do. And it's about more than making sure that we and our families are comfortable, that our communities are progressing, that we have supermarkets and banks and schools for the people Or that we address climate change or squeaky wheels on the roof. The church has been given a commission. There was a minister in 1595 in the Church of England who called it the last and the great commission. And since the last decades of the 19th century, it's been commonly referred to as the Great Commission. And the Great Commission is really an appropriate title for what we find in Matthew 28, 18 to 20 Now, first of all, the word commission reminds us that authority has been given to us to act on behalf of another. The original word commission means a delegation of business. And that's how the word commission has frequently been used in history. For example, a commissioner is someone who has been given delegated authority to act on behalf of another. A committee, which is a related word, is a group of people who've been given delegated authority to act on behalf of another group or person. A commission is the official authorization to act on behalf of another, and it's being placed into service. When we say that something is out of commission, what we mean is that it's no longer in service. It's no longer useful for service When we say that someone is being commissioned, what we're saying is that they're being placed into service. They're given authority to serve on behalf of someone else. And when we think about what Jesus was doing in Galilee on the mountain in Galilee as he uttered these words and ascended back into heaven He was doing exactly that. He was giving his disciples authority to act on his behalf. High responsibility when you think about it, isn't it? I'm giving you authority to act on my behalf. And the word commission also reminds us about something else. The word commission reminds us that we are commissioned to do. What we are commissioned to do is just one part of a greater work that we're being asked to do. We're part of a work that God is already doing. We're on a co-mission. And as disciples, we're called to fulfill our part, our role within that mission of God. And the mission did not originate with us. We're just part of a larger story. The Great Commission is really about God's mission. Daniel Aiken writes from the entire story of the Bible, the grand redemptive story that we see is a larger missio day, a Latin phrase meaning the mission of God. We're part of that grand mission of God And from the opening line of in the beginning in Genesis 1 and verse 1 to the closing line, Amen, the Bible tells the story of God's mission to redeem humanity and creation. That's the storyline of the Bible. Creation, fall, redemption, salvation. And those who have been redeemed are just a part of that greater story Church historian Stephen Neal in his History of Christian Missions says, What is clear is that every Christian is a witness. Where there were Christians, there would be a living, burning faith, and before long an expanding Christian community Few, if any, of the great churches were really founded by apostles. That was the greatest glory of the church of those days. The church was the body of Christ and dwelt by a spirit. And what Christians had begun to do that the Church would continue to do for all the days unto the uttermost parts of the earth We're continuing what was started back then, what churches have always done by spreading the glory of God, the gospel of God to the uttermost parts of the earth. The church marched on by Christians who were willing to carry the torch. It was just part of what it meant to be a Christian. It might be a bit of an overstatement. But there's a lot of truth in it. It was Carl Spurgeon who said every Christian is either a missionary or an imposter And while we might make an argument that not every Christian should be formally or officially sent out as supported missionaries on behalf of the church, The point is clear that no Christian should consider himself exempt from personal participation in the Great Commission. We may not all be missionaries, but we're all on mission. And you should view Matthew 28, 16 to 20 as your meeting. You should hear these words that Jesus gave as the words that were given to you as well And Jesus is worthy of the same commitment that these disciples made on the first day that they heard it. So let's take a look at our passage, Matthew chapter 28, verses 16 to 20. Matthew chapter 28, 16 to 20. But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some were doubtful Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Aren't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh do come before you, Lord, uh Father, recognizing that This is your word. Now, Father, that these are your commands, the commands of Jesus Christ Himself. Now, Father, we pray that we would not read these as just a historical document But Father, that we would see ourselves in this story, that we would see ourselves as participants in what's written here. And Father, I pray that you would allow us, Lord, not to walk away as those who see their face in a mirror and forget what they look like. Well, Father, I pray that we would put into practice the things that we consider today that we would trust and obey, even as we sang earlier, that we would trust and obey. And now, Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is an appearance of Jesus after his resurrection from the dead. But this wasn't the first time that Jesus would have appeared to his disciples. When you compare the gospel accounts with each other, you'll discover that Jesus appeared several times to his disciples before they arrived at Galilee. Jesus appeared to the ladies at the tomb, then to Mary Magdalene, to the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, he appeared to the ten disciples behind closed doors, minus Thomas, he appeared to the eleven disciples, including Thomas. He then met with the disciples on the shore of the Sea of Galilee in John twenty one, according to Acts one three, then he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many convincing proofs Appearing to them over a period of forty days and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. There are many different appearances of Jesus Christ He's already shown himself alive after a period of forty days. But there's this one final meeting that's been scheduled in Galilee, and this is a monumental meeting. It's very likely that this meeting in Galilee is the very same meeting that Paul refers to over in 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 6. Where Paul says, after that he appeared to more than five hundred brethren at one time, most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep. And what was so special about this meeting? And why did Jesus designate this mountain in Galilee for this meeting This would have been the perfect place for Jesus to reveal himself to the five hundred because a mountain in Galilee would have removed him from the scrutiny of an unbelieving population. The mountain location would have been large enough for five hundred to gather. Galilee is where most of his disciples lived and where Christ started his ministry. There was a mountain on Galilee that Jesus gave his landmark sermon, the sermon on the mount. And Galilee was also known as Galilee of the Gentiles. And Jesus is about to send these disciples on a mission to the Gentile world. So for these reasons and a number of other reasons, many scholars believe that this meeting with the eleven was also a larger meeting with the five hundred as well. And for those who want to attribute the appearance of Christ to a hallucination, it's kind of hard to defend that it's a hallucination that 500 people saw at the same time. Jesus was alive, and he graciously appears again in order to strengthen the belief of his disciples. And if you're going to be persecuted and possibly face death, you you might want a little bit more of a reassurance before you go out to give your life, right? I often tell people that apologetics and defense of the faith is really more for the Christian than it is for the unbeliever. Unbelievers will not be convinced by proofs alone. If unbelievers could be convinced by proofs, then what reason could you give for the unbelief of Israel that saw the miracles of God? uh through the plagues in Egypt and through the the miracles that they saw in the the wilderness. Man of falling from heaven. You got your breakfast from the sky And some of those people doubted? I mean, seriously, a breakfast sandwich coming from the sky? And you're gonna doubt that God exists? You're gonna you're gonna start to deny God To lack trust in this God manna from heaven? What reason could you give for the scribes and Pharisees who saw the miracles of Christ performed in front of their very eyes The raising of Lazarus, everybody knew he was dead. They said Lazarus has been raised from the dead. We need to kill him again. Or else everybody will believe in him. What what what possible reason could you give for that? They needed more proof. What reason could you get for Judas who was in the boat when Jesus found the wind and the waves? Do you think Judas cut class that day? Do you think he was skipping school? Judas was there. He witnessed it all. And he was still a devil. Your Bible says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word. Apologetics and proofs don't save anybody, but apologetics are a way to strengthen our faith. And it's a way to to move the excuses away from the unbeliever. You know, they they they erect all kinds of you know defenses for themselves of why they don't want to believe and apologetics removes the excuses to expose them to see what's really there. I had a friend who used to tell unbelievers, he says, why don't you write down on a piece of paper every objection that you have to the Christian faith? You know, just write it down for me. I want to see all your objections to the Christian faith. He says some people would sit there and write down and you know is that it Oh, I can think of a couple more, they write a couple more down. And then he takes the piece of paper, resist it, and they say, Yeah, I think that's it. You know, all my objections to Christianity He holds up the paper and he says, if I can answer every one of these objections, will you drop to your knees right now and confess Jesus Christ is Lord? They say, well, no, I'm not going to do that. He says, okay, that's not your real problem. Let's talk about your real problem. Your real problem is that you don't want to deny yourself and trust in Christ. That's your real problem. Your real problem isn't all these objections that you raise up. You know, your real problem is that you have a stubborn heart. And what apologetics does is it removes the excuses so we can deal with your heart. Because it's not about the head. It's not about all these objections that I'm raising. It's about your wicked heart. You have a heart that's far from God. You have a heart that's hardened against God. You don't want Him to rule over you That's what your problem is. The proofs are for those that believe. And here, they actually saw Jesus walking around. He presented himself to them so that they could have confidence as they shared and proclaimed the gospel of Jesus Christ. And verse 17 says, when they saw him, they worshiped him. But some were doubtful. There's no question about who these believers thought Jesus was. What are they doing? It says when they saw him, they did what? They worshiped him. There's no question about what these believers thought about Jesus. There's no question about who they thought he was. Seems obvious from their expression. They knew what Jesus said in Matthew 4 and verse 10, You shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. You don't worship anybody else but the Lord So here they are worshiping the Lord. Why? Because we we acknowledge that you are God. You know, as Thomas says, my Lord and my God. That's not just an expression like, oh my Lord, my God, I didn't know you were here. No, it's like He's worshiping Him. He recognizes Him as Lord and God. The only explanation for these believers is that they thought Jesus was God. It's not a question of what did they think about who he was. The bigger question is who did Jesus think that he was? Because if there was ever a chance for Jesus to say, hold on guys, hold on, you're going too far. What are you doing? Bowing down, worshiping me I'm just an angel. Guys, I'm just a prophet. I'm just a good teacher. What are you doing, bowing down and worshiping me? If there was ever an opportunity for Jesus to say, worship God alone, this would have been it. But no, Jesus receives worship because he knows who he is. Worship is appropriate for the Son of God. But there's another response. There's also doubt. Some were doubtful. The word that's used here for doubt is distadzo. It's not the normal word for doubt. It's the word that could be translated as hesitate It's not stubborn rebellion, but rather it's these honest questions that they have. They're struggling. They're examining And far from this statement being a discouragement to our faith, it's actually an encouragement to see this here. But some were doubtful. Why? Number one, it shows that the Bible is just an honest text. It says what's true. And secondly, it shows that by the end of this meeting, these disciples were overwhelmingly convinced Even those that were doubtful, because these same disciples bore testimony to their faith, and many died for it So this doesn't overturn our faith. It's like, oh, I'm so ashamed that some of them doubt it. No, this is actually encouraging because their doubts were overridden with faith and conviction. He has indeed risen from the dead, and I'm willing now to give my life for him. And as we transition to the words of Christ in 18 to 20, I want you to see three distinct movements in the Great Commission. Three distinct movements in the Great Commission. Number one, there's the authoritative power, verse 18. There's the authoritative plan, verse 19 to 20, verse A. And uh the authoritative promise, uh, verse 20B. Number one, the authoritative power. Look again at verse 18. Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. The authority that Jesus speaks about here is absolute universal authority. Jesus chooses heaven and earth as contrasting realms to say that he has authority over heaven and earth and everything in between Just like you say, I've read this book from cover to cover. That doesn't mean you read the front cover and the back cover. It means you've read everything in between. And here Jesus says, I have all authority in heaven and on earth. And the question that you might have is, didn't Jesus already possess all authority? I mean, why does he have to be given any authority? Jesus displayed a tremendous amount of authority while he was on the earth. He healed diseases, he silenced disasters, demons bowed to his authority, disobedience was forgiven, even death itself was not powerful enough to escape the authority of Jesus Christ. What kind of authority needed to be given to Jesus? And we want to be careful here because there never was a time that Jesus did not have the right to all authority in heaven and earth. Jesus is fully God. He never gave up his godhood, but what Jesus did give up was the voluntary use of his privileges, the full expression of his glory that was his by right. That's why Jesus prays to the Father in John 17 and verse 5 and says, Now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Lord, I want to have that expression of glory that was mine from all of eternity. And now he's entering back into that. So there's an expression of his glory that Jesus voluntarily laid aside. And when Jesus was raised, it wasn't so that he could return back to his humiliation. The human nature of Christ was going to experience the glory that Jesus had before the foundation of the world. Ephesians 1 speaks about this kind of glory in Ephesians chapter 1. Starting at verse 20, it says, when he raised him from the dead, that's speaking about Jesus, his human nature, his body being raised from the dead. and seated him, that same human body, at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. Jesus right now has that authority and is glorified in heaven. And that human nature and divine nature combined are now seated in heaven. And what we're waiting for is the physical and visible manifestation of that glory being brought back to earth. And that's what we pray for. When we pray, thy kingdom come, we're praying for the one who is now seated in heaven to come back. It's what Revelation 11, 15 says, the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. This is what we we long for. He will reign forever and ever. That's the kingdom to come. We pray for that. And when Jesus comes back, it's not so that he can be tormented by men or harassed by Satan. It's so that he would be recognized by every eye. Every eye would see him and give him glory. And from this position of universal lordship, authority, power, Jesus commands his disciples to take action. Look at verse 19. This is the authoritative plan. It says, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And it may not be clear in your English versions, but there's really only one main command in the Greek, and it's the word make disciples. The word translated, make disciples. And go is actually a participle that explains how that main command is to be accomplished. So it could be translated having gone, make disciples But there's more to it than just that. In Greek grammar, there's a category of participles, which are called participles of attendant circumstances. You've got to follow with me, okay? It's a type of participle that's described as an action that in some sense is coordinate or parallel or equal with the finite verb. And it piggybacks on the mood of that verb. So what does all that mean? That if the main command is to make disciples, then the Then the participle go is equal, parallel, and has the same force of that command to make disciples. So we could understand it as, no, this is also a command for me. Because in order to obey the main command, I also have to obey the secondary command. Does that make sense? The main command is make disciples, but in order to do that, I have to go to make the disciples. Which is why most of your translations translate that as go. And the context itself makes it clear that disciples were expected to go, because the command is to make disciples of how many nations All of them. You can't make make disciples of all nations from your couch. You've got to go to these nations in order to make disciples. If the command was to disciple all the nations, part of fulfilling that command meant that they would have to go to the nations in order to fulfill it Now, this does not mean that every Christian personally has to go to every nation, because the nation you are in is also a nation. So there are people here who need to be discipled and reached. So it starts in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the world. So the uttermost parts of the world where we are right now also needs those who are making disciples But the work had to begin somewhere. And there's still this kind of pushing forward to say that there's more to do. We haven't yet reached the end. There's more to reach. This is the mandate to go. So what does this mean for us as a church in Baltimore? Number one, it means that we have to take initiative where we are Are you taking initiative where you are? Have you started to take initiative to proclaim repentance for the forgiveness of sins where you are? Some people talk about wanting to go across the world as a missionary who aren't willing to go across the street Do you know who your neighbors are? Have you talked to them? We need to be faithful to proclaim the message right where you are. What does that mean? Maybe it looks like inviting a neighbor over for dinner. Babe, it looks like inviting a family member to check out the live stream of the service and then following up later on with the phone call. Hey, did you listen to that? Maybe it looks like asking your coworker if they'd be interested in having lunch with you sometime and sitting down and sharing your testimony Maybe it looks like joining an organization or even volunteering in your community to start to get to know people so that you can share with them. Maybe it looks like asking the cashier at the supermarket. How can I be praying for you? I I do this often at the restaurants. You sit down for a meal, say, hey, how can I be praying for you? You know, to the to the waitress, to the waiter. Sometimes they'll give you a prayer, sometimes they won't But there's a a way that's like I can make a connection here and I can share Christ. I can leave a track. You can pick up one of the BBC business cars and leave that with uh With a tip. Don't leave no tip and send a BBC business card, okay? Give a tip, pull some money out your pocket, and leave a BBC business card. It has the gospel on it. It's right there on the card Maybe it looks like taking a walk through your neighborhood, like I know our sister Brenda does, armed with her gospel tracts. Being willing to strike up a conversation with people about spiritual things. Don't just walk your dog Walk your dog with a track and talk to somebody and make sure the dog stays back, right? And you know, and talk to somebody about the gospel. And we can keep going, but it takes initiative, right? It's not difficult. You just think about like, well, what can I do to engage with people to share the gospel? I can share the good news. That means taking initiative. It also means taking initiative with people who are different than you are Because the command here is to go to all the nations. It's where we get our English word, the Greek word ethne, where we get our English word ethnicities, people who are different, the nations, the Gentiles. The most modern New Testament scholars and missiologists agree that the term ethne doesn't refer to modern nation-states, because over history those boundaries have changed. And it's better to understand the term ethne as people groups. All people groups. You know, those who are defined by their own language and location and religion and values and worldview. Do you talk to people who are from different people groups than you are? This is part of what we can do to share the good news. And the bottom line is that Jesus commanded his followers to go to all of these different nations. Different than them. You know, a few years ago we had a missionary visit with us. He gave me some great advice for people who are thinking about going to the mission field one day. He says, why not start with the international families that are all around you If you have somebody that wants to be a missionary, why don't you start right here? Who are the people that are different from you or that people group right here? Open your eyes and see the nations that are around you. And God has increasingly brought the nations to our doorsteps. We don't have to board an international flight to reach people from other religions and cultures. You know, there's different ways that you can get involved, like maybe teaching English as a second language, connecting with efforts to resettle refugees, volunteering with international students at a local university. I was just thinking about, you know, how many colleges are right around us right here in in Baltimore. Cop and Morgan, Towson University of Baltimore, University of Melbourne, Baltimore County, Goucher, Johns Hopkins, Loyola, Micah, Notre Dame, Stevenson. How many of those colleges do you think have international students? All of them? You you want to reach some international people? Different ethnicities? You know that that's a great way to do it. We're actually right now we're um uh working on trying to get some college ministries started from Baltimore Bible Church. That's just a way that we can get involved. We can reach out to people. Right here, right now. Means taking initiative with people in different places than you are. We're we're going to get back to Romans, don't worry. We'll get back to Romans. But in Romans chapter 15, we learn that the book of Romans is really part of a missionary letter. Romans 15, 24, Paul says, Whenever I go to Spain, For I hope to see you in passing and to be helped on my way there by you when I first enjoyed your company for a while. What is Paul asking for? Your support. I'm asking for your support. I'm going to spend some time with you, and I'm expecting you to be excited about missions as I am and to send me on my way to Spain so that I can continue to preach the good news of Jesus Christ. So what does that look like? It looks like getting behind those that are going, supporting faithful missionaries, those that you know are sharing the gospel Supporting them through your your prayers, supporting them through your your giving, being generous in your giving. You know, these are just different ways that we can support missionaries, you know, to send them as uh 3 John Verse 6, don't ask me which chapter. 3 John verse 6. It's only one chapter, guys. 3 John verse 6. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner worthy of God. Part of that is by being generous to these people. I've heard of churches that give their missionaries used tea bags Or bars of soap, when the soap got too small to take a full shower with, they'd say, well, put that in the basket for the missionaries Stretches the meaning of support, doesn't it? How is that worthy of the Lord? I'm going to send you my used teabags and used soap. Because I want to send you on your way in a manner worthy of God. You know, God bless you. Bless ya. What in the world? You take the used teabag and buy them a new box. We need to be serious about what we're doing in order to support the work of the gospel. You want your life to count? You want to make sure that you're engaged in what the Lord is looking for you to do, like his mission, his assignment. He's delegated you authority to carry a mission out on his behalf. But this is part of what we do. This is what we should be doing as a church. And we need to be thinking seriously. It's like, well, maybe God might be sending some of us to go. Maybe it's not just to support those who are going, but maybe God might pick me up and say, like, hey, I want you to go further out. There was William Carey, the founder of the modern missionary movement, who said, I question whether all are justified in staying here. while so many are perishing without the means of grace in other lands. If we are disciples of Christ, we have a responsibility to make disciples of Christ. That's what we've been commissioned to do. And what do we do when we go? We make disciples That's the heart of the Great Commission. Make disciples. The verb only shows up three other times besides here in Matthew, and it's Use in other places for those who believe, for those who honor the Lord, and those who learn from Jesus Christ. That's what discipleship how discipleship is used So disciple, a disciple was a genuine believer at the most basic level. A disciple of somebody who believes in Jesus Christ. That really shouldn't be up for debate. But the reason that discipleship is sometimes placed into a different category than just the believer is because people read passages that speak about discipleship. That seems like, hey, discipleship seems to be making some pretty heavy demands on your life. I mean, that possibly can't be what Jesus meant when he just invited a new person to come to him. You know, just the come to me and but you know, in coming to me you've got to deny yourself and pick up your cross and follow after me. No, that's for like later on. That's for like mature, you know, kind of You know, high-level Christianity. That's what you get when you want all the bells and whistles. I just want like the base model Christianity. You know, this get me in the door. I don't need all that that other stuff. But no, this this this is the base model This is what you get when you come. Luke 7 14, 27. Whoever does not carry his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. That's what the Lord says. Person carrying the cross was on a one-way trip. You're going to die. Do you know that that's what it is when you come to Christianity? That I'm giving up my life. That's what Christ is asking you for. I I I will give you my life, but I'm taking yours. Are are you willing to give him your life? To say, Lord, I'm willing to lay this down If you haven't done that yet, the Bible says you can't follow him. You you haven't been willing to lay it down, to give it up Growing up, I believed in God. I believed that the Bible was true. I believed that Jesus died and rose again. But I wasn't ready to give my life up. And that's the door into Christianity. I need to be willing to give my life up, lay it down. It's not about me anymore. I'm dead to me. I want a new life. That's entering into Christianity. Pick up the cross, follow me. This is what it means to be a real believer, which also means that you shouldn't be fearful of calling people to a commitment to Jesus. You know, some of you remember the door-to-door salesmen. You know, they used to come knocking on your door. I remember we used to get the calls from the vacuum cleaner salesmen. Some of you remember that. Hey, how you doing ma'am? You know, got the foot in the door. Oh, don't don't turn me away yet. I just want to show you my vacuum cleaner here, you know. You it looks like you can use a little sweep around the house. You mind if I come in? I can take care of that spot for you on the carpet You remember that, right, Mom? I can take care of that spot for you on the carpet and before you know it he's in your house and he's, you know, cleaning the curtains and you know Sweeping the floors with his vacuum cleaner and he's scraping out that spot that we couldn't get out for years. It's like, hey, I can take care of that. Look at this This price is good for a year, and before you know it, why don't you just keep the vacuum cleaner and I'll come back? You know, just just give it a try. Before you know it, you've got a thousand dollar vacuum cleaner on your hand that you weren't planning to buy. And that's how some people offer Jesus. Hey, don't you want to be forgiven of your sins? Don't you want peace on the inside? Don't you want to go to heaven? There you go. Just. Come down the aisle, raise your hand right where you are, just say the simple prayer with me. You're in. What Jesus says is uh Which one of you when he wants to build a tower does not first sit down and calculate the cost To see if he has enough to complete it. You know, before you leave this vacuum cleaner with me, how much does this cost? What are the payments? What's the interest on this? Yo sit down and count the cost. If I'm going to follow after Jesus Christ, what does this look like? Jesus isn't trying to hide the fine print from you. No, if you're gonna come to come to me, it's gonna cost you everything. I'm gonna be up front. You're gonna deny yourself, you're gonna give up your life in exchange for mine. Are you willing to do that? Jesus doesn't hide the fine print. We could say a lot more about discipleship, but this is part of what we're calling people to do. We're making disciples. We're not making decisions. We're making disciples. By going, also by baptizing. That's the next word that you use here, baptism. The initiatory rite, baptiza, where we get our English word baptism. It's from another word batha, which literally means to dip or to dunk. And more than any other part of this command, uh this section in particular lets us know that the command to disciple, the discipleship is connected to the church. It's connected to the church. When Peter gives the first sermon in Acts chapter 2, he says in verse 41 So then those who had, this is the narrative about that. It says, so then those who had received his word were baptized, and that day there were added about 3,000 souls. 3,000 souls added to what? Add it to the church. Baptism prioritizes the local church. You 're being added to an assembly of believers when you're baptized. So baptism is not just a picture of our union with Christ, it's also a picture of our union with his bride, the church. And we have way too many people today who are saying, I want to identify with Jesus, but I don't want to identify with the body of Christ. Acts chapter 9, Saul, before he was known as the Apostle Paul, was breathing out threats and murders against the church, and as he was traveling, it happened that as he approached Damascus, a light from heaven flashed around him. fell to the ground and he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Jesus identifies himself with the church. Hebrews 2. 11 it says that he's not ashamed to call them brethren But then we have people that are ashamed to call them brethren. Jesus says, I'm not ashamed to call them brethren, but then we're ashamed to call them brethren? We're ashamed of the church. We don't want to be identified with the church Jesus identifies himself with the church. And baptism was part of you identifying yourself as a member of a body. I'm identifying with Jesus and I'm identifying with the body. And it's through the church that this happens. You know, sometimes people talk to me, they say, you know, hey, I want to do missionary work. I say, that's that's great. You know What what part does the church have in that? They say, well, you know, we want to just go and make disciples. I want to go to this country and just make disciples. Are are you connected to a church there? Like what what's the church that you're connected to? Well we're we're really you know not there yet, not really connected to a church. We just want to go out and and make disciples. And sometimes I'll ask them, well, what happens after you leave? You know, these people that you've been discipling, you know, where are you going to send them? Where are they getting discipled? How are they going to reproduce themselves? A church plant needs to be a part of that equation. It's not just that I'm going out to disciple and share the gospel. There needs to be a church that they're connected to, or I'm going to establish a church. That's what biblical missions is. It's a church-oriented mission. Conrad and Baywe, we've been reading this book, God's Design for the Church. Some of our guys here, the book God's Design for the Church. He says this. He says sometimes we call evangelistic outreach a missions outreach. But as long as we end there, we're not doing what Jesus said must be done. In the mind of Christ, missions is about the church being his witness, about the church being his witness. And he offers this definition. I love this. He says, missions is a church reaching out to another community or people group With a view to establishing the Christian faith there by the avenue of planting a viable local church So when you hear us as elders talking about church planning and being a church planning church, we're not being novel, we're not being innovative, we're not being cutting edge, we're just trying to be faithful. That this is part of the mission of God, that we're establishing local churches. Conrad goes on to say this in his book. Listen to this. He says, I recall when our church elders first presented the need for our local church to get involved in church planning. It was an uphill battle because every excuse conceivable was brought up. Listen to this. We only had two elders. At BBC we have three. We did not have a church building. Sound familiar? We did not have enough money. We were a young church. Sounds familiar to you. He says, if it were not for the resolve of my fellow elder and I, any hope of getting involved in missions would have ended that day. However, we kept arguing that the work of missions was our responsibility. And that there was nowhere in the Bible where we read that we need more elders or a church building or a lot of money in order to get involved in missions. There was no scriptural warrant that a young church was excused from participating in the work of missions. That was how we convinced a reluctant Gabwata Baptist Church, this church in Lusaka, Africa. To start what has now become a most glorious and fulfilling journey. And I think now they've planted some 15, 16 churches from this young congregation that only had two elders. Not a lot of money, but they understood that we need to be involved in this work of seeing the gospel spread, and you know part of that mission is to see local churches planted, and we need to get involved in that work. And I'm here to let you know that we can't do this on our own. This is a church effort. This is what we do as a church. And part of the joy of uh you know what's going on uh over here in Zambia, uh Lusaka, Zambia, is that the small groups now aren't focused on themselves They're focused on like, hey, we've adopted this church plant and we're praying for that man, we're praying for that assembly, we're praying that they would grow. You know, he's coming back to share, you know, how the Lord's been answering those prayers And it's becomes this dynamic kind of relationship back and forth. This this is this is the mission that God has placed us on. We're part of this And even as a church plant, we've already been talking about planting another church. Because we want to make sure that we're involved in this, not only supporting those that are abroad. but actually saying what can we do to send out those that would be our own missionaries, to be sent out in church planning and finally teaching. Discipleship involves teaching. A better way to think about this word would be training based on the context here. And the reason I say that is because we think about teaching as often as just transferring information No, I I learned the information and I've been taught. You know, that's how we think about it. But that's not what teaching means here in the Great Commission, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. Discipleship is more than just learning information. You know, sometimes I'll talk to people and they'll say, you know, I already know, I already know what the Bible says, Pastor George. I know what the scripture teaches, I know all that. But that's not what the Great Commission talks about. It's not just that we know all of that. Teach them to know all that I commanded you. That's not what Jesus says. Teach them to obey all that I commanded you. Knowing is only half the battle, as one great show once said. It's only half the battle. The other part is putting it into action. The scariest people in the church are the ones who know it. Yeah, I know that, I know that. But are you doing it? Don't just tell me that you know it. I'd rather have a person who learned a little and practices all that they know. Instead of a person who knows a lot and doesn't practice all that they know. I'd rather have a person who just knows a little bit, but they're applying it. Every time they see something, it's like, hey, I gotta do this, I gotta do that. That's the person who's growing And sometimes we think that we're growing just because we have a head full of information. I know that, I know that, and you've studied and studied, but you're not practicing what you know You're not growing. We've tricked ourselves into thinking that knowing is sanctification. That I'm sanctified because I know. No, that's that's only part of it. You need to apply what you know. Discipleship is training. It's like apprenticeship, on-the-job training. Jesus says: take my yoke upon you and learn from me. Walk like I walk, live like I live, serve like I serve. So teaching is for imitation, not just information. One book in on the early Christian mission of the church says disciples are people who hear, understand, and practice Jesus' teaching. We're after Christ's likeness. The formal and public ministry of the Word is only one aspect of discipleship The vast majority of ministry is the life on life. And it's what you do as a church. Getting involved in one another's lives, like talking to somebody after church. Taking somebody's number, asking them how you can follow up and pray for 'em. Going home and talking about the Word of God with your family. Inviting somebody to spend some time with you and encouraging them in the Word. Reading a good book And meditating on it and sharing it with others, joining the men for a Bible study, uh the the men's briefing or the the women's bible study that they have here as well, the the women's luncheon. It that's that's what it looks like. I'm I'm joining these things because I'm looking to imitate the things that I'm learning, not just to know, but to practice. We have to practice what we know. And all this is Overwhelming to think about. It's overwhelming to think about what we're called to do. It's a heavy task that we're called to do, but there's also a promise. Look at the end of verse 20. What does Jesus say? And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. This is the authoritative promise. There's a history behind those words. I am with you. That's what he says. I am with you. It's a reminder of God's presence for troubled souls. When Moses is afraid to approach Pharaoh and Exodus 3. 11 says, but Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? And maybe that's how you feel. Who am I that I should Go to my neighbor and share the good news with them. Who am I? And then God says, Certainly I will be with you. I'm with you. Joshua is entering the promised land. Joshua 1. 5 it says, No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I have been with Moses, I will be with you. Paul was fearful to speak in Corinth. Acts chapter 18. It says, And the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid any longer, but go on speaking, and do not be silent. Why? For I am with you. But the presence of God is a comfort to weak believers, troubled souls. Do you have no basis to be strong on your own? To be strong in your own strength? Are you kidding me? The kind of task that we've been asked to do? We're not strong enough to do this. But what do we have? We have the presence of Christ. I will be with you. There's a theology behind this. Don't miss the fact that Jesus says that I personally will be present with you. How can Jesus make this kind of promise that I will be with you? These disciples are about to be scattered all over the face of the globe. But he says, I will be with you. How can he promise that unless he's God? A God who is everywhere present at the same time. When David says in Psalm 139, where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? The same can be said about Jesus Christ. He's everywhere. Everywhere we go. Jesus is there. He says, I will be with you. Personally, my presence will be with you. He's the ever-present I am. And there's a permanence behind I'm with you. I'm with you for how long? Always. Even to the end of the age. Not only is Jesus omnipresent, but he's also eternal. He will be with us even to the end of the age. There's no limit to his presence. There's no endpoint. There's no termination point. This is a command for every succeeding generation. William Carey ministered in the 18th century England long before any of the modern missions agencies were conceived. There's a belief known as hyper-Calvinism that helps weigh in the Baptist churches there where they believe that the call of the gospel should be restricted to those who are elect. You know, only only preach to the elect people You know, good good luck with that. Only preach to those that you know are going to come to faith. How are you supposed to determine who's going to come to faith and who's not? You know, it was Charles Spurgeon said that, you know, well if if you could you know uh paint on their backs the letter E that I'd know that they're elect, you know, I'd lift up their coattails and then I'd only preach to them. But since you can't, I'm going to preach to everybody. Preach to everybody moving, everything moving, yes, I'm preaching to you. But there was a belief that, no, you only preach to the elect. But how can you determine the invisible movement of the Lord? So Kerry saw this as just an excuse to ease people's consciences. You just don't want to go. You know, that's why you're making these excuses. During the 18th century, there were new lands that were still being discovered, and Kerry couldn't help of help but think about the peoples of those lands as these lands were being discovered. But there's these nations, heathen, who don't know Jesus Christ. He would read of the lives of men like David Brainerd, John Elliott, who ministered to the American Indians, the indigenous people of America, and those became his heroes along with the Apostle Paul. He tried to convince an association of ministers that they they should consider whether the command was given to them as well as to the apostles And it's reported that after his suggestion that we need to go out to the world, that one older minister said, Young man, sit down. You're an enthusiast. When God pleases to convert the heathen, he'll do it without consulting you or me. God doesn't need our help. But Carrie says, how can we claim This command to baptize. He says, we're Baptists, right? We say we're still supposed to baptize, but how can we claim the command to baptize without claiming the command to go? How can we claim the command that we need to be teaching if we don't also claim the command that we need to go? It's all connected And how can we claim the promise that Jesus will be with us always, even to the end of the age, if we're not also taking the command to go? He says this. He says, if the command of Christ to teach all nations extends only to the apostles, then doubtless the promise of the divine presence must so be limited. If you don't want to go, then why would you claim that Jesus is going to be with me? If that command is over with? No, he's with us to the end of the age because he wants us to be engaged in this work. So the responsibility is to the church. This is our priority. So if you ever wondered, you know, what are we doing here? You know, what's the vision of this church? What are we about? This is what we're about. This is what we're about. And we all have a measure of time that's been allotted to us We have limited resources, limited energy, and we don't want to come to the end of our life having wasted it. That I was not engaged in this work, that I was not praying for this. That I was not supporting this, that I was not engaged in this. You don't want to come to the end of your life and see the master And say, Lord, I wasn't engaged in doing what you delegated your authority to me to do. Lord, I I dropped the ball on this. That's not what we want to end up with. Our desire should be to present ourselves to the Master and say, just like Jesus did, I glorified you on the earth. Having accomplished the work which you have given me to do, the church has been given a great commission. This is our priority We don't want to be found out of commission, out of service, no longer fit for the master's use. We want to be those that are on mission, fulfilling the commission that Christ has given to us. And the wonderful joy that we have is he has promised to be present with us. We don't do this alone. Jesus Christ has promised to be with us. Amen. Let's live the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for your word, and uh we thank you for the promise of Christ. And uh Father, I pray that that as we think about these things, Lord, that it would excite our hearts. Father, that we would uh think about um uh this as is really setting a Setting just a pathway for our lives, Lord, that we have an aim. We have a goal. We're not just wandering around without purpose, wondering who am I, why am I here What should I be fulfilling? What should I do with my time? If I have extra resources, what should I be doing with that? If I have extra time, Lord, what should I be doing with that? As a family, what should we be about? Lord, we don't have to wonder about these things. You've given us very clearly what your command is for us, what our responsibility is. And Father, for us as a church, Lord, I pray that we would be engaged in this, Lord, that we wouldn't make excuses. And Father, that as a church, Lord, that uh we would uh use our resources, use what you've granted to us, what you've placed in our hands as those that are stewards over what doesn't belong to us Lord, that we would be able to present these things right back to you. Say that we've multiplied it. You gave me two talents, and look what I've done to multiply it. You gave me five talents. Look what I've done to multiply it. You've given me one talent. Look what I've done to multiply it. I've used it for the purpose for which you've given that to me to use it for. So, Father, I pray that we'd be on mission as a church. Now, Father, that we would be engaged just as one beggar telling another where to get bread. You know, we're just a nobody trying to tell everybody about somebody who can save anybody. Father, I pray that that would be true of us. And Father, that you would give us just the joy in sharing the good news of Jesus Christ with others, that this is one of the ways, Father, that we can proclaim the excellencies of Him. Who's brought us out of darkness into your marvelous light? Father, what a joy that is to be a part of that mission. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.