The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Welcome 2020. Happy New Year. I'm not sure if uh you have any uh New Year's traditions, uh, but here's a a few that I found that were interesting. I'm not sure if uh This is just like a traditional list of uh maybe what used to happen. I'm not sure if this still happens, but here's a few interesting uh traditions from around the world. Uh in England, the British place their fortunes for the coming year in the hands of their first guest They believe the first visitor of each year should be male and bearing gifts. Traditional gifts are coal for the fire, a loaf for the table, and a drink for the master. For good luck, the guests should enter through the front door and leave through the back, and guests who are empty-handed or unwanted are not allowed to enter first. So that's at least one New Year's tradition. In Spain, uh when the clock strikes the midnight, the Spanish eat twelve grapes, one with every toll to bring good luck for the twelve months ahead. So I guess uh You might have to eat kind of quick if uh if you're in Spain and you're following some of the traditions there. In Greece, a special New Year's bread is baked with a coin buried in the dough. And the first slice is for the Christchild, the second for the father of the household, the third slice is for the house. And if the third slice holds the coin Spring will come early that year. I don't know what that even means, but uh hopefully they don't uh they don't bite into it before they find the coin. Norwegians make rice pudding in the New Year's and hide one whole almond within. Guaranteed wealth goes to the person who uh holds the serving with the lucky almond. In China, for the Chinese New Year, front doors are adorned with a fresh coat of red paint, red being the symbol of good luck and happiness. Although the whole family prepares a feast for the new year, all knives are put away for 24 hours to keep anyone from cutting themselves, which is thought to cut the family's good luck for the next year. Sicily, an old Sicilian tradition says good luck will come to those who eat lasagna. I like that one. Eat lasagna But woe to you if you dine on macaroni or any other noodle that will bring bad luck. And in Austria, the suckling pig is the symbol for good luck for the new year. It's served on a table and decorate it with tiny edible pigs. I'm not sure if I've ever seen that before, but there you go. But there's something else that's become uh a New Year's tradition all around the world and it's uh making a New Year's resolution Uh this week the gyms are probably as full as they're gonna be all year long uh because uh people everywhere are committing themselves to a new regimen to lose some pounds that they gained over the holiday Uh in a Yahoo News article, it traced the history of uh New Year's resolutions uh back to 2000 BC Uh Babylonians uh returned borrowed items in uh uh in in 2000 uh BC. Uh the ancient Babylonians uh celebrated New Year's on March 23rd and marked the day by returning something that they borrowed from neighbors the previous year. Uh that's a good one. Uh it was the first time in history a New Year's resolution was made as far as historians discovered. Uh in 154 B. C. uh the Roman Senate uh uh decided to be different and uh declared January first the uh first day of the new year and uh instead of March and uh they actually celebrated the god Janus, uh often seen with two heads, one looking forward and the other looking uh backward. In 1722, Jonathan Edwards, although not written for the New Year, the Puritan theologian Jonathan Edwards wrote a set of 70 resolutions. starting in uh 1722, uh, that he prescribed to read at least once a week. Uh many of Edward's resolutions uh became the basis for modern sayings such as, never lose one moment of time and I'll live with all my might And uh Benjamin Franklin in uh 1738 in uh what's called the poor uh Richards almanac, uh the modern form of the actual New Year's resolution can probably be found with uh Benjamin Franklin In 1738, Franklin writes, why it's important to get rid of old habits and make better ones around the new year. He wrote that each year one vicious habit should be rooted out And if that happens in time, it might make the worst man good throughout the the course of his life. And uh while there's nothing biblical about making New Year's resolutions, there's nothing unbiblical about making resolutions either. When James chapter four and verse thirteen says, Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city, spend a year there, and engage in business and make a profit Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. James wasn't arguing against making plans. He wasn't arguing against that. He's just saying that with all your planning, that you need to make sure that you include God in it. That you can't say that I'll go here, I'll do this, I'll do that, if you don't acknowledge that God is the one who controls your life God is the one who gives you your breath. God is the one who gives you your life. He says instead we ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will do this and we will do that. So it's wise to make plans as long as you're including, if the Lord wills, I'll accomplish these things. Similar to what we find in Proverbs 16 and verse 3, which says, Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established. We're to commit our ways to Him. Proverbs 21, verse 5 says, The plans of the diligent lead surely to advantage. But everyone who is hasty surely comes to poverty. So uh making plans is uh is a good idea. And even the the yearly cycle is not uh the Babylonians' idea, it's not the Roman Senate's idea, it's God's idea. God is the one who ordained the yearly cycle. You know, so the years, the months, the the weeks, the the days. All of that was ordained by God in Genesis chapter 1 verse 14. God says, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. Let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years The heavens are God ordained time markers. God indicates the passage of time by what He's even put within creation. So we recognize that one year is gone and it's time to kind of take stock of our lives and there's nothing wrong with that. And uh Today, before we uh return back to the book of Matthew, which I'm I'm eager to do, I thought it would be helpful to use the beginning of the new year to talk about where we're heading. in this year. And uh when I say that, uh talking about where we're heading in this year, I'm not talking about where the church is going to be located in the next year. I I wish I could let you know that, but uh God knows where we'll be uh within this next year. We leave that to him. Uh the events that we've placed on our calendar, that's not what I'm talking to you about today God knows those things too, and we haven't even made all the plans for the year yet. But what I'm talking about is something that's far more significant. Setting a goal that's far more significant. And for that I want you to turn to the book of Philippians, Philippians chapter 3. And we're going to read from verses 12 down to 21. We're going to talk about a goal that you should have this year A goal that you should have had last year, and a goal that you should have every year until Christ comes back. This is the kind of goal that's worthy of encompassing your whole entire life. And this is what we find in Philippians chapter 3, and I'll start at verse 12. Paul says, not that I have already obtained it, or have already become perfect. But I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, have this attitude. And if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by that same standard to which we have obtained. Brethren, join in following my example, and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. For many walk of whom I often told you, and now tell you even weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ. whose end is destruction, whose God is their appetite, and whose glory is in their shame, who set their minds on earthly things. For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before ye this morning, and uh Father, we're grateful for your word, for the riches of it, for the beauty of it for the the sufficiency of it, Father, that you have given us your word that we may follow you, that we may know who you are, know what we're to do, Father, our obligations to you. And uh Father, as we continue to look into your word, we behold the beauty of Jesus Christ. And uh we continue to be transformed more and more into his image, into his glory. Now, Father, I pray that that would be true even this morning, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Verse 12 of Philippians 3 is really a transitional verse. It ends the section that came before it, and it points forward to the section that's ahead of it And in the immediate context right before this passage, Paul was reminding the Philippian church of all the rich blessings that became his the moment he turned away from placing confidence in himself. and placed his confidence in Christ for salvation. If you look back at verses 7 and 9, he says, but whatever things were gained to me, those things I've counted lost for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be loss in the view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish so that I may gain Christ. It may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. Paul talked about placing confidence in Christ rather than placing confidence in himself And the biblical term for that moment when you turn away from trust in yourself to trust in Christ is called justification. It's a word that means to be declared righteous. It's a statement that that uh that it's about the position and legal standing that you have before Almighty God. It's a doctrine that's really at the heart of the gospel Martin Luther said that the doctrine of justification is not simply one doctrine among others, but the basic and chief article of faith with which the church stands or falls, and on which its entire doctrine depends, and that's true But because the basic question and dilemma that the church and all of religion has to answer, the question that you have to answer is how am I An imperfect, defiled, and sinful human being going to be accepted by a God who's perfect, undefiled, and altogether holy. Abaca chapter 1 and verse 13 says, about God your eyes are too pure to approve evil, and you cannot look on wickedness with favor. Psalm 5 verse 4 says, For you are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness. No evil dwells with you. And that's bad news because guess who's evil? We are. We're guilty. We're guilty of evil. Romans chapter 3 verse 10 says, as it is written, there is none righteous, not even who? Not even one. Ecclesiastes 7 verse 20 says, indeed, there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and never sins. So the question is, how am I an imperfect, defiled, and sinful human being going to be accepted by a God who's perfect, undefiled, and altogether holy? And the answer that Judaism came up with after Judaism began to drift away from scripture, was that there was some way that we can justify ourselves. And that's the same answer that all false religion comes up with. We can do this ourselves. We can declare ourselves righteous. And when Judaism lost its way, that's what it attempted to do. It attempted to declare itself righteous by placing confidence in man's ability. They found confidence in their race. If you look back in Philippians chapter 3 again, and verse 2, it says, beware of the dogs, of the evil workers, and of the false circumcision and and these were just attacks that that Paul gave against uh the ways that the the Jewish people thought. First of all, they they they placed confidence in their race. In uh John 8 verse 39, the Jewish leaders answered Jesus and said, Abraham is our father. They placed confidence in who their their heritage, their lineage. They felt like being a member of the Jewish race was some sort of safety net, safety net. So like when uh John the Baptist began to preach repentance He warned them against this kind of confidence. Don't place confidence in your birth. Luke chapter 3, verse 8 says, therefore bear fruits in keeping with repentance. And do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. There's no safety in the way that you were born in your race. Don't place confidence in that The Jewish people also attempted to declare themselves innocent based on their righteousness, which was the error of the Pharisees over in Luke chapter 18, if you want to flip back there real quick, Luke chapter 18. There was a parable that Jesus told about a uh a Pharisee and a tax collector in Luke chapter uh 18 starting at verse 9, just to make it clear that we can't trust in our own righteousness. Look at Luke chapter 18 starting at verse 9. And he told also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself, God, I thank you that I'm not like other people, swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. The Pharisee who trusted in his righteousness was not justified by his righteousness. He was not justified. He was not declared right in the sight of God. Even our righteousness is filthy rags before a holy God. And finally, Judaism taught people to trust in their rituals. Things like circumcision and Sabbath days and dietary laws and restrictions, but Paul points out in Romans chapter two verse twenty-five, for indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the law. But if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision Galatians chapter 5 verse 3 says, And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. And if you're not able to keep the whole law, and you stumble in even one point, you're guilty of how much of it? All of it. And that's the dead end of false religion. You can't get to heaven from there. If you're here today and your hope is in your family, if your hope is in your good deeds, If you think that you can practice some kind of religious ritual like circumcision or baptism or communion even today, it's a false hope of heaven if you're trusting in those things to get you there. You can't be declared righteous by any of it. Your race can't spare you. Your righteousness can't save you. Your rituals can't cleanse you. So what hope do we have? What hope do any of us have? How am I an imperfect, defiled, and sinful human being to be accepted by a God who's perfect, undefiled, and altogether holy? The biblical answer to that is that we need to become part of a new race Trust in a new righteousness and be found in Christ who satisfies all the rituals for us. We need to be found in Christ. In Christ we've been identified with a new race The moment I turn away from placing confidence in myself and I place my confidence in Christ, I am united to Jesus Christ. I don't become Christ in the sense that there's no distinction between who he is and who I am. Jesus is one of a kind, as Scripture says. He's the only begotten Son of God. So I don't share that identity with him. I'm not from above But I am united to him and my identity is united to his. I am part of his body. Philippians chapter 3, verse 8 says, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ and may be found in him. So we're united to Jesus Christ. We're part of a new race. We've also gained a new righteousness. We have a new righteousness that's outside of us. Philippians 3 9 says, and may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith My righteousness is now found in Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And the only sacrifice that I need, the only ritual that I need was the one that was given by Christ. He is my sacrifice Philippians three ten says that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death So Paul traded everything that he had, everything that he was, he traded it all in in order to gain Christ Paul doesn't consider his race as anything to hold on to. Of the nation of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of the Hebrews, that's all lost. Doesn't matter to me anymore. Paul doesn't consider his rituals as anything to hold on to. Verse 5 in chapter 3 says, circumcise the eighth day. He says, I'm counting that as loss. That doesn't matter. Paul doesn't consider his righteousness as anything to hold on to. He's uh as to the law. Pharisee in chapter 3, verse 5. Verse 6 says, As to righteousness which is in the law found blameless. He says, I count it all as lost. I count it but rubbish. It's human waste, excrement, because Jesus is supremely valuable. And Paul rejoiced in the supreme value of gaining Christ the moment he placed trust in Jesus and turned away from confidence in himself, he gained Christ. And this is what Colossian Philippians chapter 3 All throughout the passage talks about and Christ is just mentioned over and over and over again. Verse 7, it says, he gained Christ himself, but it's for the sake of Christ. Verse 9, that I may gain Christ. Christ is now mine. I'm identified with him When I turn from self-confidence to Christ, I know him. In view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ, he says in verse 8, that I may know him in verse 10. I enter into a relationship that can never be broken When I turn from self-confidence to Christ, I'm found in Him. I'm counted as righteous because of my union with Jesus Christ. I know the power of His resurrection. In verse 10, that I may know the power of His resurrection Paul prays in Ephesians chapter 1 that we would know what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might. We're united to the power that raised Christ Jesus from the dead. And all that happens the moment that you come to faith in Jesus Christ. I associate myself with the sufferings of Christ, verse 10, that I may know the fellowship of his sufferings. The word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but for us who are being saved, It is the power of God. I have to unite myself with the sufferings of Christ. I have to associate myself with that. That's what we have in Christ, and all this becomes our possession. The moment we abandon hope in ourselves and place our confidence in Christ, we're justified by faith, which is clearly taught all throughout the scriptures. Justification happens by faith. We have to place our trust in Jesus Christ in order to be justified. It happens at the moment you believe, which is distinct from election. which takes place before the foundation of the world, our justification takes place when we believe. And it's clear throughout scripture that it happens at the moment you believe. It's when we abandon our confidence in the flesh and actively place our trust in Christ that we're declared righteous and we enter into all of these blessings. And as Paul gloried in all these riches that presently belong to him and his justification. He didn't want to give the Philippians the impression that that's all I need. That I'm done. I've reached some state of perfection now. I've I'm justified. I'm declared righteous. I'm I'm at the finish line. What Paul wants to let us know is that's just the beginning. That's just you're you've just entered the race. You're just on the track. Your feet are still in the starting blocks What's the finish line? There's different ways that Paul describes the finish line that's at the other end of the track. In verse 12, he calls it becoming perfect or reaching completion. He says that it's the very reason that Christ laid hold of us in verse 12. He says I was acquired by Christ for this purpose. Jesus took hold of me in order to bring me to the goal. In verse 13, he says it's what lies ahead of us. In verse 14, he describes it as the prize we receive when we're called upward. And what's that prize? What's ahead of us? Why did Christ lay hold of me? What does it look like to become perfect or to reach completion? It's what Paul describes later on in verses 20 and 21. Listen to what he says. He says, For our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to this who will transform the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the power that he has, even to subject all things to himself. What's Paul talking about? This is the end goal for the Christian life. And it's the same goal that we should be aiming for every single day of our lives. And what's that goal? It's to be like Jesus. That's the goal of the Christian life. It's the same goal that we mentioned last week in Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 15. But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ. Romans eight twenty twenty-nine, for those he foreknew whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son Colossians 1. 28, we proclaim him admonishing every man, teaching every man with all wisdom, so that we may present every man complete in Christ. It's the same goal that the Apostle John longed for in 1 John 3. 2. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is. That's the goal that Paul says I haven't reached yet. But I'm pressing towards it. Christ being fully formed in us. And you say, when will that happen? That will happen when you die. Or more specifically, as Paul says in verse 11, in the resurrection from the dead. That's what Paul says that I haven't yet obtained. Which is what our justification guarantees for us this future redemption, not only of our souls, but also of our bodies. You know, Romans 8. 23, not only this, but we also ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body. There's a time when our spirits will be made perfect upon death, but that's not yet the end. The end is when our spirits are joined to a heavenly and glorified body that's fit for eternity. And that happens when Christ returns from heaven and he calls the saints up, which is exciting to think about. Flip over to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 real quick. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 Look at verse uh 16, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and verse 16 This is beautiful. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first, and we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be with the Lord. That's when our perfect spirits are united to our perfect bodies. And it's when the Savior that we've eagerly waited for will make his appearance and we will be like him because we will see him just as he is And that's what Paul says, I haven't attained yet. That's what Paul meant when he says in verse 12, not that I've already obtained it. Obtained what? He's talking about this resurrection of the body, this glorification. And if you're starting to put this together, what Paul is saying is that we are pursuing a goal, we're pursuing a goal that we will never reach in our lifetime. Our spirits are not perfected until we die, and our bodies are not perfected until the Lord descends and calls us up with a shout. So the question you might be asking is why would I expend all this energy to pursue a goal that I'll never reach in this lifetime anyway? Isn't that frustrating? Isn't that like you know putting the mouse inside one of those wheels where he just keeps on spinning but he never gets anywhere You know, sticking a carrot out on the end of a stick, you know, where the where the horse can never actually get to it, get a taste of it. You know, what what's what's enjoyable about pursuing a goal we'll never reach until after we die? Why don't we just wait till we die I won't be like Christ till I'm dead anyway, so let's just wait till then, right? But that would completely miss the point. If Christ is really the goal If he is the treasure at the end of the race, don't you want as much of him now as you can possibly get And the more you press ahead is the more of Christ you're able to experience now. And we get to enjoy Christ in increasing measure the further we press ahead. So it's true that we only know a degree of what we will know about Christ in heaven. But 1 Corinthians chapter 13 it says this, for we now see in the mirror dimly. But then face to face. So there's coming a time that we'll know to a much greater degree about Christ what we don't know now. But that doesn't mean that we can't grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord now. 2 Peter 3. 18, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to him be the glory. And it's true that we won't experience a complete eradication of sin in this life. The Apostle John said that in 1 John 3. 9 , no one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. And what uh John was talking about was uh sin is a habitual lifestyle because it's obvious that believers still sin. Uh we don't share that aspect of Christ yet. First John one eight says, if we say we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be growing in holiness now, right? 1 John 3 verse 3 says, Everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself. You can become more and more holy. And it's true that we won't experience the resurrection of our bodies now until the Lord descends with a shout, but that doesn't mean that we can't experience the same power that raised Christ from the dead in our daily lives. We can labor in the power of the Spirit As Colossians one twenty nine says, for this purpose I also labor striving according to his power which mightily works within me. So if Christ is the goal of our Christian life, why wouldn't we want as much of him now as we can possibly get Why would we want to wait until the end of the journey to finally get a greater degree of Christ? Why don't we want to gain more of Christ now This uh this past summer uh my family took a visit to to go and see Niagara Falls and uh we actually got to see the falls from the Canadian side. It was the first time I I had an opportunity to to do that. And for those of you who've been there, the Canadian side is definitely better, so you gotta do that. Definitely more spectacular. And there's certain locations where you can take in like the just the full view of the falls. You know, there's like a there's a a couple spots like actually there's this one spot on the Canadian side where you're just like right over the edge where the falls, you know, shoot down the the edge of the uh of the cliff and it's just it's just breathtaking to to stand there and just kind of take it all in. Uh the mate of the mist, it's that little boat that kind of takes you uh you know kind of between the falls. And there's this one spot where you kind of get into the middle and they spin you all around and you can see like the full view of the falls. But but here's here's the here's the analogy. If I'm only waiting until I get the full view and I keep my eyes closed the entire time I'm really not that interested in the falls, am I? When I got on the main of the mist, I'm taking it all in. You know, every fall that I passed by it's like, oh look at that, look at that. And it's like the whole way up until that time where they turn the boat around. You're taking it all in. When I was on the Canadian side, like the whole way up the path as I'm getting to this one spot to take in the the full view of the falls, I'm taking the whole view all the way in I don't keep my eyes closed and say, well, I'll just wait until I I get to the best view, the full view, and then I'll open my eyes and I'll I'll enjoy it then. No, I want to enjoy the whole life. If you're a believer, we're not waiting until we finally get to the end to say, Oh, let me open my eyes now and take in Christ We're taking in Christ the whole journey through because he is the goal. You understand that? Christ is the goal. I don't keep my eyes shut until I reach glory. If Christ is really my goal, I want to catch every single glimpse of him that I can all the way through We can know Christ to a greater and greater degree, but we're satisfied, many of us, with an introductory and elementary knowledge of Christ. If we have a little appetite for Bible study, for reading, for sermons, you know, does is he really going to go an hour again this morning? Like seriously? We can experience more eradication of sin in our lives, but some of us have become comfortable with our sins, some of our sins. You know, hey, that's just my personality. That's just who I am. I can't change who I am. No, no, you can change. With the power and the grace of God, you can change. Or just because I'm a Christian doesn't mean I have to, you know, get rid of all the fun in my life, do I? I'm just trying to have a good time, but we invite sin to the party with us. You need to let it go. Do you want more of Christ now? You can have more of Christ now. We could be experiencing more of the power that raised Christ from the dead in our daily lives, but it's uh it's hard work It's work to labor for the gospel, to strive with the brother who needs discipleship, to suffer for the sake of of Christ. That's labor. Paul described it as labor, as a fight. You know, and some of us are saying does it really take all that But if Christ is the goal of our Christian life, why wouldn't we want as much of Him now as we can get? I don't want to miss any of it. And beyond that, the more we press ahead now is the more reward we'll see in the future, right? 1 Corinthians 3 verse 8 says, Each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. Our present labor results in future reward. And why wouldn't I want to press ahead if it means a greater capacity to enjoy Christ in the future? I remember when I was in uh, maybe it was like the fifth or sixth grade. We had one of those uh walk-a-phons. It was a a fundraiser for my school and I asked different people to sponsor me. You know, can you sponsor me for every mile that I walk? And uh there was a deacon in the the church that I was attending and he said uh he says I'll give you twenty dollars for every mile And you know, he's thinking I'm going to walk maybe one mile, two miles. I ended up walking 20 miles. And I came back asking for $400. He only gave me twenty by the way. He said, I didn't have any idea that you were gonna go that far. I wasn't I wasn't planning on that kind of payout. He wasn't able to reward me for my labor. Christ, on the other hand, has no problem rewarding you for your labor. You can press ahead as far as you want to go, and you can't outpace Christ. And knowing all of this, Paul said, I'm pressing on. Which brings us to our first point. And don't worry, we're going to be able to finish this quickly, because with all that background, we should be able to move ahead pretty quick Paul says I'm pressing ahead. He's the example. He says I'm I'm myself am an example of pressing ahead. Paul is an example of pressing ahead. Look again at the verse verse twelve. Not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect. But I press on, so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on. Toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Paul is an example of pressing ahead. The word for press in verse twelve and again in verse fourteen is the word uh dioco, which means I pursue Or even can be translated, I persecute. It's actually the same word that was used for persecution back in verse 6 where Paul said he was a persecutor of the church It's the idea that you run after something with the purpose of overtaking it, to apprehend someone. It's to pursue something zealously, to move rapidly and decisively toward an objective. And Paul used to run zealously after Christians to imprison them. He used to run zealously against Christ. To the point where Jesus called out from heaven in Acts chapter 9 and verse 4, and he said, Saul, Saul, which was his Hebrew name, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And it was at this time that Paul was laid hold of by Jesus Christ. He was arrested in his tracks. And instead of pursuing Jesus to persecute, Believers with evil intent, Paul now turned his zeal to pursue Jesus with the right intentions. And he gave his life blood to pursue Jesus. You're fools for Christ's sake, but you are prudent. We are weak, but you are strong. You are distinguished, but we are without honor. To this present hour we are both hungry and thirsty, and are poorly clothed and roughly treated, and are homeless. We toil. Working with our own hands, when we are reviled, we bless. When we are persecuted, we endure. When we are slandered, we try to consolate. We have become as the scum of the world, the drugs of all things, even until now Paul says, this is the kind of pursuit of Christ that I have. And then look at what he says in verse 16. Therefore, I exhort you, be imitators of me. This was Paul's pursuit of Christ. Paul says, I'm the least of the apostles. Over in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 9. He says, I'm the least of the apostles, not fit to be called an apostle. Because I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them. Paul was an example in his pursuit of Christ And in verses 12 to 14, he speaks personally about himself, about what he did, his pursuit of Jesus Christ. And how did he perceive Christ? Look at verse 13. He says, Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead. What does he mean by forgetting what's behind? Does Paul mean that he forgets about his accomplishments as a Pharisee? His accomplishments as an apostle? How about both? Of course, Paul remembers what he was like as a Pharisee. He discovered that. And he knows what his achievements are as an apostle because he's living that But the point is, I'm not stuck on any of it because I'm focused on where I'm heading. I'm looking forward. I'm reaching forward And the word for reaching forward, it gives the picture of a runner extending himself by leaning forward to the goal. He says, I'm not stuck on where I was. I'm leaning forward with all of my might, leaning forward to the goal of Jesus Christ. I remember back in the uh 2016 Olympics, there was a 400-meter race for the women's final, and a runner from the Bahamas won the gold medal by diving over the finish line. I actually remember it because she beat uh Alison Felix, uh who's the daughter of one of my uh professors from the Master Seminary. But uh Alison Felix was Set for first place, and this girl from the Bahamas just fell over the line. And that's pretty much the idea. That I'm extending myself, I'm stretching myself as far as I can because I want to reach my goal. That's the idea. We're not maybe falling over the finish line, but we're extending ourselves, right? We're extending ourselves to Christ. And Paul says you can't do that by being fixated on the past. A couple years ago, Pastor Matt and I were talking to another pastor, and we asked him about his ministry, and all he could tell us about was a missions trip that he took like 15 to 20 years ago. And both of us were kind of like looking at each other a little confused, like, is there nothing that's happening the last 15 to 20 years? You know, we're trying to find out like, hey, what else is going on? And he keeps on referring back to this mission strip like 15 to 20 years ago. Paul didn't live in the past. There was a present pursuit of Christ. He was longing for Christ And he was also longing for this upward call, the upward call of God in Christ Jesus, when he would finally be glorified, be made like his Savior Jesus Christ. So Paul was an example in pursuing Christ. Number two Paul gave this command to press forward in Christ in verses 15 to 16. He says, let us therefore, as many as are perfect, have this attitude. And if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by the same standard to which we have attained. Paul turns from his personal testimony to a personal application to the Philippians. He says, since it's the goal of the Christian life to be like Jesus, this should be your mindset This should be your attitude. This is the way you are to think. And and Paul is definitely making a play on words when he says, as many as are perfect, because he's just said that he hasn't been perfected yet, that we won't reach the goal until we're called up But yet there can be a perfect pursuit. We can be set towards the right goal. In other words, we can't be perfect, but we can have a perfect goal, which is to look like Christ. I remember uh Jay Adams, uh who's a pioneer of the modern uh biblical counseling movement uh in the Reformed Circle, he actually uh was invited to speak to a group of psychologists and psychiatrists. uh about you know his methods and you know how does he help people because they they started getting wind that there's like you know help from the Bible uh believe it or not And uh as Jay Adams was speaking to this group of psychologists and psychiatrists, he says, uh he says, we can all agree that we want to help people change, but the only problem is that you can't agree on what you want those people to change to. He says, as Christians, we have a standard, and that standard is Jesus Christ. We have a perfect goal that we're reaching after. It's the goal of being like Christ. That's the goal of biblical Christianity. And Paul says if you have a different goal in mind as a believer, we're trusting that God will reveal that to you because that is not the goal of the Christian life if you're focusing on anything else. But for those who are mature, those who are committed to pursuing, are committed to pursuing Christ's likeness. And he says, let us Keep living by that standard to which we have attained. In other words, don't don't deviate from the path. Let's keep on living this way And he uses the term that was originally a military term when he talks about this pursuit of Christ, let us keep living, when he talks about that in um In verse 16, let us keep living by that same standard to which we've attained. He's saying, uh, let's fall in rank. It's a military term to maintain your position and move. forward in it. So so he gives this this encouragement, this command to press forward. And then finally he gives us a warning about it. Look at verses 17 to 21. It says in verse 17, brethren, join in following my example, and observe those who walk according to the pattern you have in us. For many walk of whom I often told you, and now tell you even weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ. Paul understood the power of a godly example. So he says, join in following my example. Strive to live in such a way that he strove to live the live in such a way that others could actually follow his life. Paul pointed to himself as an example of what he taught, how he lived, and he commanded imitation of himself. And when you understand that it's the Holy Spirit who's inspiring this text To join in following my example, it makes it even much more powerful that God recognized Paul as an example to follow. And he leads Paul to right here, follow my example, speaking about himself. We understand that God is an example to us in Ephesians 5. 1, be imitators of God, his beloved children. We understand that Christ is an example to us, and there's many passages that point that out. But here Paul says that that he was an example and he he lived a life that could be an example to others. And he says, I want you to follow my pattern. That word for pattern is the word tupos in Greek. It's where we get our English word type. Like a typewriter, you know, the word two pass means uh the the mark that's left by a blow or strike or stamp. that's made by a die. It's like those those old typewriters when you when you struck the key that the lever you know struck the page and uh the impression was was left on the on the on on the on the on the paper And Paul says, that's my life. My life is making an impression, and you're to follow my outline. They need to have men before them that they could see, that would show them a pattern of how to live And why is that important? He says that's important because there's many who walk, of whom I've often told you, and now tell you even weeping, that they're enemies of the cross of Christ. Not everybody is worth imitating. There are those who follow a different pattern. There's those who follow the beat of their own drum. And there's at least five ways that Paul says you can spot them. Number one They do not glory in the cross of Jesus Christ. He says in verse 18 that they're enemies of the cross. Paul said that we preach Christ crucified. He says, I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 2. But the cross of Jesus Christ is not central to the false teacher. The cross is diminished. Instead of the cross being where Jesus paid it all, it's where Jesus paid it some. And there's more work that we have to do. False teachers do not glory in the cross of Christ. False teachers also have a different destination. Their end is destruction in verse 19. Eternal life doesn't mean as much to the false teacher as it does to the believer. They place more focus on the life in front of them instead of on the next life, and it's obvious by the choices they make. You know, Matthew 6. 33, we're to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. But the false teacher has more invested in this life, trying to live his best life now. False teachers also don't control their desires. Their God is their appetite in verse 19. Matthew 16 verse 24 says, Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. A false teacher isn't marked by self-denial, but by self-indulgence. He doesn't teach himself to say no, which is what Jude says that grace teaches us to do, to say no to our sinful and selfish desires. A false teacher also glories in their shame in verse 19 as well. They're more concerned with being real than with being holy. They enjoy talking about their their past exploits and sin more than they do talking about the Christ who saved them from sin. Conversion c conversations that really should be off-limits for believers are free and open dialogue with the false teachers. In Ephesians chapter 5 it says, but immorality or impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. There must be no filthiness, silly talk, coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. But the false teacher, this is his normal conversation. He doesn't even blush And then finally, false teachers are earthly minded. Earthly minded. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 says, Therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above. where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on the earth. But the false teacher, he he he places all of his all of his eggs in this basket. He places all of his eggs in this life. So the question is, who are your models? Who are you following? Who can you point to as an example of those that live the Christian life? Those that are faithfully following after the Savior. And Paul says, imitate those people. Don't be fooled by the cheap imitations. Don't be fooled because people look religious and sound educated. He says, that's not the test. And then Paul contrasts these false teachers again with the true teachers in verse twenty and the true believers, and he says in verse twenty, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform the body of our humble state into the conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself? Our true citizenship is in heaven and we long for the Savior because He's the object of our greatest desires. That's why Paul could say in Philippians 1 verse 21, for to me to live is Christ and to die is what? It's gain. Because I get more of what I want. If if Christ is what I want and I get more of him when I die, when I die it's gain. Death only gave Paul more of what he wanted in the first place. We looked at uh at Simeon a couple weeks ago, his testimony, after he beheld the Christ child and held him in his hands, he says, Lord, you're releasing your bondservants to depart in peace. Like this is all I want. I want Christ. And if we look forward to the Savior, we should have that same kind of desire that I'm looking forward to his return. Like let me loose from this life. I want my Savior. I want Jesus. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, the Bible says that we will also be revealed with him in glory. We get more of the Savior. And not only do we gain the Savior, the Bible also lets us know that we'll be like the Savior. I remember uh John MacArthur sharing this illustration. I thought it was uh it was helpful. Why don't you listen to this? He says this, you remember the story of the ugly duckling? He was larger, more awkward, and less attractive than the other ducklings. He was just flat ugly by their standards. They made fun of his clumsiness. They made fun of his bizarre, gawky appearance. And he was crushed as he was forlorn, and so he left the ducklings and he sought refuge with the cat and a chicken. But they didn't accept him because he couldn't purr and he didn't lay eggs. You don't understand me, he complained. They only mocked him all the more. One day while he was out paddling around the pond, trying his best to be like the other ducks, he caught sight of some graceful and elegant swans Creatures he'd never seen before. He thought they were the most beautiful birds in the world, and as he watched the beautiful movements of the swans, a strange feeling came over him. He couldn't take his eyes off them. He couldn't shake the newness of destiny that overwhelmed him The swans flew off, and as he stretched his neck to try to follow their flight, he thought that he had loved them more than anything he had ever loved before. Winter came, and all during the cold months the ugly duckling thought about the lovely birds he had seen He had no idea what they were called or where they came from, but he hoped someday he'd be able to see them again. And at last spring melted the ice on the pond and the ugly duckling was able to swim again. And one day while spring was still very young, he was swimming and he saw two of these beautiful birds. They slam straight toward him and fear gripped his heart. He was embarrassed to have such graceful creatures see how ugly and clumsy he was As they approached him, he bowed his head in humility and covered his face with his wings. When he did that, he was amazed to see for the first time his own reflection in the water, which had just thought he was exactly like those beautiful creatures He was never meant to be a duck in the first place. He was one of them. He was a slan. And he removed his wings from his face. He lifted his head, not straight up like an ostrich, but slightly bowed in gratitude and humility. MacArthur says, My first look at Christ would be that of the ugly duckling, looking at a swan, enamored with the majesty and the loveliness and the grace and the beauty of that creature and feeling ugly and sinful and unworthy. And yet being irresistibly attracted, and then one day in humility to bow our heads as it were, cover our face in humility before the swan of all swans And then when we see ourselves in the water, we note that we are being made in his very image. We will never be him Jesus Christ is the only begotten one. We're not begotten in the same way that Jesus was begotten, but the Bible lets us know that we will be like him 1 John 3. 2, beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet appeared what we will be, but we know when he appears we will be like him. Because we will see him as he is. And in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, but we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image, from glory to glory, just as from the Lord the Spirit There's coming a day when we will see Christ. And the goal of our Christian life will finally be made complete. We'll be in his presence and we'll finally be like him Not just in uh in spirits when we die, but in our even in our bodies. Our bodies will be made like unto his, his glorious body. And this is the goal of your Christian life. And that's what you should have as the goal this year Next year, every year until Jesus Christ comes back or until he calls you home, that I want to be like him And there's coming a time when that prayer and that longing will be satisfied and answered when we're in the presence of Christ. Amen. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and uh Father, we thank you for this text. We thank you for uh your scripture, Father, we thank you for the knowledge that That one day we'll be made like Christ. Now, Father, as we've already said, that we're not the only begotten. We're not begotten in the same way that Christ was begotten. But Father, we are children. And uh Father, we will one day be made like the Savior. And we look forward to that day. And uh Father, we pray that uh we would have that as our ambition even now. Even recognizing that we we won't reach that goal until we've crossed the finish line, until death or until you call us. Uh Father, but um uh Father, we do long to have more of Christ even in this life. Uh that we don't want to wait until the end of the journey to finally open up our eyes and say that we've missed Christ all along the way. Uh Father, I pray that uh the closer that we get To that time when you did call us home, Lord, would be the more and more and more that we look like the Savior, that we would be transformed more and more into his image, from glory to glory to glory. Now, Father, may that be true of all of us. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.