The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. And if you'll uh take your Bibles, let's open them up to Matthew chapter 8. We're continuing our study through the uh gospel of Matthew uh this morning and uh After considering the words and the works of Jesus Christ through uh through the portion of Matthew that we've been through already, it's kind of hard for me to imagine somebody not wanting to follow Jesus Christ. After seeing him displayed and authenticated as the Son of God, his lineage was undeniable, his birth was miraculous. His recognition was spectacular, his protection was prophesied, his announcements were glorious, his purity was impeccable, his words were astonishing, and his works were irrefutable. There was nobody that that didn't know during this time about Jesus Christ. This wasn't a secret who Jesus Christ was. The Apostle Paul uh when he bore witness about uh Jesus Christ before King Agrippa, who's also known as uh Herod Agrippa II, uh who was over a portion of uh northern Palestine. Uh listen to what Paul says in Acts 26 verse 26. He says, For the king knows about these matters, and I speak to him with also with confidence, since I am persuaded that none of these things escape his notice, for this has not been done in a corner Uh the life of Jesus Christ was in public. He lived his life in public, on purpose. People knew who he was, people knew what he could do. This wasn't done in a quarter. This wasn't some kind of secret uh work of of God. Uh when Jesus stood before the Roman Governor, if you remember, he ruled over Galilee in Perea, also known as Herod Antipas, in uh Luke chapter 23 and verse 8. It says, now Herod was very glad when he saw Jesus, for he had wanted to see him for a long time because he had been hearing about him. The Roman rulers knew about who Jesus was. He was hearing about him and hoping to see some sign performed by him. Why was he hoping for a sign to be performed by Jesus Christ? Why Because he knew that he could perform signs. He knew that he had the ability to perform miracles. So he was eager to see Jesus Christ. So he could see some kind of sign that was performed by him. The miracles of Jesus Christ were undeniable. And even non-Christian historians recognize Jesus as a worker of miracles. Even non-Christian historians recognize him. Josephus, who was a Jewish historian, referred to Jesus as a doer of good works. Uh Celsus, a Greek philosopher and an opponent of Christianity, admitted that Jesus possessed certain powers. And uh the Jewish Talmud accused Jesus of being a sorcerer or a practitioner of magic. So not even Jesus' enemies could uh deny that he performed the miraculous. Uh they might have questioned where he got his power from, but nobody denied that he had the power. They all knew that he had the power. And uh the Jewish leaders also uh tried to accuse him. They tried to accuse him of breaking the Sabbath by his power. Uh they tried to accuse him of abusing uh the power of Satan in order to heal people. But nobody accused them of not being able to do the healing. Nobody accused them of not having the power to heal. So uh Jesus Christ was displayed as exactly uh who he said uh he was he could do exactly what he said he could do and and like i said with all that a mass together it's it's hard to to think of why somebody wouldn't want to follow somebody like Jesus Christ The Jewish priests were even forced to give testimony to this miracle working power. Every time a leper was healed, that leper had to go to the to the priest to be verified that they were actually healed. So even the Jewish priest had to verify the healing ministry of Jesus Christ. And we looked at that last time. And as I was thinking about the the healing ministry of Christ, which we're going to talk about a little bit more today. I started thinking about just how hard it is to describe how spectacular Jesus Christ was. It's impossible to describe just how spectacular he was. I mean, if we think about it, if if one of you You know, maybe somebody in here will come up with it and we can you know get some recognition or something. But if one of you came up with the cure for cancer, your your name would be in the history books forever, right? If you could come up with the cure for cancer, that would be enough to get your name in the history books for all time. Now just imagine somebody who would step on the scene who has the cure for cancer. But not only that, he's got the cure for AIDS, he's got the cure for heart disease, he's got the cure for diabetes, he's got the cure for Alzheimer's, and the list It goes on and on and on and on Every known disease, Jesus Christ had the cure. Jesus Christ had the ability to heal. There was no obstacle to this heavenly physician. Nobody could stand in the presence of Jesus Christ with some kind of malady that Jesus Christ could not cure. How can you argue with this? How can you argue with the person like this? The kind of life that Jesus lived was overwhelming. Nobody denied what he did. The question was: what did it mean? Nobody denied what he did. The question was, what did it mean that he lived this kind of life? And that's the question that Matthew answers for us in Matthew chapter 8. I'll read from verse 1 down to 17 just to get the context for us. Matthew chapter 8, starting at verse 1. It says when Jesus came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. And the leper came to him and bowed down before him and said, Lord, if you are willing, you can make me clean. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I am willing, be cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus said to him, See that you tell no one, but go show yourself to the priests and present the offering that Moses commanded as a testimony to them. And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him imploring him and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed For I also am a man under authority with soldiers under me, and I say to this one, Go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my slave do this, and he does it. Now when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel I say to you that many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness, and in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, it shall be done for you as you have believed, and the servant was healed that very moment. When Jesus came into Peter's home, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with the fever. He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on him. When evening came they brought to him many who were demon possessed, and he cast out the spirits with the word, and healed all who were ill. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you once again for uh the great opportunity that we have to sit before your word. Uh Father, we pray that uh you would use your word in our lives, that you would transform us. By the power of your word. We know that your word is truth and that we're sanctified by the truth of your word. Father, I pray that you would do a great work in our hearts. And Father, that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The question that comes before us that's answered is, what did the power of Jesus Christ mean? If you look at Matthew chapter 8 and verse 17, it says, This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. The miracles that Jesus performed identified him as the predicted Messiah of the Hebrew Scriptures. It was the fulfillment of prophecy. written in Isaiah even 700 years before Jesus' arrival, the scriptures predicted exactly what Israel should have been anticipating. And one of the ways they were to identify the Messiah was by the unlimited power over sickness and disease. Those were the credentials of the king. And there were several places in Isaiah where the coming kingdom is described as a time when disease is just booted out of the earth. In chapters like Isaiah 33, 35, there was this expectation For the coming kingdom where disease would be eradicated. And one of the ways that the people were to identify the king over this kingdom is they were to identify the person who had the authority over the disease. There's only been one figure in all of human history who had authority over all disease. Only one human figure who fit the bill, and it's only Jesus Christ. He was the only one who had power over every single disease that was thrown at him So you can wait around to try to find a better deal, but you're not going to find one. You're not going to find one. Why would anybody choose not to follow Jesus Christ? And here's the wonderful truth that we've been learning in Matthew chapter 8, is that this glorious king who towered over disease, who towered over death, was willing to demonstrate his power by reaching out to even the least of us. Even the least of us. As we pointed out before in a Jewish tradition, there were the three groups of uh people who are not allowed into the closest and most intimate expression of worship at the temple, lepers, gentiles, and women. Uh but here in the very first detailed account in Matthew that Matthew gives us, he gives us Jesus' healing power with a leper, a gentile, and a woman. You know, the very groups that were would have been rejected for the most part by the the Jewish people And Matthew here is communicating something significant. He shows us that the promised Messiah is willing to reach out to the least of us and meet our needs, and what a wonderful picture that is of Jesus Christ, and what an encouragement that is for all of us. We've already looked at the uh the leper and the gentile centurion, but uh real quickly we'll take a look at the Jewish woman that Jesus heals, Peter's mother-in-law. Uh this event here uh that we read about and starting in verse 14, it occurs in the uh the town of Capernaum Capernaum. According to verse 5, Jesus entered into Capernaum, and this is where this miracle takes place of the healing of uh Peter's mother-in-law. Capernaum was a small fishing village only about a quarter mile long on the north shore of the Sea of Galilee. Actually Jennifer and I had an opportunity uh to actually be there. We stood in the at the place where the synagogue would have been in Capernaum and actually uh at the location where Peter's house uh might likely have been there's a lot of Christian writings that were found and at the place where Um Peter might likely have uh lived there in Capernaum. Uh he lived there uh with Andrew, his his brother, uh with his wife and with his uh mother-in-law on the It was really in Capernaum, it was the closest thing that Jesus had to kind of like a headquarters, like a home base of uh of operations for his ministry in Galilee. In Matthew chapter nine it's known as Jesus' own sitting, and on Mark chapter two, verse one it says that when he had come back to Capernaum Several days afterwards it was heard that he was at home. So Capernaum was kind of like a home uh for Jesus. He grew up in Nazareth, but he considered Capernaum a home to him. So like I said, this is kind of like a headquarters for Jesus. So if you wanted to get a message to Jesus Christ, you know, you'd have to get it to Capernaum to try to find out where he was. And here, while Jesus is in Capernaum, he's made aware of a need in Peter's home. His mother-in-law is lying sick in bed with a fever. And uh By the way, it's kind of hard to claim uh Peter as the the first pope and you know for every successive generation to to go without marriage, if uh Peter has a a mother-in-law, it means that he had a what? He had a wife. You know, Peter had a wife. So here here's the the first Pope can you know considered of the church. And he has a wife. You know, what does that say for everybody else? So the uh the the kind of unscriptural, unbiblical traditions that that come up, it's after the the Bible, it's not in the Bible. Peter was no pope and the the teaching of the that the priest should abstain from marriage is not a a biblical teaching. But anyway, we have here that uh Jesus is made aware of Peter's mother-in-law's need. She has this fever that she's stricken by. And uh, you know, on first first glance, you know, a fever doesn't seem like it's that big of a deal. You know, it doesn't really seem like it's that great of an emergency. Uh but we know that this was an indication of something that was more severe because Peter's mother-in-law was immobilized by the fever that she had. She was lying in in bed. She was sick with the fever. She couldn't get up. Typically people during this this time they didn't just lay in bed because they had minor aches and pains. So for this mother-in-law to be lying in bed sick, it meant that her illness was severe. Some commentators have even suggested that she might have contracted malaria or maybe another disease that's common in the Near East. In addition to that, in Luke chapter 4 and verse 38, when it talks about the same occasion, it says that she was suffering from a high fever. Not just a fever. This is a high fever. This is a serious fever. And in Mark chapter 1, verse 30, it lets us know that the disciples immediately let Jesus know about the situation. It was an urgent situation for them to bring Jesus to. So this is a serious, serious need. And Jesus addresses the need in an act of compassion. If you look down again at verse 15 of chapter 8, it says that he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on him. So in an act of compassion, Jesus reaches out, touches her hand, and the fever leaves with just a simple touch. Just a touch, and she's made well. No one's left to wonder about the effectiveness of the touch of Jesus Christ because all of the symptoms are gone immediately. The fever's gone, she gets up, her strength returns, she begins to serve. It's not like there's there's there's such a thing as a physical healing where the symptoms just kind of linger on. And uh I know that you might hear uh some teaching like that today. There's uh uh different groups and uh you know kind of strands of so-called Christianity that'll say that you can have the symptoms but you're still healed. You know, just claim it, name it, claim it Blab it and grab it. You know, you can just say that you're healed. All your symptoms might still remain, but you know, praise God. You know, healing is ours It's important to point out that uh that's not the kind of feeling that you see in the Bible. It's not consistent with the testimony of Scripture for people to claim healing while the symptoms still linger on and remain. That's not the biblical healing. That's not the kind of healing that Jesus did. It's not the kind of healing that the apostles did And it's not the kind of healing that we should claim for ourselves either. Do I believe that God can still heal? Absolutely. Absolutely I believe God can heal. But it's not a healing that's absent from the evidence of the healing. If it the the symptoms don't remain, but you say, you know, hey, I still have this healing because, you know, I I just believe it. I just claimed it and it's and it's there. And the the faith teachers of today are are really nothing more than than kind of like those snake oil salesmen You know, they kind of pass out this kind of medication saying that, you know, hey, you know, you just take this, all your problems will be fixed. You know, and and if if it's just if you still kind of suffer with the symptoms, don't worry about it. It's working, you know And that's the kind of thing that a lot of these faith uh teachers uh you know try to propagate. Uh one popular faith teacher, uh Fred Price, he talks about how Satan tried to fool him into thinking that he was still sick. Listen to what he says. He says, My wife can tell you, I crawled around my bedroom floor, shouting and hollering at the top of my voice. I was in such pain, I couldn't stand on my feet. I was under such an attack, but I refused to give in. I wanted my faith to work for me. So he just continued to claim that he was he was healed while he's crawling around the floor in pain and hollering and screaming, I'm healed, I'm healed. You know, tries to ignore the symptoms Another teacher, Jerry Savell, said a short time ago the devil tried to put the symptoms of the flu on me. My nose started to run. I began to sneeze and ache all over. But I haven't had the flu since 1969 and I'm not going to start now. All the symptoms, but you know, I'm not going to start having the flu now. Devil, you're not going to trick me. You're not going to trick me. You know, sorry sorry to rain on your parade, but that's what the flu is, right? That's what it is. You can't separate the symptoms from the sickness. And we can laugh at how foolish some of those things are, but in some cases it's even more severe, and we've we've heard about some of those cases, right? There was parents who withheld medicine from their children and watched them die. One news report cited that the death of a two-year-old son who was left untreated for pneumonia The Father said, We believe in divine healing, that Jesus shed blood for our healing, and that he died on the cross to break the devil's power. And what makes this even more heartbreaking is that it was the second son who died. Second time he's been through the same thing. Refused to give any kind of medicine, refused to give any kind of treatment, just claim that his son was healed and watched two of his sons die. Said. Said. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 2. 1 Peter chapter 2. I just want to show you a verse that's that's often used for Divine healing, you know, even even apart from from the symptoms. First Peter uh chapter two I can't tell you how many times I've heard this verse. You know, by stripes, you're what? By stripes, you're healed. By stripes, I am healed. You know, I just kind of claim my healing. My healing is here. It's present. The symptoms might still remain but it but I'm healed, thank the Lord. But if if you read the context of First Peter chapter two It's made clear that Peter is not talking about the physical healing of the body, but the spiritual healing of the soul. 1 Peter chapter 2, look at verses 24 and 25. It says, and he himself, speaking about Jesus Christ, and he himself bore our sins in his body on the cross so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. That that for is a connecting word. It connects you back to the to the beginning part of the verse which talks about bearing our sins on the cross that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. So when it talks about bias wounds you're healed, what kind of healing is it talking about? It's talking about that the healing of our soul that we're were spiritually made well because of the death of Jesus Christ Verse 25, for you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the shepherd and guardian of your bodies. It's not what it says. You've returned to the shepherd and guardian of your souls. What he's talking about is a spiritual healing. By his stripes you are healed. You can claim that promise if you are a believer. If you're a believer, you are spiritually healed. Your sins have been forgiven. Your sins are remain against you no more. That's the kind of healing that we can claim as ours as believers, every time guaranteed. But the healing of our bodies, that's not a promise that we can claim on this side. There are people who who claim that you know your physical healing is your right as a Christian just as much as your spiritual uh healing is, your spiritual salvation is. But in uh 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 2, Paul says this, he says, For indeed in this house, in this house, speaking of our our body In this physical body, we groan, longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven. While we're still in the physical body, guess what's going to happen? There's going to be some groaning sometimes. There's going to be some suffering sometimes. And there's going to be one day when we don't have to groan. But when does that come? It comes when we put on our heavenly dwelling. That's when we're free from groaning, free from suffering, free from pain. There's coming that day, but it's not yet And because if you're still in this body, you still have the issues of the curse to deal with, one of the ways that we still know that we're dealing with the curse is that we still sin. If if the curse was fully removed, we wouldn't sin anymore, right? But why do we still sin? Because we're still in this cursed earth, we're still in this cursed flesh Why do we still die? You know, it's not because we have our glorified bodies now, it's because we're still in this cursed earth, still in the cursed flesh. In Romans chapter 7, verse 24, Paul says, Oh wretched man that I am. Who will set me free from the body of this death? He's looking forward to that time when he's set free. And he realizes that while he's still in the body, there's still sin and suffering that he has to deal with, and even death. We die because we're still in a cursed earth. In Luke chapter 20, verse 36, Jesus speaks about the resurrected bodies, and he says, for they cannot even die anymore. The body that will get from heaven is a body that cannot die. And Jesus Christ, who has the power over sin, the power of sickness. Also has the power over our spiritual lives as well, so that we don't have to face the second death. He can stamp out sickness, and he can also stamp out death as well forever. In Isaiah chapter twenty-five, verses eight and nine, it says that he will swallow up death for all time, and the Lord God will wipe tears away from all faces, he will remove the reproach of his people from all the earth, for the Lord has spoken. And it will be said in that day, behold, this is our God for whom we have waited that we might that he might save us. This is the Lord for whom we have waited. Let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation. He will swallow up death for all time. This is the one that we're waiting for, right? And this is the time that we're waiting for where both sickness, death, all a result of the curse will one day be reversed. And like I said, who wouldn't want to trust in a Savior like this? Who wouldn't want to follow a Savior like this who can set us free from sin and sickness and death? Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15 It promised that there would come a deliverer, one who would crush the head of the serpent, and this was the one. Jesus Christ was the one. And this is made even more clear if you look back in Matthew chapter 8 again. If you look at verse 16, that Jesus Christ was the one who had authority, not only over the physical world, but also over the spiritual world as well. He was the one who could crush the head of the serpent. Look at verse 16. It says, when evening came, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with the word and healed all who were ill. If you had any doubt about whether or not Jesus Christ had the authority to crush the head of the serpent, you don't have to look any further than right here. Jesus Christ had authority over the spiritual world, and he dismissed it with nothing more than a word. No gimmicks. No holy water had to be thrown around. You know, that didn't have to prolong in prayer. You know, just the word. Just a word and it's gone. Power like this had never been seen before. And if you you were to look at the parallel account, and actually once you you flip over there in Luke chapter four, it actually talks about uh One of the instances of Jesus casting out a spirit, Luke chapter 4, in verse 31, it actually talks about this day in Capernaum. Starting at uh verse 31. It says, And he came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and he was teaching them on the Sabbath. And they were amazed at his teaching, for his message was with authority. In the synagogue there was a man possessed by the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice, Let us alone! What business do we have with each other? Jesus of Nazareth, have you come to destroy us? He had the power to destroy him, right? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the holy one of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be quiet, come out of him. And when the demon had thrown thrown him down in the midst of the people, he came out of him without doing him any harm. And amazement came upon them all, and they began talking with one another, saying What is this message? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out. And the report about him was spread into every locality in the surrounding district. All Jesus had to say was the word. Come out! Be quiet, come out. The spirits had no choice. No choice. They had to leave. Had to leave. And everywhere we look, we see that Jesus commands with authority and power, and there's immediate results. Immediate results. The lepros says, that Jesus says, be cleansed too. Immediately in Matthew 8, verse 3, it says, the leprosy was cleansed. The centurion, Jesus says, It shall be done to your servant. And immediately he was healed. That very moment. Peter's mother-in-law, he touches her hand, and immediately the fever left, and she got up To the demons, Jesus gives the word, and immediately they have to flee. And just like the centurion said, I recognize what authority looks like. You know, I say to one go and he goes, say to another one, come and he comes, say to my servant, do this and he does it. And he says, and it's the same way with you. I know you have authority. Just speak the word. Jesus only had to say the word, and there was no resistance, no hesitation to the word of Christ. Until we get to Matthew chapter 8 and verse 18. Let's flip over there. Matthew chapter 8. Look at verse 18. It says now when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. And here you have Jesus talking to another group. He's not talking to sickness. It's not talking to disease. It's not talking to demons. Here you have Jesus talking to the crowd. And for the first time, we find resistance to the words of Jesus Christ. And who are the people resisting them? It's us. It's us. This is not because he has any less authority or power over us. It's because we're the only boneheads who don't recognize his authority and power Jesus speaks to leprosy, to paralysis, to fever, to demons, and there's instant results. As soon as Jesus speaks, instant results. But the moment he speaks to men, there's this grinding sound in the gears , the wheels kind of screech to a halt, everything starts to slow down. And in the following verses we have two examples of disciples who had excuses for not following the Savior. Amazing to think about. Jesus says the word, everything else listens. Jesus speaks to men, and all of a sudden there's a different tune. Have two disciples who had excuses for not following the Savior. The first was too hasty to follow Jesus, and the second was too hesitant to follow Jesus. But in both cases, we have excuses That are offered for not following the Savior. Let's look at the first one. We have a hasty response to Jesus' words. Hasty response to Jesus' words. And it might seem strange that uh Jesus would would here try to move in the opposite direction of the crowds. If you look at verse 18 again, it says, now when Jesus saw a crowd around him, He gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. But we find that Jesus was interested in a lot more than just gathering a group of people together. Jesus was uh interested in making disciples, and there's a there's a lot that we could learn uh from Jesus uh about this that uh it's more important to to gather disciples than to gather the crowds. You know, it's more important to be discipling people, to be preaching the word than just to gather a bunch of people together. So Jesus went far beyond just the the physical comfort of people and the the temporal well-being. His greater purpose was to see these people spiritually well. to see these people spiritually comforted. In Luke chapter 4 and verse 43 , we learn that the reason that he wanted to break away from the crowds in Capernaum was because he said, I must preach the the kingdom of God to other cities, for I was sent for this purpose. He wasn't just sent to to heal. He was sent to to bring the the the word of God, the kingdom of God to men, and he demonstrated his compassion towards suffering, but most importantly, he wanted to demonstrate his compassion towards eternal suffering, the eternal malady of people. And what comes next is uh the kind of response that you think Jesus would want to hear. Look at verse 19. It says, then a scribe came and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. It's like, like, you know, isn't that what you want to hear? I mean it sounds great, doesn't it? It's respectful, it's earnest, it's humble, it's unconditional, you know, wherever you go, it doesn't matter where you go, I'll be there for you. And look at the one who's offering this service to Jesus Christ. It says, then a scribe came. You know who the scribes are? The scribes are the professional students and teachers of the law of God. They they began their training at an early age. They were considered the experts in the Hebrew scriptures. The Sanhedrin, which was the ruling body in uh Judaism, referred to the scribes for legal advice because the scribes knew the Bible inside and out You know, these are the people that are respected in the minutest details of the law. These were the people that you turn to, greatly respected in the Jewish community. And here you have a scribe. Who's coming to Jesus and calling him teacher? You know, this expert in the law. He's coming to Jesus and saying, Teacher, I'm submitting myself under you. I'll go with you wherever you go. Teacher, I'll follow you. I mean you want to talk about instant credibility for Jesus Christ. I mean this would have been it, right? You know, I'm Jesus and here's my scribe. You know, the scribe that follows me wherever I go. You know, he's the one that comes to me for answers. I mean it's like instant credibility if you wanted it. But Jesus in verse 20 turns around and does what seems to be strange to a gracious offer. You know, hey teacher, I'll follow you wherever you go, but look at verse 20. Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus doesn't waste words. He doesn't waste words. He knew exactly what was in this man in John chapter 2 and verse 25. We learned that Jesus didn't need anybody to testify concerning man because he knew what was in man. And here Jesus doesn't answer what the scribe was saying. He answered what the scribe was thinking. And somehow this tribe thought that following Jesus Christ would bring with it a guarantee of physical comfort, physical blessings. And Christ wants to break that bubble like right up front. You know, don't don't come and start to follow me for the wrong reasons. You know, if you're coming to follow after me because you think you're gonna get something physical out of this deal, let me let me straighten you out right up front And basically what Jesus Christ says when he says, you know, foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Basically what he's saying is this, are you ready to be treated worse than an animal? You want to follow me? Are you ready to be treated worse than an animal? It's a pretty shocking statement for a scribe to hear. The the scribe would have come from a group in uh Matthew chapter 23, verses 6 and 7. Jesus talked about the scribes. He says the scribes, they love the place of honor at banquets, the chief seats in the synagogues. Respectful greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by men. That was characteristic of the scribes. They loved being first, they loved the honor, they love the respectful greetings. And now Jesus says, you know, if you're going to follow after me, you have to give up all of that. And don't don't expect to have an easy way when you're following after me. Don't expect big banquets. and long robes and accolades. Don't expect that if you're you're coming to follow after me. We learned that Jesus was a traveling preacher. He was an itinerant preacher. There were times when he stayed with people like Peter and Capernaum. There were times when he stayed with people like Lazarus and his sisters. And then there were other times when Jesus spent the night in the wilderness or in the mountains. In John chapter 7 verse 53 it says, Everyone went to his own home, and then chapter 8 follows up and says, But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. Everybody else had a home to go to. Says Jesus went up to the mountain. And in Matthew in John chapter 8 it doesn't say, oh, he went up to the mountain to pray. Sometimes we read about that. Jesus goes goes off into the wilderness or into the mountains to pray. Here it just says that he went off to the mountains. Everybody else went home. Jesus went to the mountains. And if this scribe had any idea that this was an easy road, Jesus wants to give them a view of the terrain. Let me give you a picture of what this looks like. Lensky, who was a commentator, said this. He says, this is the person who sees the soldiers on a parade, the fine uniforms, the glittering arms. They're eager to join. Forgetting the exhausting marches, the bloody battles, and that their graves would perhaps be unmarked. People want to sign up if they, you know, just see the glitter and the glamour. But Jesus wants to give him an accurate picture of what it looks like to follow after me. This is what it's going to look like. Later, Jesus would tell his followers that Matthew chapter 10 and verse 25 says, It's enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher. And the slave, like his master, if they've called the head of the house the eligible, talking about himself, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Basically he's saying, if this is how I'm treated, do you think you're going to be treated any different? Do you expect to be treated better than the master? Don't come with an expectation of being treated well if I follow after Jesus Christ. And when he talks about himself, he refers to himself as the Son of Man. It's an interesting title. If you flip back to Daniel chapter 7 Over in Daniel chapter 7, I just want to give you an understanding of how this phrase was used and how Jesus is using it here when he talks about himself as the the Son of Man. This is a title that identifies Jesus Christ with mankind, but it also identifies Jesus Christ with The sovereign authority of God. And Daniel chapter 7. And he's speaking to a scribe here, so we would have made this connection, obviously. Daniel chapter 7, look at verse 13 and 14. Daniel says, I kept looking in the night, visions. And behold, with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man. Here's the title: the son of man was coming. And he came up to the ancient of days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion, glory, and the kingdom. That all the peoples, nations, and men of every language might serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which will not pass away, and his kingdom is one which will not be destroyed. So here you have the contrast. Think about it. The Son of Man, who's the glorious one, the one who has the kingdom, the one whose dominion is everlasting. But he doesn't even have a place to lay his head at night. This this is the one that we worship. Think about the contrast here. And do you think that as we come to Jesus Christ, who was the Son of Man. Who was the one who had all authority and power that now we're supposed to be treated better than he was? Matthew chapter 16 and verse 24, Jesus said to his disciples, If If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. And the scribe responds to this saying of Jesus Christ is challenged by Jesus Christ. He responds with the words we don't have them. We don't have any words. How did he respond? We don't know. But what we do know is that this isn't what he signed up for. That this isn't what he had in mind when he came to follow after Jesus Christ. But Jesus Christ forced him to wrestle with that reality. If I'm coming after Jesus Christ, am I coming for him? Because I know that he's the Son of God, because I trust him? Or am I coming because I think that somehow I'm going to get something for myself that's going to benefit me out of this deal in this life? Am I seeking for an eternal life or am I seeking for a temporary life? You need to ask yourself that question. This is what real discipleship's about. That's one of the reasons that people don't follow after Jesus Christ. And uh one of the great deceptions that's going around in the church today is that following Jesus Christ is going to be easy. It's not what Jesus said. It's not what Jesus said. In Mark chapter 10, and trouble does begin. In Mark chapter 10, after Jesus spoke to the rich young ruler who refused to follow after Christ. Because of his love for money, the rich young ruler turned away. And Jesus turned to his disciples and he said this, looking around to his disciples, he says, how hard It's not easy. He says, how hard it will be for those who are wealthy to enter the kingdom of God. Then the disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus answered again and said to them, Children, how hard. It is to enter the kingdom of God. But we have another disciple here, another follower of Jesus Christ who seems to have been listening in to this conversation. Also proclaims his loyalty to Jesus, but he wants Jesus to know why he can't obey immediately. And he offers what seems to be a really reasonable and acceptable Reason to hesitate. Back over in uh in Matthew chapter 8 again. If you look in Matthew chapter 8, look at verse 21. So another disciples came to him and said, Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father. So here's Jesus saying, let's go to the other side. To the one he says, you know, foxes have holes, birds have nests, but the Son of Man doesn't have a place to lay his head. Don't hear anything else from that disciple. And here's the other disciple who's listening to all this, and he says, Lord, you know, can I first go and bury my father? And it seems like it's a reasonable request to make God Himself commanded honor for your parents, right? That's in the fifth commandment. You know, honor your father and mother. Example of uh scripture and the expectation of the the Jewish tradition would have been that the son would have buried their parents. Uh Isaac and Ishmael, they bury their father Abraham, Genesis 25, 9. Esau and Jacob, they bury their father Isaac. Genesis 35, 29, and Genesis 50, verse 13, the twelve sons of Jacob bury their father. And there was even a provision in the law in the Old Testament for priests who are commanded. not to defile themselves by touching dead bodies, but when it came to their parents, when it came to close relatives, they were allowed to break this this law, to defile themselves. It would have been right for this disciple to take care of his dead father. There's even a fear in in uh Jewish tradition, a fear of not being around to bury your parents because they had such a high esteem and respect for their parents But there's good reason to believe that when this disciple says, allow me first to go and bury my father, but his father isn't even dead yet. That he that he's waiting around for something else. And uh just give you a couple reasons why I say that. First of all, if his father had died Why wouldn't he have been there? If his father's dead, why isn't he there with his father? If his father's dead? If that's his responsibility, why isn't he already there? He 's asking for permission to leave. He could have been there, right? Second thing, most Jewish burials happen quickly, usually within 24 hours of the death. Uh so there wouldn't have been this long lapse of time like he's waiting around for another week so he can you know get all the family in and then bury him later. That wouldn't have been the expectation. In Acts chapter five, if you remember, Ananias and Sapphira they died and immediately they're hauled off, buried. Same day. Immediately that they die, they're buried. Same day. Wasn't a long lapse time in between. If his father was dead, he would have already been there, already been burying his father. Third thing, if the father did die. And he has contact with this dead body. What is he doing out? He would have been ceremonially unclean at this point. What is he doing out? Just mixing up with people. He should have been there at the bedside or the graveside with his family. And it's also demonstrated that this phrase, you know, let me bury my father, was actually a common phrase that was used to speak of the duty a son had to remain at home in case His parents needed aid and help around the the house with whatever the fares that they had until they were laid to rest. There's actually uh uh places in the Middle East, even today, uh where they use that same kind of phrase for uh you know let me bury my father there was a um a story about a a missionary uh in the middle east and he's uh talking to a young man about you know coming with him on the field And uh he says, well, you know, I first have to bury my father. And the missionary's like, wow, you know, I I'm sorry, I I didn't even know. I'm, you know, sorry for being insensitive. And he says, Well my father's not dead yet. You know, it's just just something that we use, you know, let me bury my father because, you know, it's a it's a phrase that we use to to wait until our parents are are dead. You know, we we want to hang around. And uh also this uh you know guy who was talking to the missionary said, uh, you know, I'm also I've also got an inheritance that I'm looking forward to. It was the same kind of thing going on back in this time as well. Yeah, the same kind of kind of practice, you know, where where people would wait around for uh uh for the the inheritance that would come from their parents, not necessarily you know their their parents being dead to bury their parents, meant to wait around for it And also, it doesn't fit the compassion of Christ to rip somebody away from a funeral. You know, my father's dead. Oh, who cares about that? You know, forget about your dead father and just come with me. It doesn't fit the compassion of Christ. Here Christ is, he's reaching out to people who are sick, people who are hurting, he's raising dead people, and now Christ doesn't have compassion on a disciple whose father just died. Give me a break. Of course Christ has compassion. Christ wouldn't treat treat somebody who had uh just lost somebody so roughly. But there were rabbis who didn't have this kind of compassion of Jesus Christ. Uh there were rabbis that taught that uh they were to have some kind of priority uh even over affairs like this. If uh this this uh one commentary spoke about the the practice of uh uh the group of rabbis that says that if If a father and a master were carrying a burden, let him remove the masters first. You know, deal with the teacher first, and then go and help your dad with his burden. If his father and his master be in captivity, you know, somehow they're locked up away, they need to be bailed out. Let him redeem the master first and leave his father in captivity. They also insisted that if uh There was a uh an opportunity if there there was the sacred office of burying the dead, that that shouldn't interrupt their studies. You know, that if they're having a study of the law, you know, you wait for for uh burying the dead. You know, nothing interrupts you know my study. But we have Jesus on the other hand who doesn't teach neglect for the care of parents. Jesus teaches that if you had money that was set aside for you know priestly duties or for the temple, he says, let it first go to the parents. You know, honor your parents, honor your father and mother. He talked about that in Mark chapter 7. And he also gave the example of caring for his own mother at his crucifixion, right? You know, talks to John. John, this is your mother. Take care of her. He cared for his parents. So what what we have here isn't the uh uh the the kind of uh you know rough treatment that the rabbis had. What we had going on here is uh exactly what we find in Luke chapter twelve in verse thirteen where Uh it was a high priority of dividing up the family inheritance. Who's gonna make the divisions, make them properly, make sure the money gets to the right people? You know, that was like a high priority on the list of people According to uh Deuteronomy twenty one, seventeen, when a father died, the older son would get two thirds of the amount, and the younger son would get one third, you know, they kind of split the one third up between everybody else, but the the older son would have the two thirds, the greater share of the inheritance. And having just heard that Jesus doesn't have a place to lay his head, you know, this this disciple's trying to put two and two together. It's like, you know, if if he doesn't have anything for me, I better hang around with Dad until I can get something from him, and then I'll go. I'll go later. But what you have is really what Jesus talked about in Luke chapter 9 and verse 62, where he says that The person who puts his hand to the plow and looks back, concerned about the earthly goods and his life, he says he's not fit for the kingdom of God. A person who would who would hold off the call of God to follow him. You know, follow me. And he says, well, you know, hold on a minute. I've got these other things to kind of take care of first. Says the person who does that is not fit for the kingdom of God. But either way, we understand it here. There's uh There's some work that Jesus is saying that can be delegated to other people. You know, this this matter of uh you know dividing up inheritance if that comes around, uh taking care of uh you know business, family business, if if that's something that's important. That's stuff that can be delegated to other people. What can't be delegated to other people is obedience. What can't be delegated to other people is following after me. If Jesus makes the call to follow after me, you can't just farm that out. You can't just contract that out. You know, hey, somebody else do it for me. Something that you have to do for yourself. We don't relate to God by proxy. We can't send somebody else in our place to relate to God for us, to obey for us. It has to be us. For those of us who are children of parents who are believers. Your parents' faith doesn't do anything for you. Your parents' faith can be an example. Your parents can pray. Your parents cannot believe for you. Your parents cannot obey God for you. That has to be your decision. If you're married to a spouse who's a believer, being married to a spouse as a believer is a great blessing from God. They're an example for you. They can pray for you. They cannot follow God for you. You can't think that you're safe just because I'm somehow connected to somebody who's following God. It's an individual decision for every person. So, how did the second disciple respond? We don't know. Don't know. Two disciples had excuses for why they didn't want to follow after Christ, and we have no idea how the story ended. And in one sense, it doesn't matter how the story ended, because that's not your problem. You know what your problem is? Am I going to follow God? That's what your problem is. Am I going to follow after God? And after considering the works and the words of this king and his character and his compassion, it's hard to imagine a good reason not to follow him. And here you have Jesus, like I said, with just a word. He's curing leprosy and paralysis and fever and casting out demons. Instantaneously, everybody else believes. Everybody else is moved. But when it comes to us, we have all these hesitations and questions in our mind whether or not we're going to follow after Jesus Christ. And this is more than just talking about following after Christ for for service. Because in in Luke chapter 6 where it talks about putting our hand to the plow and looking back, it's not just talking about service. It's talking about salvation. A person who puts his hand to the plow and looking back is not fit for the kingdom of God. And the question is, is what is standing between you and following Jesus Christ? What is it? What's more important to you than following Jesus Christ? What's more important than answering the call of Jesus Christ to come and follow after me? What's more important than that? The question is that there's nothing that you have in your life more important than following after Jesus Christ. And as those who have committed our lives to Jesus Christ, It's for us to continue to follow after him and to realize that Jesus Christ has the authority to command our lives. You have one whose lineage was undeniable, his birth was miraculous, recognition was spectacular, protection was prophesied, announcement was glorious, purity is impeccable, words are astonishing, his works are irrefutable. What do we like look like denying him of anything? This is the the one that we we follow after. And another thing that I want to point out to you is that uh you have these these two individuals who are called disciples. In Matthew chapter 8, they're called disciples. But in verse 23, look what it says. When he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. There's a difference between disciples and disciples. There's some people who follow after Christ loosely They kind of want to hang around, hang around the fringes. They want to be close. Want to kind of you know get a peek of what Jesus is doing There's a difference between following him loosely and following after Jesus Christ closely to actually obey what he's commanded. Flip over to John chapter 6. Just want to show you one more thing. John chapter 6. Yeah, if Jesus in uh John chapter 6, he's really turning up the heat for the people that are listening to him And even for his disciples, at first he kind of whittled away the crowd, and then he even turns around to talk to his disciples, the people that were actually following after him. The the word disciple means the A learner, you know, somebody who's a student, somebody who's following after. But Jesus here, when he talks about bringing being the bread that came down out of heaven, And he who eats me will live because of me in verse 57. It says, these things he taught in the synagogue as he taught in Capernaum. Verse 60, it says, therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a difficult statement. Who can listen to this? But Jesus, conscious that his disciples grumbled at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble? What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It's the Spirit who gives life, the flesh profits nothing. The words that I've spoken to you are spirit and are life. But there are some of you who do not believe. Who's he talking to? He's talking to people who are called disciples, people who are following after Christ in some sense But he says, there's some of you who don't believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe and who it would be that would betray them And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. As a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking with him any more. You know how you know the difference between disciples and disciples? You want to know how you know the difference? There's one that will continue to follow regardless of how difficult the road gets. And there's others that will follow Jesus to a point and then turn away. And my question for you this morning is what group of disciples are you a part of? What group of disciples are you a part of? Are you part of the group that follows Jesus even to the very end, no matter what the cost is? Are you a part of the group of the disciples that's kinda on the edge, on the fringes? And if life gets too difficult, I've got another way out I've got some inheritance over here on the side waiting for me because I can't bear to put my head on the same pillow that Christ puts his head on. There's a difference between disciples and disciples, and true disciples. Those that are believers are the ones who follow Christ to the very end. And where are those who persevere to the saving of the soul? Amen? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for your word. Father, we thank you for the truthfulness of it. Father, we thank you for the challenge of it. And Father, I pray that we would all examine ourselves to make sure that there's true faith in our hearts, true repentance. True dedication to Jesus Christ, a true commitment. And Father, we know that salvation is by faith and by faith alone. But the faith that you give us is the faith that endures to the very end. It's you, Father, who chooses and elects those who will be saved. And the faith that we have is to the saving of the soul because it remains. So Father, I pray that nobody would be satisfied with the temporary faith. Father, that we wouldn't come up with any kind of excuses not to follow after Jesus Christ. That when the road gets difficult, Father, that we would understand, as Peter declared in John chapter 6, that Lord, where else are we going to go? You alone have the words of eternal life. Father, I pray that we would see that there is no other option for us than following after Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that if there are any here who don't know Jesus, who are on the edges, who are looking for a way out. My Father, I pray that they would be challenged today, that they would turn to Christ today, that they would look to him today The only one that can save them from their sins, and the only one that you sent who was authenticated as the Son of God. Father, I pray that you would do a work in our hearts today, and that you would prepare us for this time that we reflect on you. The one who came on Jesus Christ as we reflect on you, the one who came, who lived, who died, and who offers himself as the bread of life to all who would believe In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.