The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you would uh take your Bibles uh with me and open up to the book of Romans, we're back in the book of Romans uh today to uh continue uh in our study of that great epistle and uh We're in chapter three today and going to finish up a section that we started the last time we were together here in this book, Romans chapter 3, verses 1 through 8. And today we're returning to an argument that Paul has been making in Romans, in the book of Romans, for the righteous character of God. Paul's been arguing for the righteous character of God, and many times when we think about the book of Romans, we think about how the book of Romans teaches us how we can be declared righteous in the sight of God. But the book is asking another and more important theological question, which is addressed in Romans, which is how is God's righteous character put on display? You know, often we think about how are we justified? How are we declared innocent? How are we declared righteous in the sight of God? But another question in the book of Romans asked. is how is God declared as righteous? How is God defended as righteous? How is God's righteousness being justified? And that's what we Read about in Romans chapter 3 and verse 4, where it says, Rather let God be found true, though every man be found a liar, as it is written, that you may be justified. Who's that speaking about? Speaking about God. That you may be declared innocent, that you may be declared righteous in your words, and prevail when you are judged. Wa was laboring. throughout the book of Romans to demonstrate that God is a righteous God. He's all righteous, altogether righteous, he's always righteous. Whether that righteousness is put on display in salvation or as righteousness is put on display in condemnation. And if we miss that emphasis that uh Paul is placing on the righteous character of God throughout this epistle, uh we're going to miss what Paul is doing throughout the book. For example, if you think that Romans is just about the gospel of God and the salvation of men, what do you do with Romans chapter 1 through 3, just chapter after chapter speaking about the condemnation of men. What do you do with Romans chapters 9 through 11? Where Paul is mourning over his countrymen, his kinsmen according to the flesh, and those who have rejected the gospel in Romans 9 through 11. And we know that there are people who will reject the gospel of God, but even in that, God is still being demonstrated as righteous. And I know it's a difficult doctrine to accept, but even the rejection of the gospel Puts the righteousness of God on display. God is still demonstrated as righteous, even in the condemnation of sin. In salvation, we see the righteous character of God on display because he doesn't simply pass over our sins. He deals with our sins. He doesn't Sweep our sins under the you know the divine rug rug, the the cosmic rug of the universe. You know, just sweep it away. You know, let's not deal with that, let's not think about it. You know what God does is he actually propitiates his wrath He satisfies his wrath, and the way that God's wrath is satisfied was through the righteous sacrifice of his son. Romans chapter 3. 23 says that this, this sacrifice of Jesus was to demonstrate his righteousness. So the the book of Romans is has this burden to put the righteous character of God on display. And that helps us understand what's going on in Romans chapter 3 verses 1 through 8 Because what Paul is doing in this passage is he's really defending that righteous character of God. If you look back to chapter 2, verse 17. You can see that Paul addresses his audience as those who bear the name Jew. That's the uh specific uh group that he's addressing here. Uh those who bear the name Jew, but if you bear the name Jew and rely upon the law and boast in God, so he's talking to the Jewish people And if you remember being Jewish, particularly at this time, was about much more than an ethnic or national identity, it was a religious identity What made the Jewish people distinct wasn't their DNA, it was their connection to the God of heaven. In uh Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 7 to 8. It says, For what great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord, our God, whenever we call on him? Or what great nation is there that has statutes and judgments as righteous as this whole law which I am setting before you today. It was a a religious identity, not just a a national or an ethnic identity. They They defined themselves as those who were under the law of God, those who were called out by God, those who were in covenant with God. And circumcision among the Jewish males was about much more than a medical procedure. That prevented infections. It was more than just what improved hygiene. It was a religious practice that identified them as the people of God In Genesis chapter 17, verse eleven, you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be the sign of the covenant between me and you. By the end of chapter two, Paul has argued That even though you're Jewish, that's not enough. And even though you've been circumcised, that that's not enough. It's not enough to be circumcised. Chapter 2 and verse 25. He says, For indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the law. But if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Basically what Paul is saying is if you break the law, it's just like you were never circumcised at all. You know, you might as well put the scissors and the scalpel away It's like it never happened at all. And not only that, but tracing your lineage back to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is also not enough to escape the judgment of God. In chapter 2 and verse 28, he says, For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. It's not about what's on the outside, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly. And circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter, and its praise is not from men, but from God. You know, so you might as well put the family photo album away. Because connecting your line physically to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is not enough. You don't get a pass on the judgment of God because you can pull out your birth certificate It's not enough. So the question in chapter three is well if that's true, what's the point of being Jewish? What was the purpose of God commanding these things in the Old Testament if all those rituals and ceremonies of the Old Testament don't get me any closer to passing the judgment of God? If doing all these things didn't get me any closer to heaven, what did I do all that for? So Romans chapter 3 and verse 1 opens up with the question, then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the benefit of circumcision? And if I don't have some kind of advantage over the Gentiles, what was the point of any of it? If my lineage and my knowledge and my heritage and my rituals and ceremonies add nothing to my salvation, what was the purpose of any of it? And we can understand that question because it's the same kind of question that cultural Christians ask when you tell them that your baptism is not enough. It's like, oh, you know, I can't believe he said that. You know, your church attendance isn't enough. You know, what are you talking about? You know, dropping your offering in the plate and taking communion. You know, that's not enough. You know, I've had people who've asked me, you know, well why would God command me to be baptized if that doesn't do anything for my salvation? Have you ever had anybody ask that Why why why would I take communion? Like what's the purpose of all of that? You know, going to church, being baptized doesn't account for anything before the Lord? But what I want you to see is what's really behind that objection. And this is what Paul does, and it's masterful, because it's like they're saying, if God doesn't accept this ritual or this ceremony or this practice or the symbol God is the one that's wrong. Why wouldn't he accept that? Why shouldn't that be enough for God? God's the one that they're really calling into question here. And for the Jewish people, the objection was the same. If God doesn't accept me based on my lineage and my heritage and my knowledge, well something's wrong with him. Something's wrong with what what he communicated in this word. If there's no no uh advantage to uh to actually pass his judgment in any of this, like like it's meaningless then. What was the point of any of it And the question that's really behind that is that I don't think that God makes sense. God's the one that I'm calling into question. And my question for you today is, has it ever seemed to you that God doesn't make sense? It doesn't make sense to me that religious people would die and go to hell. That doesn't make sense to me. I know a lot of really good people. I know a lot of really religious people. I know people that are better than the people that I stand in the pew with right now. Why would God send them to hell? That doesn't make sense to me. It doesn't make sense to me that good works are not enough to gain eternal life. I know some people that have worked hard all their life, they've been generous, they've been kind. Why why why wouldn't God accept them? That doesn't make sense to me. It doesn't make sense that Jesus is the only way There's a lot of good people who are in other religions. It doesn't make sense that Jesus would be the only way to heaven. And what about the people who haven't heard? Doesn't make sense. Or why would God allow some people to hear the gospel all their life and reject it, and then somebody else hears it once or twice and they accept it? God, that doesn't make sense. It's it's just not fair. It's not right that you would do that. Or if you really want to go to the deep end of the pool. God, I don't understand why you would predestine some To eternal life and bypass others. That doesn't make sense. Are you involved in this? That doesn't make sense. I've got family who haven't received the gospel yet. Or we could go beyond those questions regarding salvation to a whole host of unanswered questions about life, you know, because God sometimes just doesn't seem to make sense to us. Lord, why this disease? Lord, why this trial? Lord, why that betrayal? Lord, why this accident? Lord, why this unanswered prayer? Lord, why this death? And the temptation is to lean on our own understanding and say if that's the way that it is, it just doesn't make sense. And what's really underneath that question is, God, if that's the way that you are, you don't make sense. God just doesn't make sense. And that's the kind of objection that Paul is dealing with in Romans chapter 3, verses 1 through 8. He understands that underneath the questions that the Jews are asking But there's really a question about the character of God underneath all of that. So Paul addresses it head-on. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to address it head-on in Romans chapter 3. So why don't you follow with me as I read? Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 1 So then what advantage has the Jew, or what is the benefit of circumcision? Great in every respect. First of all, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God. What then, if some did not believe, their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? May it never be. Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. As it is written, that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I'm speaking in human terms. May it never be, for otherwise, how will God judge the world? For if through my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I also still being judged as a sinner? And why not say, as we are slanderously reported, and as some claim that we say, let us do evil that good may come. Their condemnation is just. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we pray that as we open up your word , Father, as we come to this sacred text one more time, Father, I pray that you would open up this word to us. Help us to understand. uh what you're revealing. Richness doesn't count toward eternal life. Well what's the point of any of it? What's the point of my Jewish heritage? Does it mean nothing to be the chosen people of God if it doesn't get us to heaven? And Paul's answer is, well absolutely it means something. The advantage is great in every respect, he says. And that's what you find in verse 2. Great in every respect. And there's much benefit. And what's the benefit for the Jewish people? And this is what I want you to see here that every of every one of these benefits is rooted in the character and the perfections of God. It's about God. It's about Him. And this is not so much about defending the Jewish people as it is about defending the character and perfections of God. So what's the benefit here? In verses 1 to 2, you have the oracles of God. In verse 3, you have the faithfulness of God. In verses 4 to 6, the righteousness of God. And in verses seven to eight, the justice of God. And we covered some of these last time, so I'll try to be quick as we go through a review and summarize the first few points. But number one There's the oracles of God. So first of all, Paul says that the Jewish people did have an advantage. There was a benefit of your Jewish heritage. You were entrusted with the oracles of God. And it's like this one benefit is so great that there doesn't need to even be a second. In verse 2 he says, first of all, great in every respect, first of all, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God And you don't find the second of all on the list. It's just like, you know, he could stop right there. First of all, you've got the oracles of God. What else needs to be said? You have the word of God, but that word first, it's the Greek word protas, it's uh the word that could also be translated as foremost or chief of all. It's from uh it's the same word that's used over in Matthew six thirty-three, uh, where Jesus says, Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness and all these things will be added to you. It's the the chief chief of importance, the a matter of priority Out of all the blessings that you've received, Israel, you've received the word of God. I've told many people that there's a reason why uh in systematic theologies they Start often with bibliology, which is the doctrine of Scripture. Why start with the doctrine of Scripture? Because once you understand the doctrine of Scripture, everything else comes out of that. Understanding of God, of sin, of salvation, like all of it comes out of Scripture. So you establish the doctrine of Scripture, and then you go back to that to find everything else All of our understanding of who God is, about who we are, about what salvation is, comes from this book. So if you establish that first, you get to everything else. Deuteronomy 5, verse 26, it says, For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire as we have and lived? We have this treasure. Out of all nations on the earth, we have the word of God. Psalm 147, 20. He has not dealt thus with any nation as for the his ordinances. They have not known them. Praise the Lord. We have this book. They have the word of God, and it's because they had this book that they had an advantage. It was great in every respect. And that might seem like, you know, Paul's kind of stretching things a little bit when he says great in every respect. You know, you've got the Word of God and your advantage is great in every respect. It's like Paul, is that hyperbole? Nope It's great in every respect because if you believe and follow this book, you have everything. You have everything that you need. It's a sufficient word for everything that you need. So every respect is touched by believing in the Word of God. It restores the soul, it makes wise the simple, it rejoices the heart, it enlightens the eyes, it warns God's servant, it brings great reward. All these benefits we find from the Word of God. I have more insight than all of my teachers Because your testimonies are my meditation, Psalm 119 says. Like I have everything that I need if I follow this word. And hearing it alone will not save you. But you can't be saved without hearing it, right? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God, by the word of Christ. Romans 10, 17. And many of us have heard that word from childhood. What a blessing that is. 2 Timothy 3. 15, that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation. Just hearing it alone won't save you. But if you believe this book, it has the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. So thank God for the benefit. That we're provided with in Scripture. Are you going to argue that you don't have an advantage? Is it a light thing to you to have a Bible in your language, to walk around with it in your hand? If you have a phone, you have a Bible, right? If you have a phone, you have a Bible. Accessibility today is incredible. That the Lord would provide this for us. But Israel was the first nation to receive it. So how can you call the character of God into question? How can you say, of what benefit was it to be Jewish? Did you read today? What do you mean, what benefit is it? I I gave you my word. Don't talk to me about your you don't have any advantage. You had the prophets, you had the the fathers, you you had me speaking to you. I haven't done that with any other nation in the way that I did it with you Of course you've had an advantage. So Israel had that advantage, and guess what? Today so do you. You have that advantage because you have access to the Word of God. But the objections didn't stop there. The next objection was, what about what about the people who don't believe? Okay, yeah, we've got the scripture, but but there's people who don't believe it There's people who don't believe in the message that you're preaching, Paul. What about all the Jewish people that don't believe in what you're telling them? What about them? And isn't God unfaithful to his promises to the Jewish people if many of the Jewish people don't believe in the message that you're preaching, Paul? I question the faithfulness of God. And that's what's going on in verse 3. How does Paul respond to those objections that are raised in their minds? Verse 3, what then? What then if some do not believe? Their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it? May it never be. Meganoita. It's the strongest form of negation in the Greek language. It's the form of the word to be, which is in the optative mood, which is the mood of possibility, the mood of potential, and then it's negated. Basically, it's saying there's not even the possibility. There's not even the potential. Certainly not. God forbid. Why would you call the faithfulness of God into question because people don't believe? Of course, God is faithful to his promises. And like I mentioned before, the existence of the Jewish people today is an evidence that God is faithful to his promises. And it's not because Israel has been so faithful to him, it's because God has been so faithful to them. And if some don't believe, that does not nullify the promises of God. May it never be. Martin Lloyd-Jones, who is a minister of Westminster Chapel in London from 1955 to 1968, writes these words He says the failure of the Jews does not and cannot in any way affect the purposes or the faithfulness of God. God gave promises. He gave them to the Jews and to the Jews only at first. And the failure of Jews to receive them and to appreciate them makes not the slightest difference to those promises. Shall their unfaithfulness nullify the faithfulness of God? By no means it is unthinkable. God Is faithful and God will always leave himself a remnant to be faithful to. God is faithful and he will always leave himself a remnant to be faithful to. Real quick, flip over to Romans chapter 11. Romans chapter eleven, take a look at uh at verse one. Look at what Paul says here. Paul says, I say then, God has not rejected his people, has he? May it never be, for I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people, whom he foreknew. Or do you not know what the scripture says in the passage about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel? Elijah had that problem too. Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have torn down your altars, and I alone am left. And they are seeking my life. Lord, don't you see what's going on here? But what is the divine response to him? I have kept for myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to Baal. In the same way, then there has also come to be at the present time a remnant according to God's gracious choice. Whose choice? God's gracious choice. No, this is this is what I'm doing. I've preserved 7,000 that haven't bowed the knee to bell. Don't think that you're here alone. Don't come crying to me. Just do what I've asked you to do. God, I I will always leave myself a remnant to be faithful to. I'm leaving myself a remnant. Because that's my promise. But that does not mean that there won't be those who don't believe. And Isaiah asked the question in Isaiah 53, verse 1, who has believed our report? Who's believed it Who's believed our message? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Because he's looking around at a bunch of people who aren't believing, who aren't following. Lord, Lord, who's believed this? Because there are so many who reject the truth. But God's unconditional promises do not depend on the faithfulness of men. Martin Lloyd-Jones, again, he writes. If that were so, there would not there would never have been a salvation at all if God was dependent on us. And regarding the church, the church would have ceased to exist if it depended on us. Why does the church exist today? Because Christ says that the gates of hell will not prevail against it? It's because of his promise that you're here today. The church exists because of the promise of God. In the same way, Israel will continue because of the promise of God. Are you ever tempted to doubt the faithfulness of God because of those who don't believe? Because of how things look on the surface? And we don't have the same promises that Israel did, but many of us have gone to the Lord in prayer for family members and loved ones and prayed prayers of faith, haven't we? First John 5. 14 says, This is the confidence which we have before him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us And isn't it according to God's will that people come to faith in Christ? I mean, aren't I praying a prayer of faith according to your word? 2 Peter 3:9 says the Lord is not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. Lord, what's going on? Is God somehow being unfaithful if he doesn't answer that prayer in the way that we would desire? Are we questioning the faithfulness of God? What about our children, Lord? Doesn't Scripture say, train up a child in the way he should go, and even when he's old he'll not depart from it? Is God somehow being unfaithful when people don't believe? Well, how would Paul answer that question? Certainly not. God forbid. Don't ever think that God is somehow unfaithful. God is never unfaithful. And even though it is not his will or desire that any would perish, we know that it is within the ordained will of God that some people will. We know that. And regarding the Proverbs, you know, and people taking those Proverbs as you know these ironclad promises, Proverbs are statements that speak to life in a general way. Not for every particular situation. And that's what Job's friends were guilty of. Basically their logic was, Job, if you were innocent, you wouldn't be going through what you're going through Right? And the and and like on the surface, you know, the wisdom of Job sounds so right, doesn't it? His friends? Like hey, I mean I mean it's like I I like these guys. You know, they're kind of talking my language. You know, you do what's right and you get blessed. There's a lot of prosperity preachers that would really like Job's friends, right? You do what's right, you get blessed. I mean that that sounds right to me. What's wrong with that kind of wisdom? It's wisdom misapplied. That's what's wrong with it Because there is no guarantee that even if you do everything right, that your life will just fall into place. There's no guarantee of that. We don't have the power of regeneration. It's the Spirit who gives life John 3 verse 8 says, The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear the sound of it, but do not know where it comes from and where it is going, so is everyone who is born of the Spirit. How many of you guys controlled the wind today? You can no more control the wind than you can control the activity of the Spirit of God. You're not in charge. You're not in charge of that. One author said you can set the sail in the right direction, but it takes the wind to fill it. You can't do that. And some of you might have consciously, consciously, or unconsciously Underneath the surface, been holding on to an unbiblical assumption that if I just do what's right and say what's right, that everything is just going to fall into place. And I'm going to see that loved one come to Christ. If I do my part, God will do his. I hold up my part of the bargain, God. It's time for you to hold up yours. And then when things don't work out, now you call God's faithfulness into question. God, I'm not sure if I can trust you. Don't ever doubt the faithfulness of God. And the response of men is utterly irrelevant as to the faithfulness of God. What if some don't believe? Are you going to question my faithfulness? Because some don't believe? And there were Jewish people that rejected the gospel, rejected the Word of God, but God's faithfulness was not in question. But that wasn't the last objection either. Third objection was raised regarding the righteousness of God. And underneath this next question is really a question about God's righteousness. Look back at chapter 3, look at verse 4. After he speaks about the faithfulness of God, may it never be that you would question the faithfulness of God. Look what he says in verse 4. Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. As it is written, that ye may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. Every word of God is true, every judgment of God is right. God is justified in everything that He does, He's righteous That word justified means to be declared innocent, to be declared righteous. And even if every man declared that God was wrong for bringing his wrath. Everybody stood against God. God would still be right. God is right. He declares himself to be right. And that's the illustration that was pointed back to. You can see your words and all caps there in verse 4, or maybe put to the side. Showing that it's a quotation that you may be justified in your words and prevail when you are judged. That's a quotation from David in Psalm 51. And uh that's the context of David's sins being found out Now listen to what David says in Psalm fifty one. He says, Be gracious to me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to the greatness of your compassion. Blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin, for I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me against you, and you only I have sinned And done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified when you speak, and blameless when you judge. David is acknowledging before God that God, if you punish me, you're only giving me what I deserve. Even if everybody else on the outside says, God is wrong to punish David. That's not right what David is going through. No, between me and you, God, I know that I'm getting exactly what I deserve. For he says in verse 3, For I know my transgression, my sin is ever before me, I know. Against you, and you only have I sinned and done what's evil in your sight. So when you speak a word of judgment against me You're righteous. You can judge me. You're blameless. So David justifies God. He declares him as righteous. But following this example of David's confession, you have this strange statement in verse 5. Verse 5. Says, but if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say The righteousness, the God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I'm speaking in human terms. And basically the argument here is Paul Paul, if David was able to declare God righteous because of his sin, aren't we also able to demonstrate the righteousness of God because of our sin? And why would God ultimately condemn us if sin puts his righteous character on display? I mean David put God's character on display by his sin and You know, why doesn't our sin just put the character of God on display? And why would God threaten to condemn us? I mean, David was wrong. What what makes David different? Why would he condemn me? Or to put it another way, if if doing bad gives God an opportunity to show that he's good, is it really that bad? And within this argument, and it's a strange argument, but but there's really this sinful attempt to minimize sin. Is sin really that bad? I mean David committed sin and you know he kind of got away with it. I mean he still was the king of Israel and you know the he he he he was a man after God's own heart. I mean like he kind of seemed to get away with it Like, why can't I? In other words, I'm willing to admit that I'm not righteous, but I don't know if I'm willing to admit that I deserve judgment. Have you ever heard that before? I've actually I actually remember talking to somebody that says, you know what, I I'm I I I know that I'm not perfect, but I'm I'm not a sinner I may not be perfect, but I'm no sinner. I may make a couple mistakes here and there, but I mean that's come on. Calling me a sinner, that's that's going that's going low Call me a sinner. And the just debater that Paul is arguing against is willing to use these kind of fleshly arguments to escape the right the righteous wrath of God. Like it's it's not really that bad If our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? I mean, come on, shouldn't God give us a break? But that's to minimize and trivialize the righteousness of God. And if you think of sin as lightly, it's because you're thinking of God as lightly. And you also think lightly of the sacrifice that paid for your sin. William Cooper, an English poet, hymn writer of the 18th century, wrote these words. He says, You who think of sin but lightly, nor suppose your evil great. Here may view its nature rightly. Here its guilt may estimate. Mark the sacrifice appointed. Basically he's saying, look to Jesus See who bears the awful load. Tis the word the Lord's anointed, Son of Man and Son of God. If you think that your sin is light, all you need to do is take one look at the cross. Take a look at the sacrifice that was necessary to pay your sins, pay for your sins. We don't have small sins because we don't sin against a small God. And the price that it took to pay for our sins does not come from a small Savior. And he did not offer a small sacrifice. Our sins are great, but here they're they're brushed off by this Jewish debater with the words, you know, but if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, you know, what shall we say then? I mean, come on, it's not that big of a deal And the next words I would take is Paul's rebuttal. He says, what shall we say? He says, the God who inflicts right inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? Are you trying to call God unrighteous? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? He says, I'm speaking in human terms, and I do think that that's Paul here. who's speaking. I speak, you know, in human terms, uh, and he speaks in the first person singular uh versus the first person Plural that's found earlier. If our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That's first person plural. And then Paul turns it around and says, I I'm speaking now. The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? I am speaking now, in human words. You say, now let me let me let me Let me let me kind of tell you what you're thinking, but but it's like uh I I'm almost like kind of dragging myself to even say it, are you actually saying that the God who inflicts wrath is unrighteous? Is that the kind of argument that you want to make? To even consider that God would be unrighteous. It's like, it's just so beneath Him. This is the thinking of man here. May it never be, he says in verse 6, to think that God would be unrighteous, that God doesn't take sin seriously. And Paul argues from a truth that the Jewish debater would have agreed with, and it's the truth that God is the God who judges the world. He says, may it never be, for otherwise, how will God judge the world? How is that an argument? He's basically saying that you you believe that God is going to judge the world one day, don't you? You believe that God is going to judge the Gentiles. I mean, you don't have a problem with that. You just have a problem when the boomerang comes back around to you. Oh yeah, I believe that God's going to judge, but well, isn't he righteous? And what standard is he going to judge you by? By a righteous standard? Now you got the problem, because the the judgment's coming back They all knew that God would judge the wicked. They celebrated that. They just wanted God's judgment to stop before it reached them. Flip over to Matthew chapter 21 real quick. Matthew chapter 21. Remember when Jesus told the parable of the vineyard? Remember that? Jesus is speaking to the uh to the priests, to the religious leaders of that day. As he's in Jerusalem. Notice what he says in verse 33. Says, listen to another parable. There was a landowner who planted a vineyard and put a wall around it and dug a wine press in it and built a tower and rented it out to vine growers and went on a journey. When the harvest time approached he sent out his slaves to the vine growers to receive his produce. The vine growers took his slaves and beat one and killed another and stoned a third. How's that for a welcome, right? Again, he sent another group of slaves larger than the first, and they did the same thing to them. But afterward he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. And guess who that is? But when the vine growers saw the sun, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and seize his inheritance. They took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those vine growers? And at this time, the chief priests and the elders, they're hooked in the story. They just jumped right in. They said to him, He will bring those wretches to a wretched end. Got that one right. He's gonna bring those wretches to a wretched end. He will rent out the vine vineyard to other vine growers who will pay him the proceeds at the proper seasons. And Jesus said to them, Did you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone? Uh-oh This came about from the Lord, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing the fruit of it. The boomerang is coming back. Yeah, Lord, we want you to judge those out there, those wicked vine growers, as long as you think it's about somebody else, you're calling down hellfire. But as soon as it comes back to you, it's like, uh-oh, I didn't know he was talking about me. Condemn themselves from their own mouths. And throughout history, God has shown that he takes sin seriously, whether that's with somebody else or whether that's with you. And here you have people who aren't taking that judgment of God seriously. Oh, so if if uh If our sin, you know, kind of demonstrates the righteousness of God, you know, what what are we going to say about that? It's not a big deal, is it? And that's the attitude here But finally we've got one more one more argument, one more objection And finally the debater starts scraping the bottom of the barrel. I mean Paul's answering every objection that's coming into his mind. And now we're scraping the bottom of the barrel. Because he finally goes from minimizing sin to denying it outright. In verse 5, the question is, you know, if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, you know, what shall we say? It's minimizing sin. In verse 7, the question is, why am I also still being judged as a sinner? It's a denial of sin. You know what doesn't make sense to the debater is why God judges sin at all. This is the last one. Why does God judge sin at all? It doesn't make sense to me that God judges any sin. And that's the absurdity that people descend into. I don't know if any sin should be judged. And Paul answers this objection with a statement about the justice of God. Look at verse 7. It says, But if through my lie the truth of God aboundeth to his glory, why am I still being judged as a sinner? And why not say, as we are slanderously reported in this some claim that we say, let us do evil that good may come. Their condemnation is just. There are those who would twist Paul's teaching as some kind of defense of utilitarianism. Utilitarianism is basically the view that the ends justify the means. And if God can be glorified even by my sin, then it doesn't really matter what I do. Israel didn't believe, and God was still seen as being faithful to them. David committed adultery and God is still seen as being righteous with him. So if that's the case, Paul, then it doesn't really matter what I do. God is going to be glorified in the end anyway, so what does it matter? And that's not just a hypothetical argument. I've actually had people try to argue with me that uh, you know, especially for for those that you you know talk about the sovereignty of God with. You know, the sovereignty of God over every event in life. They say, well if if that's true, then and everything that I do is eventually going to glorify God, then it doesn't really matter what I do then. I mean anything that I do, I mean God's in control and you know he's going to be glorified in the end. So what does it really matter how I live? How d why does it matter? And specifically back in Romans 3 and verse 7, the question is: if through my lie the truth of God abounded to his glory, why am I still being judged as a sinner? And here's he's pointing back to what came earlier in the text in verse 4, where Paul says, Let God be found true, though every man a liar. Because it is written that you may be justified in your words. Well, if God is going to be justified in his words, and his glory abounds even in my lie, his truth is abounding, then what does it matter what I say? Why does it matter how I live? If God is going to be glorified even if I lie, just He gets the glory out of it anyway. Why not be a liar for the Lord? Then Paul asks to the debater's argument in verse eight, he says, Well why not go further than that? And why not say, if I mean if that's the direction you're going, why not say, as we are slanderously reported And it's some claim that we say, let us do evil that good may come. Why not just jump into all kinds of evil? You know, you know, be a sinner for Jesus. Why not do that? There are people who are accused Paul of teaching that God's grace was just a license for sin What was what was uh what did we hear? The testimony earlier, uh once saved, always sinful. And people accuse us of that kind of thing all the time. You know, you believe in the grace of God. It's just a license to sin. You can just do what you want. Believe you're forgiven and good works don't have anything about eternal life. Well why stop sinning then? And that's how Paul was being slanderously reported as saying that like no you can just sin all you want. It doesn't matter how you live. Later on he actually addresses this Romans 6 verse 1. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may increase? The glory of God in all things does not give us an excuse to sin. You have no excuse to sin. James Montgomery Boyce, who pastored 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia, quotes from a commentator named Godet who refers to this theological error of utilitarianism. And the argument, again, is the that the ends justify the means. Listen what he says. He says the argument that good ends justify evil means has always been sought to justify the greatest crimes in history. By representing the advantages that have resulted to the cause of humanity. Theism, you know, the belief in God on the contrary, teaches that this transformation of the bad deed into the means of progress is the miracle of God's wisdom and power, continually laying hold of human sin to derive from it a result contrary to its nature. All that he's saying there is that, yes, God works all things to the good for those who love God are called according to his purpose. God will work everything out for his glory eventually, but it's not because of the nature of what you're doing The nature of what you're doing is still evil. But God can still work good out of your mess, out of your evil, out of your disobedience. God can still work a righteous purpose. But it has nothing to do with you. There's no credit that goes to you. Man remains fully responsible to God for the bad deed as an expression of the evil will of its author. And despite the good which God has pleased to extract from it. Such is scriptural optimism, which alone reconciles man's moral responsibility with the doctrine of providential progress. Just because God is pleased to extract good from your evil actions does not mean that it will be good for you. When we think about the death of Christ, Peter says in Acts chapter 2 and verse 23, he says, this man speaking about Christ, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. You nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put them to death. Did God work good out of the crucifixion of Christ? Absolutely he did. But it was still godless. Jesus says this about Judas who betrayed him. Woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. I mean scripture doesn't talk that way about anybody else. It would be better if you weren't even born Yes, God's going to glorify himself, but that glory that goes to God could ultimately be for your condemnation. And for those who want to play games like sin doesn't make sense to me, it doesn't matter what I do, I don't know if I acknowledge sin, how does Paul respond to those people? Their condemnation is just. If that's the kind of games you want to play with sin, as if sin isn't real, sin doesn't matter, I can just live however I want, God's glorified anyway. If that's your kind of attitude, your condemnation is just. You deserve what's coming to you. And Paul doesn't even dignify it with an answer. Like I'm not even gonna deal with this one. Your condemnation is just But what I want you to see here is that every one of these objections is answered with the character of God and his perfection. This is great. This is beautiful. I doubt the benefit of God. Well, you have the oracles of God, don't you? I question why more people don't believe. Are you questioning the faithfulness of God? God's faithful. I don't know what I believe about wrath and condemnation. Do you doubt the righteousness of God? God is righteous. I question sin itself. What do you believe about the judgment of God? God is going to judge the world. And every one of these objections, it's like the character of God, the character of God, the character of God. Every one of them is answered with the character of God. How do you handle questions and objections and doubts in your mind when you don't think that God makes sense? Remind yourself about the character of God that does not change. You need to remind yourself about the character of God. It all comes back to who he is. It's not about me. It's about him. It's about glorifying him. It's about turning to him. Do you return to the character of God as if your life depended on it? It's not just a theological interest It's not just like, hey, you know, this is just uh you know food for thought. No, this is life. This is how I get through life I think about who God is. I I I I study his attributes. I want to know more about him. That's how I get through the trials of life, through the afflictions of life. Through all those questions that come to my mind, when when it doesn't seem like God makes sense, God I've been waiting so long for this, I've been praying so long for this. God reminds me I'm faithful. I'm a faithful God. Don't doubt me. Trust in me. I'm a God who's righteous. There's no evil in me whatsoever. I'm a God of light. Within me there's no shifting shadow. I don't change. I'm immutable. We remind ourselves about the character of God that's unfailing and never changing. Do you cling to the character of God as if your life depended on it? Are you quicker to question God than question your reasoning? When things don't seem to make sense, do you lean on your own understanding? Well, that doesn't make sense to me. Why would God fill in the blank? Right? No, that's the wrong question. God, yeah, I know that doesn't make sense to me, but I'm not God. Lord, I I know I don't know what you know. I don't know the end from the beginning. Lord, you have a million things going on, you know, billion things going on I I I'm just I'm just I'm so insignificant. What is man that you even pay attention to me? Why why would I think that I can somehow control the universe and that things have to work out according to my plan and my will for my life? Well I look around me and I see that things just don't seem to add up. It doesn't have to add up to you. You got the wrong calculator. It doesn't have to add up to you. Just trust in the Lord. God, I know that you have it all figured out. I trust in you, Lord. How do you respond when people put God to the test? As this, as if, you know, like C. S. Lewis said, they put God on the dock. God's on trial. Rather than men seeing themselves as standing before God in judgment, they see themselves as standing over God in judgment. Oh, you know, God, let me tell you a thing or two about what should have happened, and this is how things should have worked out. Who do you think you are? Who who are you, oh man? Right? It's like like Job. You know, Job had all this kind of stuff. He he had chapters and chapters of stuff he wanted to say. When I see God, I'm gonna ask him this, and I'm gonna tell him that, and I'm gonna and then God says, Here I am. Uh y no, I put my hand over my mouth, like what am I what am I doing? You know, for forget my footnotes, you know, just like throw that stuff away. I I don't have anything to say. Job, where were you? I mean just trust in him. He's been running the universe for a long time without your help, right? Just trust in him. And Paul gives us a masterclass in helping us to answer those objections that people throw out. Want to put God on trial. No, God is the judge, and you're on trial. You're the one that's on trial. And for those who finally understand that, you know what, I'm the one who's condemned. No, at the end of this verse, their condemnation is just. If that lands on you and you recognize, you know what, that's me, my condemnation is if God were to judge me, he would be right in judging me. What what hope do you have? It's not about your heritage. It's not about your lineage. It's not about your knowledge. It's not about your ceremonies and your rituals and your church attendance and your baptism and your communion, your good deeds, your service. It's not about any of that It's about what we talked about earlier. Nothing in my hands I bring. Simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to you for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Fow I to the fountain fly, Wash me, Savior, or I die. My condemnation is just. I should die. My condemnation is just. And the only hope that I have is clinging to the cross of Jesus Christ. That is my only hope. That Jesus paid the price on Calvary, that he lived the life that I could not live. He's done the work that I could not do. I trust in Jesus Christ. And this message was so radical about trusting in Jesus Christ that Paul's opponent says that, you know, hey, he teaches a message that you can just sit and get away with it. It was so radical that he was accused, slanderously reported to saying, like, hey, you know, sin doesn't matter. Why was he even accused of that? Why would anybody even think that? Because Paul preached the message that it's not about you. It's about Christ. And it's all about Christ. It's all on him. He's the one that pays the price for your sins. That's why he was accused of saying that, oh, sin doesn't matter. Because the message that he preached was it's not about your righteous deeds, it's about Christ's righteous deeds. It's about what he's done in your place. And that's the only message that saves. It's a message of grace. That God would be pleased to put in your place the righteousness of his own son. So that when you stand before him on that final day, he's not looking at your lineage, your heritage, your knowledge, your rituals, anything that you've done. What's that son? It says you receive my son. Welcome. It's not because of what you've done, it's because of who you know. Know Jesus Christ today? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we're so grateful for your word. Your word is rich, your word is powerful, your word gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. It's because of this word , Father, that we've been introduced to the the riches of salvation. So Father, we do thank you for the hope that we have of eternal life. And Father, I pray that You would use this word, Lord, even today to save some. That you would draw men and women to yourself through the message of the gospel. Would you open eyes? Would you change hearts? Would you grant life? Lord, even today, through the power of your spirit. We can't control the The wind we cannot control the work of the Spirit. But Father, we uh pray and plead with you that you would do the work that we cannot do, that the Spirit would grant life. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.