The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. Pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well it is a joy for me to open up God's word with you again, and uh while I appreciate the opportunities that I have to fellowship with other congregations and to minister in other contexts. It's always a joy to be back at home with my church family and uh to gather again uh together. And uh there's something that's Sanctifying in this context, Ephesians 4 speaks about the church as a body which is being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies according to the proper working of each individual part. And that working of each individual individual part causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. And uh this is the specific local body that I've been called to be a part of and uh we've been fitted to together, uh held together by what each joint supplies, and I definitely feel when I'm away that I'm missing some parts So uh definitely grateful to be back here uh again with you. Uh but while I was away I had the opportunity to preach and to revisit a passage of scripture that we've covered here before. And to make some additional connections, and while I'm eager to return to Romans, which we will, uh could use some more time to prepare for that return. So why don't you take your Bibles with me and turn back to the book of Genesis? Genesis chapter 22, Genesis chapter 22. And this is a text that we've covered before in the past, and it gives us the opportunity. uh to approach the cross of Jesus Christ from a different perspective. Instead of looking at the cross from the perspective of those who can look back to the cross We're going to take a look at the cross from the perspective of those who had to look ahead to what would occur in the future. And the event in Genesis 22, which takes place over 2,000 years before Christ was even born. is also a passage that parallels what we find in the ministry of Jesus Christ, and the parallels are striking. In both passages we find, both in the the passage in Genesis 22 in the life of Christ, we find a miraculous birth. We find a unique son, we find a sacrificial death, and we even find the picture of resurrection. And we don't have to wait for the book of Isaiah to get a glimpse of the suffering servant and a foreshadowing of his voluntary death, but we have a gripping illustration in the very first book of the Bible. This narrative about the ultimate sacrifice, as it's been called. or the grand crisis event in the history of Abraham is really a test that's repeated in the New Testament. And I can't imagine a greater test of faith than what we read in Genesis chapter 22. But again, this theological summit in the book of Genesis is something that's foreshadowing what would occur in the life of Jesus Christ. And this historical account points us to a greater reality that was to come. Not only is this a passage about ultimate sacrifice, it's a narrative about the ultimate sacrifice. the ultimate sacrifice. And about substitutionary atonement, which is not a new doctrine. It's not like uh evangelicals, you know, drumped up this doctrine of substitutionary atonement. It's found in the very first book of the Bible. We find these illustrations, these foreshadowings, these pictures of what was to come in the New Testament. And it's just remarkable the way that the pieces of the scripture just interlax and and agree with each other. So as we read the scripture, we're reading one grand story. One grand narrative that all points us to this event of Jesus Christ who was to come. So follow with me as I read Genesis chapter 22. I'll start at verse 1. It says, now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son and he split wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. On the third day Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there, and we will worship and return to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took in his hand the fire and the knife, so the two of them walked together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together. Then they came to the place of which God had told him And Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood and bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And he said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad and do nothing to him For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son from me. Then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. Abraham called the name of that place the Lord will provide As it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord, it will be provided. I want you to bow your heads with me for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you today as we do every Lord's day, asking you for your help. Father, that you would help us to understand the things that we read in Scripture. Father, this is your word. And Father, we come before the author of the word to ask for an explanation of these things, to ask for understanding of these things. And Father, I pray that you would speak to us and that you would help us to understand not only the narrative, Lord, but what the narrative points to as well. And our Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. From the time that mankind took the first bite from the forbidden fruit in the garden, we've deserved to die. In Genesis chapter 2, verses 16 and 17, it says the Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it, you will surely die. And if God wiped mankind from the planet in that very moment, it would not be wrong for God to do so. We were all as good as dead. But surprisingly, God postponed the death sentence for Adam for 930 years. In Genesis 5 and verse 5 it says, So all the days that Adam lived were 930 years and he died. You know, Death finally tapped Adam on the shoulder and said, Time's up. But God was gracious to allow Adam to live 930 years on borrowed time. He deserved to die. And Adam carried the reminder that he deserved to die, draped around him as a covering. In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 21, it says that the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. Why why skin? Why weren't the fig leaves that Adam and Eve sewed together to cover themselves up with enough to provide a covering for themselves? Why skin? That's not a throwaway verse God doesn't cover them with skin to make a fashion statement. God is making a theological statement. And what's that? Your guilt and your shame require more than a fig apron. Covers it's it's more than a grass skirt is going to take care of this. It requires death. Sin requires death. And that was explicit In God's command, for in the day that you eat from it, you will surely die. Don't eat from this tree, because if you do, you deserve death. That's what God is saying. Sin deserves death. And the animal skin that Adam draped around his body was a visible symbol that I deserve to die. This skin should have been my own skin. And where do you think Adam's skin came from? God didn't pull it from a closet in the rack in the Garden of Eden. He didn't get it delivered from Amazon. The skin was taken off the back of an animal. An animal gave his life for the covering of Adam and Eve. Their sin required death, but God received an animal substitute in their place. And even before the law of Moses, there was a system providing that system and structure, even before the law of Moses provided the system and instructor. There are offerings that were brought to the Lord, and this understanding that my sin requires death. Abel in Genesis chapter four and verse four. Abel on his part also brought of the firstlings of his flack and their fat portions And the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering. There was a reason that his offering was accepted and his brothers rejected And the reason came back to what he had already seen in the garden. Noah, after he comes off the ark, he takes from every clean animal and every bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar, offers these animals up. And why did the Lord allow the flood to cover the entire earth? It was because of the sin of mankind that covered the entire earth. He says, I will never again destroy every living thing as I have done. But why did God send the flood? Because mankind deserved to die Job provided a burnt offering for his sons in Job chapter 1 and verse 5. And listen to what he says. Perhaps my sons have sinned. I'm going to offer up this offering because perhaps my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts, and thus Job did continually. Why did he do it continually? Because his sons were always sinning. I'm always offering up these sacrifices just in case maybe I missed one, but Lord, I'm offering up the sacrifice because they might have sinned. And sin requires a sacrifice. And again, it's in this relationship to sin that the sacrifice is made. The sinner deserves to die. And there are times throughout the Old Testament when God judged entire cities and asked Israel to kill and burn everything in it. And it was viewed as a sacrifice to the Lord, dedicated to the Lord. That's why when the children of Israel went around Jericho and were able to defeat Jericho, God told them, don't take anything in it. Because everything in this city belongs to me. This is dedicated to me. Destroy everything in it, both man and woman, young and old, ox and sheep, donkey with the edge of the sword. Everything in it is to go. And anything valuable, the gold was to go to the Lord, it was dedicated to the Lord. And God was not wrong to pass judgment on the city of Jericho. Ezekiel 18, verse 4 puts it plainly, the soul that sins serve surely what? Die. We deserve death And God was not wrong to ask people to carry out this judgment, even if that judgment involved the life of a son. And that's what we find in this text in Genesis 22. God asked Abraham to offer up his son. And we'll look at this in five parts. The sacrifice required, prepared, submitted, offered, and substituted. If you didn't get all that, don't worry, it'll be on the screen behind me and I'll repeat it But the sacrifice was required. Take a look at verse 1 again. So it's now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. By this point in the text, we're used to hearing the voice of God. At least Abraham is. He's first called by God at the age of 75, back in Haran. It says when he was 75 years old, he departed from Haran. This place in the Ur of the Chaldees, among the Ur of the Chaldees, and God called Abraham away from his people. And at that time God promised Abraham that he would make out of him a great nation. I'm going to make out of you many people. 75 years old, Sarah's 65, and God repeats that promise several times. Genesis 13, after Abraham separated from his lot and nephew, or from his lot and nephew, his nephew Lot. Don't worry. I I've been away for two weeks. Uh, you know, takes me a little bit to recharge here. His nephew Lot, after he separated from his nephew Lot. God repeated that promise to him. He said, Count the dust if you can number it, so shall your descendants be. I'm going to give you many descendants. Many people are going to come from you, Abraham. Genesis 15, Abraham is getting anxious and he says, Oh Lord, God, what will you give me since I'm childless and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus? And God says, this man will not be your heir, but one will come forth from your own body. You're going to have a child. He shall be your heir. And he said to them, Look, look again, look toward the heavens, count the stars if you're able to count them. And he said, So shall your descendants be. Ten years later, Abraham's now 85, his wife is seventy-five. They still don't have a child. Genesis 16, 2 says, Now behold the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. This is what Sarah is saying. Please go into my maid. That's one of the time, men, where you don't listen to your wife. Perhaps I will obtain children through her. And Abram listened to the voice of Sarah. Bad move. And Abraham had a son by Hagar, but this was not the son of promise. This was not the son that the Lord had promised him. Later on in Genesis 17, God speaks to Abraham again. At this point, Abraham is 99 years old and Sarah is 89. And God says in verse 19 of Genesis 17, Sarah, your wife, will bear you a son. And you shall call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. And then finally in Genesis twenty-one, one chapter before the chapter that we read in twenty-two, it happens. Abraham is a hundred years old, and his wife is ninety. Verse 1 of chapter 21 says, Then the Lord took note of Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did for Sarah as he had promised. So Sarah conceived and bore a son to Abraham in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. And this child brought them nothing but joy. I mean his name Isaac is kind of like a double meaning. I mean, he's called Isaac because when Sarah was first told that she would have a son, she laughed. It's like what what kind of joke is this? I'm gonna have a a a child in my old age and she laughed. But now when she actually has the child, she says, well God has made me the joke, and everybody's laughing at me I mean what what is it like as a 90-year-old woman to have to go into the nursing mother's room? I mean this this is a joke. I mean, can you believe this? She says everybody's gonna laugh at me now God has made laughter for everybody because of this child in his name. Isaac means laughter. This is a child of laughter. This is the miracle baby. And what kind of joy would Abraham and Sarah have? over this child. I mean this child brought them nothing but joy. God has made laughter for them. This is a son that they they adored in chapter 21 in verse uh verse 18 actually in verse verse 8 Chapter 21 and verse 8. It says the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. I mean talk about a proud father. He says my my baby just started on solid food today. Let's throw a party. Like everybody join with me. This is my son. He's chewing food, everybody. This is the kind of joy that he had over his child. This is the child of promise And the entire history of redemption is tied up with him. God made promises to me that I would become the father of many nations, and it's through this child that this is going to take place. God has given me what I've been longing for. For 25 years, I've waited for the Son. And finally he's here. And after all these things, God speaks to Abraham again. And he says, Abraham. And he shows up, here I am. Last time he spoke, he received good news. What kind of news do you have for me today, Lord? He said to him, Take now your son. Your only son, whom you love, Isaac. This is the last thing that Abraham would have expected to hear Go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering, on one of the mountains of which I will tell you. Every promise that God has made Is resting on this child. And now God says, I want you to give them up. I want you to offer him up There's nobody that's more precious and dear to Abraham than this son of his old age. How could God ask for his life? And this is something that's troubled many interpreters over the centuries. I mean, what is God doing here? And some have argued that Abraham misunderstood what the Lord said. But the Lord really never meant for Abraham to offer him up as a sacrifice. But just to dedicate them completely. I mean I all I wanted you to do was to to bring them up in the next child dedication service and pray for them. You totally misunderstood me. You wanted to offer them up as a sacrifice? Why would you think that, Abraham? That's what they they say about this. Some commentators said, one commentator says this, God meant Abraham to make the sacrifice in spirit. Not an outward act. He meant to write deeply on the Jewish mind that fundamental lesson regarding sacrifice, that it is in the Spirit and will that all true sacrifice is made. I just wanted you to do that in your heart. Just offer them up to me in your heart. That's all I really meant by that. But if that was the case, God was pretty unclear in his communication, wasn't he? It's to say to offer him up as a burnt sacrifice on one of the mountains, which I will show you, I mean that's that's pretty literal. You know, if it was just to do it in your heart, he could do it right from where he was. Why does he have to go to a mountain to do it God meant this literally. And finally, why would Abraham be understood as passing the test when he sought to offer him up? If he totally misunderstood what God had to say. That's not what was meant. There's others who would contend that human sacrifice was just common in Israel And that Abraham should have just expected this. And they argue that Israel was no different than the nations around them. And at this time, Abraham you know, would have basically understood God to be just like all the other pagan deities, and the other deities ask for child sacrifice, and my God does too. And they would argue that it's only after after time that Israel eventually came to reject child sacrifice. And it's true that ancient texts and the ancient Near East describe child sacrifice, but There is no evidence anywhere in all of Scripture that human sacrifice was ever condoned or believed to be acceptable. Everywhere Scripture condemns this practice. And Abraham would not have thought that this was a normal request. There's some who would argue that this is just a story to prove that God can demand whatever he wants, even if it's immoral. The God can change his character, change his mind. He can do one thing one day, another thing another. And that's what we should learn from this story. There's others who say that this is a story just to remind us not to listen to the voices that we think are from God. You know, if you think God is talking to you, you've got a problem. And they say that's all that this story is meant to communicate to us. And we do know that God speaks to us in these days through his word, you know, through his son, the Bible says. So we're not to expect voices to be talking to us, but that's not what the story is meant to communicate. Because Abraham was hearing from the Lord during this time. And then there are those who would say that this story never really took place. It's just an ancient Jewish piece of literature meant to teach us a lesson, but none of this really took place at all. But none of those are satisfactory answers. Because this is actually referred to in the book of Hebrews chapter 11 and James chapter 2 as really taking place. The New Testament authors are saying, yeah, that happened. So when Abraham heard this command, it was from God. It wasn't just a normal practice. It wasn't a misunderstanding. And it really took place. And it would have shocked and disturbed him the same way that it shocks and disturbs us. And it's almost as if every word is calculated by God to kind of torture Abraham. Take now your son, your only son, the son whom you love. And just in case you don't get the point, I'm talking about Isaac. That's the one I'm talking about. And we're to remember that God is the author of life, and he has the right to take life as he chooses, and if God asked for every one of our lives, he would not be wrong to do it. But there's two reasons why the Israelites would have known that God did not take Isaac's life. Just to help you out here as the children of Israel are reading this, as Moses gives this to the children of of Israel. He's the author of the first five books of the Bible. As he gives this to Israel, they would have known that Isaac really wasn't offered up. That Isaac didn't stay in the grave. Why? Number one Because in verse 1 it says, Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham. So they would have understood that this was a test for Abraham. And number two, if Isaac was gone, we wouldn't be around. Because all of the Israelites are children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So if Isaac is gone, we're not here. There are no children of Jacob. There is no nation of Israel. So they would have known, reading the story, okay, something else is going on here. Okay? That this child really wasn't offered up as a sacrifice because we're still here. Something else is going on. I need to read through this to see what is God doing. So even as they read this passage, they would have understood that. But the sacrifice was required. So read on. What's the end of the story? They have to read on. Verse 3. The sacrifice was prepared. Look at verse 3. So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him and Isaac his son And he split the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. It's been observed that with all the details that we have in this account, that we don't have any word about what Abraham is thinking. And there's good reason for that because I think it's pretty obvious what he's thinking. I mean, what else could you be thinking about? Like like Lord, are you you can't mean this like are you serious about this Lord? I mean, is there any other way? I remember reading R. C. Sproul, and he says that uh, you know, when it says that Abraham rose early in the morning, that some people look at that as if, you know, Abraham just kind of jumps out of bed first thing in the morning, hey God! Good morning, God. I'm here for duty. What what's the assignment for today? Oh oh taking my son's life. I'm here for duty. Let me just get right after it, God. Let me split the wood and get the donkey saddled and start out on this journey And R. C. Sproul says, that's the way that it happens in fairy tales. This is real life. We're talking about real life, real history, real people, dealing with real circumstances. Here Abraham is ready to take the life of his son. Why does he get up early in the morning? Maybe for the same reason I only get like two hours of sleep on a Saturday night before preaching on a Sunday. It's like I like I can't sleep. Here you have Abraham getting up early in the morning because I like what else can I do? First thing in the morning, I'm up already. I might as well get prepared for the journey. Abraham was a man who had many servants, 318 trained men in his own house. He doesn't have to get up and cut his own wood. This is a man that's 110 and between 110 and 120 years old. What's he doing with an axe in his hand? Just get one of the servants. Hey, cut the wood and get my donkey saddled for me. I'm ready to go on a journey Abraham gets up and does this himself. It was like all the frustration flies out of the axe into the wood and splits the wood. As he's thinking about and contemplating what he's about to do. So he gets himself up and busies himself with activity and prepares for a three-day journey. Look at verse 4. On the third day, Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. This is a three-day journey. Think about this, three days that I'm traveling with my son, knowing what's about to take place Would it probably be impossible for Abraham to keep his eyes off of Isaac? How many times would he have told his son that he loves him? What would he communicate it to his son? Could he speak at all? Did he avoid eye contact with him? How many times would his servants have said, like, hey Abraham, are you okay? In verse 5, Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there. And we will worship. What does he call it? By fully giving yourself to the Lord, worship. Obedience to God, worship. You know, there 's a problem that we have in the church today where we only call that section in the service where we sing the worship service. You know that all of life is a worship to the Lord? That we're to present ourselves to Him, our entire beings to Him, as an act of worship. A reasonable service to dedicate ourselves to the Lord? Here he is, he says, I'm going to go over and we're going to worship. We're going to worship. Nobody knows what's about to take place but Abraham and the Lord, obviously. But there's a reason why Abraham goes through with this. And this is something else that you might not see in the text, but it was in his mind. You want to know what was going on in Abraham's mind? The Bible tells us. Flip over to Hebrews chapter 11. What was Abraham thinking? Why did Abraham actually go through with this? You know, did he think that God was a monster? Who demands child sacrifice and God is just this bloodthirsty deity? What was Abraham thinking as he's bringing his son to offer him up? Hebrews chapter 11, verse 19. What was he considering? He considered, Hebrews 11 verse 19, that God is able to raise people even from the dead. From which he also received him back as a type. Do you know what Abraham is thinking? There is no contradiction in God If God told me that all the promises are in this child, he can't stay dead. If I'm going to offer him up, he has to get back up. So it's a Lord, I'm going, trusting in you, that even after the knife has done its work and the fire consumes his body to ashes, that he's going to somehow be reconstituted and come down the mountain with me. That's what he's thinking in his mind. He's considering that the God who gave me the Son is the God who's going to sustain the Son. He's going to resurrect the Son. Donald Gray Barnhouse, he wrote this. I love these words. He says, there is no contradiction in God. That is the foundational fact. There is power in God. There is wisdom in God, there is majesty in God, there is glory in God, but there is no contradiction in God. For Abraham, there's only one answer: God is going to perform a miracle and raise my son Isaac back from the dead. And that might have been foolish to think in his mind, but it wasn't as foolish as doubting God. God, I'm believing in a resurrection. I've never seen a resurrection before, but it doesn't make any difference. Resurrection is compatible with the nature of God. God contradicting himself is not compatible with the nature of God. So what does Abraham do? He walks by faith and not by sight. That's what he does. And we have a number of stories of resurrection in the Old Testament. The widow of Zarephath's son, 1 Kings 17. The Shunammite woman's son, 2 Kings chapter 4, the man thrown into Elisha's grave in 2 Kings chapter 13. Then in the New Testament we have Jairus' daughter, the widow of Nain's son, Lazarus. But when Abraham believed God for a resurrection, he hadn't read one of those stories. Because there never had been a resurrection yet. So he's believing God for something that's impossible and I've never seen before. God, I've never seen a resurrection, but obviously that's what you're going to do here because I can't come down this mountain alone. You promised me God, and I'm trusting in your promises. And the hope of the resurrection doesn't remove the pain of dying or the pain of seeing someone die. And many of you have been there. But there is still the hope that we have of the resurrection. And that's what gives us hope, and that's what gave Abraham hope. Lord, even though you might take my son, I know he's going to get back up. And almost like Jacob, I will not let you go until you bless me. I'm not coming down this mountain until he comes down with me. So I'm telling my servants, we will go and worship, and we will return. We're going and we're coming back. Because that's the only way that this is going to end. It's not going to end with a death. It's going to end with the resurrection. And he wouldn't let go of the Lord and the supreme act of faith on his part. And also what we have is the sacrifice was submitted. Look at verse 6. So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So the two of them walked on together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. How can you get those words out, right? And he said, Behold the fire in the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son. So the two of them walked on together. By this point Isaac has seen plenty of burnt offerings. Most commentators place Isaac anywhere between 10 and 20 years old. We know that he's old enough to carry the wood for the sacrifice. But he's still young enough to be called the lad, and this was likely in his teen years. The word lad was used for Ishmael when he was only 13 years old. So we're probably looking at a teenage Isaac. He's old enough to carry the wood, and not a little bit of wood, and he's familiar with the process of burnt offering, so this is nothing new for Isaac. He's been around for a while. Sacrifices were offered to the Lord as early as Genesis 4, and Isaac understood what was involved in a burnt offering. We got the knife. Got the fire, we've got the wood, but we're missing something, Dad. Where is the lamb? He he never would have imagined that he was the lamb. And he carried the wood for his own sacrifice. One ancient Jewish commentator, and I find it interesting that it's a Jewish commentator that points this out. One ancient Jewish commentator likened Isaac with the wood on his back to a condemned criminal carrying his own cross. Let me ask Abraham, aren't we missing something? Where's the sacrifice? And Abraham utters one of the most solemn, theologically loaded statements of Scripture where he says, God will provide for himself the burnt offering Abraham meant what he said. He may not have understood all that he said. But he says, God's going to provide. And basically he tells Isaac: Trust God. There has to be the sense of confusion that remained for Isaac. But Isaac trusted his father, and the two of them walked on together. And all of this is apparently without any struggle from Isaac. Submitted himself to the will of the father, not as I will, but Your will be done. And that's even understood more clearly when you consider what comes next because the sacrifice is offered. Look at verse 9 It says, Then they came to the place of which God had told him. And Abraham built the altar there and arranged the wood and bound his son Isaac and laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Now if I'm a teenager, my dad is like a hundred and ten, a hundred and twenty years old. And he's saying, Hey, come over here son and let me get these ropes around you're like, okay dad, let me go get mom here because like I'm not doing this. What do you mean, bind me up? Isaac had to surrender himself to be bound. He had to submit to this. Isaac at this point is as good as dead. And he knows it. He's seen many sacrifices before. He knew what it looked like when the animal was wrapped around its legs. To be placed on the altar and now he's the sacrifice that's being bound. And Isaac submits himself to this. I mean, what teenager can't outrun a 120-year-old man? He goes through with this. He submits himself to this. And at this point, Abraham is about to offer up his son, and Isaac is as good as dead. And that's the language that we read. Hebrews 11, 17 says, by faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. James 2. 21. Says, was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son on the altar? He offered him up. In his mind he already carried through with the act. And again, we aren't told what the conversation was, but we're slowed down by the details here. So it speaks about how he built the altar, you know, arranged the stones. leveled it off and placed the wood on top, and then binds his own son Isaac and lays him on the altar. Just like an animal would have been bound hand in foot, and he's picked up in the arms of his father. But this time it wasn't to receive him in comfort. And all the love that he had for Isaac at this point probably seemed like hatred. And as Abraham reaches out his hand to grab the knife, Isaac must have been thinking, I can't believe that this is going to happen. How could this happen? How could my father turn against me? Might have even thought, why have you forsaken me? His own father, Arkent Hughes observes that to the ancient Middle Easterner, burnt offerings suggested a process, first cutting the throat. Then dismemberment, and then the sacrifice was offered on the altar until it was completely consumed. And Abraham, in his mind, is going through with the act. picking up the knife to his own son's throat. And at the very last moment before the knife finds its mark, a voice from heaven says, Stop! Verse 11. The angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. He said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad and do nothing to him, for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Abraham, like I said, in his mind, he went through with the with the act, but right before the knife found its mark, the angel from heaven stops him. But that's not where it ends. Because if we just left it there, God would have demanded a sacrifice that he never received. God required a sacrifice. That's what he asked for. Like I said, right before the knife down its mark, the sacrifice was stopped. Abraham passed the test. Abraham feared God. Abraham gave God everything. Abraham worshiped the Lord in his obedience to God, right? And what a joyous occasion that must have been to receive Isaac back as if from the dead, which is exactly what Hebrews 11. 19 says. He considered that God is able to raise people even from the dead, from which he also received him back as a type. Abraham untied his son and received him back. It was like he was receiving him back from the dead. It's like, son, in my mind you are already gone. But now he receives them back as like a resurrection, like a resurrection just took place. But it actually didn't, he didn't go through with the death. So it's a type of a resurrection, but it's not a true resurrection. And it was a type of a sacrifice, but it wasn't a literal sacrifice. So, do we just have a sacrifice that was required that was never actually given to the Lord? And this is where we learn that the sacrifice was substituted. Look at verse 13. Then Abraham raised his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in the thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the place of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide, as it is said to this day, in the mouth of the Lord it will be provided. Sacrifice was substituted. God still received a sacrifice. Sacrifice was given, but it was given as a substitute for Isaac. And as Isaac saw that ram offered up, bound up, offered up. And the knife does its work and the fire consumes that sacrifice. Sacrifice took on a whole different meaning for Isaac, didn't it? Because he didn't just witness it. He lived it. That sacrifice was me. Those are my ropes. That was my altar. That was the knife that was intended for me. That was my fire that consumed that ram. And as the carcass goes up in smoke, he knew that that was supposed to be him. Takes on a totally different meaning and significance. That's what it means to be in the place of. Substitution Death was required, but God accepted the death of another in Isaac's place. And that's the picture of substitution clear back in the very first book of the Bible. Substitutionary sacrifice. Someone was supposed to die, and somebody else died in their place. But there's something else that I think is important to point out. In verse 8, Abraham said, God will provide himself the lamb for the burnt offering. That's the word for one of the flack. Could be a sheep or a goat. But that's not what God asked for. He didn't ask for a sheep or a goat. He asked for a son. Where's the son he asked for? And a ram is not equivalent to a son. And why couldn't Abraham make the sacrifice in Beersheba where he was living? Why did he have to take a three-day journey To the mountains of Moriah in order to make the sacrifice. What was significant about the land of Moriah? There's foreshadowing that's going on here. In 2 Chronicles chapter 3, 2 Chronicles chapter 3, we learn that Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah. Where the Lord had appeared to his father David at the place that David had prepared on the thrushing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he began to build on the second day in the second month of the fourth year of his reign. That land of Moriah would later be known as the area of Jerusalem, the land of Jerusalem. And just outside that city in a place called Golgatha, which means the place of the skull, there would be another sacrifice that would be offered up. And it's no accident that the one who was sacrificed there is identified by John the Baptist as the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. This is the lamb that God was going to provide for himself. This is the son that was going to be the true substitute for Isaac. In John 1, it speaks about the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And the scriptures let us know that all of the lambs and bulls and goats and offerings that Israel offered up could never take away sins. But this one is the one who could take away sins. And this one who came to take away sins, he was also one who was born of a miraculous birth. The Bible talks about a number of miracle babies. There was a number of moms who were initially barren, and it was the Lord who opened up their womb. Women like Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, Manoah's wife, the mother of Samson, Hannah, the mother of Samuel, Ruth, the great grandmother of David, Elizabeth, who was the mother of John the Baptist, all of these ladies had miraculous births. Births after they were barren for a long time, births way into their old age. But of all these women who had miraculous births, there was only one who had a birth that was truly Unnatural. Supernatural. Out of all the women in history, there is only one who had a child that was conceived of the Holy Spirit. And his birth was the most miraculous birth. But there's a parallel there. A miraculous birth, but then we have the one unique miraculous birth out of all births. Everybody else had a father, had a human father. Jesus was born without a human father. And this one was the child of promise. Abraham was promised that he would have a son and that through him he would have many nations, many descendants. And in Genesis 22. 18 it says, In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. But who was the seed that would truly bless the entire earth? It was Jesus. Galatians 3. 16. Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, and to seed, that's referring to many, but rather to one, and to your seed that is Christ. And it would be a sacrifice that was required by God. Jesus' death was an act of obedience by Jesus Christ, his act of obedience to the Father Philippians 2. 8, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death. The sacrifice was prepared by God. Sacrifice and offering you've not desired, but a body you have prepared for me, says Jesus No other sacrifice would have been sufficient. And all of the the perishable things, gold and silver, could never take away sins. Any other sacrifice could not take away sins, but Jesus' sacrifice was the one who could take away sins. And he submitted himself to the will of the Father. Not as I will, but your will be done. In Isaiah 53, verse 7, it says he was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its chairs, so he did not open his mouth. He was the Lamb of God who voluntarily gave up himself He was offered not only to God, but by God. The Father is the one who offered up his son. He's the one who gave his son. God so loved the world that he Gave his only son. The Father is the one who gave this son. The Father is the one who walked along with his son to the place of sacrifice and gave his son Sometimes I think we forget that it's not only Christ who gave up his life, but it was God the Father who gave up his son for us. And just like Genesis 22, the Father and Son walk the mountain together. And this was the Son of God. This is the only begotten Son of God. This is the Son of the Father's love. This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased, Matthew 3, 17. And it was on the cross that all that love appeared as if it was hatred toward his son. As Jesus cries out, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtani, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And God the Father bound his own son, placed him on the altar, raised the knife, but there was no one to yell, stop, because this substitute would have no substitute. Jesus was offered up, and it wasn't as if he was offered up, he was literally offered up, literally gave up his life. And the Father, Isaiah 53, verse 10 says, was pleased to crush him. Putting him to grief if he would render himself as a guilt offering. He gave himself up. And God provided for himself the lamb. On the mount of the Lord it was provided. And that was the saying that was repeated during that day. In the mount of the Lord it will be provided. In the mount of the Lord it will be provided. Not knowing what would be provided eventually would be God's own son coming to be provided for the salvation of mankind And after this sacrifice, it wouldn't be like it was a resurrection. It wouldn't be a type of resurrection. It would be a literal resurrection. After three days that he got back up, and there was no sacrifice like the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, because the one who died was actually God in the flesh. This is God who gave himself up for us. Acts chapter 20, verse 28. It says, be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. To shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. God gave of his blood through the person of his son, Jesus Christ. to be the sacrifice for our sins. And just one more observation before we close our time in Genesis It's kind of shocking the way that this angel of the Lord speaks to Abraham. Look back at chapter 22. Look at verse 15. It says then the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time from heaven and said, By myself I have sworn. What kind of angel talks like that? declares the Lord, because you have done this thing and have not withheld your son, your only son. Indeed, I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply your seed. As the stars of the heavens and as the sand which is on the seashore, and your seed shall possess the gate of their enemies. And your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice Now I don't want to take a long time with this, but we know from Scripture that sometimes an angel was more than just an angel. Like in Genesis chapter 18, where three men visited Abraham. Remember that? On their way to Sodom, we find that two went down to Sodom and that one was one stayed behind to speak with Abraham, to speak with Abraham. And the one that he said before, Genesis 18 says, was the Lord. Genesis 18, 22. Then the men turned away from there and went toward Sodom while Abraham was still standing before the Lord. One of these visitors who came to visit Abraham was the Lord. Exodus chapter 3 We're told that the angel of the Lord appeared to Moses from the midst of a burning bush. Remember that? Calls him an angel of the Lord in the midst of this burning bush. Next to this chapter 3 and verse 2, it says, The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a blazing fire from the midst of a bush. But then in verse 4 of Exodus chapter 3, it says, When the Lord saw that he turned aside to look, God called him to him from the midst of the bush. And said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here I am. I I I thought it just said that the angel of the Lord appeared to him. But then it turns around and says, God called to him from the midst of the bush. Who was this angel of the Lord in the midst of the bush? This is God. More than an angel. In Joshua chapter 5, the angel of the Lord appears to Joshua as he's preparing to attack Jericho. And he identifies himself, Joshua chapter 5 and verse 15, as the captain of the Lord's hosts. I'm captain of the armies of the Lord. And he tells Joshua, remove your sandals from your feet. For the place on which you are standing is holy. Same thing that the angel of the Lord tells Moses as he's before the burning bush, take those shoes off your feet, you're too high. You need to get a little bit lower. Remove the shoes from your feet because the place that you're standing on is holy ground. And this angel that appears to Joshua says the same thing. I'm the captain of the Lord's hosts, and you need to take your shoes off. Because the place where you're standing is holy ground. What angel talks like that? Judges chapter 6, Gideon standing before this angel of the Lord, who said that the Midianites would be given over to him in battle. And while speaking of the angel in verse 16, he says, But the Lord said to him, Surely I will be with you, and you shall defeat Midian as one man. This is an angel talking. And it says, But the Lord said to him, Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Yahweh. The covenant name for the Lord. This is an angel speaking as Yahweh, as God. And that's just a sample of the times that this angel of the Lord shows up in Scripture. Theologians refer to this as Christophanes. pre-incarnate appearances of Jesus Christ in the Old Testament. We're the second person of the Trinity, the one who explains the Father to us. Makes God visible to us, appears even in the Old Testament. Before he came in flesh, he shows up in these appearances as the angel of the Lord. And here the angel of the Lord shows up to the very place where he would one day be sacrificed as a preview. Of what was to come. He shows up to this very place of sacrifice. And here we have God satisfying the wrath of God. This is the one who was to come. And he's viewing all of this before it takes place. He says, Abraham, you don't have to go through with this. You don't have to go through this, Abraham. You don't have to take your son. You don't have to have to have to allow the knife to do its work. Because I'm going to substitute for you. Because I'm coming to be that sacrifice, you don't have to go through with the sacrifice. I'm coming to be the sacrifice that's truly needed, and in the mount of the Lord it will be provided. Because who's going to be provided? God is going to be provided. God is going to be provided. And what we have here, like I said, is God satisfying God for the wrath that we deserve. We deserve to die. But God came and took our place in the person of Jesus Christ. He provided a lamb, and he provided himself as that lamb. He would be that lamb that he would provide for himself. And this is a preview of all that was to come. The one who created you is the one who owned you. God can do with you whatever He desires to do, and He can demand your life any day that He chooses. And one day God will demand our life. And because of your sins, you deserve not only a physical death, but an eternal death and separation from God. And the only way of escape is the lamb that God has provided. And God has provided himself as that lamb, to be that lamb for us. And the ultimate sacrifice that every other sacrifice pointed to was the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. And his death can be counted for your death. His death can be in your place as a substitute. The 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, He made him who knew no sin. To be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. He can be your substitute. Stand in the place and take upon himself the penalty for the sins that you deserve. He's the child of promise. He had no sin. He died as a substitute. He rose to glory. And all of this is found in the very first book of the Bible. Praise God, what a what a beautiful Savior we have, don't we? What a merciful Savior we have Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've uh been before your word. Now, Father, I pray that you would continue to use this word to speak to us. God, you are such a merciful God, such a kind God. Father, we deserve to die. Every one of us. You could have required our lives at any moment. But Father, in your mercy, just as you allowed Adam to live 930 years on borrowed time. Now Father, many of us are living on borrowed time. And Father, I pray for those of us who would be here who do not know your son, Father, that we would not take it for granted. That we breathe another breath, that our heart beats another moment. Father, I pray that we would not take it for granted that we still have life. Because, Father, you could demand that life at any moment. And Father, for those of us who've trusted in you, Father, we know that we have a substitute. Father, we have a savior. We have one who is given in our place. And in our place, condemned he stood, so that he could give us life. So Father, we thank you for the life that's been offered to us in Jesus Christ, and that this is the life that we rejoice in. Father, this is the one that we glory in. So Father, I pray that we would never cease to glory in the cross of Jesus Christ, that this would be our only boast. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.