The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're in Romans chapter 5 today. And as you're turning there, as we've already mentioned earlier in the service, this week was another difficult week for the Reformed and Evangelical Church, and I know for me personally. When the Lord took home, our brother Bodhi Bacham to be in his presence, another faithful servant of the Lord, went home to be with the Lord. And just like it seemed when his voice was starting to be heard the most, and also when his voice needed to be heard the most, it seems like the Lord uh took that voice from us. I first learned about Bodhi Baccom during my years in seminary, sometime around 2008-2009. I first heard him preach in person during a shepherd's conference in 2012 and uh much of what I knew about Bodhi uh back then uh originally centered around his views on homeschooling and family integrated services and then later I came to know him for his defense of the faith in the public square and his willingness to stand up for the truth even when under fire. There were a number of of interviews that he had where it was obvious uh that the interviewers had no idea who they had on their hands. And he refused to back down when it came to the truth of the scriptures, whether it was gender roles or biblical sexuality And then back in 2020, in the middle of all the controversy around the Black Lives Matter movement and critical race theory, he was a faithful and a biblical voice in the midst of a fog of confusion And then back in the summer of 2023 , Luther and I had the opportunity to personally meet Bodhi to spend some time with him during our trip to Africa. uh where I and a number of men were invited to to share a meal with him in his home. He was hospitable, he was gracious, he was transparent. He was committed to his family and behind the scenes he was a lot of fun, uh, as you can see from some of the videos that we took. And since then, uh we've communicated back and forth a number of times and just Over two weeks ago, I had a personal Zoom call with voting, and he was trying to work out his schedule so he could be with us in February for the Roots and Reformation Conference. That was two weeks ago. Two weeks ago we were on a on a call and two weeks later he's in glory. 56 years old when he passed away. Guess how old my dad was when he passed away? 56 years old. 56 years old. And the older I get, the younger 56 sounds Especially as I'm uh closing in on 51, but none of us knows when our time is up. And my question for all of us is how should we think about believers like Bodhi who pass on into glory? It's a devastating loss for us, but what about for him? Was his hope disappointed? How should we think about the struggles he faced as a believer? He nearly died from a heart failure back in 2021. He had to undergo quadruple bypass surgery. Then there were the ongoing treatments that he faced after that. You know, don't we think that believers escaped those kinds of difficulties? You know, some people will tell us that. And then in his ministry, he often found himself in the middle of controversy, even things that might be described as tribulation. Is that what we should expect as believers? And where's the joy in all of this? Was Bodhi's hope somehow put to shame? Was his hope disappointed because of his sudden and unexpected departure? What are we to think about this? There's a word that shows up three times in this section in Romans chapter 5, and it's the word exalt. Or the word in some of your translations rejoice, or even boasting in some of your translations It 's used three times in this section, and it describes the perspective that believers should have even in the face of tribulation or death. Take a look at Romans chapter 5 and verse 2. Through whom, speaking about Jesus also, we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand and we exalt in the hope. of the glory of God. Beginning of verse 3. Not only this, but we also exalt in our tribulations. Drop down to verse 11. And not only this, but we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. There's this explosion of joy and rejoicing over the benefits that we have in our salvation. And these benefits are so great that even in the face of tribulation, and we will face tribulation as believers. That even in the face of tribulation, even in the face of death, and unless the Lord returns first, we're all going to face death But even when we face our greatest losses, the most tragic circumstances of life, because we have hope in Christ, our hope is not disappointed, our hope is realized. Our hope is realized. We're not those to be pitied. We're not those who are unfortunate. We don't hang our heads in disappointment. We're not in defeat. We haven't been defeated. We haven't been put to shame. We're not those to be pitied, we would actually be those to be envied. And the scripture lets us know that we actually have something to boast about, something to exult about, something to rejoice over. It's the same word for boasting. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 31. It says, so that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. We boast in God. Galatians chapter 6 verse 14. But may it never be that I would boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians chapter 3, verse 3, it says, For we are the true circumcision who worship in the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh. We glory in Christ, we boast. in Christ. We boast in him. It's the Greek word koks, I am I, and it was a word that was used for speaking loudly. For being loud-tongued. It was a word that was used when a person wanted to let everyone know what he had just accomplished. It was a word that was most Associated with boasting. I want to let everybody know about this. I want to raise my voice so everybody can hear. Hey, did you see this? Did you see what was just accomplished? Take a look at this. Look at what the Lord has done. Like that's the kind of word that's used there. Hey, everybody, check this out. We boast in this. And as believers, even in the midst of tribulation or pain or suffering or death, we have something to be loud about. We don't hang our heads in shame. No, we boast in our God. We have a hope in Christ. And this hope is the same hope. That Vodi had, and it's what we find in Romans chapter 5. So why don't you follow with me as I read Romans chapter 5 starting at verse 1? We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we exult in hope of the glory of God. And not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. And perseverance, proven character, and proven character hope. And hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, this Lord today, as we do every Lord today, asking for your help, Lord. We know that without you we can do nothing Unless you move, all of this is just a waste of time. So Father, I pray that you would work in our hearts. Now, Father, that you would help us, Lord, to bow the knee to what Scripture has to say, to the authority of the Scriptures. And Father, that we would be encouraged by what we find here. And Father, that we would seek no other refuge, no other comfort, but what we find in your word. So Father, I pray that you would open our eyes to these wonderful truths, and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Romans is a book that defends the righteousness of God and a book that describes how unrighteous men can be declared righteous in the sight of a righteous God. Last week we started to introduce ourselves to Romans chapter 5, which is new territory in the book of Romans. When Paul uses the word therefore, we see that there in verse 1, therefore, having been justified by faith. What Paul is doing is he's turning the corner into a new section of Romans. In Romans chapters 1 to 3, Paul described our sinful dilemma. Why men desperately need to be declared righteous in God's sight. Then Paul defines how we can be declared righteous in the sight of God at the end of chapter 3. Chapter 4, he defends the truth that we can be declared righteous in the sight of God, and he looks at Abraham as that kind of model of faith. And then in chapter 5, he turns the corner and says, Therefore, having been justified by faith, since all of this is true, what does that mean for you as a believer? Chapter 5. This is where we we learn about the delight in our justification. Therefore, having been justified, let's take a look at all the benefits that we now have. Like let's unpack the package Let's unwrap it and see all the glories that are contained in our salvation. We need to glory in this. And so Paul here, he's speaking to believers He's speaking to those who have been justified by faith, and he says, now let's talk about what belongs to you now, because you have been justified by faith. The first thing that he pulls out of the package is peace with God. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. And what does that mean? The war between you and God is over. That's what it means. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 3 lets us know that we were by nature children of wrath, born rebels. Psalm 51 verse 5. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity and sin my mother conceived me. I was born as a rebel But not only were we born enemies of God, we were sworn enemies of God. According to Colossians chapter 1, verse 21, it says that you were formerly alienated, hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. This is what you engaged in. This is what you gave yourself over to. Hostility against God. That's where we were. Part of an armed conflict against our Creator. We were willing participants in the uprising against God. And we hated the light. John chapter 3, verse 20 says, For everyone who does evil hates the light. That is the personal hostility that we have against the light. We hate it. Hates the light. Does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. We are in the dark. And that darkness is the domain of darkness that's controlled by Satan. Colossians 1. 13 says we had to be rescued from the domain of darkness. Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 8 says that we were darkness. You were formerly darkness. And Acts chapter 26 and verse 18 says that this darkness was the dominion of Satan. We had to be turned from darkness to light, from the dominion of Satan to God. And having now been justified by faith, we're out of the dark and we've come into the light. And the war is over. And we're no longer enemies of God. We're now reconciled to God. His wrath no longer abides on us. We've put down our implements of war against God, and we've been brought over the line, and now we belong to him. Colossians 1. 19 says, For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him, speaking about Christ, and through him to reconcile. We're brought to the table with them. Reconcile all things to himself, having made peace. How? Through the blood of his cross. It took a violent death in order to bring you to God. The peace couldn't be made with God any other way. It had to take the death of his son in order for us to be brought to God. Romans chapter 5, verse 10 says, While we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. And now we had enjoyed peace with God. And that's an objective fact. It's a reality that doesn't depend on my feelings. It's not that I just feel at peace with God. I am at peace with God. I hope you feel like it too, but it's just what you are You are at peace with God. If you've trusted in Jesus Christ by faith alone, you are at peace with God. And because that is true, I can enjoy the experience of that peace with God. But not only do we have peace, we also have grace. Verse 2, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace. We have grace from God. And this grace is a gift that provides security to the believer. And the last time we were together, I mentioned that this is something that I struggled with early on in my faith. You know, having this grace of God that provides the security. You know, I attended a church where I was taught that you could lose your salvation. That you enter into Christianity by grace, but it was possible to lose your salvation because you didn't have enough works, and you could still end up going to hell. In other words, you could enter by grace, but you had to keep yourself by works. But Paul says that the grace that we entered by is the same grace that we stand in. You enter by grace and you stand in grace. Romans 5, 2. Through whom, meaning through Jesus, also we have obtained our introduction or this access by faith into this grace in which we right now currently stand. And again, Paul's talking about an objective reality. If you've entered by faith into this grace, you are still standing in that same grace. And the verb that he uses for standing, a stake-amen, is in what's called the perfect tense, which points to an ongoing result of a past action. You've entered in, and now you continue to stand. And it indicates that we've not only entered by faith into grace, but we continue to presently stand in that same grace. Paul puts it this way in Galatians chapter 3, verse 3. He says, Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? You thought you could get in by grace, but then you had to keep yourself by your own efforts? And if that's your thinking, you don't understand the kind of righteousness that it took to get you in the first place. What kind of righteousness did it take to get you in? What was it was it a you know kind of a uh a mediocre righteousness, like I tried my best kind of righteousness, or was it a perfect righteousness? It was an absolutely perfect righteousness that brought you into this grace. And now you think that somehow your weak and feeble efforts are going to keep you in? You're like by the hair of my chinny chin chin, somehow I'm gonna make it in. It's like, no, the righteousness that was required for you to get in was perfect righteousness. And now you think your feeble efforts are going to do something to add to that? No, no, Jesus Christ didn't pay it most. He didn't pay it some. He paid it all. All to him I owe, right? It's not some, it's not most. I owe everything to him So he says, are you foolish? Like who's bewitched you? But somehow you believe that you have something to add to this. Your righteousness wasn't enough to get you saved. How do you think it's enough to keep you saved? Whose righteousness saved us? It was Christ. Christ's righteousness. The righteousness of God through faith in Christ Jesus. It was a righteousness that came to us as a gift. And if you've truly believed the gospel, like I said, your security is an established fact. The assurance of that security may waver a time. Sometimes we may doubt our Security, we may doubt our salvation, but if you're truly saved, you belong to Him. You're His. And the proof of that salvation is that you will continue to persevere. I will continue to believe. I may trip, but I can't say I've fallen and I can't get up, right? I'm going to continue to pursue Jesus Christ. If I truly believe I am secure, and if I am secure, I will continue to believe and bear fruit. And if I continue to believe and bear fruit, I can have the assurance that I'm secure. It all kind of like works together. It all works together because we're kept by him. We remain in him. 1 John 2. 19 says: if they had been of us, they would have what? They would have remained with us. So it's like because I see myself that I'm remaining, that gives me confidence that I belong to him. It gives me assurance that I'm secure. That I'm really one of his children because he's given me a faith that's indestructible. And that all happens because of the grace of God, which leads us to the third benefit of our salvation, which is hope. Look at the end of verse 2. It speaks about this grace in which we stand, and we exalt in hope of the glory of God. And unless you have a biblical understanding of what hope is, this verse won't make much sense to you. Because this verse says much more than that we just have hope, it says that we exult in our hope, we rejoice in our hope. We we boast loudly because of this hope. And if you think that hope is nothing more than just wishful thinking You know, you're just crossing your fingers and and hoping that one one day you'll make it in. You know, the the kind of wish upon a star kind of hope. If that if that's all the hope that you have, you know, the you know keep hope alive kind of hope If that's all the hope that you have, how can you be said to rejoice in it? That I exult in this wish that might not ever come true But I'm rejoicing in it. No, no, it's much more than that. You know, you know, people talk about hope in the Bible like it's, you know, I'm dreaming for a white Christmas kind of hope. You know, my mom used to my mom told me that, you know, growing up in Jamaica, she said she always find found it odd that they decorated it with all the snowflakes and Slays and she was like, how in the world is Santa gonna get around in Jamaica without snow? You know, we can talk about dreaming of a white Christmas, but it's not gonna happen. In the Caribbean. It's not happening. The kind of hope that Scripture speaks about is more than this uncertain hope and dream that maybe somehow this might take place. The hope of Scripture is an expectancy. It's something that I'm anticipating. There is no uncertainty about it. So it's not like I'm I'm I'm I'm dreaming of a white Christmas. It's like I'm dreaming of Christmas and Christmas is actually going to take place. You know the the white stuff, you know, that might never fall, but but I mean the calendar's gonna keep turning, right? So it's it's an expectancy. It's something that I'm looking forward to. I'm anticipating it. So for example, in Hebrews chapter 6 and 19 It says, this hope we have as an anchor. It's steady. It's in rock. A hope both sure and steadfast. One which enters within the veil. Sure, steadfast, rock solid, anchored hope. Because I know that it's going to take place. And that's why in verse 5 it says that this hope does not what? It doesn't disappoint. It doesn't let you down. You don't have to be ashamed of it because you're not going to have to like apologize. Well, I I thought that this was going to happen, but you know, what did I know? How did I know that God can really come up on his end of the bargain? No, like the hope that we have is a certainty. I know that God will do this. I've trusted my life into his hands, and I have no reason to be ashamed. And again, you have to remember what Paul is talking about here. He's talking about the benefits of our salvation. He speaks about this hope that we have. This expectation, and again, this is something that's going to take place in the future. So I have this hope, this expectancy. I'm anticipating this. And what is he anticipating? He says, we exult in hope of the glory of God. That's what I'm anticipating in the future. And what does he mean by that? That I'm hoping for this glory of God. If Paul is talking about The glory that describes God, the glory that belongs to God, that's something that does not change. That's been the same yesterday, today, forever, right? The glory of God. And whether you're saved or not, and whether you're hoping for it or not, That's always going to be true. God's inherent glory does not change. There's what's called this majestic glory of God that he doesn't share with his creation. Exodus chapter 15, verse 11 says, Who is like you among the gods, O Lord? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in praises, working wonders? Who is like this glorious God? You've been the same. From age to age, you've never changed. The ancient of days, the everlasting God, you're always glorious. Isaiah 42 verse 8, I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another. This is a glory that belongs to God, and he shares it with nobody. The majestic, eternal, everlasting glory of God doesn't change. You don't have to wait expectantly for it sometime in the future. This is just something that's always true of God, and it's not shared with anybody. MacArthur's biblical doctrine says this: God's glory refers to the consummate beauty of the totality of his perfections. That's a mouthful. It's like taking all who he is and trying to sum it up and saying that's just glory. The supreme significance and splendor. Which far transcends all created things and greatness. Like there's nobody in all creation, nothing in all of creation that can compare with the supreme majesty of his glory. And that's just who God is. He's always been a glorious God. So when we use the phrase the glory of God to speak about that glory, that's something that's just true about him. Doesn't change. We're not waiting for it in the future. He's glorious right now. God is glorious right now. And when we say we glorify God, all we're doing is saying that we're recognizing what's true about him. We're acknowledging what he says is true about himself. So I glorify God when I say, yep, that is absolutely true. He's majestic, he's holy, he works wonders. That's what's true about God, and that's us glorifying God. Psalm 115, verse 1 says, Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory. Well let me talk to you about who you are. I just love reading those passages and scriptures, especially like books like Isaiah and the Psalms where God just brags on himself. It's just like, yep, that's right. That's my God. That's right. Nobody like me. That's right. Nobody like you. We boast in God. Let me talk to you about who my God is. I mean, that's what we're doing. We're glorifying him. We give glory to him by recognizing him for who he is. So then what is this future glory that we're said to be hoping for? If God is glorious all the time, you know, all the time God is glorious and God is glorious all the time. I know I changed it up, but you know, that's that's just my version God is good. He's glorious. He doesn't change. But here Romans is talking about something that God does for us in our salvation. That we have this hope and expectancy of in the future. We're anticipating this. So what is this that we can have a confident expectation of in the future? Glad you asked. Flip over to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. What is this glorious expectation that we have in the future? It's the glorious transformation that we will receive in the presence of God Look at verse 16. Romans chapter 8, verse 16. It says, the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. We've gone from being enemies of God to friends, and now we're children adopted into his family. And if children heirs, heirs also, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. If indeed we suffer with him, so that we may also be what? Glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the what? The glory that is to be revealed to us For the anxious longing, this is what we're looking for, we're expecting. We're reaching into the future. It's like, God, I can't wait for this. For the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly. For the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope, that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption, and to the freedom of the what? The glory of the children of God. Let's listen to this. Believer, if you've believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, I want to remind you what is a benefit of your salvation. Not only do you have peace with God, not only do you have grace from God, but you have hope in God that you will be glorified one day when you enter into his presence. When ye will see him, you will be glorified in his presence, and this is the hope of glory that Paul is anticipating That, Lord, I want to enter into that glorified state. This is the hope that I have in the future that I will be in your presence and that I will be glorified in your presence. That when we see him, the Bible says we will be what? Like him. Philippians chapter 3 verse 20. Actually, if you want to flip over there just so you can see it. Philippians chapter 3. In verse 20, I love this verse. I love them all, but I just got to say that. Philippians chapter 3, verse 20. For our citizenship is in heaven. From which also we eagerly wait. This is the hope, the anticipation. I'm looking in the future for this. We eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state. Into conformity with the body of his what? His glory. By the exertion of the power that he has, even to subject all things to himself. That is our destiny as believers, that we will see him, that we will be like him, that we will be conformed into the image of his son. And my question for you is, is that what you long for? Do you long for that? Is that your earnest expectation that Christ in you is the hope of glory? And do you have a hope like Colossians chapter 3 and verse 4 speaks about that when Christ, who is our life, that's our real life, When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. This is the hope that overwhelms death. Because death is not the end. We go from death into the immediate presence of God. Where our spirits are perfected, Hebrews chapter 12, 23 speaks about that, where the souls of the righteous made perfect. And then on the day when Christ appears, even our physical bodies will be transformed into his likeness. I don't care where your ashes are scattered. God knows how to reconstitute it, bring it all back together, and raise you back up. The God who can speak the universe into existence just with the word of his power. Is able to call you back from whatever elements you're in, to pull you back together into his presence. God is able to do that. And this is the hope of glory, and this is what brings us comfort even in the face of death. The German reformer Martin Luther had the joy of six children being born into his home. There was a Catholic, Roman Catholic superstition that if a monk and a nun had a child together, it would be a two headed monster. Martin was a monk and his wife Katharina was a nun, but instead of a two-headed monster, they received six children, healthy children. But there were two of these children that died early. The Luthers lost a daughter, Elizabeth, at only eight months old, and then they lost another daughter, Magdalena, at 13 years old And as Martin's 13-year-old girl, Magdalena, lay dying on her bed, Martin asked his child this question. Think about asking this to a 13-year-old. This is what he said, Magdalena, my little girl, would you like to stay with your father here, or would you be glad to go to your father in heaven? And she replied, Dear Father, as God wills. Then his beloved little Magdalena died in his arms. But Luther is said to have said this as she was buried. He says, Magdalena, you will rise and shine like the stars in the sun. Like this is not it. There's the hope of glory. This is the hope that we have. This is what brings us comfort, even in affliction in the face of death, that there is the hope of glory. And where did he find that hope? It was in the scriptures. The scriptures give us that hope of the resurrection and the glory to come in Christ's presence In one of Bodhi's sermons he said this, he says, You're going to hear a rumor one day that Bodhi Bakim is no more. Don't believe it. Don't believe it. Don't you believe it? Because though I die, I will rise with Christ. It will not be the end of me because Christ is raised and I too will be raised with Christ. Don't you pity me. You pity the one who has absolutely no hope because they have no resurrected Christ. You'll hear it one day that I'm gone, but don't believe it. Don't believe it. You'll hear that I'm no more. Don't believe it. Don't believe it. Don Don't pity me, I'm in the presence of the resurrected Christ And that is the hope that we have. My friend, if you're here today and you have Jesus Christ, you have hope. Even in the face of death, even in the face of tragedy, you have hope. Because there's coming a time when we will be raised in glory. And this is the hope that Paul had. This is what he longed for. That this translation of his body by the exertion of the power of Christ that I will be raised. And I will be glorious and I will be in his presence. But if you don't have Christ, you have no hope. No reason to hope. You may have hope in a worldly sense, you know, a wish upon a star kind of hope. You know, I hope that my good deeds outweigh my bad as if you have good deeds. Or that God will grade on a curve and give you a second chance after death. You know, you can hope in that. But I'm telling you that that hope will die when you die. There will be no hope after this life. It's appointed for every man to die once, and after that Not the second chance. Not not an explanation in the presence of God. Let me tell you what I meant when I was down there. I meant to get to it. But there's going to be no explanation when you stand before God. Your earthly hope will die when you die. And that's why we need something more than an earthly hope. We need a heavenly hope. A hope that comes to us from Christ Himself. Every hope that you have will disappoint you if you're not grounded in Jesus Christ. Faith in Christ gives you peace, gives you grace, it gives you hope, and number four, it gives you joy. Back in Romans chapter 5. Take a look at verse 3. It says, and not only this, but there's more. Not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. And perseverance, proof in character, and proof in character, hope. What else do we have? It says that we also, verse 3, exult in our tribulations. And I just summarize this by saying we have joy. We exult in our tribulations. This is something that we have as believers. Faith in Christ doesn't give you a hall pass when it comes to the difficulties of life, but it does give you joy in the difficulties of life. Even though we may have peace with God, the world is not necessarily at peace with us. We will face persecution, we will face opposition, we will face suffering, we will face death. But the righteousness that we've been given by faith in Jesus Christ gives us a different perspective on the trials that we face. Remember, this whole section is connected to the first verse. Therefore, having been justified by faith, this is what we now have. Because we have righteousness by faith in Christ. Our trials work differently for us than they do for those who are in the world. There's a different outcome to our trials. The salvation that we have transforms our sorrows into joys. And that's what we're introduced to here in verse 3. Again, it says we exult in this, we rejoice in this, we boast in this, we speak loudly about this. Come and check this out. I'm not ashamed about this. This joy and boasting is even present in the face of tribulation, trials, difficulties. The word for tribulations is the Greek word phlipsis. It's a word that was used for a crushing pressure, like suffocating kind of pressure. In ancient Greek literature, it was used for being squeezed, being pressed, crushed literally or figuratively. In the Greek translation of the Old Testament, it was used for armies that pressed in around a city, besieging a city. It was used in Psalm 3, verse 1, for the adversaries. that increased and encircled around David. Psalm 3 verse 1, O Lord, how my adversaries have increased. Many are rising up against me. I feel like I'm being swallowed up by my enemies. Many are saying of my soul, there is no deliverance for him and God. He can't be delivered from this. He's surrounded. Lord, I'm hemmed in from both sides. I see no way out. I'm hard-pressed. I'm weighed down. Has anybody ever felt like that? Like, Lord, I'm being crushed by what I'm facing Lord, I don't see any way out of what I'm facing. Lord, I feel like I'm suffocating under the weight of this pressure that's threatening to crush me This is the kind of word that's being used here. It's often used in the context of somebody who's desperate, who's in distress, who faces affliction or war or exile, hostility. And Jesus promised that we will have that kind of pressure. You're going to have that kind of pressure. Being a believer in Christ doesn't change your circumstances. But it does change the outcome of those circumstances. And if anybody tells you that, you know, as a believer that you can eliminate all pressures of life, they are lying. They are lying to you. You know, want to present you with the fix it Jesus? Jesus didn't say, you know, pick up your crown. He said, pick up your cross. And follow me. So we face persecution, disease, afflictions, loss, death. We don't escape the crushing pressures of this life, but we don't have to be crushed under the weight of those pressures. That's the difference. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Just flip over there real quick. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Take a look at verse 8. 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 8. He says, we are afflicted in every way. You don't think that you'll you'll face affliction? He says, every way. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not despairing. Persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down, but not destroyed. Yes, we're going to face affliction, but we're not crushed by them in a way that, Lord, I just can't make it. Lord, I'm destroyed under this. Lord, I'm despairing. Like that's not where you belong as a believer. John 16, verse 33, Jesus says, In the world you will have tribulation, but take courage, I have overcome the world. We're overcomers, but that doesn't mean that we'll never be under pressure. The Bible says, many are the afflictions of the righteous. And as believers, even in the midst of our tribulation, things that we face, we have something to be loud about. We have something to boast about. And what's fascinating about This verse back in Romans chapter 5 is that Paul says, I can exalt in my tribulation. He doesn't say I can rejoice after my tribulation. So that I can rejoice in it before the trial is over. And how is that? It's because of what I know. Because of what I know. Edates, it's from the Greek word oida, which means to know as a fact. It's an assurance even before you've had the experience. I can receive it by faith that God intends as a goal from this tribulation, like that his goal is not to crush me. That there's something else that God is bringing out of this tribulation. Back in chapter 5 of Romans, he says there's something that we that we know. We exult in our tribulations knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. That word for bring about is from a Greek word that means to work. It's from a Greek word ergazomai. It means to work. Another noun is ergon, which means work. Find a form of this word back in Romans chapter 4 and verse 5 where he says, But to the one who does not work, and what we're told is that we can put our tribulations to work for us Your tribulations can be your workforce. They can be your servants. You can put them to work for you instead of against you. And I don't know much about judo, but from what I've read, it evolved from the ancient Japanese jiu-jitsu , was a form of close quarters combat used by samurai, and the word judo means the gentle way And the idea behind it is that you can use your opponent's force against them in order to achieve throws, pins, joint locks, in other words, you can use what was actually meant against you for your benefit. What is thrown at you can work for your good. And this is what happens to Christians in tribulation. Instead of these tribulations working against me, it can be turned to work for me. That I can put them to work for me. And there's this series of cause and effect relationships that we find in Romans chapter 5. One leads to the other. It's like the string of pearls, it's all connected And this is what our justification leads us to. It can turn a tribulation into a benefit. It can turn it towards our perseverance. One more illustration. Sodium chloride is the chemical name for salt, but sodium by itself is an elemental form in its elemental form is highly reactive and a poisonous metal. But the sodium ion that's found in table salt is actually an essential nutrient. God can turn what would have been poisonous for you outside of Christ into something that's essential for you inside of Christ. And it's our justification that makes what would have been poisonous beneficial to us. So what does tribulation produce for the believer? I'll try to get through this quick. Tribulation brings about perseverance. What's perseverance? Hupo, mane, it's a Greek word if you take the two words apart. Hoopa means under, and the the second part is uh from the Greek word meno, which means to remain, it's to remain under What we're talking about is remaining under the pressure without caving into it. It's a word for patient endurance under a trial. The trial is crushing down, but guess what? You're holding up underneath it. It's coming down, but you're holding up. And it's not the idea of a passive resignation. I'll just you know just lay here and just let it happen It's not simply going through the trial. There's nothing virtuous about just simply going through. It's that I'm bearing up under it in faith That's how you go through a trial. Did you go through your last trial knowing that it's bringing about something good for you? Is that how you endured your last trial? Did you go through your trial knowing that you have a peace with God, that you stand before him in grace, did you have your eyes fixed on the glory to come? Or did you just get squeezed by your last trial without any knowledge of what God is trying to do in the midst of that? As if God was at war with you instead of at peace with you? Did you doubt his grace? Or were your eyes fixed on the glory of eternity? Did you let the winds and the waves pull you under, or did you continue to keep your eyes focused on Christ? How did you encounter the last trial? We need to walk into our trial knowing something. What do we know? God is at work. And that this trial can work for my good. And there's some of you that might be there right now. You're enduring a trial. You have all kinds of feelings: fear and doubt and anxiety and anger and despair But if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, you don't have to be pulled under by any of that. You can cause your trials to work for you. And they're producing something beneficial in your life. Tom Leek, my mentor, said this. He says, endurance is a stick to it-ness. And inner fortitude. Endurance is not passive resignation. Passive resignation results in defeat. Active perseverance results in triumph. Endurance is spiritual stamina developed by standing against difficulty and opposition. It is something that allows a man to stand firm against future storms of life. And this is why it is possible to glory in our tribulations. We can glory in it. And this is another pearl in the string of justification. It's proven character. That's the next one. Tribulation brings about perseverance, and perseverance, proven character. Proven character. That's the next one in Romans chapter 5. Verse 4. It's from an important family of Greek words. It's the word dokime, translated tried, proven, is from the Greek word dokimas, which means to be approved by testing. To be proven genuine, reliable, valuable by testing. And it was a common way that the Greek people would speak about gold or silver as being proved as genuine after passing the test. One of the ways that the ancient world would test gold was by refining it. They place it in into a basically a small kind of crucible and heat it up to see if it would sink into the pores or if it would remain on the top. Like what kind of metal is this? Is this real gold? Is this real silver? Or is it something else entirely? Is it fool's gold? And they would test it by heating it up. Do you know what we're tested by? It's not a literal fire. It's the fire of the trials of life. We're tested. We're tested to see if we're we're genuine. Are you the real thing? The refining pot is for silver, the furnace is for gold, but the Lord tests the hearts, Proverbs 17, 3 says. And God test our hearts by trial. Job was tested by trial In Zechariah chapter thirteen and verse nine it speaks about the remnant of Israel. It says, I will bring the third part through the fire, refine them as silver is refined, and test them as gold is tested. They will call on my name and I will answer them You know what he's saying? I'm going to put them through this trial and see who they call on. Are you going to call on me as you go through this trial? Let's see what kind of character you really have. They will answer. He says, They will call on me and I will answer them. I will say, they are my people, and they will say, The Lord is my God. I'm going to put them through trial to see who they reach out to. Matthew chapter 13, Jesus told the parable of the sower. It could be called the parable of the soils, but there was the seed that was thrown on the rocky places And it says, this is the man who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. This is great. This is fantastic. Yet he has no firm root in himself, but is only temporary. And when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he falls away. The one who falls away is not a true believer. They were tested by the trials. Our faith will be tested whether or not it's a persevering faith by the trials of life. And a true believer is a persevering believer. Peter's faith was weak, it was faltering, but Jesus says, I've prayed for your faith that it will not fail. True faith is a persevering faith. That's how we know it's real. That's how we know that faith is real, that it perseveres. So we go through trials, and it's through the trials that we're proven to be genuine. There's all kinds of people who make a false profession of faith, but when their faith is tested, seen to be not genuine. So why can I rejoice in my trial? I can rejoice in my trial because my trial actually proves me to truly be a child of God. That I really belong to Him And this is a principle that we find consistently throughout scriptures. I know you're probably already thinking about it, but uh flip over to the book of James. James chapter 1, what does it say? James chapter 1, look at verse 2. He says, Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials. Why? Why would I joy be rejoicing about this? Knowing that the testing of your faith, it's proving something about who you are. Your trials actually prove you to be a true believer when you encounter trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect result so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1. Take a look at verse 6. This is all over the place, but just taking you to two places. 1 Peter chapter 1, look at verse 6. He says, In this you greatly rejoice. Again, we're rejoicing again. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been distressed by various trials. Do you see a pattern here? So that the proof of your faith, I'm proving something about you through the trial, I'm proving your faith, being much more precious than gold which is perishable, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. It results in praise and glory. We will one day be glorified. We will be in his presence. And do you know what my proven character reinforces? It reinforces my hope and glory. Back to Romans chapter 5, and we'll end here. It says, not only this, but we also exalt in our tribulations, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance, some enduring. And perseverance, proof and character, it shows that I'm genuine. And proven character produces what? Hope. What is the hope? It's the hope that the hope of glory that he talked about earlier. It's like the circle, it comes right back around to the beginning. It's like it keeps reinforcing itself. That when I'm I'm brought into a a trial, that that I I persevere, and that if I persevere, it shows my character And that if I'm shown in my character be to be genuine, that reinforces my hope. I'm a real believer. So I endure the next tribulation. And then when I endure a tribulation I grow in perseverance, and when I grow in perseverance, it proves my character. When it proves my character, I grow in hope because I say, hey, I'm a real believer. I have a hope of glory, and it's like keeps on cycling over and over again on itself It just keeps on working its way around. It proves my faith. I'm tested. It's like I'm I'm I'm made more secure in it And it's like the longer and longer that you go along that pattern, the older you get in Christ, it's like just the more confidence that you have, the more that you're looking forward to the hope of glory, the the more assured you are. And why are we assured? It's because this hope does not disappoint. The hope does not disappoint, which is exactly what verse 5 says, and hope does not disappoint. If your hope is built on anything else, you will be disappointed. If your hope is built on atheism, just pretending as if there's no end and nobody to give an account to at the end, you will be disappointed at death. You'll be disappointed. Europe is built on agnosticism, just hoping that you can explain yourself to God when you see him that he didn't give you enough evidence to believe in him, you will be disappointed. If your hope is built on ceremonies, your baptism, your communion, priests, prayers, saints, you will be disappointed If your hope is built on the law and what you can observe and go into some kind of gathering on a Sabbath day or whatever else it might be, I can keep the law. You will be disappointed. If your hope is built on your heritage, you know, how you were born, what family you were born in. Or, like uh, you know, I've heard many times, you know, I've I've always been a believer, I've always been a Christian. What are you talking about? You weren't born that way. If your hope is built on what you've done, that there's some kind of good works that you can offer to God, you'll be disappointed. If your hope is built on any other religion, I don't care what religion it is, besides biblical Christianity, you will be disappointed. All roads do not lead to God. Because all roads do not have a Savior. There's only one Savior. It's Jesus Christ. All roads don't lead to God. What are you talking about? He sent one. But how should we think about those who place their hope in Jesus? Again, for people like Vodhi, we think about the loss for us, but what about for him? Was his hope disappointed? Not in the least. Not in the least. It doesn't matter what he went through in this life. If it caused him to look to Christ, it was all joy. Whatever we go through in this life, if it causes us to look to Christ, it's all joy. Where's the joy in all this? Where's the joy? The joy is the hope that we find in Christ. It's what we find in him. Our hope is not disappointed. Even though he died at 56, it's not a shame for him. It's gain for him. It's gain for him. Fifty-six years and I'm in glory. I'll take that. I'll take it You know, it's like a uh, you know, took early retirement. It's like I'll I'll take it. You know, give me give me that package. You know, I'll take that one, the severance package. Let's let's go for it, right? Yeah, if that's what you want to give me, Lord, if that's it, like to die is gain. To live is Christ, to die is gain. It's not a loss for him, it's a gain for him. And what about our loss? We think about losing great and godly leaders. MacArthur, Vodie, Sprohl, my own pastor, all gone. For us, we can think about, you know, maybe this is a time for us to pity ourselves. Maybe we pity ourselves, but we're not unfortunate. We don't hang our heads as if we've been defeated. We're not put to shame. We have something to boast about. And I love again what what it spoke about in Acts chapter 20 is as Paul is departing from these These elders. He says, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace which is able to build you up. You have the word? What are you talking about? You have nothing to hang your head low about. We're overcomers. We have something to boast about. Why? Because our hope is not built on men. Our hope is not built just in the circumstances of life. Our hope is built on nothing less Than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. When darkness veils his lovely face, I rest on his unchanging grace. I I I love all these scenes, how they just tie in, right? The grace that we have in him, the hope that we have in him. In every high and stormy gale, my anchor holds within the veil. What do you think he's talking about? The hope that we have in Christ is an anchor of the soul. We have a hope. We have an anchor. His oath, his covenant, his blood, support me in the whelming flood. I'm not crushed by everything that comes around me. I 'm able to bear up under the weight of it. I'm supported in the overwhelming flood when all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay. When he shall come with trumpet sound, O may I then in him be found? Dressed in his righteousness alone, justification by faith alone, right? Dressed in his righteousness alone, faultless to stand before the throne. On Christ the solid rock I stand All other ground is sinking sand. All other ground is sinking sand. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for This text, Lord, and uh Father, there's just so much more in this. So much more. But we're grateful for what you've taught us today through your word. Father, I pray that we would have no other hope than Jesus Christ. That every other hope we would see it as the sinking sand that it really is. And Father, that those of us who experience trials and affliction in this life, Lord, that we would not be swept away by the overwhelming flood. But that we would be supported because of our hope in Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray that you would allow us, Lord, who 've seen so many great and godly leaders pass away. Oh Lord, that we would know that the hope is not in the man, it's in the message. And that it's because of what you've given to us in your word that we are commended to The word of God and to his grace, which is able to build us up. So Father, I pray that we would be committed to the same word that these leaders pointed us to. We're thankful for the hope that we have in you, and we pray that that hope would not waver, and we thank you that because of our justification by faith, Lord, that we will be held all the way to the end. Now, Father, it's not because we hold on so tightly to you, it's because you hold on so tightly to us. So Father, we thank you for this hope, which is a certainty that will be brought all the way to glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.