The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Gospel chapter 25, Matthew 25. So when George invited me to come to be a part of this weekend, thinking about who was speaking, what they were speaking about. I thought it would be helpful to investigate a parable that Jesus told in recognition of the subjects that we're talking about and learning about together this weekend. Matthew chapter 25 is two pictures, two illustrations that are meant to be instructional in light of the revelation that Jesus is giving in chapter 24. And chapter 24 has to do with when are you returning? When is the kingdom coming? And you see that at the beginning of 24 verse 3, tell us when will these things be and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age. So that contextually sets us up for chapter 25. The disciples are asking, when are you returning? And what they hear is, the timing is uncertain, but the coming is certain. I'm coming But as to do with the timing, it's an uncertain timing. Nobody knows. Not even the Son of Man, he says in verse 36. But of that day and hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but the Father alone. Now obviously Jesus as God knows everything, but he's been referencing what he knew in his humanity. Hadn't been revealed. So nobody knows, but the Father knows. But the reality is I'm coming, and there'll be people trying to deceive you about my coming, and they'll come and they'll claim to be Christ. They'll aim at misleading you. Don't you believe them? Because when I'm coming, it's undeniable and unmissable. And he says that in verse 27, chapter 24, for just as the lightning comes from east to west and flashes even to the west, from the east, and flashes even to the west. so shall the coming of the Son of Man be. That is, you can't miss it. When the lightning comes all the way across the sky, there's no doubt. It's undeniable, it's fast, it's furious, it's unmissable. And look at verse 29, but immediately after the tribulation of those days, so the tribulation precedes this coming, which we've been learning about today or being reminded of. The sun will be darkened, this is during the revelation, and in the tribulation, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from the sky, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. And then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in the sky, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of the sky with power and great glory. In other words, you can't miss it. So don't let somebody tell you it's happened, because when it happens, you'll know it. And there'll be birth pangs which precede it. Wars, rumors of wars, many false Christs, famines, earthquakes, persecution, lawlessness will increase He says in verse 14, and the gospel of the kingdom shall be preached to the whole world for a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come. So somewhere in time And by the way, let me just say this. I know of nothing on the prophetic record that hasn't occurred that needs to occur before the coming of Christ. Israel's back in the land. We got plenty of wars and rumors of wars. We have famines, earthquakes, and the people who measure those metrics tell us that the earth shakes more than it's ever shaken. Some of it known, some of it not as well known in terms of where it is and where it happens and how it's measured, but it's undeniable. Wouldn't you agree lawlessness is increasing? So when you listen and look. . . The fig tree is budded. We're in the season. It is a certain season and we're in it. But what we don't know is the day or the hour. But it's coming. And when the gospel's preached to the last person and the last nation to hear, then the end will come. So what are we waiting on? That We don't have to wait on anything else in terms of what must happen by way of prophetic declaration, but it's coming, but we don't know when it's coming So the point of verse chapter 24 is the declaration of the certainty of the coming and the uncertainty of the timing. Now, obviously, this is prophetic as it relates to Israel in the second advent. So the content of chapter 4 has to do with what precedes the second coming of Jesus Christ. And if you read 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and you read 1 Thessalonians and the declaration of the people of God and the kingdom of God and in the church of God will not endure the wrath of God, and if you believe the tribulation is the seven year unfolding of the day of the Lord and the wrath of God, then you know that the rapture comes before the day of the Lord comes What you know is that the rapture immediately precedes the promised judgment of God, which will last seven years and intensify the last three and a half years. This passage is a warning to Israel about the timing of the Second Advent. But the Second Advent is preceded by the rapture. Which means whatever he's saying about the precursors to his coming ought to be concerning to you as a Christian, even though you won't be here. Because what he says as a product of I'm coming and you don't know when, when I come it's undeniable. What you need to be is ready for my coming, which is the other big idea in chapter 24. If you don't know when, and you know it's consequential. catastrophically consequential if you're not ready. Therefore, he says in verse 42, chapter 24, or therefore be on the alert. Get your head up, get your eyes. The word alert means intensely pay attention. Be on the alert for you do not know which day your Lord is coming. That's a reiteration of the reality he's been promoting. But be sure of this, verse 43, that if the head of the house had known at what time of the night the thief was coming, he would have been on the alert. And would have not allowed his house to be broken into. For this reason, you be ready too, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour when you do not think he will come. The second Advent is coming when you least expect it. So get your head up and your eyes open. Here are the precursors. And what we as a church, knowing that we precede the day of the Lord and the second coming in the rapture, we need to equally be ready and benefiting. Because does anybody know when the rapture is going to happen? No, you don't. Any more than you know what happened seven years after the rapture. You need to be ready. So I thought it would be helpful To have a session dedicated to what do you do while you're waiting? What does be ready include? If you don't know when he's coming, when he will, the trumpet will sound and the dead of Christ will rise first, and those of us that remain will rise with them and join them in the air, the rapture which precedes this, the initiation of the day of the Lord, the seven year tribulation. What do we need to do while we're waiting? That's what chapter twenty-five is. It's an application illustratively. So you know what to do. We're going to focus on the second parable, 14 through 46. Which is an extended parable, but I want to touch on the beginning, chapter 25, because it is also preparatory. Be ready. by being internally ready, spiritually ready. Jesus says in verse 1 chapter 25, the kingdom of heaven Kingdom of God will be comparable to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Now, ancient Jewish times, the bridegroom would come to the home of the bride. And he would take her back to his home in a celebration march. There would be a wedding feast. celebrating her arrival. So that's the imagery. So the bridegroom is coming. The bridesmaids are waiting with the bride. And the kingdom of heaven is likened to these bridesmaids, these virgins who had lamps, so it's a nighttime processional. They took their lamps and went out to meet their bridegroom, and five of them were foolish, five were prudent, five wise, five unwise. The word foolish means they weren't using their head at all We would use the word they were dumb. They weren't thinking. They were foolish. It's not a harsh term. It's an objective reality term. They weren't thinking right. Because if they'd have been thinking right, they wouldn't have been foolish. What was their foolishness consisting of? Verse 3, for when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them Now what's the purpose of a lamp? Illumination. What good is it to have a lamp without oil so that it can do what lamps do? It they looked outwardly just like the wise Virgins looked outward. They both had lamps, but they didn't include the content internally that was necessary to light the way. Verse 4, but the prudent took oil in their flask with their lamps. Now while the bridegroom was delaying, they all got drowsy and began to sleep. Now this is not an indictment about being slothful. What it has to do with they're just going through their ordinary life waiting for the bridegroom to come come. It's not like it's evil. The idea is they have fallen asleep, and it turns out at that time The bridegroom is coming. Verse 6. But at midnight there was a shout, Behold the bridegroom come out to meet him. In other words, you better be ready, because he's coming when you don't think he will come. Here he has arrived. And so they jump up, verse seven, then all those virgins arose, trimmed their lamps, they lit them, and the foolish said to the prudent, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. In other words, all they had was the wick So can you give us some oil so that our lamps will keep burning? But the prudent answered saying, No, there will not be enough for us, and you too, go instead to the dealers and buy some of some for yourselves and while they were going away to make the purchase the bridegroom came. While they were away, the bridegroom came. And those who were ready went in with him. Do you see the word ready? They went with him into the wedding feast, and the door was shut. Now there's two things you need to take away. Those who were ready went in and the door shut. Those who were outside not ready couldn't get in. And you see that in verse 11. And later the other virgins, the unwise, foolish ones, came saying, Lord, Lord, open up for us And he answered and said, Truly I say to you, I do not know you. You're not coming in. You're not welcome to get in, because you're not qualified to get in, because you're not ready. And the symbolism is an internal substance or an internal reality that they didn't possess. And sometimes in the Bible, the Spirit of God is symbolized by oil. So you could argue that they do not possess the life of God and the Spirit of God in order to qualify to enter into the wedding feast of God. They're not ready. They're internally and spiritually not ready. And because they're not ready, there won't be a second opportunity. Verse 14. So let's just summarize what we just said, and this is just high speed. Get the context. You don't know when, but you know he's coming. If you're a Christian seven years prior, you don't know when, or you claim to be a Christian, you don't know when he's coming, but he's coming. Be ready. He's coming when you least expect it, but he's coming. Be ready for his coming because there's catastrophic consequences to not being spiritually ready and internally ready Because you can't get ready after he's come. That's number one. Readiness and spiritual internal preparation. What do you do while you're waiting? You get ready spiritually. Number two, and our focus, large focus for this session, is what do you do while you're waiting? I want to give you this bottom line word, you're working. You are actively investing and diligently working The big idea for my time with you today is to encourage you that while you're waiting, in light of the certain coming and the uncertain timing, is to invest your life, not spend it. To invest your life and not spend it. To actively and strategically and diligently invest your life, not waste your life. Because verse 14 introduces the second parable. For it is just like a man. So what's the it? It goes back to verse 1 of chapter 25. The kingdom of heaven is like this. Another parable, another illustration. Why do you need to be ready? You don't know when he's coming. How will that look? How do I get ready? What do I need to focus on in light of those realities of things to come. It, the kingdom of God, is just like a man about to go on a journey who called his own slaves and entrusted his possessions to them And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his own ability. And he went on his journey, and immediately the one who had received the five talents went and traded with them and gained five more talents. In the same manner the one who had received the two talents gained two more. But he who had received the one talent went away and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. Remember, this is what it's like. This is an illustration, so you understand, verse 19. Now after a long time the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. And the one who had received the five talents came up and brought five more talents, saying, Master, you entrusted five talents to me. See, I have gained five more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I'll put you in the charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. The one also who had also received the two talents came up and said, Master, you entrusted to me two talents. See, I have gained two more talents. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. And the one also had received the one talent came up and said, Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, gathering where you scattered no seed, and I was afraid. And I went away and hid your talent in the ground. See, you have what is yours. But his master answered and said to him , You wicked, lazy slave, you knew that I reap where I do not sow and gather where I scatter no seed. Then you ought to have put my money in the bank And on my arrival I would have received my money back with interest. Therefore, verse 28, take away the talent from him, give it to the one who has the ten talents. For to every one who has shall more be given, and he shall have an abundance. But from the one who does not have Even what he does have shall be taken away. Now notice the sobering conclusion with the result of a failure to be ready by working. and cast out the worthless slave into the outer darkness in that place where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth I'm going to tell you two stories, Jesus says. One says you better be internally spiritually ready. The other is you ought to be investing your life, not spending it, because you're investing it strategically and you're working diligently. Because to not be ready is eternally consequential. And I'm going to argue that Christians that are transformed, people that are ready and internally ready, undeniably Will promote and produce fruit. They will live a life of stewardship because all true salvation manifests itself in fruitful living. impactful living. A kingdom advancing living. I want to unpack a little bit of this with you and the the as I said, the big idea is invest your life, don't spend it And I'm going to argue three things. Number one, because you recognize who he is and who you are. The big idea is identity. identity, the reality of his identity and your identity. Why should you invest your life and not spend it? Why should you prepare by working strategically and diligently? because you understand who you are and who he is. This parable is helpful as a calibrator to a reality about our identity as kingdom citizens. And his identity as the master and the king. Let me give you a couple of things to think about as is revealed in this passage. Now you know who the man is by way of symbolism. This is the master. This is a symbolism or a symbol or an illustration of Jesus Christ, the man, who is going to leave for a long journey. He is going to go, Daniel chapter 7, and receive his kingdom. And he's going to return. He's going to be coronated by the Father. As the Son of Man, the recipient, as we've heard, of the dominion that he will rule over, listen to Daniel 7, I think it bears a reference to this, the man who goes away. Luke 19, a parallel passage, says, a king goes away to receive his kingdom. Daniel 7 says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven I take that to be symbolic of the Ascension Acts, chapter 1, verse 9, Jesus was received into the clouds And at his ascension he was received into the clouds. Daniel said, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one, one ascending in the clouds, like a son of man, God the Son. And he came to the ancient of days, that's God the Father, and was presented before him. So imagine the crucifixion, the resurrection, now the ascension in the clouds. Daniel picks up the story, one like the Son of Man coming to the ancient of days of the Father, being presented before him, and to him the Son of Man was given dominion and glory and the kingdom. that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. And his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. That's the coronation. That's Psalm 2. Behold, I've installed my son. Remember the nations are raging, they're conspiring. We don't want to fall. We want these shackles and fetters off of us. God laughs and says, I've installed my son. And the son says, I have received the commission of the Father. I have a rod of iron. I will shatter all resistors. That's what we heard this morning. Michael was taking us through it. Jesus Christ is going to be a sovereign, powerful, dominating ruler. And he receives that kingdom from the Father. He's been inaugurated, he's been coronated, and he's about to take office at the second coming. Where he will establish his kingdom. He'll defeat all of the enemy. That's why Hebrews says that things that are ultimately going to be subjected to him, little he was made for a little while. Hebrews chapter 2, he was made for a little while a little lower than the angels. That's his resurrection of his incarnation. Then he's resurrected. He's crowned with glory and honor. And he's and and he has been appointed. as the one over the works of God's hands, that Psalm 8, thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. And Hebrew says, but we do not see all things subjected to him. So he's been coronated as over it all, but he's not ruling over it all. That's the second coming. That's the millennial kingdom. The man in this parable is the son of man who goes on a journey And he comes back to receive the fruitfulness and the benefit of the work of those he's entrusted in his absence to advance his kingdom and his purposes. So what will cause you? What do you do while you're waiting? Working. Why do you work Because you recognize who he is, the master who is coming. And as the master, he is the absolute owner He has dominion over it all. And he is, according to Matthew 25, he is a personal giver. Look at verse 14. He entrusted his possessions to who? His slaves. So he's the absolute owner as the master, the king of everything, and he's the personal I give you my stuff, master. He entrusts it. to his slaves. So what do you do while you're waiting? Whatever anybody would do Who understood that the absolute owner of everything that I have belongs to him What do you do while you're waiting? What anybody would do who understood that he has personally entrusted his assets to you to be invested for his purposes. Not your comforts, not your pleasures, not your priorities, but his priorities Because the key to working while you're waiting is recognizing his identity as the sovereign absolute owner of everything and the personal entruster of assets to you as his ambassador and slave As a slave, let me just give you a little historical background. But this is doolos. Some of your Bibles will translate this word, bondservant. And that was done for cultural reasons. But when you read slave in your Bible or bond servant, you're looking at the same word. Thankfully, in this passage, the translation is slave, and that is significant. Now listen, slave in our culture, bad word, right? Harsh abuse were property. Guess what it was in that culture? Property. Listen to historians talk about this. This is Aristotle. A slave in that culture was a living tool. Just as a tool is an inanimate slave, a slave is an animate Instrument. In law, in other words, in the law of the government in the land, the slave was not a person, he was a thing. He was absolutely under the authority of the master, even his life. Listen to Roman law. Whatever a master does to a slave Undeservedly, in anger, willingly, unwillingly, in forgetfulness, after careful thought, knowingly and unknowingly, that is judgment, justice, and law. In other words, he was an absolute possession. He had no identity outside of his master. So when Jesus said, You know what my kingdom is like? That The difference is I'm not that kind of master. But what's not different is you're that kind of slave. Dulas was whether you were born to slavery or bound in slavery through poverty. Through necessity to a master, you were a possession, an absolute possession. Now, Christian, Kingdom citizen, one of the ways that you mature in Jesus Christ is to recognize who He is and who you are. And one of the significant labels for followers of Jesus Christ is the word slave. All notable Christians recognize that they are slaves. I want to do a little um Survey with you. Listen to Paul, Romans 1. 1. Dear friends in Rome, this letter is from Paul, Jesus Christ's slave. Titus 1. 1, he declares again, Paul, the slave of God and the messenger of Jesus Christ, Apostle. James 1-1. Do you know who James is? Half-brother of Jesus Christ. James, a slave of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Simon Peter. 2 Peter 1-1, a slave. Simon Peter, a slave and apostle of Jesus Christ. Jude 1-1. Jude is a half-brother of Jesus, brother of James. Writes in Jude 1. 1, I am a slave of Christ Jesus and a brother of James. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 1, and I'm punctuating something that I think we need to have undeniably imprinted. in our mind as it relates to what we do while we're waiting, and that is our identity as a possession of Jesus Christ. I belong to him. I belong to him by creation And I belong to him by redemption. I am bought with a price, and I have been created for God, for the glory of God, because I belong to God. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and the earth, Paul writes in Colossians 1, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things have been created by him and for him. Every beast of the field, God says, is mine, cattle on a thousand hills, I know every bird of the mountains. Everything that moves in the field is mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine. That is, I made it all, it all belongs to me. Every human being, every animal, everything that exists belongs to God by creation ownership Every Christian has been ransomed and redeemed by God, purchased by God as a possession of God. We belong to God. Can you say amen to that? I belong to God. And if I was talking to Paul, he'd say, Harry, I'm a slave. If I'm talking to Peter, I'm a slave. I'm talking to James, who grew up with Jesus, I'm a slave. I'm tal Talking to Jude, I'm a slave Every notable Christian acknowledges and identifies and recognizes that if you're going to function as a steward of the things of God and the master who owns it, and personally entrust it, you operate out of the recognition that I belong to him absolutely. John chapter, or Revelation chapter 1. This is the Apostle John. The revelation of Jesus Christ, verse 1. Which God gave him to show to his bondservants. Do you see bondservant? I'm reading the New American Standard. Guess what word it is? Dulas. It should be slave. Which he gave to his slaves. That's us, the people of God, the things which must shortly take place And he, God, sent and communicated it by his angel to his slave, bondservant, should be slave, John. So the book of the Revelation, the revelation of Jesus Christ was given to a slave four slaves. Do you see that? So who else was a slave? John? What are you? I'm a slave. Well then what am I? Harry, you're a slave. I got this revelation from Jesus Christ as a slave, and I got it in order to give to slaves. Now, turn to the very end of the book, the last book in the Bible, the last chapter of the Bible. Talking about the eternal state, which Michael was talking about, the New Jerusalem coming down from above, the home of the Father's household. 1500 miles long, 1500 miles high, 1500 miles deep, this this divine architectural cube, streets of gold, gates of pearl. City that needs no light because of the light of God. Just think of the beauty, the prismic quality of the light of God shining in this Beautiful celestial city. It says in verse 27 as it relates to this. Verse 26, verse 20 chapter 21, they shall bring they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it. Michael was talking about that. There's no nighttime there, eternal day. The gates are never closed. But I want you to notice verse 27, and nothing unclean, and no one who practices abomination and lying shall ever come into it, but only, watch this, only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. Guess who occupies the Holy City? Christians occupy the Holy City. Saved by grace Notice what it says in verse 3 of chapter 22 after it begins to describe the river of life or the water, the river of life and light crystal. Verse 3, and there shall no longer be any curse. And the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it. So no curse. God's throne is there. The Lamb Jesus Christ shall be in it. Now look at the end of verse 3. And his what? Should be slaves. His slaves shall serve him, and they shall see his face and his name shall be on their forehead. So these aren't just slaves. They're branded slaves. Now who's in heaven? Look at the end of 27. Only those whose names are written in the book of life. So you're telling me, Harry, that Christians whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life are slaves. Yes, I am. They are branded slaves. They are reigning slaves. Look at what it says in verse 5. And there shall no longer be any night, and they shall not have need for the light of a lamp nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God shall illumine them, and they shall reign forever and ever. Who is the they? The slaves. Who are the slaves? The ones written in the eternal book of life The Lamb's Book of Life. You say, Harry, what's your point? You're slaves today, and guess what will be throughout eternity? A slave. Now it's true that Jesus said, I no longer call you slaves. I call you friends. Relationally, you're a friend, relationally your brother, but functionally, we're a slave. Because there'll never be a time we're not honored with the service to the Son of God, the Lamb of God, the Sovereign King of Kings. We will spend all of eternity serving his interests That is our identity, and we'll always be slaves. And listen, if Paul thought it was good to be a slave, or he could acknowledge that, and Peter did, and James did, and Jude did, and John did, I'm okay with Harry doing that. Because this is not American slavery, this isn't African slavery, this is the Son of God slavery, he's the perfect master. He's the sharer. He's the personal entruster. He's the asset sharer. He's the life giver. He's the best server. The reason why you're ready and working is because who he is and because you know who you are and you're honored to do that. Can you say amen again? Go back to Matthew chapter twenty-five. I want to talk a little bit about the word entrust. I want you to notice what it says in verse 14. He entrusted, first of all, they're his own slaves, that's ownership, and he entrusted whose possessions to them? His possessions. The word entrusted, parididome, is the Greek word for personally give. It's the word give and the Preposition para connected to it. So you come alongside and personally give. Let's pretend this is my asset. uh pouch pool my my wallet. Okay? I've got some credit cards in here. One of them is a cospill card. Let's suppose that I walk down and I say, is it Maddie? Maddie, here's my Costco card. I'm going to give you my Costco card. Don't tell my wife. See that's got my picture on the back, so you're gonna have to look like that. Okay, that's my Costco. See what's happening right here? Maddie, I want you to have this. I need you to go to Costco. And I need you to pick up some bread. She wants of that uh brioche kind of buns, because we're gonna make burgers. And then I need you to pick up some dog food, because we have a German Shepherd. See what I'm doing? I'm giving my asset personally to Maddie. This is what the parable says. The master who owns it all is dispensing his assets personally. Each according to his own ability. So I'm thinking Maddie can get this done What I want you to feel in that is in your identity as a slave, he has purposefully, uniquely chosen to commission you with his stuff for his purposes. There's not a slave. In this parable, you could get five talents. Talent was a waitermeasure. It was a volume. It didn't have to do with stuff. It could be gold, it could be silver, it could be grain. A talent was a volume. So it wasn't limited to how much. It was how much he gave you and what he gave you. And to every slave, God The Son of Man has given personal assets that belong to him, both in volume and And in kind, notice what it says in verse 15, each one according to his own ability. It's unique. Now here's something that I think should help you. There's not a person in the room, if you're a slave of the master, who doesn't have the master's possessions entrusted to him. You have assets that belong to God. You have talents entrusted to you. Some of you more, some of you less. Some of you of this kind and some of you of that kind. But what's true is you have them. And the expectation while he's on the journey is that you will invest them. Not spend them, invest them. So what kind of talents, what kind of assets Could you be entrusted with? Now there's three things I want to give you to do by way of practical application in the time I have remaining. Number one, I want you to recognize your identity. Number two, I want you to recognize his identity. Number three, I want you to do Some recognition, and this is the big idea here, is I want you to begin to assess what you've been entrusted Because the only way you're a successful steward is if you have some clue as to what it is you're entrusted to do. What is it that you have? So the first thing you do is a personal assessing. What has God, the Master, given to me? Number two, how am I personally investing, strategically investing? Because what I want to do is say, hey, what do you do while you're waiting? Personally assessing. What do you have that you're responsible for? You are, what are you responsible for? Two, how are you strategically investing what you're entrusted with? And then number three, I want to promote the idea of preliminary or periodic accounting. Because verse 19 says there's going to come a day when he's going to settle accounts with them. You know what that is? That's the accounting. That's at the end. That's where Harry sits down and we go over the books, because that's the way the books are open. And we're going to look, Harry, this is what I gave you. How did you do with that? Oh, this is how you did with that. And the consequence of that ultimate accounting will have to do with my eternal benefit, my eternal reality. So three things, personal assessing, personally assessing, secondly, strategically investing. Thirdly, periodic or preliminary accounting. In other words, I'd rather take an assessment today than wait to the end and go, oh, I wasn't thinking about that. Asset assessment. So what is it that God could have given you? And I'm going to give you some things that at least in my mind are undeniable. s assets to be stewarded. Let me read you something commentators have said about talents and then I'll go back and unpack specifically some categories and I'm not saying they're the only ones, but they certainly ought to be some of the ones that you assess. Here's the big idea or the general term for talents. Quote By talents here, we are to understand gifts or endowments conferred by the Master for our spiritual ends, his spiritual purposes, kingdom purposes, and they include powers of the body and of the mind, abilities natural and acquired. Health, strength, long life, understanding, judgment, memory, learning, knowledge, eloquence, influence, and authority over others, wealth, privileges. or offices, civil or religious, and indeed every power and every advantage of which a good or bad use may be made. I mean what that says is everything I've got that can be leveraged for good or not good is a talent. It's an asset. Let me give you category number one you ought to think about. What has God given me to invest? These are all T's because I'm a preacher and alliteration makes them more valuable. Number one is temple, the temple of your body. How am I caring for and using my body for the master? Am I investing fitness, nutrition, sleep? Am I caring for my body? Now why do I bring that up? Because we can neglect our body Listen, as I age and I am aging, I told my wife before I left for Baltimore, I said, honey, uh I'm shrinking. I played college football. My muscle must muscle there's something bad happening I'm declining. Well, what do you do, Harry, to preserve and prevent and And somehow inhibit that inevitable end, because you do age and you do decline and your strength does weaken and your capacities do diminish. But what can you do to prevent that? Well, I'll tell you what I've learned. Nutrition can prevent that. The doctor I just met with said, hey, if you have 150 minutes a week to invest, invest it in resistance training, which is weightlifting. Nutrition is 70% of fitness. Resistance training preserves the muscle and the skeletal structure that enables you to function. Oh, and sleep? Sleep deprivation is one of the most harmful realities in your physical journey if you don't get it. Seven and a quarter is what they say is the normative minimum. In our culture, certainly in my vocation, you get extra credit if you sleep. four hours and get up early and study and prepare to preach and do whatever it is you do. Listen, I'm a steward of a body that is unique and designed by God and priceless. Has anybody purchased a body part lately? Expensive. I have two guys in my church last week. Both of them got knee replacements. Listen, I'm glad you can get replaced knees, but they're not as good as the the the ones from the manufacturer. So guess what? And I played college football in lots of sports, and if there's one thing that I would say to the Harry that I used to know as a young man, I'd say, Harry, mileage adds up You know what you're a steward of? Your body. Because your body is the instrument that allows you to do what the master has called you to do. Take care of it. Work at it. Sleep. Exercise. Eat right. Recreate. You know the word recreation comes from the word recreation. Do you know why you need that day or you need those hours to recover? I tell my seminary guys. This is their final. But for nine years, the final exam for the practice of pastoral ministry was a three-hour final. And I would tell the guys, you got three hours? And I want every minute of it. You're not going to take it in class, you're going to take the final outside of class, and here's your assignment. I want you to take a full three hours and find something you can enjoy that produces in three hours something that refreshes you. Because in life and ministry, you can't always take a vacation, but you need to get a rhythmic rest in your life that allows you to recover. And recovery is unique. I play golf, but golf never refreshes me. I don't know why. It's beautiful. I have good fellowship. I may I just don't come off the golf course and go, I feel better. But I'll tell you what, if I climb on the back of a motorcycle and go down a country road and I come back, I feel better. That's my thing. Bicycling, motorcycling. I therapeutically believe the convertible top of my car is part of God's plan to renew my life. You think I'm kidding? This is what I say to my seminarians, you gotta find the thing that refreshes you. You need recreation. You need recreation, not just activity. You need to find the thing That'll refuel and refresh and renew. And listen to me, you don't have to be a pastor to need that. Because it's built into the cycle that God instituted. The day of rest. Whatever you think that is, rest in Christ. I'm not arguing for the Sabbath day in the ways that it used to be practiced. I'm arguing for a rhythmic rest of spiritual, personal, emotional, and physical renewal. Because you're a steward of the body that God has given you. So what you put in it, how you take care of it, it's valuable. Number two, let's talk about the tea of talent. And I want to break talent down in two ways, natural and supernatural. Gifts and capacities. Everybody has natural capacities. Some of you are good with numbers, some of you are good with instruments and music. I've got people who can play by ear. I can play nothing by ear, and I can't play anything with notes But I can catch a football, and I can drive a car, and I can use words Some of you, you would be terrified to be up here. That's not your thing. Your thing is what God has given you, and you need to know what your thing is You write, you read, you're good with numbers, you're good with computers, you're good with people, you have insight. Whatever natural skills you have, guess what they are? A gift and a stewardship from God. You don't have to be 6'5 and be able to jump out of the gym. That's how God gave that guy assets. LeBron James, he has assets to invest by the Creator. I don't have those assets. I'm not John MacArthur. I don't have to be John MacArthur. It's not five talents, two talents, or one. I've got something, and that's what I'm entrusted with, and I need to know what that something is so I can leverage that. You tracking with me? And then you have supernatural capacities. We call them spiritual gifts. 1 Corinthians chapter 12. You should write it down. There are a variety of gifts, a variety of ministries, or a variety of effects. Each one has received from the Spirit of God a supernatural capacity for the profit of the body of God, the church. And the Holy Spirit, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, gives to each one just as he wills. So whatever you have, let me define spiritual gift in a simple way that helps me. A spiritual gift is a capacity you have that's life-giving to you when you do it. And it's life-impacting to them when you do it. Look, I might love preaching. It might be life-giving for me to stand up here and preach. But the only way I know it's a supernatural gift is when you want me up here preaching. Because life giving to you needs to be life impacting to them. And whenever you're doing that, whether it's service, encouragement, hospitality, Teaching. You know the spiritual gift list. You have some highlights in the New Testament, Romans 12, 1 Peter You have 1 Corinthians, you have lists of gifts. I don't know that there are the complete gift lists, but what I know is there are supernatural capacities that when you do them, God's using you with them. And you need to know what they are. And you may not be a five-talent player or a two -talent player, but I'll guarantee you you're a one-talent player. And you need to know what that is, and you need to do it. You need to invest it strategically. And if you're a helper, you'd be the best out. That's what Peter says. Hey, help with all your strength, which the Lord provides. If you're going to teach, teach with the zeal of God. If you're a giver, give. Because when you're giving, you're supernatural When you're teaching, you're supernatural. It's not natural. It's not a talent, a natural one. It's a supernatural one. How does it express itself? A lot of ways. How big is the impact? A lot of different levels of impact. There's a variety of gifts, a variety of effects, and a variety of ministries. So my gift of teaching may look different than somebody else's gift of teaching. Your gift of teaching may be different than somebody else's, but it's still a supernatural gift. Find it and use it. Thirdly, time. Your body, the temple Your talents natural and supernatural. Number three, your time, 168 hours a week Invest your time. Listen to Ephesians chapter 5, where Paul writes to the Ephesian church, because of the bombastic blessings they received as Christians in Christ, he says to them, awake, sleeper. Arise from the dead. Now it's literally wake up the spiritual realities and wake up and get moving. And Christ will shine on you. Shine is a word for blessing. Wake up and work. Wake up and be holy. Listen, verse 15. Therefore be careful how you walk, not as unwise men, but wise. The word be careful means pay close attention. Start your day with your head up, your eyes open. It's totally in, paying attention, not casual, but intentional. That's the idea. Listen for the reason, verse 19. Making the most of your time. Because the days are evil, that is, they need to be impacted for the glory of God and the kingdom of Christ. So that then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Now listen, would you look up for a second? Do you know what he just said? Make the most of your 168 hours a week. The average person spends five plus hours. doing something other than eating, sleeping, driving, or working, but rather playing. Leisure. Five point, that's actually five hours and thirteen minutes a day on TV, socializing, sports. The average eight to eighteen year old spends seven and a half hours on a screen for entertainment. You know what that is? Too much time. You know what I am? What you are, accountable for my time. Number four, training. I'm at the end of my time. I saw Elijah come in. I heard the voices. Okay, let me hurry. Investing. Training, what do I mean by training? Some of you have been trained uh you uh uh professionally. I have a dentist who travels the world doing dentistry doctors who travel and leverage their training. Some of you have been trained with computers. I have missionaries all over the world who need business trained people to help administrate their missionary activities. You have training, music training. You think about what it is you've been trained to do, and I'm going to say that's an asset to be leveraged for the kingdom of God. Number five, I'm going to use the word treasure. What I mean by that is what 16 out of the 38 parables involve. Money. Resources. One out of every ten verses involves money directly. We spend more on dog food in 52 days than we spend annually on missions. That kind of money. Number six, the final T I'm going to give you is truth. Steward the truth. Be a promoter, a protector, a proclaimer, and a liver of the truth that you know that the world needs to know. You know gospel truth. Paul said we are we are stewards of sound words, guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us the treasure which has been entrusted to us. You know what that treasure is? The gospel. You know what the world you live in needs? The gospel. I know something that saves a life eternally, and so do you. Steward that asset. I want to encourage you to leverage wherever it is the traffic pattern of your life, your passions, your interests, and your desires, to invest your life, not spend it. So that at the end of your life, the five-talent guy and the two-talent guy got the exact same affirmation. Well done. Good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a few things. I'm going to give you the joy of being responsible for many things. It's not how much you have, it's how faithful you are in the investment of what you have. And I love this. Enter into the joy of your master. You know what that is? The triumph of the King. When he assumes his kingdom, you're there with him, raising your arms in glory and joy at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Because you're a part of the team. You invested your life and you're sharing the joy of the life of God in the glory of God. Can you say amen to that? Don't be the last guy who buried it. Because every kingdom citizen invests, they don't neglect. A signal of neglect is a single signal of being lost. Father, thank you for the time today. It's escaped, it's moved quickly, and Lord, it's my strong desire that these brothers and sisters, in light of the certain coming and the uncertain timing, will identify the assets you have given to them for the purposes of bringing you glory, extending your kingdom, and fulfilling your purposes when you saved us, when you commissioned us, and you entrusted your stuff to us. Use us and put around us friends that can help us see what we should be doing because of gifts and assets. that they observe in us so that they help us on the day that we will ultimately account, will be ready. Because we have allies that are advancing your purposes in our life. That's my prayer in Jesus' name. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.