The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So today for our message, and uh this is uh uh more of a meditation and observations in a text, and uh maybe a a full uh sermon, but uh we'll come back to this uh in a at a future date but uh if you would turn your Bibles open to Luke chapter 23. Luke chapter 23 I'll start in verse 44. Luke chapter 23, starting at verse 44. It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour, because the sun was obscured and the veil of the temple was torn in two And Jesus crying out with a loud voice said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he breathed his last Now the centurion saw what had happened, he began praising God, saying, Certainly this man was innocent. And all the crowds who came together for this spec spectacle when they observed what had happened began to return, beating their breasts, and all his acquaintances and the women who accompanied him from Galilee were standing at a distance seeing these things. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do come before you, Lord, today as we always do, Lord, every gathering, Father, to pray. Father, to ask you to speak to us through your word. And Father, I pray that on this night as we think about the crucifixion of your son, our Father, that you would speak to us Father, that you would help us to think about his death and what his death means for us. And Father, we know that it's through this death that we have life And Father, I pray that we would behold the Son, that we give him glory, and Father, that we would meditate on his goodness even tonight as we think about This sacrifice that only He could make. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks and pray that you would, Lord, speak. Through me tonight is a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The question that I have for you tonight is who is it that put Jesus to death? And more than that, how could it be that the author of life dies? Who is responsible for the blood of Jesus Christ? The text that we've just read brings us to the very end of a long chain of events that led to Jesus' death, and there are many hands that were involved in the death of Jesus. There are many people who had the blood of Jesus on their hands. The religious leaders had the blood of Jesus on their hands. The murder of Jesus was a twisted plot of the religious leadership. Just because you're religious doesn't mean that you're righteous. They were they wore long robes, they had religious symbols, but they also had murder in their hearts. And after Jesus rejected their Sabbath-day traditions and he proved them wrong over and over again, showing their ignorance of the law of God, gained approval with the people by his miracles, they sought to kill him Which which just proves how wicked and also how clueless these religious leaders were. In John chapter 11, after Jesus raises Lazarus from the dead, and as a result of Raising Lazarus from the dead, many people were believing in him. The Pharisees and chief priests get together and they try to come up with a plan to stop people from believing in him. And what is their bright idea? Let's Let's put to death the same guy who has the power to raise the dead back to life. This is completely clueless When they found a disciple who was willing to betray him, they counted out for him 30 pieces of silver. And do you know what they called the money that they gave to Judas? They called it blood money. The price of blood. They had blood on their hands, murder in their hearts, and blood on their hands. But not only did they have blood on their hands, Judas had blood on his hands. Matthew 26 and 24 says, The Son of Man is to go, just as it has been written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been good for that man if he had not been born. And Judas was that man. In John 6 and verse 70 it says, Jesus answered them, Did I myself not choose you the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil? And when Judas saw that a woman wasted an alabaster box of costly perfume to honor Jesus, it was at this time that Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went off to the chief priests in order to betray him to them. It 's like Judas couldn't bear seeing the money that he used to put into his pocket going to waste on honoring Jesus. So he goes out and finds those that he could deliver Jesus over to. After Jesus was condemned, Judas finally felt remorse. Matthew 27 and verse 4 says, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood, but they said, What is that to us? See to that yourself. And isn't that how how sin is? That it promises you all the pleasure, all of the promises, the protection. And then as soon as you give in to sin, it drops you. See to that yourself. You know, deal with the guilt yourself. Deal with the remorse yourself. And Judas realizes, recognizes that he's betrayed innocent blood. Innocent blood is on his hands, and in a very real way, lust conceived, gave birth to sin, and sin when it was accomplished, it brought forth death. Literally. But the blood was on Judas's hands. And he recognizes that. I've sinned by betraying, he says, innocent blood. The blood of Jesus was on the Jewish people on numerous occasions. The Jewish people tried to kill Jesus after Jesus taught in Nazareth in Luke chapter 4. 28 to 29, it says all the people in the synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things. They got up and drove him out of the city. They led him to the brow of the hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw him over the cliff. Throw him down the cliff. This is Jesus' hometown. This is where he grew up. This is where they would have known his family, his mother, his father, or stepfather, his brothers. You know, don't we know them? Scriptures would say But Jesus comes to his own, as Scripture says, and his own did not receive him. And when Pilate tried to release Jesus The crowds that were gathered together cried out, His blood be on us and on our children. I mean, just the most fearful statement you can make. Let his blood be on us and on our children. Their blood, the blood of Jesus was on their hands. May his blood be on us. The blood of Jesus was also on the hands of the Gentile rulers. Pilate recognized that. He wanted nothing to do with the death of Jesus. He didn't see anything in the Lord that was worthy of death. And even while he was on the judgment seat, his wife sent a message to him, Matthew 27, 19, have nothing to do with that righteous man. For last night I suffered greatly in a dream because of him. But Pilate, in order to satisfy the bloodthirsty mob, he ordered the crucifixion of Jesus anyway. And then in a symbolic gesture, he dips his hands in water to do what? Wash off the blood. I'm not guilty of his blood. Matthew 27 and 24, when Pilate saw that he was accomplishing nothing, but rather that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands. in front of the crowd saying, I am innocent of this man's blood. But the blood was on his hands. But he's saying I'm innocent. I don't want to be associated with this, even though I'm giving the order, but I don't want to be associated with what happens. You you see to that yourself I don't want to know all about what happens after this. I'm washing my hands of this. But he was trying to wash his hands of the blood. Jesus was beaten, flogged, crucified under Pontius Pilate. And all these people had the blood of Christ on their hands. The religious leaders, the Jewish people, Judas, Pilate, the Gentile rulers. But I want to let you know that not one of them, nor all of them together, could have taken Jesus' life from him. He willingly yielded up his life as an atonement for sin. In Luke chapter 23, in the text that we just read in verse 46, it says, Jesus crying out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit And having said this, he breathed his last. What are the, first of all, what are the circumstances around this cry? The circumstances around the cry. Look at verses 44 and 45. He says it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour, because the sun was obscured, and the veil of the temple was torn in two. You have the circumstances that surrounded this cry. You have the the darkness that fell. The crucifixion actually took place during the morning hours. According to Mark chapter 15, verse 25, Jesus was crucified at the third hour of the day, which would have been 9 a. m. In ancient Jewish accounting of time, the day began at 6 a. m. so the third hour of the day would have been 9 a.m. three hours after 6 That's when the crucifixion began. But by the time we get to verse 44 of Luke 23, Jesus has already been hanging on the cross for three hours. Because it's the sixth hour of the day. Three hours straight of torture, mocking, and the crowds and the chief priests and the criminals. ridiculing Jesus. But then at the sixth hour of the day, something remarkable happens. When the sun should be at its height, sixth hour of the day would have been 12 noon. 12 noon, when the sun was at its height, the lights go out. It's like somebody just flipped the switch, turned off the switch. And there is no natural explanation for this. No natural explanation. Some have tried to explain this away with uh by it saying it's a solar eclipse. A solar eclipse If you remember we had a a partial eclipse not too too long ago here in North America and you know went out to try to get some of those uh sunlight glasses or whatever they call them, the solar glasses, so that you could take a look at it. We actually had to borrow it from some of our friends because they ran out, you know, but we could see the partial eclipse and it's just kind of like that eerie, kind of grayish, you know, what's going on here? That's that's not what's happening here That's not what's happening here. The uh eclipse that that we saw lasted only a couple minutes. 7. 5 minutes around that time. What happens here lasts for three hours. This is not an eclipse. From the sixth to the ninth hour this lasted. In addition to that, the solar eclipse can only take place at the phase of a new moon and Passover took place in the middle of the month rather than at the beginning. So this isn't even the time for an eclipse. Others try to explain this away by saying, well, maybe it's a dust storm. Some other natural phenomenon. It's just got to be something else. There's got to be some way that we can explain this. But there's no natural explanation that makes sense. The best way to see this is a supernatural explanation. That God turned the lights out. Back in Exodus chapter 10, verses 21 to 23, there was no natural explanation for the darkness of the plague. That happened in Egypt. It was a supernatural darkness. Overwhelmed the entire land of Israel, if not the entire globe, because the word for land could also be translated as earth. But either way, there was a widespread supernatural darkness. And there's even sources outside of Scripture that bear witness to this kind of darkness. And one commentary, it Speaks about some of the early church fathers. Origen reported a statement by a Roman historian who mentioned such a darkness. Another church father, Tertullian, wrote to some pagan acquaintances about an unusual darkness. There was also a supposed report from Pilate the Emperor to Tiberius, from Pilate to Emperor Tiberius, that assumed the Emperor's knowledge of a certain widespread darkness. Even mentioning that it happened from 12 to 3 in the afternoon. Even outside sources are confirming this darkness. And what's the implication of this darkness? What's going on during this darkness? This darkness would have been understood as a judgment from God The God is judging. And all throughout the scriptures, the supernatural darkness represents a judgment of God. It was often a sign of end times judgment. Joel 2, 31, the sun will be turned into darkness, the moon into blood, before the great and awesome day of the Lord. Isaiah 13, 10 through 11, for the stars of the heaven and their constellations. will not flash forth their light, the sun will be dark when it rises, the moon will not shed its light. All these statements about judgment. Ezekiel 32, verse 7. And when I extinguish you, I will cover the heavens and darken their stars I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon will not give its light. All the shining lights in the heavens I will darken over you, and I will set darkness on your land. And then there's this interesting phrase in Amos, Amos chapter 8, verses 9 and 10. It will come about in that day, declares the Lord, and all these are Predictions of judgment to come will come about in that day, declares the Lord, that I will make the sun go down at noon, and make the earth dark in broad daylight. Then I will turn your festivals into mourning and all your songs into lamentation, and I will bring sackcloth on everyone's loins, baldness on every head, I will make it like a time of mourning for an only son, and the end of it will be like a bitter day. And as Israel is seeing these signs, they're starting to get the picture that something different is going on now. This is a judgment from God. And maybe they thought the judgment was coming upon them. And again, remember, these are people who are gathered around the cross mocking Jesus, and all of a sudden the lights go out. Maybe they thought this is this is about this is about us. Maybe we are the ones that are being judged And actually you have in verse 48, if you just look down a couple verses later, it says, all the crowds who came together for this spectacle, when they observed what had happened, began to return, beating their breasts. Basically, this is a sign of mourning. This is a sign of shock. I'm I'm I'm mourning over this. I'm in grief, wailing because of what they had seen. And maybe they thought that we're being judged somehow. Maybe they thought that. But who was being judged during this time? Jesus was being judged. Jesus was being judged. Isaiah 54, 53, verse 4 says, We ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. The darkness passed, and the Jewish people were still there. When the darkness passed, Jesus gave up his life. Jesus was the one who was being judged. God was striking him. But it wasn't for his sins. There were no sins that Jesus committed. Jesus was judged for our sins. In our place, condemned he stood. He was stricken, smitten of God, afflicted, and the darkness wasn't a weird coincidence. The darkness was a symbol of God's rejection of the Son on the cross. And for three hours straight there isn't a word from Christ. We know that Jesus spoke before these three hours, but during these three hours, he says nothing. No words from Jesus, no words from heaven, dark silence. It's been called the impenetrable mystery No words for this. But we do know what Jesus said after the darkness lifted. He cries out about the ninth hour towards the at the end of this darkness. Cries out, Matthew 27, verse 46 says, cries out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtani, that is my God, my God. Why have you forsaken me? The Son was forsaken on the cross. A word that means to be abandoned, to be left behind, to be deserted. Same word that Paul uses over in 2 Timothy 4 and verse 16 when he says, No one supported me, but all deserted me. Jesus is being left alone on the cross. And if you remember, this would really have a parallel in the Old Testament, the lamb or the goat, the scapegoat that was sent out into the wilderness, to die alone. And basically that's what's happening with Jesus. He's being left to die alone, abandoned, not only by the nation, but even by the Father Himself. My God, my God, why have you Forsaken me. Why have you abandoned me? You've left me in this solitary place to die alone. And for the First time, at least that we know of here in scripture, Jesus doesn't refer to the Father as Father. He refers to him as God. As if that familiar type of relationship that he had with him, the closeness of that relationship was cut off. That then now he's referring to him as my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Every other time in scripture we see him speaking directly to God as his father, but here he just speaks out to them and says, my God, my God. The familiar presence was distant. And not only do we see this aloneness, this alienation, but I also want to remind you of this, that this is what hell is. Hell is L is the absence of the comfort of God. Away from the presence of his comfort. Not away from his presence because God is omnipresent. But it's away from the presence of his comfort, and at this time he is utterly forsaken on the cross. But not only that, there are other circumstances around this cry, back in verse 45 again. Since the sun was obscured and the veil of the temple was torn in two. What what's what's going on here? When mankind is first introduced in the pages of scripture, he's found in the unveiled presence of his creator. Nothing in between him and his creator. That's how mankind was created. Adam and Eve enjoyed fellowship with their creator, walks in the garden in the cool of the day. Can you imagine that? Just fellowship, open fellowship with God. And then what happened to break that? Sin enters in, and all of a sudden, there's now a barrier between God and man. Even angels stationed at the entrance to the Garden of Eden so that man can't get back. There's this break in between God and man. And even when God shows up to interact with his people, God has to warn them. Don't get too close. If you get too close, I'll have to kill you. Exodus chapter 3 verse 5. Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground, he says to Moses. In Exodus 19, as Moses is going to the mountain, Mount Sinai, to receive the commands from the Lord in Exodus 19, 21. The Lord spoke to Moses, go down, warn the people so that they do not break through to the Lord to gaze, and many of them perish. There's got to be a barrier between us. Exodus 33, 20. You cannot see my face, for no man can see me and what? You can't see me and live. Stay away. There's got to be a barrier. That's why Isaiah, in Isaiah 6, when he sees the the glory of the Lord, you know, the train of his robe filling up the temple, he doesn't say, man, this is fantastic. I'm so glad that I'm here. That's not what he says. He says, woe is me! What am I doing here? I shouldn't be allowed to see this This is the glory of God. I am ruined because my eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. I am done. No man can see God and live. Isaiah feared for his life because he thought that he had seen just the unveiled glory of God. This is it for me. It was a fearful thing to be in the presence of the Lord. Fearful thing. And if you remember the children of Israel carried around a wooden box overlaid with gold. Called the Ark of the Covenant, representing the presence of God. But that little box was a dangerous box. A man by the name of Uzzah found that out the hard way, right? Reached out to touch the ark and he died immediately. You don't come directly into contact with the presence of God. And that's why when that altar was placed into the tabernacle, there was a curtain. You can't just come through here anytime you want to gaze upon the where the presence of the Lord was at any time that you wanted. You couldn't have that. You shall make a veil of blue and purple and scarlet material, fine twisted linen, it shall be made with cherubim in the work of a skillful workman. You gotta put a curtain up. Exodus 26, 33, you shall hang up the veil under the clasp and bring in the ark of the testimony there within the veil, and the veil shall serve for you as a partition between the holy place and the holy of holies. There's got to be a curtain up now. And the only time that they could go through that curtain is when they had blood. That they could sprinkle on the altar. As an atonement for the people. And the veil was a reminder that the presence of God was inaccessible. When the Jewish tabernacle was replaced by the large Jewish temple, They made sure to hang a curtain that was large enough to cover the entire entrance. The veil of the temple was a massive curtain that was some 60 feet high. 30 feet wide, according to one Jewish record, the veil in the temple, took 300 priests to move it. I mean, imagine a curtain that is so heavy it takes 300 people to transport it. That's the kind of veil that was up in the temple. And that heavy curtain, 60 feet high, 30 feet wide, was ripped down from the top to the bottom. What did that indicate? There is now access that's being made between man and God. There doesn't need to be that curtain anymore. It was a clear sign that access to God was being granted. And how is it being granted? It wasn't by a little bit of blood being sprinkled on the Ark of the Covenant. It was by the blood of the Son of God. Poured out for us. We don't enter into the presence of God through a curtain. We enter the presence of God through a person We enter through the person of Jesus Christ. Hebrews 10, 19 says, therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, that's how we have access. through the blood of Jesus by a new and living way which he inaugurated for us through the veil that is his flesh. Jesus becomes that curtain now that we go through. It's through the blood of Jesus that I enter. There's no physical curtain. There's no place that I have to go to. I enter through the blood of Jesus, through faith in Christ. And the only hope that we have is through Jesus Christ. We wouldn't dare enter the presence of God without the blood of the sacrifice. And if you're here today and you haven't trusted in Jesus Christ, you should not dare to try to enter into the presence of God unless you have the blood of Jesus Christ on your life. Unless you've trusted in Jesus Christ, you have no business trying to enter and have access to the presence of God. That's why the unbeliever is kept out from heaven forever. You have no access here. The only access that you have into heaven is through the blood of Jesus Christ. That's the only access that we have. He is the entryway. Jesus says himself, I am the what? I'm the way, the truth and the life. No man comes to the Father except through me. You have to come through Christ if you're going to come into the presence of God. And that veil was torn from the top to the bottom. Showing that now access is being made between God and men, and all of the sacrifices were now unnecessary. Unnecessary, because the final sacrifice has been made. Love what it says in Hebrews 9. 11. It says, But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things to come, He entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation, not through the blood of Goats and calves, but through his own blood he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. That's what Jesus has secured for us. That he might do what? Bring us to God, first Peter says. He brings us to God. The death of Jesus was once for all. It ends all sacrifice. His sacrifice brings us to God, provides access to the inaccessible. Well that was my first point. Second point. Second point. The sovereignty and surrender in the cry. The sovereignty and surrender of the cry. And we'll we'll we'll speed up here. Look at verse 46. Jesus, and Jesus crying out with a loud voice, said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he breathed his last. First of all, you have this cry that's lifted. Jesus crying out with a loud voice. This cry is lifted. This is significant. It might not seem significant, but this is significant. Because often crucified victims died from what's called asphyxiation, which was the process of being deprived of oxygen. Crucifixion was a slow and a painful death that often took the life of the victims by this asphyxiation. According to one article in the Journal of American Medical Association, because of the twisted position of the crucified victim, exhalation would be accomplished as an active rather than as a passive process. What does that mean? You would have to support the weight of your entire body on the nails that were in your feet or the nails that were in your hand in order to exhale. So you have to pull up on the wounds in your hands. You have to push up on the wounds on your feet in order to get a breath. Constantly rubbing your back against the rough timber of the wood. In Jesus' case, he's already been lacerated by the whips, the scourging. Constantly rubbing his back up against us. But he would push up, he'd have to push up. And when the victim became tired, he'd basically suffocate. But what we have going on with Jesus here is he cries out with a loud voice. He cries out with a loud voice. He doesn't die because he's tired. He doesn't die because he can't get his breath out. And actually when he gets his breath out, it's a loud cry when he gets his breath out. Which means that Jesus still had strength. Jesus did not die just because he was tired. I'm just worn out as I'm on the cross. That's not why Jesus died. You often, and actually this explains what we find over in John 19, 31 to 37, where they wanted the legs of the crucified to be broken. Why was that? It's so they can no longer push up. We want to cut off their opportunity to catch a breath. But for Jesus, he had already expired, but it wasn't because he was tired. He cried out with a loud cry, indicating that he was still, he still had strength. He still had strength. He could have gone on So he lifts up this cry, indicating that that's not why he died. He didn't die because he was tired. Next thing it says, he says to his father, into your hands I commit my spirit. So here he's referring to God now as his father. That's different than what he said before. When he just cried out to him as my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? There's a trust here. There's a surrender here to the Lord. He calls him his father. And this is the same father who could have at any time sent twelve legions of angels to save him from the crucifixion, right? Matthew 26, 53, or do you not think that I cannot appeal to my Father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? How then will the scriptures be fulfilled that says it must happen this way? He calls out to God now as his father, the same father who could have saved him, but he didn't call out to be saved from this. Jesus went through with the crucifixion. And now he entrusts the Father with his life, having completed the satisfaction of the wrath of God on the cross. He entrusted his life into the hands of the Father, and Jesus says this about his life in John 10 verse 18. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it up again. This commandment I received from my Father. What was Jesus doing in this? And this yielding his life over to the Father, committing into the Father's hands his spirit. What was he doing? This was Jesus yielding up his life I'm laying down my life. I have authority to lay it down. Nobody takes it from me. And we also see the sovereignty of the Son in this, don't we? That the Son was in charge even of the time of his own death. He would not die until he said so. Until I say I'm committing my spirit, I'm not dying. He has the authority to lay his life down. And this was Jesus exercising that authority. I am laying my life down. Nobody took it from me. It's not because of the Roman leaders that my life is being taken. It's not because of Judas. It's not because of the Jewish people. It's because I am laying down my life. And even in the statement, he's declaring his own authority over his own life. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 14 says the blood of Christ Who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God. This was Jesus offering himself, laying his life down. Nobody could take his life from him He escaped the Jewish mobs by walking through them in Nazareth. He laid out the mob that came to him in Gethsemane with nothing more than a word. You know, here they they come with their their swords and clubs and spears to come and take Jesus. You're going to need a lot more than that if you're going to go, you know, head to head with the Son of God. But here they come with their their clubs and spears, as if to take a robber. And I love what happens when they say, you know, Jesus says, Whom do you seek? They say Jesus of Nazareth and he says I am and what is what happens? They lay down. They just lay flat. Don't don't think that you're coming in here taking me by force. I'm only coming with you because I desire to come with you No, nobody's taking me by force here. I'm laying my life down on my own initiative. Jesus had a choice that none of us have. Jesus had the choice of whether or not he would die. He chose to die. And he could have come down from the cross at any time, but he did not come down from the cross just to save himself. He decided to die just to save me. He saved us. And then he breathes his last. He breathes his last. And it's not written here. But the implication is that the sun came back. Verse 44 says it was now about the sixth hour, and darkness fell over the whole land until the ninth hour. And it was at the ninth hour that Jesus gave up this cry. So what happens after he bows his head? Lights back on. Lights are back on. And the fact that the father received his spirit at the exact moment that he asked him to receive his spirit indicates that God was his father. Do you get that? If he's saying, Father, receive my spirit, into your hands I commit my spirit, and then immediately his spirit is committed to the Father. Guess what that says? That the Father has answered his prayer. That yes, God was his father. And what happened actually indicated that this is he's proving who he says he was. This is the Son of God. He commits himself to the Father and immediately he goes and the lights are back on. Incredible. Incredible. So incredible that you have the spectators to this cry. Take a look at verse 47. And this is something I I didn't see before, but just to point this out. Now the centurion saw what had happened. Verse 48. All the crowds who came together for this spectacle when they observed what had happened. Verse 49, and all his acquaintances and the women who accompanied him from Galilee were standing at a distance. Seeing these things. Seeing these things. They observed what had happened. They saw what had happened. What did they see happen? Lights are on Jesus bows his head, breathes his last, lights come back on. And the centurion, who saw what had happened, he began doing what? Verse 47? Praising God. What else are you going to do? What else are you going to do? Began praising God, saying, certainly this man was innocent. Not only what is he innocent of? He's innocent of the charges. He's innocent of what the Jewish leaders were actually accusing him of. But even more than that, flip over to Matthew chapter 27 just to show you this. Because there's more that the centurion understand, understood. Verse 51 It says, and behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook. That's something else that Luke doesn't mention. The earth shook. There was an earthquake Rocks were split, tombs were opened, many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised, and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered the Holy City and appeared to many. Now the centurion and those who were with him, keeping guard over Jesus, when they saw the earthquake and the things that were happening, became very frightened and said, Truly this was the Son of God. He is exactly who he said he was. That was the centurion's response. He responded in faith And praise. Certainly this man was innocent. Certainly this man was the son of God. But you had another response. Verse 48 And all the crowds who came together for the spectacle when they observed what had happened began to return, beating their breasts. You have the response of belief. And then you have this response of rejection. Those that hadn't rejected Christ, those who had mocked Christ, there was no comfort in this. They leave beating their breasts in the sign of grief, of agony. God has come to judge us. The judgment has come. Why are they feeling that way? Now they're guilty There's some sign there's some some remorse that's going on in their hearts now. I am guilty. Something's wrong. God has come to judge me. And they leave beating on their breasts in a sign of agony and woe. But then you have another response, verse 49, and all his acquaintances and the women who accompanied him from Galilee were standing at a distance, seeing these things. You had these women in particular who were closer to Jesus than the disciples were, to see where he was buried, to observe him as he was crucified. This is the response of love. Even though they were distant, distance away, these were still those who loved him, those who accompanied him, those who trusted in him Confused about the things that they were seeing, the shepherd was struck and the sheep scattered, but still there was a true heart of love. Even as Jesus speaks to Peter in his restoration and says, Peter, do you love me? And Peter says, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. No, I wasn't there, but I love you. I was a distance away, but I love you. But there was a sign of true love and affection even with these women. And my question for you is, where do you find yourself today? Are you one that has beheld the miracles and the word of God, the revelation that we see here, and say, you know what? Truly this was the Son of God. I wasn't aware of who he was before, but now that I'm being introduced to who he was and I'm seeing all these things, he is indeed the Son of God, and I trust in him. I'm going to leave praising God. I might have come in here one way, but I'm going to leave a different way. I'm going to leave praising God. And I pray that you're not in that second group. That just leaves beating your breast saying, woe is me. And maybe finding out that he was the Son of God, but a little bit too late. Because there is going to be another cry in the future, but it won't come from the Son of God. It's going to come from those that turn against him, and there's going to be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Jesus is not suffering anymore. But there will be those who will suffer who do not turn to Jesus Christ. And then there's those who are some distance away, true disciples, true lovers of God. But they were still a distance away from him during his crucifixion. And again, during the crucifixion, he would die alone. But there were those who truly had a love for him and who still persevered even through their Their doubt, even through their grief, they were still committed to Jesus Christ. And I pray that that would be us, that we would be those that persevere even until the end. In closing, these are words from MacArthur's uh book on the murder of Jesus. He says, Christ died as no other man has ever died. In one sense he was murdered by the hands of wicked men. In another sense, it was the Father who sent him to the cross and bruised him there, putting him to grief, and it pleased the Father to do so. Yet, in still another sense, no one took Christ's life He gave it up willingly for those whom he loved. When he finally expired on the cross, it was not with a wrenching struggle against his killers. He did not display any frenzied death throws. His final passage into death, like every other aspect of the crucifixion drama, was a deliberate act of his own sovereign will. Showing to the very end that he was sovereignly in control of all that was happening, and bowing his head, he gave up his spirit. He yielded his life in atonement for sin. And open the life gate that all may go in. Oh, come to the Father through Jesus the Son and give him the glory. Great things he has done. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.