The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Matthew chapter 9, if you'd open your Bibles there to Matthew chapter 9. We're in a section of scripture where Jesus' credentials are being put on display. The proof that Jesus has both the power and the right to rule is made abundantly clear by every situation that Jesus encounters. There's some people who have power, but they have no authority. There's some people who have authority, but they have no power. And what we find in Jesus is both is the perfect blend, the perfect match of both authority and power. The Gentile centurion was the first to verbalize it in Matthew. Remember, he recognized that Jesus had the power over disease. uh that he demonstrated uh that kind of authority and uh he recognized in in jesus uh an authority that was similar to to what he understood. He understood that when I tell one go, he goes. When I tell another one come he comes He had that kind of authority and he recognized in Jesus that same kind of authority to to say whatever he wanted to and actually see it take place. In uh chapter eight as well, we Found that idea of authority when Jesus decides to cross the lake of Galilee and he gives his disciples a command, he gives them an order. If you look back at uh Matthew chapter 8 and verse 18 It says that when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side of the sea. So here's Jesus having this audacity to tell grown men what they're going to do with their time, where they're going to travel. Jesus had that kind of authority. He could command his disciples to do anything that that he asked of them. While he was on the sea and the storm threatened to overturn the boat that they were traveling in from Capernaum across the the the Sea of Galilee. Jesus didn't wake up and pray that the storm would stop. He woke up and he commanded that the storm would stop. He gave a command, he gave an order, you know, peace, be still And uh recognized again that there was an authority that Jesus Christ had. And then we also understand that Jesus uh had authority over the the demons, uh the demons that he uh faced in the two men that rushed down from the the tombs uh to the edge of the the coast there. Uh they they they fell down at his feet and they actually asked permission if they could go into the swine. They had to ask permission because they understood again that Jesus was the authority. So Jesus proves his authority just over and over again as we uh look through the uh uh chapter eight and and chapter nine as well. And in chapter nine, uh what it's going to demonstrate for us is that Jesus also has the authority to forgive disobedience and sin. He has authority over uh disobedience. So he has authority over uh disease, disciples, disaster, demons, and now even over disobedience. And this is going to be made clear and really is compelling proof of the deity of Jesus Christ, uh that Jesus Christ is God. If you look at Matthew chapter 9, uh let's read verses 1 through 8 together here. So getting into a boat, Jesus crossed over the sea and came to his own city. And they brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the paralytic, Take courage, son, your sins are forgiven. And some of the scribes said to themselves, This fellow blasphemes. And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, why are you thinking evil in your hearts? Which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, get up and walk. But so that ye may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, Get up, pick up your bed, and go home. And he got up and went home. But when the crowd saw this, they were awestruck and glorified God who had given such authority to men. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we Thank you, God, once again for your word. We thank you for the clarity of it. We thank you for the power of it. We thank you for the challenge that it gives to us and the way that it focuses us on our Savior Jesus Christ. My Father, we pray that this morning that our hearts would be drawn to glory, to worship, to honor Jesus Christ, who is our head and who is our King. My Father, we pray that That you'd use me this morning to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. This passage puts us back in Capernaum. It's a city where James and John are from. It's the city where Peter and Andrew have actually transplanted to and called their home. It's also the city where Matthew set up shop. We'll learn about that the next time that we're in Matthew. But Capernaum, as we've uh said before, is sort of like a home base. It's a base of operations For Jesus Christ, he did many of his miracles here, did a lot of his teaching here in Capernaum. He enjoyed the hospitality of uh Peter and uh So he actually calls it his city, his own city in verse 9. Getting into a boat, Jesus crossed over the sea and came to his own city. It's called his own city because it was his city by choice. If you remember Bethlehem was his city of birth, uh Nazareth was his uh city of growth, and here Capernaum is his city of choice. It's the city where he set up operations and did a lot of his ministry from. And as we pointed out before, his uh hometown of of Nazareth was still offended by Jesus Christ and the authority uh that he had. They said, you know, who are you to kind of you know wield this kind of power and authority? You know, we know who you are, we know what family you come from, you know, were so familiar with you they couldn't recognize him as the God that he was. And uh so uh he he traveled to uh Capernaum and set up a ministry there because the prophet is not without honor The placement of the story is actually significant because even though Matthew places this narrative immediately after the casting out of the demons, uh in Ghadara. Uh when you compare it with the other gospel accounts, this actually takes place at a different time. It actually uh uh by the gospel accounts it takes place before he cast out the demons So the events that are placed here in Matthew aren't placed here because they fit together chronologically in the order of time. It's because they fit together thematically. They have a similar purpose and theme. And what Matthew is really trying to get across to us here in Matthew chapter 8 and chapter 9 is this idea of the authority of Jesus Christ. And uh the the healing of uh this paralytic actually is just another example of the authority that Jesus Christ has over everything. If you uh flip over to Matthew chapter 2, real quick chapter 2 real quick, uh Mark chapter 2. We'll actually see that this story that we're considering today about this paralytic is the popular story that you know from the other gospel accounts about uh the paralyzed man who was let down through the roof. you know, down to to the to the feet of of Jesus Christ and and Jesus Christ healed them there. Looking back at uh Mark chapter two just to kind of pick up some of the details. Starting at verse 1, Mark chapter 2, it says, and when he had come back to Capernaum several days afterward, it was heard that he was at home. And many were gathered together so that there was no longer room, not even near the door, and he was speaking the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. Being unable to get to him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had dug an opening, they let down the pallet on which the paralytic was lying. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. And there's all kinds of interesting application that we can make. out of the uh the account in in Mark. You know, the the popularity of the crowds that gathered around Jesus. We could talk about that. The love of these four friends for their companion. Uh we could talk about that, the the perseverance and ingenuity of this kind of roof project, you know, to dismantle the roof and lower their friend down into the to the front of Jesus. Uh we can even talk about how ancient roofs were constructed. I mean the these friends didn't take a sledgehammer, you know, to somebody else's roof. They weren't trying to destroy property. These tiles could be removed and uh Their friend could be lowered easily and the tiles could be put back into place so they didn't destroy the home when they put uh their friend through the uh through the roof. And all that would be interesting to talk about. But for Matthew, he wants to bypass all of that. He has a different purpose in mind. He wants it's kind of like we're in a museum, you know, you kind of want to stop at each exhibit and read the captions underneath and you know learn about this one, learn about that one. Matthew just rushes us past all of that and says, I want you to see the main exhibit What I really want you to see is not about the friends. You know, we could talk about the friends, but he doesn't give much attention to the friends. He doesn't even really give much attention to the paralytic, doesn't give a lot of details about this uh paralytic man, this man who was paralyzed. What Matthew wants us to focus our attention in on is what he says in uh in verse 2 of chapter 9, take courage, son, your sins are forgiven. That's what Matthew wants us to focus in on. That's the main highlight. That's the main exhibit that Matthew wants us to focus our attention on. And if you just think about those words, take courage, son, your sins are forgiven. Because I just want you to feel the drama of this, all right? Because when his friends got up that morning and kind of hoisted their friend on this pallet, you know, this kind of portable bed to bring him to Jesus. They weren't really expecting to tear the roof apart, to lower their friend down, so their friend could hear, take courage, son, your sins are forgiven. That's really not what they were looking for When uh the crowd saw this gurney kind of lower down into the room, it would have been obvious to them what this guy needed. You know, what this guy needs is a healing. Jesus is a healer. He's already healed many paralytics in the past. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 24, the news about them spread through all Syria. They brought to him all who were ill, those who were suffering with various diseases, pains, demoniacs, epileptics. Paralytics. Jesus had healed already many paralytics that were brought to him. And he healed them. And without even uh the friend saying a word, without the paralytics saying a word, When this palate comes down in front of Jesus, it would have been obvious to everybody else what this guy's looking for. You know, he's looking for a healing Looking for physical healing. And the words that this paralytic probably most wanted to hear at this time were the words rise, get up, and walk. That's what he wanted to hear. But the words that he most wanted to hear were not the words that he most needed to hear. The words that he most wanted to hear were not the words that he most needed to hear. And one of the questions that I put Your bullyin' uh this week is the is a question That asked asks this, what if Jesus sent the paralytic away crippled but forgiven? What if what if Jesus sent the paralytic away crippled but forgiven? Would this be any less of a miracle? Would you be disappointed if Jesus sent him away, forgiven, but he's still crippled? And how do you think you would have responded if you were the paralytic? You're paralyzed. You've been paralyzed I don't know how long, years. And then you get to see Jesus, the great healer, the great physician, and then his words for you are, hey, you're forgiven. Take courage. Cheer up. You're forgiven. How would you respond to that? Is that disappointing news for you to hear? Would it be worth the trouble of being carried through town, having the roof torn apart so you could just hear the words, you're forgiven? Would that be worth it? Why don't you flip over to John chapter 6 just to think about this a little bit more? One of my favorite passages in scripture because Jesus here lets lets the crowds know that their greatest problem was not what they could see or feel or perceive. The greatest problem is uh is something that's much deeper than that. Over in John chapter 6, there were many of the Jewish people who believed their greatest concern was for physical provision and physical protection They wanted to know what kind of work Jesus would perform. Look at verse 31 of John chapter 6. They're asking Jesus for uh for food, physical provision. Verse 31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. Jesus, if you need an idea, you know, bread falling from the sky would be pretty good right now. You know, can you make it rain? Can you make the bread rain from heaven? But just to remind these crowds about uh what came from bread and uh just the uh the lack of uh of power that bread had, look at what he says over in verse 58, chapter six, verse fifty-eight. He says, this is the bread which came out down out of heaven. Not as the fathers ate and died, he who eats this bread will live forever. What Jesus reminds them of in chapter, in verse 58 of chapter 6, is that you know that brain that rained down from heaven in the wilderness? Your fathers ate it, and guess what? Your fathers died. The the physical provision is not enough. If all that you're about is just your physical provision, it's not going to last. If that's what you focus your attention on, the the children of Israel were were fed miraculously, but guess what? They're all still dead. They all still died. Miraculous bread wasn't enough to give them eternal physical life. And when you think about it, out of all the people that Jesus healed during his ministry, how many of those people are still alive here to talk about it? There's nobody that that Jesus healed that is still alive today. And you think about it, there's many people during Jesus' day that were healed from blindness, deafness, dumbness, paralysis, epilepsy, leprosy, even people who are who are raised from the dead. But you know what? Something eventually took him out again. There's not one healing that remained throughout all of eternity There's not one healing that was given during this time that allowed people to still stay alive today. So what that should tell you is that there's something that's much more essential to life than just hearing the words Get up, pick up your bed and walk. There's something much more essential to our life than that, because if that's all that I hear, I'm still doomed. I'm still doomed. The plight of sin requires a cure that's much deeper than that. MacArthur describes sin in this way. He says, the monarch that rules the heart of every man is sin. It's the first Lord of the soul. Its virus has contaminated every living being. It's the degenerative power in the human stream that makes men susceptible to disease, illness, death, hell. It's the culprit in every broken marriage, disrupted home, shattered friendship, argument, pain, sorrow, and death. No wonder Scripture compares it to the venom of a snake and the stench of death. That's sin And it might not have been on the front of this paralytic's mind when he was laying before Jesus that, you know, hey, I need my sins to be taken care of. That might not have been on the front of his mind But this paralytic still knew that he was a sinner. He knew that he was a sinner. And it's very likely that he was even convinced that his paralysis, the disease that uh that his body had suffered or whether it was an accident, that whatever had happened to him, that it might have been the result of personal sin. Over in uh John chapter nine, if you remember the disciples see a man who was born blind and they kind of voice the popular belief of of their day which is that sin and suffering are just kind of In instricably connected. You know, that there's a connection between sin and suffering, sin and sickness. And John chapter 9 and verse 1 says that as he passed by, he saw a man born, uh man blind from birth. And his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? You know, because it's obvious that somebody sinned here, right? You know, there'd be no reason for this guy to be blind if uh if it wasn't his sin or his parents sinned. Who sinned? This man or his parents that he would be born blind. And the the Jewish faith rightly understood that sickness and suffering was a result of sin, but they wrongly assumed that it was always a result of personal sin. There's some sickness from scripture that, and we know this, that there's some sickness that's a result of personal sin. There is. In uh Deuteronomy chapter 28 under the old covenant. The children of Israel were reminded of this in Deuteronomy 28, 58, and 59. It says, If you are not careful to observe all the words of this law which are written in this book, To fear this honored and awesome name, the Lord your God, then the Lord will bring extraordinary plagues on you and your descendants, even severe and lasting plagues and miserable and chronic sicknesses. So there were people who suffered sickness because of personal sin, because they transgressed the law of God. There was even people that Jesus healed, and their sickness was a result of sin. In John chapter 5, there was a man who was lying sick for 38 years. 38 years waiting for some kind of healing. And Jesus heals him, and then he says in John chapter 5, verse 14, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore. Do not sin anymore so that nothing worse happens to you. So what he was saying is that his sin his sickness was a result. of some kind of sin that took place in the past. He says, don't sin again. Don't sin like this again so that nothing worse happens to you. It was a result of his sin. And even today in our observation of the Lord's Supper, and this is one of the reasons why we try to give some level of warning before participating in the Lord's Supper, because sickness could be a result of taking the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner. In the 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verses 28 to 30 it says, But a man must examine himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks, eats and drinks judgment to himself if he does not judge the body rightly. Then it follows up and says, for this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep. That's just a euphemism for death. Many of you might even die by eating of the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner So sometimes discipline takes the form of physical sickness and and even death. There's also sickness that's a result of uh the sin of others is as well, and there's a number of times and in scripture where where that's mentioned as well. For example, in in Exodus, if you remember the the plagues that fell on Egypt, it was actually the the sins of uh of the Pharaoh that caused the trouble for the rest of of Egypt. You know, Pharaoh refused to let the people go and his people suffered for it. You know, because he was hard hearted. It was because of his his hard heart that the uh the the boils and the plagues and everything else uh fell on Egypt. So sometimes sickness can be a result of other people's sins. Over in uh 2 Kings 5 when uh Gehazi attempted to deceive Naaman and acquire his belongings, he also, if you remember, acquired his leprosy But it wasn't only for him, it was for him and his descendants for and for every descendant after that. His whole family was affected by a sin. You know, it wasn't their sin, it was his sin. But the whole family was uh affected uh by the sin. And then there's the sickness that's just a result of the sin of Adam. In Romans chapter 8, verse 22, it says that we know that the whole creation groans. And uh that groaning includes our physical bodies as well. In 2 Corinthians 5. 2, it says, For indeed in this house, speaking of our physical bodies, that in this house we groan, and that's a result of the sin of Adam that's been passed down. Because of Adam's sin it brought along with it sickness, suffering, and eventually even death. In Romans chapter 5, verse 12 it says, Just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sinned. And in God's sovereign purposes, sometimes sickness is a part of our experience in this life, not because of any personal sin that we committed. Not because of any sin that our parents committed, but because we're in a sin-cursed earth. And because we experience the effect of a fallen world, we groan with the rest of creation under the weight of sin And it's likely that this paralytic lived underneath this kind of stigma that somehow he was responsible for being paralyzed. That it was because of his personal sin because a lot of the Jewish people didn't even think about the other category, about Adam's sin. They just think it's either your sin or your parents' sin. You know, either you did it or your parents did it. That's the reason you are the way that you are. So he must have lived under this kind of stigma of being, you know, the the sinner. You know, I'm paralyzed because I'm I'm the sinner. You know, I'm just kind of worse than everybody else. You know, my parents must ascend, I must ascend to become like this, to remain like this. Somehow it comes back to me, it's my fault. And this would have added the insult to the injury, you know what I mean, by people looking down on this man and his condition. And just like Job's friends, you know, there's a you know, people that would have accused him of of of sinning and, you know, that if if if it wasn't for your sin you wouldn't be like this. You know, there might have been parents that would have uh pointed him out to their kids and say, Hey kids, you want to be be obedient, pay attention, or else you might end up like that guy. You know, that's the result of sin. It's likely that his spirit would have been crushed by that. In uh Proverbs chapter 18, verse 14, it says, the spirit of a man can endure his sickness. A spirit of a man can endure a sickness, but as for a broken spirit, who can bear it? And it would have been likely that this man's spirit would have been crushed under the weight of this sin and uh accusation of sin. Sickness was associated with shame. One writer imagines a scene. He says the poor paralytic was stricken, not only in body, but also in spirit. His blanched lips were unable to utter even his petition, but his physical malady was not his worst trouble. Looking on his calamity as the punishment of God visited upon him for the sin of a vicious life, he was fearful and troubled His fear was depicted in his very countenance as he piteously looked up at the healer. His eyes told the story of fear. So can you imagine The weight that was lifted from his soul when Jesus turns to him and says, take courage, son. Your sins are forgiven. You're forgiven. Whatever guilt, shame, embarrassment that you might have felt before, your forgiveness removed from you. You're forgiven. Like I said, it wasn't what he expected to hear, but it's what he needed to hear. And what Jesus did is Jesus comforted him. comforted him. Look at uh the way that he he addresses this man in uh again in uh Matthew chapter 9 verse 2 he says take courage son The word that's used for son here is actually a little bit a little bit even more tender than that. He calls him uh my child. Technon is the word that he used. He says, my child. You know, take courage, my child. It's an affectionate term, filled with compassion. It's more than just relationship. It's this kind of tender affection. You know, my little one, my child. He encourages them. He says, you know, take courage. The word courage refers to dispelling fear. It's the same word that Jesus used when he walked across the Sea of Galilee and his disciples. uh thought that he was a ghost. Remember that? They cried out in terror. And Jesus says, take courage, uses the same word, take courage, be strengthened. You know, don't there's no need to be terrified. It's just me. Jesus uses the same words for this this paralytic take courage you you you don't have to fear no no need for fear here R. C. Sprohl once said that uh there was a friend, uh a non-Christian friend that he had that a number of years ago asked him if he'd want to work in in his uh psychiatry department. And uh R. C. said, you know, why? You know, I don't know anything about you know psychiatry. And uh the friend said, you know, you may not know anything about psychiatry, but you know something about guilt and forgiveness. And he says, 98% of the people, this is the psychiatrist talking, 98% of the people who come to see me don't need a psychiatrist. They need a priest. You cannot believe how many people are walking around this world with unresolved guilt that's just eating them up. You know, a lot of a lot of problems that people have are connected to this guilt and fear and Jesus gives him this word of encouragement. You know, don't fear. Be encouraged. And then on top of that, Jesus forgave them. And this was his greatest and deepest need was to be forgiven. Jesus' words were a mercy to this man. It's more than a declaration about something that's already been done. What Jesus is actually saying is that this is happening right now. You are being forgiven. That's the tense of the verb that's used here. The Apostle John talks about sins that already have been forgiven. 1 John 2, verse 12. He says, I'm writing to you, little children, because you have your sins have been forgiven. For his name's sake, what Jesus does here is something entirely different. Jesus says, I am forgiving your sins. Not that your sins have been forgiven, like I'm just declaring what's happened. He's saying that your sins are being forgiven. This is how the scribes understood it. That's why they said that he's blaspheming. That's how Jesus understood it because he says the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He's claiming authority over disobedience, and he has the power to forgive. And that takes us to the next point. He takes authority over this disagreement that arises because of forgiveness. Look at verse 3. It says, and some of the scribes said to themselves, this fellow blasphemes. The scribes were considered the experts on the law. They would have been looked up to by the people, by the Pharisees, even by the ruling body of Israel, the Sanhedrin. If anybody wanted to know a proper interpretation of the law, they'd come to the scribes because the scribes were the experts. If anybody was considered kind of like the guardians of orthodoxy, it would have been the scribes. They were counted on to protect the nation of Israel from error, from false teaching. Trained in the scriptures, they wrestled with the scriptures, the implications of the scriptures, and one of the most serious charges that could be assigned to any individual was the charge of blasphemy. Charge of blasphemy. And when you think about it, um, blasphemy is one of the charges that actually could break every one of the first three commandments. In uh the Mosaic Code, the the first three of the Ten Commandments, you know, have no other god before me, you know, saying that God deserves first place. Uh have no graven images, don't put anybody in my place, and don't take the name of the Lord in vain, don't bring me down to your place All three of those could be broken by the charge of blasphemy. And if you think about the implications of that command, of those three commands, you know, to have no other gods before me, it says that We're only to attribute to God what is worthy of God, right? We're to recognize God for who he is. Have no other guys before me. Have no other grave no graven images. You don't attribute to anybody else what's only worthy of God, right? So you attribute to God what's worthy of God You don't attribute to anybody else what's worthy of God. And then number three, you don't take the name of the Lord in vain. You don't bring God down to a common or profane level. You don't bring God down to what's never worthy of God. Okay? So you you have the implications of that. Only attribute to God what's worthy of God. You don't attribute to anybody else what's only worthy of God, and you don't bring God down to what's never worthy of God. Those are the first three commands. And the sin of blasphemy could break all three of those All three of those. The word blasphemy means to speak evil against, to dishonor, to abuse somebody with your speech, and the blasphemy of God could violate every one of these commands. Flip over to Isaiah chapter 36 just so I can show you this here. Isaiah chapter 36. We've been in Isaiah for a number of weeks now as we've been traveling through, and it's been a blessing to me personally just to walk through what's been called the fifth gospel. In Isaiah chapter 36, it describes a time during the reign of King Hezekiah, one of the kings of Judah. uh when Assyria was uh posing the greatest threat to the nation's security. If you remember Assyria is the the nation that uh that takes out the northern kingdom of Israel. Assyria, the capital of Assyria was Nineveh. You might recognize that. So this is the vicious nation. So if you remember a series of the nation that takes the northern kingdom out and is is vicious and at this time is really kind of taking over all the other uh countries around them. So Assyria approaches Jerusalem and sends a message to the king of Jerusalem. Look at Isaiah chapter 36 starting in verse 18. Says, beware that Hezekiah, he says, don't don't don't pay attention to your king. You know, I I want to give you a warning about your king, Hezekiah Beware that Hezekiah does not mislead you, saying, The Lord will deliver us. Has any one of the gods of the nations delivered his land from the hand of the king of Assyria? Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim? And when have they delivered Samaria from my hand? Who among the gods of all these lands have delivered their land from my hand that the Lord would deliver Jerusalem from my hand? So here's this this guy taunting the God of Israel. Who is the God of Israel? How is he going to deliver you from from my hand? So here he's failing to attribute to God what he's worthy of He's failing to attribute to God that God is more powerful, the God is more sovereign, that the God is a deliverer. He's failing to attribute to God what is worthy of God. And in chapter 37, verse 6, look what Isaiah says. Isaiah said to them, Thus you shall say to your master, Thus says the Lord, do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have what? Blaspheme me. It's blasphemy if you don't attribute to God what he's worthy of. If you don't recognize God for who he says he is, it's blasphemy. It's to speak evil against God. You've broken the first command. Secondly, if a person attributed to another what was only worthy of God, it could be considered blasphemy. In Nehemiah chapter 9, you don't have to turn there. You can if you want. Nehemiah chapter 9, verse 18. Nehemiah is recounting the history of Israel, how they made the molten calf. You remember that over in uh Exodus? So here's this molten calf that they make, and uh what do they call this calf? They say, look, this is the God. This is Yahweh. This is Elohim. This is the one that brought you out of Egypt. Attributing to something else what would be worthy of God. Attributing to something else will be worthy of God. Nehemiah chapter 9, verse 18 says this. Even when they made for themselves a calf of molten metal, And said, This is your God who brought you up from Egypt and committed great blasphemies. To attribute to something else what's only worthy of God is considered blasphemy. To give praise to someone else or something else. Praise that only belongs to God is considered blasphemy. It's to speak evil of God. And then the third way, to bring God down to a common or profane level, is considered blasphemy. We looked at this before in Leviticus chapter 24. Leviticus 24, verses 10 to 11. It says, Now the son of an Israelite woman whose father was an Egyptian went out among the sons of Israel, and the Israelite woman's son and the man of Israel struggled with each other. So here's this fight that breaks out in the camp of Israel. And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the name. He cursed. Using God's name is like just a profane profanity. You know, just this the curse word. Uses God's name. So they brought him to Moses Because he blasphemed the name of God and uh actually lost his life because of it. You know, uh I think speech would be a whole lot different if people were losing their lives for using the name of the Lord in in vain. So here you have blasphemy listed in the Old Testament, failing to attribute to God what was only worthy of God, attributing to another person what was only worthy of God, and bringing God down to a common level. Of something that God was never worthy of. That's blasphemy. So serious a violation that according to the old covenant that people would die because of it. Leviticus chapter 24, 16. It says, moreover, the one who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. The alien as well as the native, when he blasphemes the name, shall be put to death. And then here comes Jesus. Attributing to himself something that only God is worthy of. Only God can forgive sins. And here's Jesus attributing that to himself. I mean, can you imagine the kind of shock That these scribes would have gone through, you know, to hear Jesus utter these words, hey son, your sins are forgiven. I forgive you. I forgive you It's only God that can forgive. It's an attribute of God, that's why uh when God describes himself in Exodus chapter thirty four when he passes before Moses Exodus thirty four, six and seven, it says the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord God, compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness and truth, who keeps loving kindness for thousands. Who forgives transgressions and sins? Who is the Lord? The Lord is the one who forgives transgressions and sins. Nobody else can do it. The Lord does that. Daniel chapter 9, verse 9, to the Lord our God belong compassion and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him. Only to the Lord our God belongs forgiveness. Only God can do that. Nehemiah chapter 9 verse 17, you are a God of forgiveness, gracious and compassionate, slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness It would be the height of arrogance to say, if you want forgiveness of sins, hey, you can just come to me for that. You know, you don't have to go before the Lord. You can just come to me. It would be to deny God of a position that only He is worthy of as the supreme lawgiver and the judge. It would be entirely evil. For anybody else to say that they had the ability to do something that only God could do. And when you think about it, you know, by Jesus forgiving the sin here, it even makes it more clear who Jesus is calling himself. You know, let's say for the like this morning, you know, as I'm coming into church, I'm coming into the parking lot, I'm just kind of rushing, I'm trying to look over my notes and uh you know I parked beside Matt's truck and I scrape the the whole side of the vehicle from like the back of the bumper all the way to the front of the hood, just like scratch it. Now walk in here, I just got my head hanging down and you know one of you says, you know, hey what's what's wrong, George? You know what's going on? It's like man I just you know I wasn't paying attention and I just scratched up Matt's truck. It's it's just ruined. I don't know how much it's gonna cost to to fix that. You say, oh, don't worry about it. I forgive you It's like that might be a nice sentiment. I might feel good about that that you say, you know, hey, I I forgive you. I don't think Matt would appreciate it. Hey Matt, don't worry about the truck, you know. Somebody out on the hallway forgave me for it. You know what I mean? I don't think Matt would appreciate, you know, me saying, hey, somebody else forgave me for what I did to your stuff. So here you have God, who says that he alone can forgive sin, and then Jesus shows up and says, hey, don't worry about it. I can forgive you. I forgive you. Don't worry about it. Take courage. Be of good cheer. I forgive you. Psalm 51, David acknowledges the sin and says, Against you and you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. And what Jesus is saying is that God of Psalm 51 that all sins are against, that God is mean. I'm the one that you sin against. Every time you sin, it's a sin against me. And forgiveness belongs to me. And I can give forgiveness to whoever I wish to give forgiveness to. Forgiveness wouldn't be anybody else's but Matt's if I scratch this car, right? Forgiveness would belong to him in that case, because it's his stuff. In our case, when we stand before God, it's God that's violated We can't get forgiveness from anybody else because of the sin that we committed against God. We can only come to God for that. And Jesus here says, that God of Psalm 51 that all sin is against, that God is me. That God is me, and I can forgive sin. Which is really a staggering statement. I mean, can you imagine what people are going to face on the Day of Judgment? People who turn against God People who turn away against Jesus Christ. Every time you use Jesus' name, you're blaspheming the name of God. Every time you use the name of Jesus Christ out of place, it's blaspheming the name of God. Every evil thought that you have against Jesus is a blasphemy against God. Every time people claim they can do what Jesus only can do, it's a blasphemy against God. To deny that Jesus can do what only he can do, it's a blasphemy. To bring Jesus down to a common level, to bring him down to our level. It's blasphemy against God because Jesus is God. Jesus is God. And on the final day, every man will have to give an answer to Jesus as the final judge. In John chapter 5, it says, For not even the Father judges anyone, but he has given all judgment to the Son. Why? so that all will honor the Son even as they honor the Father. Jesus Christ deserves the same honor that God does. Because he's God. Jesus had authority to judge every man, and Jesus has the authority to forgive every man. There's no explanation for this other than the fact that Jesus is God, equal to the Father in praise and honor and glory. And like I said, for the scribes, this would have left their mouths like hanging open, that Jesus would even claim to do this. Claim to forgive sin Such a mind-blowing statement, it would have sucked the air out of the room. Shocking beyond belief for somebody actually to even form the words in their mind that I can forgive sin, much less to spit them out and to say it. You know, sometimes I run across people who say that, you know, Jesus never claimed to be God. It's like, you know, like where do you start, right? Like, isn't it frustrating? You know, people say, oh, Jesus never claimed to be God. What do you do with this? What do you do with this if you don't say that Jesus claimed to be God? It's true that Jesus never said the words, I am God, but he didn't have to. Why would you have to when you claim to do the things that Jesus can do? Why do you have to say I am God? Everything about him said that he was God. Claim to be God all over the place. Anybody who knows their Bibles understand that Jesus said that I'm the Lord, I'm the I am, I'm the first and the last, I'm the judge, and there he claims to have the ability to forgive sin that only God can forgive. What else do you need to prove that Jesus is God? And just to reinforce his claim, he follows it up with some undeniable proof. To back up his statement, his claim to be God, he backs it up with this undeniable proof. by doing something physical that people can see to verify something that they can't see. You know, they can't see that he can forgive sins. I mean who sees sins being forgiven? Nobody's You know, it's not like a light bulb goes off over your head. Hey, that's a forgiving person over there. Nope. I mean nobody knows. It's not physical. So how how do they know that this has actually happened? He does something physical to actually prove it. Look over in uh back over in uh Matthew chapter 9. I go over Matthew chapter 9 again. Verse 4. And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why are you thinking evil in your hearts? Which is easier to say your sins are forgiven, or to say, get up and walk. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, then he said to the paralytic, Get up, pick up your bed, and go home. Jesus gives him clear proof. of his ability to forgive sins. Clear proof of his ability to forgive sins. First of all, he reads their thoughts Don't miss that. He reads their thoughts. That's that's one of the first proofs right there of what I say who I say I am. And I don't know about you, but but that would get my attention right off the bat. You know, here's a man who claims he can forgive sin and the next thing he's in my head Like reading my thoughts knows exactly what I'm thinking. That would get my attention. So here you have Jesus reading the thoughts of these men and In chapter 4, in verse 4, knowing their thoughts, he says, why are you thinking evil in your hearts? Jesus displays a knowledge of men's hearts. When Jesus was accused of casting demons out by demons in Matthew chapter 12, 25. It says Jesus was knowing their thoughts. Before he healed the man with the withered hand in Luke chapter 6 verse 8, it says he knew what they were thinking. John chapter 2 verse 25 says he did not need anyone to testify concerning man, for he himself knew what was in man. And that should have been enough for the scribes at least to do a double take to say, hey, you know, we might want to be careful. about the kind of accusation we want to make against this guy because he's in my head. He knows what I'm thinking. Even before I say it. Psalm one thirty nine says of God that you know when I sit down, when I rise up, you understand my thought from afar. That's that's something that's attributed to God. In verse 4 of Psalm 139, even before there is a word on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all. That's God that does that. And here, Jesus is reading their thoughts. Flip over to John chapter 1 real quick. John chapter 1. The ability that Jesus had to read hearts is part of what convinced Nathaniel, one of the disciples of Jesus, to follow after Jesus. In chapter 1, it reveals that he knew Nathaniel even before he met him. Even before he met him, he knew who Nathaniel was, knew all about him. Look at verse uh 48 of uh chapter 1. Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? And Jesus had previously just revealed that he knew what was going on in his mind. And Nathaniel said to him, How do you know me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you. Nathaniel answered him, Rabbi. You are the son of God. You are the king of Israel. How did he say that? How did he reach that conclusion? It's like, who else can read my mind but God? You know me. How do you even know me? I've never met you before, but you know what's going on inside my head? You must be the king of Israel. You must be the son of God Because of this ability that he had. Jesus had supernatural knowledge. That was at least one reason the scribes should have been slow to accuse Jesus. But what Jesus does next is irrefutable proof of his claim to forgive sin. Because what he does next is uh he raises the paralytic. And you have to think about the order here, because the the scribes had no doubt that Jesus could raise cripples. They've seen that before. They've been around Jesus. They've seen his miracles. So they know that Jesus can raise paralytics. That's not the thing that's shocking to them. What's shocking to them is that in their minds, Jesus has just blasphemed. Right? Jesus is just blasphemed in their minds, so there should be no way that God is going to allow a blasphemer to be validated before the people How would God do that? I mean in in the in the Old Testament, God opened up the the ground and swallowed up people that spoke a word against Moses. So here you have this man he's speaking against God and God's going to allow him to be verified before the people. There's no way that this is going to happen. So here, right after Jesus says I can forgive sins, Jesus turns around, and now he's about to heal this paralytic in uh verses uh five and six again in uh in Matthew chapter nine. It says, what's easier to say? Your sins are forgiven or to say get up and walk. But so that you may know, so that you may know something that you can't see, I'm going to give you something that you can see. So that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Then he said to the paralytic, get up, pick up your bed, and go home. And you can just imagine like the scribes saying like no please don't don't do it. Don't get up. Please, please no. So here they are watching this paralytic start to move and it's just like, oh my goodness, it's it's happening. It's happening. Like I said, there's people that claim all kinds of all kinds of things. You have uh Roman Catholic priests who claim they can turn the bread of communion into the body of the Lord It's pretty easy to say when nothing actually happens, right? I mean the wafer that they have in their hand, they say, hey, this has now become the body of the Lord, but nothing happens to the wafer. Nothing's actually changed. It's a lot easier to say, easier to say, hey, this becomes the body of the Lord, but you don't have to see anything. Just believe me. Just trust me, it's changed. You know It's a lot easier to say say that than to actually have to prove your words by what you can say. And here Jesus produces evidence of something that They can see to give evidence of what they can. So both forgiveness of sins and the raising of the paralyzed are both impossible, right? Both are impossible to do, for men to do, forgive sins, to raise paralytics. But here Jesus is able to do both. And he says, I'll give you one that you can see so that you can believe what you can't. He uses the word so that you may know oida, to see, to perceive. And leaves them with no doubt in their minds of who they're standing in front of. This is an incredible miracle. And then the third thing is you have the authority over the paralytics disability. Authority over the paralytics of disability in verses 7 and 8. Look at this. It says and he got up and went home. That's it. Got up and went home. There's there's not a whole lot of detail. You know, there's there's not a whole lot of detail about this. And when you think about it, you know, getting up and picking up your bed and walking home, it doesn't seem like a real spiritual undertaking. You know what I mean? It's not like there's some kind of big, you know, uh, you know, fantastic, you know, go around the world, become a missionary, you know, why don't you fly home or something? It's just like, just do something simple. Just get up, pick up your bed, go home. But the simple act of faith and obedience was huge. Just to pick up your bed and walk. That's all Jesus asked him to do. Just pick up your bed up, pick up your bed, walk home. But the simple act of obedience was a monumental witness to the scribes. It was a witness to all those in the crowd that gathered around. And just like the rest of Jesus' miracles, we have a healing that's direct, that's without any gimmicks. Uh, you know, there's no dimming of the lights, there's no mood music, you know, to kind of work the crowd up, you know, to kind of make people believe something's happening in the background here. You know, Jesus doesn't need any of that. There's no lapse of time. This is immediate. It's permanent. There's no relapse. You know, like like he he got up and then he fell out the door. You know, there's nothing that like that that happened. You know, this is a permanent miracle. Incredible These muscles that might have laid dormant for years, maybe all of his life, instantly made strong, healthy. Motor skills that he never had the chance to develop. Instantly ready to go. The kind of balance and strength that he needed to carry up a bed and walk. I mean, this is a sign that this is a complete healing that this guy is able to carry stuff now. Instantly, all that's just present. I uh my my father-in-law uh had a stroke, you know, uh um a number of years ago. It took him months to learn how to walk, how to talk again, you know, after losing that ability through the stroke. Here it's like immediate Immediate, Jesus says, get up, pick up your bed, go. Immediate, all that stuff is there. It's like, you know, muscles grow. You know, it's just like instantly you're just seeing all this take place right in front of your eyes. It would have been incredible. Incredible to watch this take place. How do the scribes respond? How do they respond? We don't know. We're not told It's kind of interesting that Matthew doesn't give a response. It doesn't say what the what the scribes said, what they thought, you know, after this point. They saw this miracle, and you move away from the scribes like there's there's nothing to say. You know why I think that is? Because they don't have anything to say. They have no response for this. What are they going to say? After they've been here accusing Jesus of blasphemy, and then he's able to raise the paralytic from from from the from the bed. It's like What words can you form now to say anything? They have no response for this. They're speechless. And for Matthew, this is the first sign of opposition from the scribes, and it doesn't get any better for the scribes after this. Next time in Matthew that we see describes, it's in chapter 12. They've had a little bit more time to think about it. They break the silence and say, oh, he does it by the power of demons. Like they finally come up with some kind of reasoning. Because they couldn't think of anything before. Like, so it takes them a while to come up with something. Oh, he does it by the power of demons. But here in uh Matthew chapter 9, it's like they they they have they're speechless. Nothing. They got nothing to say about this. What we do hear from is the crowds in verse 8, the crowds saw this, they were awestruck, glorified God who had given such authority to men. The word that's used here for being awestruck is the Greek word phobo. It's where we get our English word phobia from. This is actually fear. It's a fearful kind of experience that they had. Like I said, they they just seen this man who's maybe shriveled up, paralytic, lower down through a on a cot, through the through the roof. And now they see muscles grow right in front of him, gain his health. I mean, that's frightening, you know, to see that kind of power, just like take place in front of your eyes. You know you're in the presence of a power that's beyond this planet when you see that. But at the same time that they're filled with this excitement, there's just this like overwhelming sense of joy, you know, as well, and glory. that they give to to the Lord. And and both would have been true. You know, they they fear and they glory. I I remember the the the first time I went to see the the Grand Canyon, you know, for those of you who've seen it's kind of like overwhelming to kind of take it all in. You see pictures, pictures just don't do it justice, right? I remember that one of the first times when I went to see the Grand Canyon, I actually like laid down flat, you know, and kind of like poked my head over, you know, the the canyon just to kind of see the get the full experience, and it was fearful. It was fearful. Because you know, like just one breeze, and that's that's all she wrote, right? You know, one breeze blows you over, you're done. There's just no chance you're walking away from that. But at the same time it was like one of the most joyful experiences of my life, you know, like this this to take it in. It's just breathtaking. It's like one of the first times I think I really understood the word awe. You know, like you just kind of like I have no words to like express this, right? You know what I mean? So it's like the first time I saw it was just like, this is awesome. You know, you're fearful, you're excited all at the same time. That's how this crowd was. I think uh C. S. Lewis put it well in his Chronicles of Narnia, if you remember that. He has the picture of Aslan, who's a line trying to represent Jesus Christ. And when he talks about the children in the story, they're getting ready to meet Aslan, the lion, who's supposed to represent Jesus. And uh one of the children says, I'll feel kind of nervous about meeting a lion. And uh the beavers reply, that you will, Derry, and no mistake. If there's anyone who can appear before Aslan without their knees knocking, they're either braver than most or just silly. Then Lucy says, then he then isn't he safe? Safe. Don't you hear what Mrs. Beaver tells you? Who said anything about safe? Of course he isn't safe. He's a lion, but he's good. He's the king, I tell you. We have the same kind of experience with Jesus Christ. He is the most unsafe person you will ever meet. You know, safe. Who said anything about being safe? Of course he's not safe. He's the king. This is God you're talking about. Of course he isn't safe. But he's good. He's good. You can trust him So how did the crowds respond? Matthew 8, Matthew chapter 9, verse 8. When the crowd saw this, they were awestruck. Glorified God, who had given such authority to men. And their response is good, but it just doesn't go far enough. Just doesn't go far enough. It's good, but it's so incomplete, isn't it? Oh, glorify God because He's given such authority to men. And they stop there. So incomplete. Jesus was a man, but but he's more than a man, isn't he? He's more than a man. Jesus had authority, that's true. They got that right, but he has all authority. Not just some authority, he has all authority. John Calvin remarks on this passage, he says, Though they see a man with their eyes, they ought to have perceived in him by the mind something higher than a man. They are no doubt right in saying that the nature of man received great honor in Christ, but they do not perceive him to be God, manifested in the flesh, the majesty of God was united to flesh. 1 Timothy 3. 16, by common confession, great is the mystery of godliness, who was revealed in the flesh. God was revealed in the flesh. So the crowds look at Jesus and their conclusion is, what a man. What a man. The scribes look at Jesus and their conclusion is, what a devil. Christians look at Jesus and their conclusion is, what a God. What a God. So my question for you is what's your conclusion about Jesus Christ? What's your conclusion about Jesus? Because I want to submit to you that to reach the wrong conclusion about who Jesus Christ is today was evil then, and it's evil today. To reach the wrong conclusion about Jesus. It was evil then and it's evil today. It's wrong. It's blasphemy. If you look at Jesus and your conclusion is what a devil. What a devil. I pray that God has mercy on you because that's blasphemy before God. To conclude anything like that about Jesus Christ, and Jesus will be your judge. To conclude evil about who Jesus Christ is. If you look at Jesus Christ and your conclusion is nothing more than, what a man. Wow, what a man. That's not the kind of confession that Jesus built his church on, right? Jesus doesn't build his church on a claim that Jesus is what a man. Look at how great of a prophet he is. Look at what a great miracle worker he was. How kind and compassionate he is. There's many people in the world that say things like that about Jesus. But it doesn't go far enough. It fails to attribute to Jesus what is worthy of Jesus. And if it never goes beyond that, it's ultimately to speak evil about who Jesus is. But if you look at Jesus and your conclusion is what a God. That's the only, there's only one right way to respond to that kind of revelation of who Jesus is And that's to submit your entire life to him, to receive the forgiveness that he offers us, just like he did to the paralytic, we can receive forgiveness from him because he is God. And the the greatest message that we could hear today is not, you know, rise, pick up your pallet and walk, you know, that your your your your your sicknesses have been healed. You know, you're all better. That's not the greatest message we could hear. The greatest message we can hear is take courage, child, your sins are forgiven. That's the greatest message that we need to hear. The good news is not, you know, you can be healthy and wealthy and successful like a lot of the churches today are preaching. Like that's the greatest news to hear is that, you know, come in and receive your blessing. You know, you're gonna get your bills paid. You know, Jesus is gonna get your back fixed. You know, Jesus is gonna do this and do that. That's not the greatest message That's not the gospel. You know what the gospel is? The gospel is come to Jesus Christ, repent of your sins, and receive eternal life. That's the message. Forgiveness of sins. That's the good news. What we need is a message that's much more important than health and wealth and prosperity. What we need is a message that's going to take us beyond the grave because all of us are headed there, right? You know, you can get healed today, you might die tomorrow. It's just the truth. We're all going out. Something's going to take us out eventually. What are you going to have after after the the the last the last breath is taken? Our message is to turn from your sins and turn to Jesus Christ and be saved. That's our message. And that's the good news. For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not what? Perish, but have eternal life. That's the message that we have. Amen. Let's uh glorify our Lord together. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for uh this wonderful opportunity that we have to Think about you, to think about your truth. My Father, to think about your son Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh. My Father, we uh we're grateful that we know who He is. That we don't look at Jesus and say, oh, what a what a devil. We don't look at Jesus and say, what a man. We look at Jesus and say, what a God. What a God. And because he's God, he deserves worship and glory and honor and obedience. We can turn from our sins and turn to Him and be saved. So, Father, I pray that this morning we would grow in our confidence and appreciation for Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name, we pray and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.