The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your uh Bibles with me and open up to the 22nd chapter of Matthew? We're in Matthew chapter 22, and uh my Christmas gift this morning is being able to move to the very next passage of Matthew. And unwrap the Christmas message that's already been provided for us there because in the the providence of God, Matthew chapter twenty-two and verse forty-six asked the question that we should all be concerned with this holiday season, what do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? That's the most important question for you to answer this season because if Jesus was nothing more than a son of David, we don't really have anything to celebrate. You might as well take down the lights, put the tree on the curb, and uh return the gifts to the store you bought them from. I hope you save the receipt. If Jesus was just a son of David, everything that we celebrate at Christmas is a lie. And we're guilty of promoting the greatest kind of deception. If Jesus was just the Son of David, the Jewish chief priests and elders of the people were right to seek his crucifixion. Because the authority that Jesus claimed for himself would have been the worst kind of blasphemy. The attacks against Jesus didn't come because Jesus just claimed to be a son of David. That's no reason to seek crucifixion. These religious leaders in Matthew chapter 22 understood that Jesus was claiming to be more than just a son of David. His words and his actions made it clear that he thought of himself as much more than just that. Earlier in the same week that we're reading about in Matthew chapter 22, he accepted the praises of the people who greeted him with shouts of Hosanna. And he justified those phrases being directed to him by quoting from Psalm 8, verse 2, which is a psalm that's directed to God. And Psalm 8 begins with the words in verse 1, O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Who have displayed your splendor above the heavens from the mouth of infants and nursing babes, you have established strength. And Jesus applies the same psalm to himself. In Matthew chapter 21 and verse 16, the chief priest and scribes said to him, Do you hear what these children are saying? They're crying out, Hosanna! He's basically asking Jesus to stop this. Stop these praises that are being directed to you. And Jesus answered them and he said, Yes, have you never read, out of the mouth of infants and nursing babes, yet prepared praise for yourself? That's more than a son of David can claim for himself. Earlier this week, Jesus also took control of the entire temple precinct, ran out the money changers, the animal sellers. And in his defense, he quotes from Isaiah chapter 56 in verse 7, in Matthew chapter 21 again in verse 13, he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you're making it a robber's den. My house? What what what do you mean my house? This is God's house. Who is he making himself out to be? It doesn't matter what king he can trace his line back to. No earthly king in his right mind could ever claim the kinds of things that Jesus did for himself. without being guilty of the worst kind of blasphemy or or insanity. Let's listen to the kinds of things that Jesus claimed for himself and ask yourself, How how would I respond if if one of today's world leaders claimed this about himself? What what if that's made the headlines? You know, you check your newsfeed in the morning and this is what pops up. This is what pops up in your news headline. Just when you thought you heard it all. Just when you thought you heard it all, President of the United States claims to come from heaven. But Jesus says in John chapter 8, verse 23, he was saying to them, You are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. In John chapter 3, verse 31, he who comes from above is above all. He who is of the earth is from the earth and speaks of the earth. He who comes from heaven is above all. Or imagine a world leader saying this. Find this on your newsfeed. Do you have the guilty conscience? Maybe the President of Russia can help you with his ability to forgive sins But Jesus says in Matthew chapter 9, verse 5 and 6, which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, get up and walk. But so that ye may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Then he said to the paralytic, Get up, take up your bed. and go home. What about this one? Not only does China lead the world in exports, now the president of China claims to be the author and giver of life. But Jesus says in John chapter 11 verse 25, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. Or how about this one? Do we all answer to Germany now? Chancellor of Germany defends divine right to be the judge of all men. But Jesus says in John chapter 5, verse 22, For not even the Father judges anyone, but has given all judgment to the Son. So that we will honor him, honor the son, even as they honor the Father. Maybe that's one. Where can you run from the United Kingdom? Now the Prime Minister of the UK is omnipresent. Listen to this. Jesus says in Matthew chapter 18, For where two or three are gathered together in my name, where is he? I am there in the midst. How can you claim that if you're not omnipresent? You can't claim that. Everywhere that you're gathered together, I'm right there. I'm in the next. I can't claim that. Nobody can claim that except God Or how about this one? The president of France is older than you think. In a press conference, he claimed to be eternal. But Jesus in John chapter 8, verse 58, says, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am. Or imagine, he's just a prayer away. Prime Minister of Japan claims the ability to answer prayer. But Jesus claims in John chapter 14, if you ask me anything in my name, I will do it. Or finally, forget the red carpet, King of Saudi Arabia will make an appearance from heaven at the right hand of power. But Jesus says in Matthew chapter 26 and verse 64, You said it yourself, nevertheless I tell you, hereafter, you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. I don't care what Royal branches on your family tree. I don't care who's in your lineage. Nobody in their right mind can claim the kind of things that Jesus claimed for himself. You need to to prove that you're much more than just a a son of David to claim the kinds of things that Jesus claimed for himself. If Jesus was just a son of David, his statements would be insane. We'd have the right to dismiss him as nothing more than a lunatic And if people actually started taking them seriously, we would be right to join the religious community in condemning Jesus Christ. But Jesus was much more than just a son of David. And uh the basis for this expectation that the Messiah would be more than a son of David came out of the mouth of no less than David himself And that's the point that Jesus is going to make in the passage that we have before us this morning. Why don't you follow with me in Matthew chapter 22, starting at verse 41? Matthew chapter 22, starting at verse 41. Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question. What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. He said to them, Then how does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I have put your enemies beneath your feet. If David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? No one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him another question. Why don't you bow your heads with me in a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, and uh Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity that we have to open up this book, to open up the revelation of God. The inspiration of Scripture, Lord, on the very pages that we hold in our hands. And Father, I pray that you would help us to uh uh to really understand the meaning of it, that we would apply it to our lives. Our Father, that you would transform us through your word, through the power of it. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Question is, what do you think about the Christ and whose son is he? There's not a more significant question than you that you can think about than this. It deserves an answer. This question deserves an answer. And the Pharisees, who are the self-appointed guardians and keepers of the law of God, they refuse to answer the question because they refuse to acknowledge Jesus as more than just a mere man. But the scriptures themselves indicate that the Messiah was expected to be more than just a man. And that's what Jesus points out in this confrontation with the religious leaders. So he asks this Most important question about the identity of the Messiah. What do you think about him? Who said is he? And if they could give an honest answer to this question, all of their other questions would have been answered. They ask a lot of questions in Matthew chapter 21. They asked them the question about, you know, who gives you the right to come in here and do what you're doing in the temple? By what authority are you doing these things? That question would have been answered. Or their question in John chapter 8 and verse 53, they ask, you know, surely you're not greater than our father Abraham who died. Who do you make yourself out to be? That question would have been answered if they were to answer the question, whose son is he? Or the question in Mark chapter 2, why does this man speak this way? Who can forgive sins but God alone? That question would have been answered if they answered this question. Who is the Christ? If they were able to answer that question correctly, all of their other questions would have been answered. Who do you think Christ is? It's a question that deserves an answer, but they refuse to give an answer, and in their silence they speak volumes. They speak volumes in their silence. It's a deafening silence because they don't have a comeback When Jesus asked this question in Matthew chapter 22, no one was able to answer him a word, nor did anyone dare from that day on to seek to ask him another question. They were up against the ropes. They can't throw a punch in return and they just throw in the towel. Like just call it quits. It's over. You know, we're not trying to come back. There's nothing more that we can do. Fight's over. Tell the referee we're done. There's an old statement that could more accurately refer to Jesus Christ, that Jesus is an anvil which has worn out many hammers Everybody that comes to attack Jesus Christ, they will get worn out before they wear Jesus out, right? And these attacks against Jesus wear out the attackers. They keep coming after them, keep trying to attack them, and they're the ones that are worn out. And in this passage, Jesus was taking a full-scale assault by the very best that the religious leadership could come up with, the very best they could offer. The religious community in Israel is gathering itself together, marshalling all of its collective strength to strike out against Jesus Christ. But every attempt to find a weak spot in Jesus' armor is deflected by the power and wisdom and authority of Jesus. Their first attack was a political attack. They wanted Jesus to publicly denounce the Roman taxation system. We learned about that back in uh in a couple of passages earlier. They try to get Jesus to denounce the Roman taxation system and call it unlawful, but Jesus didn't have any weakness there. In chapter twenty-two and verse twenty-one he says, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's Their second attack was a social trap. They tried to get Jesus to stumble over his words and some kind of riddle that they came up with. They asked a a silly question about a widow. uh who had married seven brothers and then she finally died. Whose brother who's who's which brother will she be married to in the resurrection? They thought they could trip him up with some kind of riddle. And uh Jesus humiliates them by pointing out their ignorance of the law of God uh about the resurrection and that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were still alive and well and that there was a resurrection, they were actually trying to uh trying to refute the idea of the resurrection and Jesus says even the Old Testament talks about the resurrection. You know, why why am I here talking to you about that? Jesus didn't have any weakness in his armor there. And then their final attack was a a theological trap. They tried to get the greatest theological giant of their day, the Jewish lawyers, their their Goliath, their their kind of religious champion, to come and try to attack Jesus. But even this lawyer, after he confronted Jesus, had to admit that Jesus answered wisely and that he was almost persuaded to become a follower himself. Jesus says you're not far from the kingdom of God in Mark chapter 12 and verse 34. So on every level, every time they try to attack Jesus, they strike out. And they gave Jesus the best that they had, and at this time they're completely out of ammunition. And now it's time for the teacher to start asking the questions. So Jesus turns around, it's his turn, turns to question them, and Jesus begins with what seems to be a very underwhelming introduction. With this question. It's just so basic. Look again at uh chapter 22, verse 41. So while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question: What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. When the lawyer asked Jesus the question, it was a question that demanded familiarity with the entirety of the law of God When he's asking Jesus the question, it was a question that the rabbis and scholars debated. What's the command that's the greatest command of all the commands in Scripture? You know, it's a question that the scholars debated. Which command is the most foundational building block upon which all the other commands rest? Six hundred and thirteen possible answers is what the Pharisees came up with. Was it one of these? Was it none of these? It was a test of Jesus' mastery of the entire scripture. But when Jesus asked them a question, it was a basic Sunday school question. Or in this case, it's the basic Sabbath school question. You know, all right, class, you know, which great king does the Messiah come from? I mean it's it's a question that that they'd ask and the children. Children knew the the answer to this one. You know, does anybody know class? Who is the great king of Israel? Anybody know King David? Oh yes, very good. Can everybody say King David with me? King David, right? It's a it's a basic question. There wasn't a child in Israel who didn't know the answer to that. Actually if you look back to to chapter twenty-one and verse fifteen. It was the children who were recognizing Jesus with the title Son of David. Chapter 21 and verse 15 it says, But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he had done, and the children Who were shouting in the temple, Hosanna to the son of David, they became indignant. Even the children knew what the expectation was for the Messiah. You know, of course the these Pharisees would have known that. I mean, these are the experts in the law. Why are you asking such a simple question? The universal expectation for the Messiah was that he would be a son of David, that he would come from David's line. When the ancient prophets spoke about being a son of someone, they they could be referring to your immediate parents or to somebody uh that's far or distant from you. Uh so son of uh doesn't just talk about immediately uh but talks about in the line. You're in the line of David. If you could connect yourself to some great person in history. Yeah, I just say I'm a son of that person. You know, and that's what they did here. I'm the son of David. The son of David is the the one where the Messiah comes from. The Messiah would be connected to this line. Listen again to the promise that was given to King David back in 2 Samuel chapter 7. It says, when your days are complete and you lie down with your your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you. Who will come forth from you and I will establish his kingdom, and he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. In 2 Samuel chapter 7 and verse 16, it says, Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. So David's son Solomon built a house, but his kingdom didn't last forever, so it was looking forward to a greater king who would endure forever. And his kingdom would endure forever. And even David understood that that this promise was referring to somebody in the distant future. Actually in 2 Samuel chapter 7 and verse 19. David says, You have spoken also of the house of your servant concerning the distant future. So even David recognizes that this is a prophecy that's going to take place far into the distant future. And then turn back to Isaiah chapter 11. Just want to show you just how the Messiah was connected to David back in Isaiah chapter 11. Isaiah wrote his prophecy somewhere between 700 B. C. and 681 B. C. So this is at least 230 years after the reign of David. And both David and Solomon have both been dead for about dead and buried for about 200 years by this point. But listen to what Isaiah says in Isaiah chapter 11. It says, Then a shoot will spring from the stem of Jesse, and a branch from his roots will bear fruit. The Spirit of the Lord will rest on him. the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and strength, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord, and he will delight in the fear of the Lord. And what you have going on here is this explanation about this Messiah, the one who would come from the the branch and the roots of of Jesse. And actually you have in uh verse six here, it talks about the the the kind of kingdom that this this Messiah would introduce. Look at verse six. It says, And the wolf will dwell with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat. And the calf and the young lion and the fatling together and the little boy will lead them. Also the cow and the bear will graze, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox, the nursing child will play. by the hole of the cobra and the winged child will put his hand on the viper's den. Aren't aren't you looking forward to a kingdom like that? I mean this is this is the kind of kingdom of peace that the Messiah is going to to introduce. That was the expectation for David's greater son. This is what Israel anticipated in every Jewish child. can answer the question, which king will this Messiah come from? Everybody knew it was David. But Jesus asked the greatest scholars of the day, and they didn't even have to think about it. You know, it's it's David. I mean why it's simple. Here we are trying to test them and see his knowledge of the entire scriptures. And he asks us this simple question. Of course it's David. It's the unanimous answer. It's David. So elementary. It's a unanimous expectation of Israel. And just as an aside here, as these uh religious leaders are trying to confront Jesus as to whether or not he's really the Messiah. You'd have to imagine that the the Pharisees who are going through all this trouble to prove that Jesus wasn't the Messiah, if all they had to do was prove that he wasn't really a son of David, don't you think they would have gone there? But there was no way for them to prove that he was not a son of David. That would have been pr pretty easy to do. You know, just go back and check the records. Oh, see, he doesn't line up. You know, nobody in the line, but they were stuck with the reality that Jesus was born a son of David. It was actually common knowledge that Jesus was not the physical son of Joseph, but was rather the legally adopted son of Joseph. The Pharisees actually used that information that Jesus wasn't really Joseph's son as a subtle attack or not so subtle attack. in John chapter 8 verse 41, where they verbally assault Jesus with this accusation. Listen to what they said. They said to him, We are not born of fornication. You know you know what they mean by that? It's a it's a backhanded way to say, but you are. We're not born of fornication, you know. Any anybody know anybody around here who's born of fornication? Oh oh Jesus! Yeah, that's who's born of fornication. It's you It was their way to try to attack Jesus. You don't even know who your real father is, do you? Because we know it's not Joseph. It's the way that they tried to attack Jesus Christ. Actually in the Jewish Talmud, Jesus' name is mentioned. And it actually alleges that he was born of an illegitimate son of a Roman soldier, which would mean that Mary was a fornicator. It actually calls him in the Talmud, the Jewish Talmud, it calls Jesus the bastard son of an adulteress. It was determined that there had to be some other explanation besides what Isaiah 7 verse 14 says. Therefore, the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall be with child and bear a son, and she will call his name Emmanuel. They had to come up with some other explanation. It can't be a virgin birth. It has to be a child of fornication. So this story was fabricated, passed down, because everybody knew that Joseph wasn't the physical father. And Joseph became the legal and adoptive father. It wasn't physically related. If you flip back to the uh to the genealogy back in Matthew chapter 1. You'll find that that point's made clear that Joseph wasn't physically related to Jesus Christ. If you look at verse 16 of Matthew chapter 1. Listen what it says here. It says, Jacob was the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who was called the Messiah. And what's interesting is that that that pronoun there, by whom, that word whom, is actually a feminine pronoun, indicating that Jesus came through Mary, not through Joseph. By whom her. This lady came Jesus, not through Joseph. Joseph wasn't the physical father. But as a legally adopted child of Joseph, Jesus assumed all the rights and privileges that came along with adoption. So Joseph was physically a son of David in Matthew chapter 1, verse 20, and passed down all of his rights down to his legally adopted son who is Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter 1 verse 20 it says uh as Joseph is considering whether or not he should uh uh put Mary away silently it says an angel appeared to him in a dream saying Joseph son of David What's important there? You're a son of David, pointing out his lineage. Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. And that's how the genealogy begins for Jesus. Jesus is in the line of David, the record of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah, verse 1, the son of David, the son of Abraham, you know, indicating his his kingly lineage. And actually what we also find in Scripture is uh uh many genealogies, and you know, for for us, you know, reading through a genealogy is like you know the perfect way to go to sleep at night. You know, I can't go to sleep, let me Pull out Matthew chapter one and read me some of the names, you know, just like like bore me, right? Uh for for us it's like it's it's a boring, laborious process. It's monotonous, you know, names that you can't pronounce, you know, it's And I struggle up here sometimes. I'm in you know different passages like what am I supposed to do with that word, right? But you have all these names that are that are listed there. For us it's boring. For a first century Jewish person, this is when they would have sat up in their seats Like like like what what's what's going on here? A lineage that starts out by by saying the son of David, the son of Abraham? Like everybody's up in their seats like could this be him? Could this be the Messiah? Because the Messiah is going to come through the line of David. They would have paid attention to this kind of thing. And actually we have two genealogies of Jesus Christ, one in Matthew, which kind of passes through uh um uh through Joseph. And you have another one that's found in Luke chapter 3, which passes down through Mary. In Luke chapter 3, you have a genealogy that connects Jesus to David physically through Mary to show that Jesus is physically connected to David as well. So either direction you go, whether it's legally through Joseph or physically through Mary, Jesus Christ is shown to be the divine and David King. Jesus is the actual seed of David through Mary and the legal heir through Joseph. If you're going to be the Messiah you have to prove that you come through the right line. And actually uh Uh earlier this week I was watching a a video of a of a Jewish rabbi uh who was trying to uh answer this question, you know, how would you prove, you know, if the Messiah did come, how would you prove that he's legitimately A son of David, and he says, you know, uh a lot of the records, you know, were destroyed and eighty seventy that kind of showed where the the the lineage came from. So he says, you know, it's you just kinda have to rely on parents telling their children, telling their children, you know, that hey, you know, somewhere down the line we're connected to to David somewhere And uh he says, you know, and some families tried to keep records on their own. Uh but then the the question came up, well, what if, you know, somebody just kind of mixed it up? How are you know how are you to know whether or not this person is telling the truth? And he says, Well, you know, we have an answer for that because over in uh Malachi chapter four and verse five it says that Elijah will come and uh this prophet will come to point out that this is the one. And I said, man, you missed it. He already came. Matthew chapter 17 lets us know that, right? That there was one who came through uh who came in the power and spirit of Elijah. Jesus says John the Baptist was Elijah, but they missed him. He was the one that pointed me out, but they missed it. You know, so this rabbi saying, We're waiting for the Elijah to come. The Elijah already came, and he already pointed out who the Messiah was. If the Pharisees, like I said, could have proven that Jesus was not the son of David, they would have. But they couldn't. They couldn't win that argument. So here they're coming up with all these different strategies to try to defeat Jesus. And the Pharisees acknowledged that Jesus was a son of David, and they also acknowledged that the Messiah would be a son of David. It was the unanimous expectation. But what they weren't prepared for was the undeniable connection. Look back at Matthew chapter 22 again. Look at verse 43. The follow-up. This is the curveball. Look at verse 43. He said to them, Then how does David in the spirit call him Lord? Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies beneath your feet. There's many psalms That speak about the Messiah. You have in a Psalm 2, where it speaks about the the Lord's anointed, the Lord's Messiah who will be given the nations as his inheritance. You have uh Psalm 16 that speaks about a Messiah who will not be abandoned to the grave or undergo decay. It's actually quoted in Acts 2 as evidence of the resurrection on the third day. Yeah, Psalm 22 that speaks in detail about a Messiah who would be crucified. In verse 16 of Psalm 22, it says this, they pierced my hands and my feet. Which is a common picture of crucifixion, all hundreds of years before Christ even stepped on the scene. But out of all the psalms that the New Testament uses and quotes from Psalm 110 is by far the Psalm that is most quoted and most alluded to. Why don't you turn back there? Psalm 110 And Jesus uses this psalm to make an undeniable connection between the Davidic King and the Lord of glory. Psalm 110. I want us to see this together. Psalm 110 is actually one of the psalms that was regarded by the rabbis of ancient synagogues as a messianic psalm. They all believed that this pointed to the Messiah. According to the Talmud in several places, this Psalm is clearly interpreted with reference to the Messiah. There's modern Jewish interpreters that uh that reject that view, but this was their ancient view. This is their view. That this was speaking about the Messiah, and there's uh rabbis today that are returning to that view. It's a psalm that speaks about the Messiah's exaltation to the right hand of God in verse 1. Speaks about his reign from Zion in verse 2, speaks about his role as a priest in verse 4, and also his role as a judge in verse 6. But listen to what David in the Spirit says about this Messiah. Look at Psalm 110 starting at verse 1. Says, the Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And in this passage, David is giving a description of what the Lord, capital L-O-R-D, says to his Lord. If you notice in most of your Bibles, the first use of that word Lord is in all capitals. That's to show that it's a reference to the ancient name. For God, the ancient Jewish name for God at the beginning of the verse. And the second use of the word Lord is the word for master. It's the word Adonai. It refers to the Messiah. And listen to what this Messiah will do. The Lord, capital L-O-R-D, says to my Lord, my master, my messiah, This is what he says. This is what the Lord says to my Lord. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. This Messiah will sit at God's right hand. It's a position of supreme power, supreme authority. If you actually remember uh James and John asked to sit at the right and left hand of Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter 20, it's because they they understood that this is a place of superiority. You know, this this is where, you know, to be at the right hand of a king meant that nobody was higher than you in the kingdom except the king. You know, I I'm the highest I'm the next highest in line. Like I'm the highest besides the king himself. So they wanted to be seated at the right and left hand of Jesus Christ. So this right hand is indicating a place of supreme authority, supreme power. And it says that the Messiah will be seated at the right hand of God. Also, it says that the Messiah will sit there until he rules from Zion over his enemies, and his enemies are made a footstool for his feet. Until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. In verse 2, the Lord will stretch forth your strong scepter from Zion, saying, Rule in the midst of your enemies. Just to give you a little bit of background, when you became a footstool for somebody else, that was not a good sign. Back in Joshua chapter 10, if you want to flip back there real quick, Joshua chapter 10 We find an illustration of where the the necks of five enemy kings literally became the the the the resting place for the feet of men of Israel. This is during the conquest of of Israel by Joshua and his army There are five kings who have formed an alliance to fight against Israel, but the Lord Himself fought for Israel and even caused the Son to stand still for Joshua. And these five kings who formed this alliance to fight against Israel fled for their lives into a cave. Look at uh Joshua chapter 10, look at verse 22. Says then Joshua said, Open the mouth of the cave and bring these five kings out to me from the cave. They did so, and brought these five kings out to him, and From the cave the the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmouth, the King of Lakish, and the King of Eglon. When they brought these kings out to Joshua, Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said to the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, Come near. Put your feet on the necks of these kings. So they came there and put their feet on their necks. Joshua then said to them, Do not fear or be dismayed. Be strong and courageous, for thus the Lord will do to all your enemies with whom you fight. So afterward Joshua struck them and put them to death. And he hanged them on five trees, and they hung on the trees until evening. Becoming a footstool is not a good place to be, right? Becoming a footstool. And the says the Messiah will rule. until his enemies are the footstool for his feet. It's talking about a complete conquest. Complete conquest. Turn back to Psalm 110. Verse 3, we also find that his people will freely volunteer in the day of his power. So his enemies are Subjugated, and his people are freely volunteering themselves to him in that day. Verse 3, it says, your people will volunteer freely in the day of your power In holy array from the womb of the dawn, your youth are as to you as the dew. So what we find here is just a and that's just scratching the surface. There's so much more that we could get to in Psalm 110. That that verse right there where it talks about uh the people will volunteer freely. It could actually be translated, his people will volunteer themselves as free will offerings, just freely giving themselves. To the Messiah. They will be the pictures of willingness on that day. And there's so much contained in these few verses, but what Jesus asked is a question that the Pharisees had overlooked. Who is the identity of the one whom David calls Lord? And how can he be both David's son and David's Lord? The phrase my Lord, my master, my Adonai, like I spoke of in verse 1, it's used frequently throughout the scriptures. And it doesn't just refer to God as the master, it can refer to kings as masters, as owners, as masters, as anybody in authority as a master. And it would be entirely appropriate for David's son to call David master. Because he's the superior one, right? The only reason that I'm a king is because He's the king. Alright? So it would be totally appropriate for David's son to refer to David as my Lord. It would be entirely inappropriate for David to refer to his son as his Lord. It's backwards, totally backwards. And and so so the question is, how could David refer to his son as his Lord? Isn't that backwards? That's the question that's being asked. Why would David recognize his son's kingship as greater than his own? Because his son would have derived his kingship from David. And the reason why is because the kingship of the Messiah is from a source that's outside of David's authority. And even David himself would have to bow down to this king. When David recognized the Messiah as my Lord, he was telling us that there is something that is more significant about this king than any other king. Actually, I'll just point you to a couple passages. You can write them down. I doubt you can follow me quick enough. Psalm 89 speaks about the same king and says this in verse 27. I also shall make him my firstborn. The highest of the kings of the earth. And this has to be a king within the context of Psalm 89. This has to be a king beyond David, because in verse 29 it says that his throne would be established forever as the days of heaven. So there is one who is coming after David, who is considered the highest of all the kings, the firstborn, and his throne would be established forever. This is the one that David was looking to. Psalm 2 speaks about the same king. And it says in verse 8 that the nations will be his inheritance, and the very ends of the earth will be his possession. And then this same king is also mentioned in Psalm 45, and I do want you to turn there. Psalm 45. Because you ha you have to see this. This is this is just so fantastic. I mean the it's just filled. I mean so much of the psalms are just filled with this kind of language. And if you pay attention it's like you you start to see things, it's like I'd I've read this psalm I don't know how many times and I never saw that before. Well look at look at Psalm 45. Look at verse 1. Psalm 45, verse 1. It says, My heart overflows with the a good theme. This is one of the sons of Korah who's writing this Psalm. He says, My heart overflows with the good theme. I address my verses to the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. So here we have this ready writer. He's ready to write about the king. He says, I'm addressing my words to the king But then look at how he addresses this king in verse 6. Your throne, O God. You'd say, What? He's talking about the king like the anointed, the Messiah. And in verse 6, he refers to the Messiah as God, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteous uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore, God, your God, has anointed you. And now you're starting to get confused, like therefore, God, your God He's referring to the king as God, but then talking about it like what what's going on here? This king is much more than just a mere man. This king is much more than just a mere man. Actually, the book of Hebrews quotes from the same psalm in Hebrews chapter 1 where he makes the argument that the Messiah is greater than the angels. Why? Hebrews chapter 1, starting at verse 7 Of the angels, he says, who makes his angels wins and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God. It's forever and ever. And the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Therefore, God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness Above your companions. Quotes from the same Psalm. So how could the Messiah be both David's son and David's Lord? It's because the Messiah was David's Lord. The Messiah was David's God. The eternal God came to this earth in the person of Jesus Christ. That's the wondrous mystery that we celebrate at Christmas. God became flesh. There are many instances throughout the Hebrew scriptures where God manifested himself to men. God manifested himself to Moses in the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. He manifested himself to Hagar as the angel of the Lord in Genesis chapter 16. God manifested himself to Gideon as a valiant warrior in Judges chapter 6 God manifested himself to the parents of Samson as the angel of the Lord who ascended in a flame of fire in Judges chapter 16. But in the New Testament The word became flesh and dwelt among us. John chapter 1, verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we saw his glory. Glory is of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. As the Nicene Creed states, we believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, maker of heaven and earth of all that is seen and unseen. We believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, eternally begotten of the Father, God from God, light from light, true God from true God, begotten not made, of one being with the Father Through him all things were made for us and for our salvation. He came down from heaven. By the power of the Holy Spirit, he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary and was made man. One of the songs that we sing at Christmas is uh Mary, did you know? Mary, did you know that your baby boy is the Lord of all creation? Mary, did you know that your baby boy would one day rule the nations? Did you know that if your baby boy is heaven's perfect lamb? This sleeping child that you're holding is the great I Am. What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? He's the son of David, that's true, but you can't stop there. He's not just David's son, he's David's Lord, according to Psalm 110. But the Pharisees just gonna go there. They couldn't bring themselves to admit that. For them it was a question that they couldn't bear to answer. Back in Matthew chapter 22, verse 45. Says if David then calls him Lord, how is he his son? Look at verse 46. No one was able to answer him a word. Nor did anyone dare from that day on to ask him another question. The Pharisees were stumped. Their plane backfired. What they actually hoped would happen to Jesus was what happened to them. They were hoping that they could stop Jesus and trip him up. They're the ones that are tripped up and stumbling over and looking foolish in front of the crowds They're left speechless, speechless. It's a question that deserves an answer, but they refuse to give an answer, and their silence speaks volumes. If they could give an honest answer to this question, all of their other questions would have been answered. They would have known by what authority he did the things that he did. They would have known who he made himself out to be. They would have known who on earth could forgive sins. And as 1 Corinthians 2, verse 8 says, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory Who do you think Jesus Christ is? What do you whose son is he? Have you answered that question this morning? It it doesn't need to be a question that's left unanswered for you J. C. Rowell writes these words in his commentary. He says, let us now leave these verses without, let us not leave these verses without making practical use of our Lord's solemn question. What do you think about the Christ? What do you think of his person? What do you think about his life? What do you think about his death on the cross? What do you think about his resurrection? His ascension? His intercession at the right hand of God? Have we tasted that he is gracious? Have we laid fit hold of him by faith? Have we found by experience that he is precious to our souls? Can we truly say that He is my Redeemer, my Savior, my shepherd, my friend? These are serious inquiries, and may we never rest until we can give a satisfactory answer It will not profit us to read about Christ if we are not joined to Him by living faith. Once more, let us test our religion by this question: What do we think about Christ? What do you think about Christ? He's the Messiah who came in humility, but one day he will come again in power. Psalm 110 says that on that day his people will volunteer themselves freely on that day. But sadly, these Pharisees were face to face with the living Lord, and they completely missed it. That doesn't have to be you. It doesn't have to be you. You can enter into this Christmas celebration knowing who this Christ is. Amen. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we give you glory and honor and praise. Father, we thank you so much for this passage. Father, we thank you for the revelation that it gives to us about who Jesus Christ really is. Uh that baby in the manger, the baby that Mary held in her arms, that baby that grew in in knowledge and wisdom and favor with God and man, that that baby. is eternally God. And very nature God is Psalm chapter 2 and chapter 45 and chapter 110 points out. Also, as Philippians chapter 2 and many other passages throughout the scripture point out that this child is God. Father, I pray that we would come before Him, that we would adore Him. Oh, come let us adore Him. Christ the Lord. My father, I pray that that would be true of every heart here today. In Jesus' name, praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.