The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well let's take your Bibles and uh open up to the book of Romans. We're back in the book of Romans today. This week we're in chapter 6. of Romans and we're returning to a study of Romans chapters six, seven, and eight, which is a central passage that covers the believer's sanctification, the Christian's pursuit of holiness, or the believer's growth in obedience. And if you're a believer, you know what it is to have the inward desire to please God. We want to grow in obedience. That should be the heart of every believer here, to grow in obedience. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 9, it says, Therefore we also have as our ambition Whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. That's our desire to be pleasing to God. And our inner man, our spiritual man, longs to please God As Paul says in Romans chapter 7, we want to do good. Verse 22 of chapter 7 says, For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man. Our inner man again is desiring what's good, desiring what's right. But I see a different law in the members of my body waging war against the law of my mind. It's our hearts' desire to please God, to praise God with our lives. And it's the word of God that gives us everything that we need for life and godliness. It gives us all that we need in order to reach that end, to please God, to praise God with our lives. But sometimes on the surface What the scripture gives us as the means to battle against sin and temptation sometimes seems counterproductive. Because you might think that if you're going to do serious battle with sin , The first thing that needs to happen is you need to be threatened that the grace of God might run out on you. That's how a lot of people try to actually motivate others towards godliness. You know, God's grace isn't just going to keep on going now. You know, God's grace might run out on you. You don't want to sin beyond God's grace, and they need to be threatened that the grace of God might run out Don't think that you can keep sinning and God's grace will keep abounding. There's limits to this grace. You might find yourself sinning beyond the boundaries of grace. You might sin to a point where God's grace can't reach you. But that's not what the Apostle Paul says. At the end of Romans chapter 5 and verse 20 and 21, he says the exact opposite. He says, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So that as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And when Paul's opponents heard that, they hit the panic button. Like Paul, you can't say that. You can't say that grace will continue to abound where sin increases. You can't say that. And then they say in Romans chapter 6 and verse 1, and this is what the opponents would say: Paul is speaking the objection. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? How is knowing that where sin increased, grace abounded all the more supposed to help us battle with our sin? Won't that just encourage people to sin more? Won't that encourage people to take advantage of the grace of God? You can't tell people that God will forgive all of their sins and then expect them to turn away from sins. That was the logic. But that's exactly what Paul expected Because the grace of God doesn't just give us the grace to forgive us, it also gives us the grace to purify us. God's grace is a power that purifies the saints. And Paul goes on to teach us that we're dead to sin, that we're alive to God, that we're no longer slaves to our sins, and God's grace gives us the power to say no to sin and temptation. Titus chapter two and verse eleven says, For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires and to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. Grace is a power that forgives, and it also fortifies us against the present evil age. So the last thing That you'd want to tell a person. The last thing that they should hear is that the grace of God is going to run out. If the grace of God is what gives me the strength to say no to temptation, I want to know that that grace is going to continue to abound. You can't tell me that the grace is going to run out when that's what I'm relying on to do battle with temptation. So what may seem counterproductive is actually exactly what we need. Another thing that you might think you need if you're going to do serious battle against sin is you need to be placed under the law You need to be under the law. If you're going to keep your sin in check, you need to be reminded that you are under the law of God and that that law comes with blessings and cursings. That's what you need to know if you're going to do battle with sin. If you ever expect to work on your sinful habits, it's the law of God that will keep you in check. You need to know that you're under the law. But what Paul says is the exact opposite. Romans chapter 6 and verse 14: For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. And again, that sends his opponents into panic mode again. Here they go, hitting the panic button. Chapter 6, verse 15. What then? I mean, come on, Paul, you can't be serious about this Shall we sin because we're not under the law, but under grace? You gotta tell people that they're under the law if you expect them to live holy. You can't tell people that they're not under the law and then expect them to do what's right Paul, how do you expect people to battle sin if you don't place them under the law? I mean, there's no threat that grace is going to run out. There's no threat that they're under the law that we'll condemn them. How do you expect people to battle sin like that? And the rest of this passage helps us answer that question. Because the grace of God that forgives is also sufficient to govern our lives as well. It gives us the power to say no. It's able to govern our lives, and that's the again seems counterproductive, but this is the only hope that we have of pleasing God. That I'm not under the law, that I'm under grace. That grace isn't going to run out on me. The grace is going to continue to give me the power that I need to say no to temptation and sin. So freedom from the law does not mean freedom from God. But what we have here is all that God supplies us is contained in His grace that we're given. So let's take a look at our text and then we'll dive in. We'll start at verse 14 for the sake of context. For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. What then? Shall we sin because we're not under law, but under grace? May it never be. Do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves to obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death or of obedience resulting in righteousness But thanks be to God, that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which ye were committed. And having been freed from sin. You became slaves of righteousness. I'm speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, for just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, Resulting in further lawlessness, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness Therefore, what benefit were ye then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the outcome of those things is death. But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, You derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome eternal life, for the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you as we do every Lord's day, asking for your blessings, asking for you to open up your word to us to help us to understand what we read. Father, I pray that as we continue to sit under your word , Lord, that uh Father, that you would uh show us, Lord, just the great riches that are contained here. Father, that it truly is all that we need for life and godliness. And uh Father, I pray that as a result of working our way through Romans, Lord, that we would have the motivation uh that we need to do battle against sin and temptation, that our people, uh Lord, would be a holy people. Father, that we would grow in sanctification, grow in holiness, grow in maturity, not just in numbers numerically, but that we would deepen in our relationship with God, as we sang earlier: more love to thee, O God. More love to thee, O Christ. More love to thee. Father, I pray that that would be the heart cry of every believer here. And Father, may you use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The objection that's raised in verse 15 would have been a common objection for the Jewish people. And the argument is that if you're not under the law as a governing force, that means that you must be under sin. And if you teach people that they're not under the law, that you'll encourage them toward sin. And that was the accusation against Paul, and he faced that many times When Paul visited Jerusalem in Acts chapter 21, James and the elders pulled him aside and said to him, You see, brother, this is Acts 21 and verse 20. You see, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews of those who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law, and they have been told about you that you are teaching all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses And the accusation that was against Paul was that he's leading people into sin. He's leading them away from the law and he's leading them into sin. And they would have understood the law as the governor that keeps the check on the sinful heart. That's how they understood it. But that is to misunderstand the purpose of the law of God. The law of God did not have the power to cleanse the heart. In fact, all the law did was turn the lights on so you could see how dirty the heart really was. That's what the law did. Romans chapter 5 and verse 20 says the law came in so that transgression would increase. You know, you bring the law and you turn the lights on, and all of a sudden sin is everywhere. You know, here a sin, there is sin, everywhere a sin. It's like all of a sudden the lights are on. I can see my heart for what it is. The law didn't make sins better. It made sins worse. And James says that the law is like a mirror that shows us what we look like. And the mirror does not have the ability to cleanse you. The mirror doesn't have the ability to cleanse you. All it can do is show you what you look like. Sorry, that's what you are, okay? You woke up in the morning, you look at the mirror, that's you. It's not somebody else, that's you And if you try to use the mirror to try to clean yourself, all you do is cut yourself. The mirror cannot cleanse you. You don't pull it off of the wall and start rubbing your face with it. The mirror is not there to cleanse you. The mirror is there to expose you. To say this is what you look like. You know, sorry to tell the truth, mirror, mirror on the wall, but this is you, right? Therefore, Galatians 3. 24 says the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. It shows us who we are, and then it leads us to Jesus, because Jesus is the one who can cleanse us. Acts chapter 13 and verse 38 says, Therefore, let it be known to you, brethren, that through him Jesus Forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you, and through him, everyone who believes is freed from all things from which you could not be freed from the law. Or through the law of Moses. Jesus can free you from what the law could not. So the law is the tutor to lead you to Jesus, because Jesus has the ability to help. The law did not have the ability to cleanse. It did not have the ability to govern us, the master, to be the master over us. We need another master who can actually help us, and that's what grace provides. Which is one of the reasons that Paul answer so strongly when the suggestion is made, shall we sin because we're not under the law but under grace? And what's Paul's answer? May it never be. What are you talking about? Have you lost your mind? I mean, God forbid it. Strongest form of negation in the Greek language. Certainly not. God forbid. Let there not even be the hint of a possibility that this would be the case Grace does not give you the license to sin. Grace actually frees you from it. In fact, being under grace provides the only way to defeat sin in your life. Because grace is able to do what the law was never able to do. Grace doesn't free us to sin, it frees us from sin, and it's grace that provides the power. And there's a lot that's contained in this section, but I'm going to give you two main headings to fit everything under and we'll see if we can get through this together, all right? So what's Paul going to do in this section is number one. He's going to tell us why we cannot continue to sin under grace You cannot just continue in your sin under grace. And this speaks about the change in our position. Our position has been changed. And that's what Paul tells us in verses 15 to 18. Verse 18 says this, and having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. That is your position. You are a slave of righteousness when you've come to Christ. Number two, and this is the second major heading in verses 19 to 23, Paul will tell us why we should not continue and sin under grace. So the first is you cannot, and it gives you your position. The second is that you should not and it tells you about your practice. At the end of verse 19, it says, so now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. That's the command. Present your members as slaves to righteousness. So number one, we cannot continue in sin under grace because of our position. And number two, we should not continue in sin under grace. because of our practice. So let's take a look at our first point. Why we cannot continue in sin under grace. Verse 15 again. What then shall we Sin, because we're not under law but under grace? May it never be. Do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience? You are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness. Thanks be to God that though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. There's three simple claims that are found in that passage, and Paul makes this just kind of proving here that the believer cannot continue under sin, okay, when he's under grace. Number one, you're slaves of the one you obey. Number two, you have obeyed unto righteousness. And number three, you became slaves of righteousness. Those are the three subpoints underneath that first uh heading. And we'll work through these one at a time. First of all, you're slaves of the one who you obey. And I love how Paul presents this as just common knowledge. Like, don't you know? Verse 16, do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey? I mean, don't you know that? If you want to know whose slave you are, just ask yourself, where are you showing up for work? Paul's not trying to make things complicated here. So he just gives a human analogy to make the point. If you want to know what slave belongs to what master Which master is the owner of which slave? All you need to do is ask yourself, where does that slave show up to go to work? Where is he presenting himself for obedience? And the slave belongs to the one that he obeys. The word for presenting oneself is the same word that was used back in verse 13. Do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin. It's a word that means to place before, to stand by, to present, to offer. It's found here in the present tense, which could be understood as a continual offering. He's continuing to present himself to that. In other words, where do you continually show up for duty? Which master is giving you your to-do list for the day? And it's important that we understand that slavery was not a part-time job. You didn't clock in and clock out of slavery. Slavery was the full-time occupation, which is why you could only have one master. One master. Because it's a full-time occupation. When Jesus said that in the relationship to money in Matthew 6, 24, no one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. He was speaking something that was common knowledge to the people of his day. If I'm a slave, I can only report to one. I can only continually devote myself to one. So everyone understood what Jesus was talking about. It was a full-time occupation. It was your identity. This is who you were. When a person couldn't pay off their their debt, they would sell themselves to become the property of another. When they couldn't afford to be housed or fed, they would sell themselves as property to another. And as a slave, you didn't have the freedom to do what you wanted anymore. Around seventy percent of Rum at this time were part of the slave population, so slavery was commonly understood And if you wanted to know which slave belonged to which master, you just needed to ask yourself, whose field does he show up to? Whose orders is he taking? And the slave belongs to that master. It's that simple And my friends, if your habitual practice is to sin, that's going to tell you something about whose slave you really are. If that is your habitual practice, if you're showing up to Sin 's field every day reporting for duty as a full-time occupation, don't tell me that you're a slave of obedience. Don't tell me that you work for Domino 's when you come home every day smelling like McDonald's fries, okay? Like wherever you're showing up for work. Like that's where you belong. I I used to work for McDonald's, so I can say that. It was so hard to get that you know fries smell off of me, you know. Started hating the smell of fries. It's like you can't get away from it. But that's where I showed up for work every day So so it's like that's that's that's just part of the jobs, part of the occupation. That's where you're showing up, that's where you're doing your duty. And if Sin is the field that you're showing up to, and that's just your habit, and you're smelling like sin because you spent so long there You can't say that I really belong to God. He's really my master because where you show up for work betrays where you really give your devotion to. John 8, verse 34, Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who commits sin, and this is a habitual practice, is the slave of sin. 2 Peter 2. 19, for by what a man is overcome, by this he is enslaved. 1 John 3, verse 8, the one who practices sin, habitual practice The one who practices sin in a habitual way is of the devil. For the devil has sinned from the beginning. And again, we're not talking about occasionally falling into sin. We're talking about living in it, reporting to it, being dominated by it. This is the person who can't say no to sin because sin is their master. Not every sin, but sin is a dominating force. One author points out, while all were slaves to sin, all were not slaves to the same sin. So it's not that, you know, if I'm a slave to sin, it means that I'm out there You know, and you talk to people so often. I'm not out there murdering and robbing and killing people. I'm not out there selling drugs on the corner, as if like that's the only people who are slaves to sin. No, no, you could be a sin just by being a gossip and giving yourself over to that by being a liar, by being a habitual looker of women. You know, I just can't get my eyes off of them. You know, stuck to your phone and pornography or whatever else is like if that's just your habitual practice, you can't say no to that thing. It's telling you something about who your master is Is it a habitual practice that you're unable to say no? You're unable to break free from? I'm not saying that you can't struggle with sin, but if that is your address. It says something about who your master is. And isn't it fascinating that everyone is somebody's slave according to Romans? Romans 6:16, either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness. You're always somebody's slave. One commentator writes this: one is never free from a master. Another says this: one is either God's slave or sin slave. Those who think that freedom is attained by jettisoning or throwing off discarding obedience to God, opt for sin as their Lord. You throw off obedience to God, you know what you're putting on? Obedience to sin. It's not like, hey, I just want to be free, as if you can be your own Lord. No, you're either a slave of God or you're a slave of sin. No autonomous self-directioner. Like I can just be free and out there and be my own Lord. No. You think that you're own your own Lord? That's just a deception. You're really a slave to sin. That's what you are. The freedom that the world so desperately desires to be nobody slave, you know, I'm nobody slave. It's actually a bondage to sin disguised in freedom. That's what it is. Bondage to sin disguised as freedom. The world desires the freedom from God and they land straight down into the market of sin. That's where they land, the slave market of sin. And we read about much of that in Romans chapter 1, don't we? People want to break free from the restrictions of God to be set free, but that freedom is bondage. Romans says that God gives them over to it Romans 1. 24, therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. What's been called the sexual revolution in American history. It's described the period of history from 1870 to 1910, then again in the 1960s, when traditional morality lost its appeal and people wanted to be free. We want to be free, we want to express ourselves and rise in promiscuity. But what it was was actually bondage. You want to be free, and you're in the slave market. That's where you are. Romans 125 describes it this way, for they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And listen to this, they worship and serve the creature rather than the creator. Do you know what that says? You're still somebody's slave. You worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator. You're still worshiping, you're still serving, you just don't want to serve God, but you're going to serve somewhere You're going to be somebody's slave. Sexual sin leads to homosexual sins in verse 26 and 27, and then it ends up in the reprobate mind where people can't even think straight anymore. And in each case, they're given over to a different kind of slavery. You don't free yourself from service. All you do is switch masters. That's all you do. You're still a slave. Some of you might remember the uh adventures of Pinocchio. Wooden puppet came to life, was tired of being told what to do. It was actually a story that was written in uh between 1881 and 1883. You know, Disney made it popular, but it was an old story. And in the story written by Carlo Calodi, he says, when I come to think of it, and this is the puppet talking to himself, As he once more set out on his journey, we boys are really very unlucky. Everybody scolds us, everybody gives us advice, everybody warns us. If we were to allow it, everyone would try to be father and mother to us. Everyone, even the talking cricket, everybody wants to tell me what to do. What does he want? I want freedom. And then he goes out to search for freedom. And he's invited to the land of toys with no schools, no teachers, no books, no rules. I want freedom. And he enjoyed that freedom until he discovered that all the boys there turned into donkeys to pull the wagons and join the circus of the new master. You don't free yourself from service, all you do is switch masters. You want your freedom, you enjoy it for whatever period of time, the pleasures of sin for a season, and then you find yourself with the yoke. You just switch masters. That's all you really do. And sin is a cruel master. Look at the results of sin. Look at verse 16 again. It says, do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness? What does sin result in? Sin results in death. Death is actually mentioned three times in this context in verse 16. Sin resulting in death. Verse 21, the outcome of those things is death. Verse 23, the wages of sin is death. Sin results in death. The outcome is death. The wages is death. And what kind of death are we talking about? In the context, the death that's being described is eternal. Because in verse 23, it's contrasted with what? Eternal life. We're talking about eternal death. Slavery to sin will result in eternal death and damnation. That's what it results in. That's what your freedom from righteousness results in. You want freedom from God, but what you're choosing is death. Slavery to sin results in death. Verse 16 says, she either serve sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness. And the parallel at the end of the verse is broken on purpose. Because you might expect Paul to say, in verse 16, either of sin resulting in death or obedience resulting in Life, what's the opposite of death, right? Life. That's what you'd expect Paul to say. You know, the opposite of death is life. But no, he says it results in obedience. Obedience results in righteousness. Why? Because you don't obey to get life. You don't get eternal life by being obedient. Right? This is not works righteousness. So you don't get life from being obedient. The wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life You receive life as a gift. You don't receive life because of your obedience. Obedience results in righteousness. And the kind of righteousness that Paul is talking about here in this context is. The kind of righteousness that you can grow in. Sanctification of the believer, pursuit of holiness, growing in obedience. Righteousness that's required for salvation is perfect. And that's a gift that comes from God. Romans chapter 3. 22 calls it the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. You can't work for that righteousness. It's only a righteousness that you can receive as a gift. But the righteousness that you can work for and grow in is what he's talking about here. He's talking about growing in righteousness and dedicating yourself to the service of God. One ancient writer put it this way, once your feet ran to the temples of demons, now they run to the church of God. Once they ran to spill blood, now they run to set it free. Once your hands were stretched out to steal what belonged to others, now they're stretched out for you to be generous with what's your own. Once your eyes looked at women or something which was not yours with lust. But now they look at the poor, the weak, the helpless with pity. Your ears used to delight in hearing empty talk or in attacking good people. Now they have turned to hearing the word of God, to the exposition of the law, to the learning of the knowledge of wisdom. Your tongue, which was once accustomed to bad language, cursing, and swearing, has now turned to praising the Lord at all times. It produces healthy and honest speech in order to give grace to the hearers and speak the truth to its neighbor. And now you become slaves of obedience. Take a look again at Romans chapter 6 and verse 17 here What does he say next? He says, But thanks be to God. That though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. This is point two underneath that first heading. Not only are you slaves to obedience, you're also those who have been made obedient to righteousness. Verse 17: Thanks be to God that you were slaves of sin, but you became obedient from the heart. Why is it true that you can no longer continue and sin under grace? It's because you've become obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. This is not an external work. This is an internal work of God's grace. It's a deep internal work. There's a change that's taken place in your heart. You're no longer the person that you used to be. If you're a believer, you're no longer that person you used to be. And who's responsible for that? What does verse 17 say? But thanks be to God? God is the one who changes the heart. God is the one who now directs me towards righteousness. The one who breaks the power of canceled sin and sets the prisoner free. You didn't have the power to set yourself free from sin. That's what God does. So now you're no longer showing up in Sin 's field to do work for the old master. Why? Because God has broken the chains and set you free. And your life now belongs to him. And notice that he talks about it in the past tense, though you were slaves of sin. As a believer, that means you're no longer a slave of sin. And the heart transformation is traced back to God. This is what was promised in the new covenant, Jeremiah 31. 33. But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Same thing promised over in Ezekiel chapter 11, verse 19. And I will give them one heart and put a new spirit within them, and I will take the heart of stone out of their flesh and give them a heart of flesh. And what will one day be true for the nation of Israel is now true for us who've believed and trusted in Jesus Christ. We've received that new covenant and our hearts have been transformed. And there's a sincerity, a deep internal work that's taking place. And we're committed now, verse 17 says, to that form of teaching to which you were committed. We're committed to the teaching. What teaching are we talking about? Flip back to Romans chapter 1. What kind of teaching are we talking about? What are we committed to now? Romans chapter 1, look at verse 8. Paul says, first I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all. Because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the whole world. For God, whom I serve in my spirit, and the preaching of the what? The gospel of his son is my witness as to how unceasingly I make mention of you. Always in my prayers, making requests that perhaps now at last by the will of God I may succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you that I may impart some spiritual gift to you, that you may be established, that is, that I may be encouraged together with you, while among you, each of us by the other's faith, both yours and mine. It's the gospel. It's the truth of the gospel. Down to verse 16: for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. So, what is this form of teaching to which the Romans were committed? It was the gospel of Jesus Christ and the teaching of the apostles. That's what they committed themselves to. That's what was handed down to them. You know, Acts 2. 42 speaks about the early church continually devoting itself to the apostles' teaching. To the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and prayer. The Roman believers committed themselves to what they heard. In Romans 6:17, when it says, You became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching. It's talking about that teaching that came from the apostles, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Uses the word for form, it's the Greek word to pass. It's the mark that's left by a blow. It was used for what's stamped on a coin for the branding of an iron for the footprint left behind from a shoe. And the idea is that someone has left an impression on you And it's the apostles who passed down their teaching, and the believers in Rome received the mark and became committed, as it says here. But look at where their commitment is. The commitment is not to the apostles as the men themselves. What are they committed to? To the teaching. They're committed to the teaching. And this is what we're to be committed to. We're to be committed to the teaching. It's the word of God and the gospel of God that takes the primary position. And the question you need to ask yourself is, who am I obeying and what am I committed to? As a believer, we're committed, as believers, we're committed to the Word of God. And if you're obeying righteousness as a pattern of life, if you're committed to the gospel of Christ and the Word of God, you need to give thanks to God because that is an evidence that you've been set free from your sins and you belong to Him. And the last claim that Paul makes is a clarification of the first claim, and it's this. He says, you became slaves of righteousness. Look at verse 18 back in Romans chapter 6. It says, and having been free from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. And it's a seemingly contradictory statement, but the freedom that we have as believers is a freedom into slavery. Listen to what Paul says again. Having been freed from sin, you became slaves. You're free to become a slave. But what a gracious slavery we've been freed into. Think about what this freedom looks like. This is a freedom that results in righteousness instead of death. It's a freedom that is from the heart instead of with the flesh. It's a freedom that serves God instead of Satan. It ends in eternal life instead of damnation. You know, I'll take that kind of slavery any day. Thank you very much. And again, there's no such thing as this absolute freedom. We're bound by our desires and we're set free to belong to God. That's the kind of freedom we're we're we're placed into. I'm free to serve God now. I'm set free to go to heaven now. I'm set free to be his child now. And notice that all these statements are simply claims about what's true. You're slaves of the one who you obey. He's not telling you to do anything. He's just describing who you are. You've obeyed unto righteousness. That's just the description of who you are. You became slaves of righteousness. You've been set free To bondage. Set free to be a slave to Christ, to God, like he's just describing what's true. He's simply stating it. This is not giving us the command to do anything. He's just giving a description of what the true believer looks like. This is the position of the new believer, and this is why you cannot continue in sin if you're under grace. Because something has happened to you. You're no longer a slave. You now obey. You're a slave of righteousness. So Paul isn't telling the believers to do anything. He's simply stating what's true about the believer. But then in verse 19, he turns the corner, and now we have the commands. Turns from the indicative to the imperative, and he tells us why we should not continue in sin under grace. This is the the command and this talks about our practice. And I'll see what I can do to finish this thought. We'll we'll come back to this next time, but just to try to finish this thought here. Verse 19, I'm speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity, to lawlessness, resulting in further lawlessness. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. That's the command. He says, I'm using human terms, human analogy, talking about slavery in order to make a point. You know, because it's not exactly like human slavery. You know, but I'm using this to make a point. Just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, So now, present your members as slaves to righteousness. In other words, do you remember how hard you used to run after your sin? You remember that? I want you to run just as hard in the other direction now That's what he's telling you to do. He says you used to present your members as slaves to impurity. The word for impurity is a word that's consistently used by Paul for sexual immorality. He used it back in Romans chapter 1, verse 24. We already saw that. Second Corinthians 12, verse 21. He says, I may mourn over many of those who have sinned in the past and not repented of the impurity, immorality, sensuality In the context of sexual sin. Galatians 5. 19. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality. And Paul says, do you remember how hard you used to work for the temporary pleasures of sin for a season? Have you ever thought about how much of our society is just built around trying to make ourselves more attractive to the people that we desire? Ever think about that? I mean God knows the heart, but how how much time do people spend on hair, clothes, cologne, cars, houses, makeup, nails, gym, diets, all to attract people? How many songs on the radio right now are all about trying to seduce people and sound more attractive to people? How hard did you party just so you could become more attractive to somebody or to find somebody that you were attracted to? You stayed up all night. In order to try to get together with somebody. And Paul says, you gave your members over to that. How much do you do now for the sake of righteousness? Would you diet on the Word of God for the sake of righteousness? Would you lose sleep for prayer for the sake of righteousness? Would would you spend time on sanctification in the same way that you spent time for yourself and for your own pleasures? You know, you could party hard all night, but you know, tell you to come to a prayer meeting and it's like you're asleep in the first thirty minutes. It's like I used to I used to go after that, but but now when it comes to sanctification, I've got a little little desire, little energy. It's hard to pull us back to the Word of God, even though we know that this is what we need. It's like it's so hard to pull us back to what our inner man truly desires. Why is it so hard? I can stay glued to a screen for three hours watching a movie, but all of a sudden I pick up the word of God. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not How in the world does that happen? The flesh does not like sanctification. You know, you can sit up all night and watch a movie, but when it comes to the Word of God, you have little appetite. Uses another word for lawlessness, anemia without the law, general word for lawlessness, but what does he say? It leads to more lawlessness. Lawlessness leads to moral lawlessness. We formed habits of wickedness until it just became part of who we are. You ever think about that? You use foul language so much that it just becomes part of your vocabulary. And then you talk to people that's like, oh, oh, excuse my French. That's not French. I understood that perfectly well. So angry that it just becomes part of your personality. That's just who I am. Lie to the point where you start believing it. You know, believe your own lies. Seeking your own interests. Greed leads to all kinds of wickedness. The love of money, the root of all sorts of evil. And the more these habits formed, the greater lawlessness was produced. And now what Paul is saying is like now you need to turn that in the other direction. You need to start practicing godliness to the point where it just becomes a habit. Over in uh 1 Timothy, real quick, 1 Timothy chapter 4, talks about uh exercising ourselves for the purpose of godliness. Take a look at verse 7, 1 Timothy 4, verse 7. It says, but have nothing to do with worldly fables fit only for old women. On the other hand, discipline yourself. That's uh from a Greek word gumnaza. It's like to exercise yourself for the purpose of godliness. For bodily discipline is only a little profit, but godliness is profitable for all things. Since it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come, you need to go to the gym on sanctification. You understand that? So I got you need to start start pumping some Bible verses, you know, and strengthen those muscles a little bit. You need to work Discipline yourself for the sake of godliness until it just becomes a habit now. You know, now that weight seems a little easier to pick up because you've been exercising yourself, training yourself. And we'll go through this quickly. We'll come back here, but two supporting arguments that Paul gives us to back up this command to pursue godliness back in Romans chapter 6 He says, uh , we're to present ourselves, just as you presented your members of slaves to impurity, to lawlessness, resulting in further lawlessness. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. And then he gives these two supporting arguments to back it up. And basically the support for presenting yourself to God is to compare the benefits. Compare the benefits. Compare the benefits of slavery to sin with the benefits of slavery to God. Compare the benefits. Look at verse 20. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. Therefore, what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the outcome of those things is death. What did you gain from your slavery to sin? What were your benefits What were the benefits? You were free in regard to righteousness. That was your benefit. You were free from righteousness. And what does that mean? You lived apart from the righteous rule of God? You didn't experience the power of God in your life to draw you to obedience. You didn't have the power of God's grace to say no to temptation. You didn't have God as your spiritual father. You didn't have Christ as your Savior. You didn't have the Holy Spirit as your comforter That's what you gained. You were free from righteousness. What a benefit. What other benefit did you have? Verse 21: the things of which you are now ashamed. That was your benefit. How often do we look back in shame at the way that we once lived? One of the evidences of a changed life is that we're ashamed about who we once were. One author says it this way, to be without shame is a mark of a sin-dominated life. Because you're just so used to it It's the air you breathe, it's the water you swim in, it's the the mud that you wallow in. Like what's wrong with this? Like it's it's fine. No, it's not fine. It's shameful. But you just don't know that it's shameful Because you're you live in it. You live in it. One of the evidences of an old life is a lack of shame. The world doesn't know what it should be ashamed about anymore. Philippians 3. 19 speaks about the enemies of the cross, whose end is destruction, whose God is their appetite, whose glory is in their shame. The world is proud about what they should be ashamed about. They even dedicate a whole month to abomination and call it Pride Month. You're proud about what you should be ashamed about. Jeremiah 8, verse 12 says, Were they ashamed because of the abomination they had done? They certainly were not ashamed, and they did not know how to blush. I don't know how to be ashamed anymore. My face doesn't get flushed anymore. It's like, oh, you know, you caught me. No, it's yeah, this is what it is. Therefore, they shall fall among those who fall. Those who celebrate sin should be ashamed of it. Psalm 31, verse 17: Let the wicked be put to shame. Hosea 4 7, the more they multiply, the more they sinned against me, I will change their glory into shame. Those who trust in false religion should be ashamed. Psalm 97 verse 7. Let all those be ashamed who serve graven images. Those who glory in themselves should be ashamed. Psalm 5 verse 5. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes. You hate all who do iniquity. And in 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 11, it says, And such were some of you. Such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified. We're growing in holiness. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. And now we're ashamed of what we used to be. Lord, Lord, I look back and I'm so thankful that you saved me and pulled me out of the pit of sin where I used to be. You know, the old songs used to say, You picked me up, you turned me around, and you place my feet on solid ground, right? Like, Lord, I'm so thankful that I'm not who I once was. Praise God. Thanks be to God. But we're ashamed of that. What fruit did you gain from that rotten tree? There's nothing back there to look for. Why are you still looking back to Egypt? We're headed to the promised land, and still some people are looking back to Egypt as if there was something back there. And what was the benefit? Death. The outcome of those things is death. The sin that promised joy in life led me to the grave. They brought me to death. There's nothing back there Free in regard to righteousness, ashamed, therefore, what benefit were you deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed? Verse 21, for the outcome of those things is death. He brought us death. And the death that it's talking about is eternal death, damnation. Because of our stubbornness, unrepentant heart, Romans 2. 5 says, you're storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath. God will render to each person according to his deeds. What a fearful expectation the world has to continue in their sin and face eternal death. It's a terrifying thing. To fall into the hands of the living God. That was the benefit of my old life. I was headed to death. But real quickly, what's on the other side? The benefits of slavery to God. Real quick, verse 22. But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification and the outcome eternal life. What's the benefit of serving God? What's the benefit of slavery to God? Sanctification. Freed from sin and enslaved to God, you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification. A benefit of being enslaved to God is that holiness is now possible. I used to live free from righteousness and now I'm free to be holy. Do you know what a joy it is to actually walk in holiness? I can now put on compassion and kindness and humility and gentleness and patience. I can bear with unbearable people. I can forgive. I can put on love. I can let the peace of Christ rule in my heart. I can let the word of Christ richly dwell within me. I can say no to temptations, to lies, to lust, to anger. I can do that now. I couldn't do it before. Now I'm free to be holy. I'm free to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. That is the benefit of being in Christ. That's the benefit. My growth in Christ-likeness is made possible by grace. God has given me that outcome. And what's the other outcome? Eternal life. Verse 22, resulting in sanctification and the outcome? Eternal life. The benefit of the sanctified life is that it gives me confidence in my final destination. The outcome or the end It's eternal life, the Greek word telas, the end, from the same word as Jesus was saying on the cross, he says, it is finished. This is the finish line. What's the finish line for the believer? Eternal life. Did I enter into heaven? The end goal is eternal life And that goal is not because I worked for it. I don't work towards sanctification so that I may gain eternal life. No, it's just the outcome of the path that I'm on. Because I don't get it because I worked for it, I didn't earn it. I get eternal life because it's a gift, and that's what verse 23 says. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. If you want wages, the only wages that we can earn is death. You know, you don't want an increase in those wages. You want what's coming to you? Sin pays terrible wages. The word for wages was often used for a soldier that received his pay. If you're sin soldier, you're using your instruments as weapons of unrighteousness, you will be paid for your service It's a matter of justice that you be paid for your service. And apart from Jesus Christ, the only pay that you will receive is eternal death, damnation, what's owed to you Dishonest days work for a dishonest day's pay, and sin pays its wages in full. We don't need a wage increase, we just need a new employer. And the benefit of having God as your master is that he gives gifts. Forget about the wages. He gives gifts. And what's the gift? Eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. We receive him as our Lord, Jesus Christ as our Lord, and for those who accept him as Lord, recognize their sins for what they are, we receive eternal life. That's what it says here. Those who have Jesus as Lord. If you will not have Jesus as Lord, he will not be your Savior One author notes this way. He says, He who receives Jesus Christ as priest also receives him as King. He who comes to Jesus for justification also comes for sanctification. You cannot take Jesus for one and leave the other. He's both Lord and Christ, inseparably connected. He's Savior and Lord. And maybe you're here today and you hate what sin has done in your life, but you keep showing up for duty the next day. Keep showing up for duty the next day. And what I'm telling you is that you can have another boss. Sin pays terrible wages. Stop working for sin. Turn away from sin, turn to the Savior. You can have another employer. You can have another boss. And Jesus says this in Matthew chapter 11: Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, it's still a yoke. You're still underneath me as your Lord. I'm still your master, but my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. So come to Jesus and find life. Come to Jesus and the Son will set you free. And if the Son sets you free, you're free indeed. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Just now. He will save you. He will save you. Just now. Only trust him. Only trust him. Just now. Will you come to Jesus? Will you trust in him? Will you turn from the market of sin, your slavery to sin and Satan? And will you turn to the only one who can give you life? Jesus can give you life today, and I pray and I urge you and beg you to come to Christ and find life in Him. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this text of Scripture. Lord, what a wonderful text. Such a packed text, so much contained in here But Father, we're grateful that for those of us who've trusted in Christ, Lord, that we've been given a new life, and that grace gives us the power to say no to sin and temptation. That we've been given over to a new Lord and Master, and that this master doesn't just give out wages, this master gives gifts, and he gives the gift of eternal life to anyone who would turn from their sin and trust in him And Father, I pray that you, Lord, would use your word to bring motivation to your people for holiness. May we deepen in our walk with you. May we grow deep in our relationship with you. And grow high in our worship of our great God. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and Digital Files