The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. One of the things I really enjoy about the Christmas season is that we get to give the world our music playlist. And you can walk through the mall or enter a restaurant or turn on the radio and hear words like fall on your knees Oh here the angel voices, O night divine, o night when Christ was born. It's just uh just wonderful that uh uh this the season uh uh allows us to uh proclaim the the word in music. And uh I was just in a restaurant last week and heard the words uh ring Christmas bells merrily ring, tell all the world. Jesus is King. Loudly proclaim with one accord the happy tale, welcome the Lord. Just wonderful that we uh I get to hear these songs, hear these truths, and it's a reminder that there's a coming day. When every knee and every tongue will acknowledge Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father, amen. Amen. And for all the commercialization of the season, the message is still present in the music, and we can be thankful for that. And I'm thankful for uh the brothers that uh came up to sing for us and uh particularly Mike Armstrong. I spoke with him this morning uh after he let me know the news about his mother's passing and He said that he still wanted to be among God's people and he still wanted to be able to sing together with us and proclaim Christ together with us. So we can continue to pray for him. But we're grateful that uh these songs are a comfort even to his heart today. This week we turn our attention uh again to the miracle of the incarnation. And uh I'm not sure if you've ever thought about this, but uh the scripture gives us no indication that the birth of Christ itself was miraculous. The conception was definitely matt miraculous. You know, Matthew chapter 1 verse 20 lets us know for the child who has been born uh who is uh conceived in her is the of the Holy Spirit. So the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. So the the conception was miraculous, but we don't find anywhere in scripture where the birth itself was anything but natural The life of Jesus was miraculous, his death and resurrection miraculous, but there's nothing in Scripture to indicate that the birth was an unnatural birth According to Catholic tradition, Mary, the mother of Jesus, did not experience pain during childbirth. I'm sure that would have been news to her. The Catholic Church believes that uh Mary herself was conceived without original sin, and that's what Roman Catholicism means when They speak of the Immaculate Conception. They're not talking about Jesus being born without sin. They're actually talking about Mary being born without sin. The Immaculate Conception of Mary, but there's no indication anywhere in Scripture that Mary was without sin. It wasn't declared an official dogma of the Roman Catholic Church until December 8, 1854, when Pope Pius IX declared the Immaculate Conception a Catholic dogma. But where does Scripture say that Mary was born without sin? Luke chapter 1 verse 47 says Mary rejoiced in God, her Savior. Why would she need a Savior if she didn't have any sins to be saved from? In Luke 2 and 24, she offers a pair of turtle doves, which, according to Leviticus 12 and verse 8, was a sin offering. Why would Mary offer a sin offering if she didn't have any sins to confess? So we don't want to make less of Mary, but we don't want to make more of Mary either. Mary didn't escape the pains of the curse, the pains of childbirth. Jesus' birth was a normal, natural birth. It was a holy night. I'm not sure how silent it was, but it was a holy night. So Jesus can sympathize with our weaknesses and Mary can sympathize with the pains of childbirth because she had them. There's nothing miraculous about the physical birth of Jesus, but there was something miraculous about the identity of who Jesus was. And the proclamation around Jesus' birth. Because surrounding the birth of Jesus Christ, we find angels It's like the the thin veil between heaven and earth was broken by the angels who announced the birth of Jesus Christ. Have you ever considered that it's almost impossible to tell the story of Christmas without talking about the angels. They're absolutely everywhere. Everywhere around the birth of Christ. An angel appears to Zacharias, who was the father of John the Baptist, the forerunner of Jesus Christ. So we have an angel there. An angel appears to Mary, Luke chapter 1, verses 30 and 31. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you found favor with God, and behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. An angel appears to Joseph when Joseph is contemplating leaving Mary. Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, for the child who has been conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. An angel again appears to Joseph in a dream to protect Jesus from the massacre that was to happen in Bethlehem. Matthew chapter two, verse thirteen. Now when they had gone, behold an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, Get up, take the child and his mother. and flee to Egypt. An angel appears again in Matthew chapter 2 and verse 19 to tell Joseph that it was safe to bring the child back to Bethlehem. And on the night of Jesus' birth, multiple angels appeared to the shepherds who were keeping watch over their flocks by night And we read about that back in Luke chapter 8 in that region as the shepherds were staying out in the fields that these angels appeared. In the sky, a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and peace on earth among men with whom he is pleased. So these angels provide the miraculous element around the night of Jesus' birth. It was a natural birth, but there was a supernatural announcement. Because the birth of this king was not going to go unnoticed. There's going to be a public service announcement about Christ the Lord, and the Good Shepherd would be announced to these shepherds on the overnight shift. by these angels who would come and appear to them. Luke chapter 2, verse 17 says, when they had seen this, the angels, they made known the statement which had been told them about this child. And it was the angels who had the privilege of making the announcement about Jesus Christ. It's nearly impossible to tell the Christmas story without including the angels. They're all over. They're over the manger scenes. They're decorating the trees. Some angels are lighting up the lawns of our neighbors. They're on the front of our greeting cards. I'm sure they'll be in our Christmas play. And usually they're cute, right? You know, these cute little cherubs. But the biblical angels were terrifying, majestic. So majestic that John himself, an apostle of our Lord, was tempted to bow down and to worship an angel. Imagine that. The Apostle John, who's spent time with Jesus, leaned against this breast, he's the one who's identified Christ as the Lord. God, a very God. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. That's that John. And then he sees an angel so terrified. This angel is so majestic that even John is tempted to bow down and worship the angel. And has to get rebuked. Get up! What are you doing? Worship God. Worship God. But these angels are so glorious, so majestic, so prominent in the story of Christmas, but as glorious and as prominent as these angels might appear to be, they're nothing more than the servants of the king. Servants. Jesus was the King. They appeared with the glory of God around them, but Jesus was the radiance of God's glory. They announced the birth of the Lord and Savior, but Jesus was the Lord and Savior. Angels offer worship. Jesus receives worship. The angels were the messengers. Jesus was the message. And there's a vast difference between the two. And just to help us think through the supremacy of the baby and the manger, let's turn back to the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews chapter 1. I 've mentioned this before, but the book of Hebrews has been called the book of better things. Because whatever can be said about another person or ritual or symbol, better things can be said about Jesus. Christ offers a better hope, a better covenant, better promises, better blood, better sacrifice, better possession, a better country, a better resurrection. And the aim of the author of Hebrews is to magnify the person of Jesus Christ through comparison and to urge his readers not to turn away from such a glorious Savior. And the readers were in danger of losing their hope and drifting away from the truth in the midst of a crisis, relapsing back into Judaism because they thought it was safe back there, and the author of Hebrews urges them to bear with this word of exhortation. Because if you turn away from Christ, what are you turning to? Like Simon Peter says in John 6. 68, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Where else are we going to go? There's nothing that compares to the truth and the goodness and the beauty that's found in Jesus Christ. And not even the angels can offer you something that's better than the hope of eternal life And that's what the author turns to in Hebrews chapter 1. So let's take a look at uh at Hebrews uh chapter 1. We're actually going to focus on verses uh Verse 3 down to verse 14 is where our focus is going to be for today, but uh uh uh we'll go ahead and start at verse 1 just to set the context for you. Hebrews chapter 1, starting at verse 1. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his Son. whom he appointed heir of all things, for whom also he made the world. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high, having become as much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than the angels. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for this, your word. Father, I pray that as we think about Christ, as we think about who he is, about how he was announced, about this comparison between him and the angels, between him and the prophets, between him and anything else. Father, that we would see that Jesus Christ is supreme, that we would honor him, that we would adore him, that we would come and worship the one who was the newborn king. In Jesus' name, we come before you and ask that you would Use your word in our lives and that you would bless me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What we find in this chapter is just a panoramic view of the Son of God. A panoramic view of the Son of God. And if the question is, why is the baby in the manger Greater than the angels, better than the angels? The answer could come back that he's the begotten one, that he is the one who's worshipped. That he is the king, that he's anointed, that he's the creator, that he's eternal, and that he's seated at the Father's right hand. And every one of those points could be a message in itself, and maybe one day it will be. But for today, let's just take a look at the panoramic view of the Son of God. Number one, Jesus is the begotten one. Look at verses 4 and 5. Again, it says having become as much better than the angels, as he has inherited a more excellent name than they For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you. According to verse three, Jesus is seated at the right hand of the majesty on high. We find that in at the end of verse 3. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. The right hand is a metaphor for power. No disrespect to those of you who are left-handed, but uh 90% of the world's population is right-handed, so it was known as the side of power. The right hand was used as a metaphor for power, for privilege, and to be at the right hand of majesty was to be in the greatest place of privilege and power. And that's an honor that only belongs to the Son of God. No angel ever occupied that seat at the right hand of God. No, nobody. The Son of God is described as having become much better. than the angels, because he is the one who has this privilege. And what does it mean by he has become as much better? Does it mean that Jesus had to work his way up to this? Had to work his way up the ladder to become better than the angels? Was there some kind of competition for this number one spot? No. Because the next thing that we read says that he has inherited a more excellent name than they. This position is what belongs to Jesus by right. It's his inheritance. This is what's designated as Jesus' possession. He doesn't have to work for this position. It belongs to him by right. And when the text says that he has become, it's just a word that means that he's entered into this possession that belongs to him. Actually it's a Greek word genomai, which can be translated as it's been demonstrated or it's been proven The same word is used over in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 2, where it says, For if the word spoken through angels proved to be unalterable. And that's the same word Ginei that's used there, that it's proven to be this way. So in the same way when we look at Jesus, he's proven to be the one who has this title, who has this by right. It's not something that he earns, that he works for. It's what belongs to him by right, and he's proven to have this position. And what was Jesus? He was the only begotten Son of God. And that's the name that Jesus has inherited that's more excellent than the angels. He's the Son. And that's what verse 5 says, isn't it? For to which of the angels did he ever say, You are my son? And the two verses that are quoted here within this context come from the Psalms. The first is from Psalm 2. Which is just a powerful and prophetic psalm about the Messiah, speaking about the Lord's anointed. And it really brings us back into this chasm that's like beyond what we can even imagine or think about. I mean it's mind-boggling to think about what the psalmist is is saying. We'll back to Psalm 2 just for just for a moment. Psalm 2 Just to show you where this comes from. Like I said, just such a powerful, powerful psalm that we read about here that's that's quoted. But listen, listen to this. And I'll start at verse one. Why are the nations in an uproar and the peoples devising a vain thing? The kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed This is the king. They're taking a stand against the Lord and against his anointed. Let us tear their fetters apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord scoffs at them, then he will speak to them in his anger, and terrify them in his fury, saying, But as for me, I have installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord. The decree of the Lord. He said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Right now we're we're stepping off the deep end of the pool, okay? You might not know it yet, but you're drowning. You didn't even know it yet. But you're you're already drowning in this Because what we read about here is what theologians call the eternal decree. The eternal decree. This is what takes place in eternity. Meaning there was never a time before this. Just think about that for a minute. Just as far back as you want to go into eternity, this is just always true. This is what's always true, the eternal decree. But in this language, it speaks about it as being today, which is like saying that in eternity, it's always now There's no before God, there's no after God, there's just God. In the same way, there's no before the sun, there's no after the sun, there's always the sun. Just like there's no time before this decree or after the decree, it's just a decree. It's eternal. It's in eternity. So when we speak here about today I have begotten you, we're not talking about a point in time when the Son came into being. We're talking about an eternal relationship that exists between the Father and the Son from all of eternity. So this begotten one has always been the begotten one. There was never a time when he came into being. Just like when we think about the eternal decrees of God, there's no time that, like no point in time where he says, okay, now I'm going to decide to do this No, no, that's just always been. God doesn't have to like think about anything to make a decision. It's just always been true of who God is. Mind-boggling to think about. If you don't know it, you're drowning in this. Your brain should be hurting and screaming for help right now. Because how do you even comprehend this? Eternally begotten? What does that mean? I mean, just think about anything that we say is true about God. That the God has always been here. What do you mean by that? You know, you want to pop a couple of brain cells. Think about that one for a while. God knows everything, everything that is, everything that isn't. All actuality, all potentiality. Things that haven't come to pass yet, and he knows what would have happened if things were different. And he's never learned anything. Chew on that one for a while. God is everywhere present at the same time. Everywhere you go, He's already there. He doesn't have to travel to get anywhere. He's not booking a ticket. He's already there, everywhere present at the same time. So when we think about God, just always been there. And the Son has always been there. And this has always been the plan. So when we hear speak about the son today, I've begotten you, we're talking about in eternity, which is always now. So when does that conversation happen? Go ahead, I'll wait for you. When does this conversation happen? It's eternal. It's eternal. So that's why in Hebrews chapter 7 and verse 3 it says that the Son of God has neither beginning of days nor end of life. Or in John 1 and verse 1, where it says, In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. That Christ was always with God. There was never a time when he appeared. No, he was always with. He was in the beginning with God. Before there was the beginning, there was the Son Jesus says in John 8. 58, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am Like like that's the eternal now. I am. Not I was, not I will be, I am. Before he was, I am. How does that make sense? Does somebody need to give Jesus a grammar lesson? You know, before he was, I am. What are you talking about? It's before he was, I was. No, before he was, I am. Because it's the eternal now. Jesus is eternally the Son of God. Never a point in time when he became. He always was. He always was with the Father, along with the Spirit, who's also eternal. Hebrews chapter 9 verse 14. How much more will the blood of Christ you through the eternal Spirit, the eternal Spirit, meaning that the Spirit is also eternal? Offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And if you're eternal, that means you are God. So what Psalm 2 does is it reaches back. into this infinite chasm of eternity to speak about what was always true about God. The Son was always begotten of the Father. There was never a time when the father became the father. He's always been the father, because the son has always been the son. And there were no angels around in eternity to witness any of that happening. This is a possession that only belongs to Jesus Christ. And what's picked up in the next part of Hebrews chapter 1 is that I will be a father to him and he shall be a son to me. And that's speaking about this prediction of the one who would come to be king. Flip over to 2 Samuel chapter 7. 2 Samuel chapter 7. And we'll start in verse 12. But just real quick, back in verse 2, it talks about how uh David thought that God 's house needed an upgrade. You know, David's in the palace and he believes that the Ark of God was living in a fixer-upper. So he says, you know, see, I now dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within tent curtains. You know, we're not traveling through the wilderness anymore. You know, God needs a house. And David wants to build a house for God. But God tells David, forget about building me a house, I'll build you a house. Speaking about his dynasty, look at verse 12. It says, When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you. Who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be a father to him, and he will be a son to me. When he commits iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men and the strokes of the sons of men, but my loving kindness shall not depart from him. As I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you, your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established for ever. And there's a lot going on in this passage, but what's evident is that David's son Solomon was not the fulfillment. Solomon built a temple. Solomon was disciplined with the strokes of men But that temple that Solomon built was destroyed, and eventually his kingdom was stripped away from him. He didn't have the kingdom that lasted forever. So this one who has a kingdom that's lasting forever has to be somebody else. In 1 Kings 11 and verse 11, it says the Lord said to Solomon, because you have Done this, you've not kept my covenant, my statutes, which I've commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you. The kingdom was going to be torn away from Solomon. So the the one who would reign forever have a kingdom that would last forever, it's talking about somebody else. And God promised to that one that I will be a father to him. And what's happened is the eternal Son of God became flesh and dwelt among us. The eternal one came into time and space, and it was that one who would build the house that would last forever The eternal Son of God became a son of David and a son of Abraham to fulfill the promises that were given to David. And that one who was to come in the future is here, said That I will be a father to him. In the future, that one, he was also going to be a son of God. He won't just be a son of David. He won't just be a son of Abraham. That one will be the son of God. He will be my son. And I will be his father. So speaking into the future, that from that uh past perspective. There's going to come one who is going to be the son of God, and there's going to be no one like him. Do you recognize that there was nobody like Jesus Christ? Well when you think about Jesus Christ, do you put Jesus Christ in a category all by himself? That it's not just like, you know, uh, you know, we go from like the ants To the dogs, to the cats which are actually below the dogs. Then we get up to the like the lions and you know eventually we get to man And then we get to the angels, and then like if we reach above that, we get to God. It's not like we're all just in a line, a continuum. No, no, no. God is in a category all by Himself. Now everybody else you can say oh they're related to this and they're like that or whatever and guy shows up and says who who's like me? There's nobody like me When we think about Jesus, he's in a category all by himself. The only begotten Son of God. Nobody like him. Nobody close to him. Nobody in his category. He's all by himself. This is the one that we worship. Amen. And next he's worshiped. And that's the what's made clearer in the next verse here. Look at verse 6. And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him. This could be a reference to Psalm 97 in verse 7, which says, let all those be ashamed who serve graven images, who boast themselves of idols. Worship him, all you gods. Or mighty ones, and there's a reference to the angels in the Septuagint, which is a Greek translation of the Old Testament in Deuteronomy 32 and 43, where it reads, Rejoice with him, O heavens, bow down to him, all gods, which is another word for Angels in this case, the Septuagint actually translates it as angels, which is likely what the author of Hebrews is alluding to, where the entire heavens are called on to worship this king. And how could that be? How could the heavens be called on to worship anybody besides God? Who is God directing worship to? Did God forget the Ten Commandments? Have no other gods before me? Worship me only? Has God forgotten what he's told his people? And now he's going to direct worship to somebody else Exodus 202 and 3, I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. Deuteronomy 6, verse 13. You shall fear only the Lord your God and worship him. Jesus quotes that over in Matthew chapter 4. Remember when Satan tried to tempt them to bow down and worship him? I'll give you all these things if you bow down. He says, The Lord has said, worship him only. You only worship God. Nobody else gets worshiped besides God. Isaiah 42 verse 8, I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another. Nobody else gets the glory that I deserve. But now how does the same guy turn around and say, you know what? All the angels of God worship him. How does he do that? It's because the Son is God. And the multitude of the heavenly hosts that appeared before the shepherds on that night of his birth. Praising God, glory to God in the highest. That was only a foretaste of the glory that was to come. Only a foretaste. Because they were just a section of that heavenly choir. And what Hebrews 1 and verse 6 says, let all the angels of God worship him. Every one of them without exception. And there's myriads of myriads, thousands times ten thousands of angels. Revelation 5. 11. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands. And the Son of God is worthy of the worship of every last one of them. Every last one of them. Bring worship to this one who is born the king. That's the kind of honor that he will receive. And when Jesus comes back. Because he's come back, he's come once, and he's coming again. When he comes back, Second Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 7 says, The Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire. And guess who they're going to be worshiping? They're going to be worshiping the sun. All bow to the sun. And on that day, when God again brings his firstborn into the world, every angel will worship him. Are you worshiping? Do you think about this this season when we think about this king? Do you think about worship? We're to bring our worship to this king. Bow down before this king. The Psalm 2 says, kiss the son, lest he be angry with you and you perish in the way. You either worship this king or you're done with. You worship him. He's deserving of your worship. And these angels are not too proud to bend their knees before this king. But how many people walk around here, you know, puffing their chest out as if they're too proud to bow the knee to Jesus Christ. I actually remember witnessing one person, and he says, you know what? I believe in God, I'll thank God, but I'm not going to worship anybody. Who do you think you are? Where these mighty angels are not too high and mighty to bow before the king. You know, where they hover around the throne and they can't even bear to drop their wings to look at him. Cover their eyes, cover their feet. They understand who this king is. Are you worshiping this king? He's the king. He's the king. Look at verse 7 and 8. And the angels, of the angels, he says, he makes his angels wins and his ministers a flame of fire. But of the Son, he says, your throne, O God. is forever and ever, and the righteous scepter is the scepter of his kingdom. And this is something that we covered last week in Psalm 45. We won't take a lot a lot of time here. But I just want to point this out that these angels are not created to rule. They're not created to rule. Of the angels, he makes his angels' wins, his ministers the flame of fire, but of the sun he says, Your throne, O God. We already covered that He's God, we understand that. But He's the one who has a throne. He has a throne. And the angels don't get to have that throne. Which is another evidence of Satan's rebellion. Hebrews chapter 2 verse 5 says, For he did not subject to angels the world to come concerning which we are speaking. Angels were not meant to be the rulers of the world. But what does Satan do? 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4, he's called the God of this world. John chapter 12 verse 31, he's called the ruler of this world. Do you know what Satan is? He's a usurper. He's taking a position that he was never designed to have. He was never created to rule. But he comes down to this earth and now he wants to rule over men. Be the ruler over the world. That was not meant for an angel. It was not meant for him. Psalm 104 speaks about God governing over his creation. And he says that the angels are like the winds that are his messengers, like the flaming fire, which is His ministry. Back in Psalm 104 talks about all of creation serving God, the clouds, the fire, the wind, the rain. Everything serves God. And the angels are just like that. They come to serve. They're his messengers. They're his ministers. They answer to him. But they were never meant to rule. They're never in that category. And this is one of the reasons why, again, Satan's rebellion is so treacherous. Because he's stepping beyond what was even his right. He's stepping beyond how he was created, what he was meant to do. He was meant to be a minister, meant to be a servant, but now he wants to come and rule And so many men just bow the knee to him. You don't want to bow the knee to Christ. Don't want to bow the knee to God, but you want to you'll bow the knee to Satan. You're going to bow the knee to som You're bound the knee to somebody. And if you're not a slave of Christ, you're a slave of sin. And a slave of Satan. And that's what we find here. But Jesus Christ, he was the one who is the true ruler, and he's the one who is here called God. Your throne, O God. Very clear back in Psalm 45 it speaks about this and uh for those of you that might have missed last week's message you can go back there because we did a whole message just on Jesus being called God. But the angels here are to be the ministers. They're those that serve. Angels ministered in various ways. Elijah in the wilderness was ministered to by an angel. Daniel in the lions, then ministered to you by an angel. Joseph, after he found out that Mary was pregnant, an angel had to come to him and talk him off the ledge. Jesus in the wilderness, ministered to by an angel. In the Garden of Gethsemane, ministered to by an angel. Simon Peter in prison, ministered to by an angel. Paul in danger of shipwreck on the Mediterranean, ministered to by an angel. They're messengers, ministers, in contrast to the Lord who's the king and the God. There's a contrast here. And and and who is he speaking to? He's speaking here about the Son. The one who is the King is also God, and he is the Son. It's the Father who is saying this: Your throne, O God. You know, you just take a step back from that. It's God speaking to God. Like John 1, God with God. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with, and the Word was. God speaking to God, thy throne, O God. But it's the Father calling the Son God, and how does that work out? If you don't ascribe to the doctrine of the Trinity, I don't know how you make sense of this. How do you have one God but yet multiple people speaking and saying that I'm God and I'm calling you God and but it's not a different God, it's the same God? Yeah, and that's just the beauty of the the scriptures, isn't it? You you just you just read it for what it is and you you don't make anything out, it's just like, hey, well that's what it says, and I'm disagreeing with this. You know, can you fully explain the Trinity? No. But can you deny it? No, not if you believe the scriptures. You have to say here there's multiple persons who are called God, but yet there's still one God How do you answer all that? I don't know, but that's what the Bible says. And all we do is just bow the knee to what Scripture has to say about these things. Amen. He's the one who is the eternal one, and he has a righteous scepter. The scepter of his kingdom is a righteous scepter. The kingdom belongs to him. And this is the Christ that we serve and honor. Number four here, he's anointed. He's anointed. Look at verse 9. You've loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. We'll pick it up, don't worry. You've loved righteousness and hated lawlessness, therefore God, your God. Again, you have God speaking to God again. Therefore, God, your God. has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your companions. He's anointed you. That's the language of kingship. The word anointed in Greek is the from the word creo, where we get our word Christos from, in English Christ. He's the anointed one. He's the one who's designated as the ruler. Saul was designated as the ruler and was anointed, 1 Samuel 10. David was designated as the ruler and was anointed 1 Samuel 1 But they were all the small letter A anointed. But you have a capital A anointed who was to come. And that's the one that God says in Psalm 2, I have installed my king. This is my anointed one. You know, there's a lot of small A anointed ones, but this is my capital A anointed one. And I have anointed this one with the oil of gladness. His joy is greater than any who came before him. That the joy of of this king is greater than any angel of heaven. Do you know that the angels rejoice? Angels rejoice. Every time a sinner comes to salvation, you know what's in heaven? There's joy going on in heaven. They throw down. Every time a sinner repents. Luke 15, verse 10. In the same way I tell you, there is joy in the presence of angels, of the angels of God, over one sinner who repents. The angels rejoice over one sinner who repents. They they throw down, there's joy. But there's a joy that angels don't know Because in 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 12, it says that this gospel, this grace that we've been given that was revealed to us That the angels long to look into it. That there's a joy that the angels don't have. We have the joy of salvation. They They throw down when they see a sinner repents, but guess what? None of them are a sinner who's repented. Those that have fallen from grace, and actually it's you know couldn't call it grace, those who have fallen Those who have fallen, stay fallen. Jesus did not come to be an angel, to die for angels. The angels who've fallen, they've crossed the line never to return. And now the angels look over the fence at us. And they're they're seeing sinners who are repenting and like, what in the world is that? Like we don't know that. There there's a joy that they have that we don't have. Do you know do you know that we're the only ones who will be able to sing about forgiveness? You know, grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all your sins. Do you know that you're the only group of people that will be able to sing that? That in heaven the angels will be singing a different song. We're the ones who get to sing about grace because we're the only ones who experience it. So there's a joy that we have that the angels don't even have. But then going beyond that, there's a joy that Christ has that's greater than all of us. In Hebrews chapter 12, it speaks about how the author and perfector of faith, to for the joy set before him Endured the cross, despised him the shame, and have sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. There is joy in heaven by Jesus Christ , the one who Who was the victor, the one who granted us our salvation. There's an oil of gladness that he has over those that he's redeemed. And who will forever be the trophies of his grace. Ephesians chapter 1 speaks about that. Forever the trophies of his grace. Always speaking of the glory of Jesus Christ. There's a joy that Christ has that's beyond angels and beyond men. And this is the oil of gladness that's described here as being the oil of gladness above your companions. There's a greater joy that Christ has than anyone else. Number five, he's the creator, look at verse ten. And you Lord in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands No, the verse here is connected to the rest of the context by the word and, and, ye Lord, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth. And this is Again, speaking about coming from the Father, the Father who says, You are my son, the Father who says, let all the angels of God worship him. It's that same Father who says in verse 8, your throne, O God. And he also says, you Lord in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth. That's significant. Because it's the Father speaking about the Son as the creator. And he's calling him Lord, you Lord. Capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. That's the word for Yahweh in the Old Testament. Or is some of your Friends who read the New World Translation will call it Jehovah, the Jehovah's Witnesses. But here we find that Jesus is Jehovah. Jesus is Yahweh. Jesus is that Lord who in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth. And here are the Father speaking about the Son and calling him Lord. And when you look back at the context of Psalm 102, where this is taken from the covenant name for God shows up all over the place And what's that about the Lord? You are the one who founded the earth. The heavens are the works of your hands. He's the creator. Do you ever stop to think that the material world around you The seat you're sitting on, the ground you're standing on, the clothes you're wearing, even your very own body was just spoken into existence. Just just the word. Just the word. Your body, according to current estimates, contains 30 to 37 trillion cells. And each cell has an estimated 200 trillion molecules. I'll let you do the math yourself on that one. And each stitch has been designed by the divine designer That he's the one who intricately made you with just a word. He just spoke it and it happened. The Milky Way galaxy alone likely has between 100 and 200 billion planets. But there are perhaps many more than that. Some estimate is as high as 8 trillion planets in the Milky Way. That's just our solar system. Not even talking about those outside of that. In Hebrews chapter 11, verse 3 says, By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God. He spoke and it happened. So that what is seen is made, not made out of things which are visible. The Creator, and the Creator was lying in the major. That He created. And that He was upholding by the word of His power. That's the one that we worship. That's who this is. This is the Creator. This is God. This is the King. Number six, he's the eternal and unchanging one. Look at verse 11. It says, they will perish, but you remain And they all will become old like a garment, and like a mantle you will roll them up. Like a garment they will also be changed, but you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. The heavens as they exist will one day perish. There's an expiration date for all of it. It's on a countdown timer, and one day time will be wrapped up. Peter speaks about this day, it's the day that the heavens will pass away. It's all coming to an end. But in contrast, he says, but ye remain. He's eternal. He never has to change. He doesn't become worn out. The heavens, on the other hand, will become old like a garment. Do you see that in verse 11? They all will become old like a garment. The word for garment is the word that's used for an outer cloak. And after a while the outer garment needs to be repaired or replaced because it it rips, it tears, it falls apart. I was reading an article in NASA that talked about the black holes in the universe, which really aren't holes at all, they say. They say it's it's matter that's so condensed and packed together that no light can penetrate. And they say if you get too close to the black hole, you'll just be stretched out and ripped apart like spaghetti noodles. That's what they say. But all that to say that the universe that we live in is not stable. We live in a universe that's winding down. The universe is dying, and so are we. And one day, it will be wrapped up just like an old blanket and changed. Which says something about how infinite our God is. I mean we can't even see the end of the universe, but God will just pick it up like a blanket, fold it up, and create a new one. I mean that that's that's just speaking about the infinity of God. And God doesn't have to change. He doesn't wear out. He doesn't get old. They say that the sun 's going to run out of energy in five billion years. I'm not sure how right they are about that. But God doesn't lose any energy. God doesn't lose energy. He's the same year after year after year. The same yesterday, today, forever. He's always the same. He doesn't lose power. And the spiritual life of the child of God is bound up in him. Where do you look for for your stability? If you're trying to anchor your stability in anything else besides God, one day that power will run out. The plug is going to be pulled. Unless you're anchoring all of who you are in this eternal God. This is where we look for stability. The Bible says in Hebrews 12 that the heavens will one day be shaken. But God will never be shaken. We can come in Him and find stability. Number seven, and this is finally last one, He's seated. He's seated. Look at verse 13. But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? Are they not all ministering spirits sent out to render service for the sake of those who will inherit salvation? This here passage is uh here taken from Psalm 110, the most frequently quoted book in the New Testament. Uh just in the book of Hebrews alone, Psalm 110 is quoted to, quoted or alluded. uh to you about a dozen times in another passage where God speaks to God, Psalm 110, the Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And it's a picture of absolute sovereignty and total subjugation. Sit at my right hand, sovereignty, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet, subjugation. And again, sitting at the right hand is the place of power and authority. And if you're at the right hand of God, you're talking about all power and all authority. And Jesus Christ here is the one who's said to have that, Matthew 28, all authority has been given to me. And the enemies will be made a footstool for his feet. According to one commentator, conquering kings emphasize their triumph by placing a foot upon the neck of the conquered king. And here the figure is extended so as to include all the incarnate sons' enemies. And it's in accord with the idea of a footstool. He's placing his feet upon them as a footstool. To match that he's seated. And he's kicking up his feet on his enemies. The sun is the ultimate The true ultimate warrior, right? The ultimate victor. In 1 Corinthians 15 it says, the last enemy that will be abolished is death. And to which of the angels has that authority been given? Not one of them. Not one of them. Jesus can't be an angel. He can't be False religions and cults like Jehovah's Witnesses and others will say that Jesus was nothing more than an angel or a God with a lowercase g. But how do they respond to the Father's declaration about who this son is? That that that he's he's the one that he can say, Thy throne, O God, or worship him, or sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Angels are not seated while the Father makes their enemies a footstool for their feet. This is only true about the Lord. Angels, according to verse 14, are ministering spirits. They render service for those that inherit salvation. They don't sit at the right hand of God to rule it in the midst of their enemies. So what's the point of all this? Why is the author of Hebrews telling us this? It's because he wants us to pay a greater attention to the one in the manger than the ones who floated in the sky to announce the one who was in the manger. You know, sometimes you look at major scenes and it's like the angels are so big, it's like, is there a baby there anywhere? You know, all this attention on the angels and how dazzling they are and how bright they are. And this is an argument from the lesser to the greater. As significant as the angels are, as glorious as they are, as much attention as should be given to the angels' message, there's a word that's even greater. And that's where we just briefly look at chapter 2. Look at chapter 2, just really quick. It says, for this reason. So this is the therefore. Some of your Bibles might actually have that. Therefore, for this reason. For this reason what? For this reason we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard so that we do not drift away from it. For if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every transgression and disobedience received the just penalty, how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? After it was at first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard. God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his will. The word spoken through angels in verse 2 was the the law of God. That's what it's speaking about. Okay? Over in Acts chapter 7, verse 38, Stephen's address to the Jews. We're told that the law of God came through angels. Acts chapter 7, 36 says this man led them out speaking about Moses, performing wonders and signs in the land of Egypt. and in the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years. This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brethren. This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness together with the angel who was speaking to him on Mount Sinai. Moses received the law of God through an angel. It was an angel who delivered that to him. He passed the oracles to him. Later on in chapter 7, verse 53, it says, you who received the law as ordained by angels. It was an angel that delivered the law to Moses. Paul speaks about the same thing over in Galatians chapter 3 verse 19. It says, Why the law then? It was added because of transgressions having been ordained through angels by the agency of a mediator. So it was angels who delivered the law to Moses. Deuteronomy 33 speaks of an association of angels with the giving of the law. So what's the point that the author of Hebrews is making? The word of the law was mediated through angels, but that word was binding. That word was binding. And if you disobeyed that word, you received a severe penalty. Even to the point of death. This word that came through an angel, you discounted that, you received a severe penalty. You're to take the word of angels seriously. We often cite the story of Zacharias during this season as well. Remember, he was told that he would have a son, even in his old age. And he's wondering, you know, how do I know that this is going to be true? And Gabriel says. I'm Gabriel. And I'm standing in the presence of the Lord. You want to know whether or not what I'm telling you is the truth? You won't be able to speak for a season. How about that? You want to doubt my word? I'm standing in the presence of the Lord. That's what you got for doubting an angel. And we're not even talking about the disobedience word. People would die. Because they disregarded the word that was delivered to them by an angel. How much more of a severe penalty do you think you deserve for disobeying the word of the Son of God? How much severe penalty for disobeying the word of the Son of God? It's a penalty worse than death. How will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation after it was at first spoken through the Lord? And here we see every member of the Trinity involved in this proclamation of the Son. It's God the Father who's testifying. And the Holy Spirit is bearing witness. Verse 4, God also testifying with him, that's the Father, both by signs and wonders and by various miracles, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is testifying. And who's the one that gave them the word? It came first through the Lord. That's talking about Jesus Christ. So every member of the Trinity is involved in this proclamation about who the Son of God is. And what's the danger for us? The danger for us is that we'll simply drift away from that message. That's what it says in verse 1. For this reason, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard so that we do not drift away. Do you know what's so so dangerous about drifting away? You don't know when it's happening. You don't know when it's happening. Every year our family likes to go out to Ocean City. You know, Jennifer likes to get into the water for maybe five minutes and then she's out. And then it'll be me and the kids in the water and you know we're playing in the water and getting knocked over by the waves and floating in the water. And then all of a sudden we'll look back and it's just like, wasn't mom like right there? And we're like way down, you know, the shore. What happened? We just drifted away. You know, we're weren't paying attention. We weren't having our eyes fixed. Like, hey, we need to stay right here. This is where mom is. We're all set up right here. Just not paying attention, just playing in the waves, getting knocked around, and before you know it, we're just drifting all the way down the shore Or we can't even see the umbrella anymore. This is what happens when people take their eyes off of Jesus Christ. They just drift away. What does Hebrews tell us? Fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, before the joy set before him. Endured the cross, despised and the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. And some of you may be here today, and you're in danger of drifting. In danger of not paying attention to the message of Jesus Christ Not putting the importance on the proclamation of who Jesus is. Maybe for some of you you're preparing for college. And that's when the test will come. Do I really believe what my parents have told me all this time? Is that my faith, or that's just what I've been told I need to believe? And then you'll find out, am I going to drift or am I going to be anchored to Christ and to his word? You know, for for some people it's when they they get older, you know, after the kids are out. You know, they can kind of focus on them. It's me time now. My kids are out. I'm an empty nester. And now I get to do what I really want to do. Is what you really want to do connected to Christ? Or are you also drifting? Because you're not fixed on him. And then you'll find out, do I really believe? We could drift in all kinds of ways. It was Sinclair Ferguson who shares the fictional story about one who ends up in the outer darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. And he opens up his eyes to discover that he's been found there. And he wonders, How did I get here? And he cries out in the darkness, Am I the only one that's here? Is anybody else here? And then through the darkness, there pierces a voice and says, I'm also here. He says, How did you get here? What did you do to get here? And the voice comes back: absolutely nothing. What do you have to do to go to hell? Absolutely nothing. You just don't pay attention to the message. You neglect the words of Christ. The appeals that are given to you to repent of your sins and trust in Him, you totally ignore it. You come in here and you leave in the same way that you came. You listen to the appeals that have been made from the pulpit. I don't know how many times you've heard it. How many times have you heard the Christmas story? That there was one who came to be the savior of mankind. Call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. How many times have you heard that? How many times have you heard that he did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many? That you need to be delivered from your sins? How many times have you heard that? How many times have you heard from right here, 2 Corinthians 5 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him? How many times have you heard that? How many times have you heard John 3. 16? Everybody knows John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. How many times have you heard that message? But if you do nothing with that message , You'll end up in outer darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. And it was because you neglected the sun, you did not pay attention to the sun, that you'll end up there. And I'm here to tell you today: pay attention to the sun. Pay attention to the sun. He's more worthy to be paid attention to than any angel If there was an angel who shows up here and he gives a different message than the message I'm giving to you today, let him be accursed. That's what the book of Galatians says, right? Even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we've preached to you, he is to be accursed. I don't care if an angel comes and contradicts this message. You reject the angel and hold on to Christ. You hold on to the message of Jesus Christ. The message that we're giving you today is the only message of hope. And you turn away from this message, there is no other savior given for sins. This is it. And for some of you, you don't know, this might be your last time to hear it. Turn to Christ. Trust in Christ. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we pray that we would hear the message of Christ. Our Father, that even as we sang earlier, Lord, that we would fall on our knees, that we would trust in Him. He's the King. He's the one who's come to be the sacrifice for our sins. He's the only begotten one. He's the one to be worshipped. He 's the anointed one. He's the creator. He's eternal. He's seated at the Father's right hand. And this is the one who's come to. To cleanse us from our sins, to deliver us from our unrighteousness, to be the Savior of the world. And Father, if we don't turn to Him, Lord, there's no place to go. Where else are we going to go? It's from Him that we have the words of eternal life. Also, Father, I pray that if there are any who are here today who have not yet trusted in Jesus Christ, that today would be the day of salvation, that they would turn from their sins, that they would trust in Him. And for those of us who know you, who know Christ, Lord, I pray that we would be anchored, fixed on him, keeping our eyes fixed on him, the author and finisher of our faith, that we would persevere. And that we would glorify him, not only this season, but every season of every year for the rest of our lives. May you receive glory and honor. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.