The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open up our Bibles to Matthew chapter 21? We're rapidly approaching the end of Jesus' earthly life, and uh we're now in the middle of what's known as Passion Week. which is the the week of Jesus' crucifixion. At the end of this week, Jesus will be mocked, spit upon, beaten, hung up on a cross. And will be crucified at the request of the Jewish religious leaders. And uh this is what they wanted in uh Matthew chapter 27 and verse 22 when Pilate asked the crowds Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called the Christ? What do they say? Crucify him. Crucify him. So that's where this week is headed to. But if you've been following the narrative in Matthew, the question you might be asking yourself is why? What is motivating these leaders to respond in the way that they did? to the perfect embodiment of love. What is motivating these leaders to respond like this? Jesus was nothing but compassion and wisdom and grace and mercy. Righteousness, kindness, goodness, and glory. What part of that list are these leaders objecting to? What part of that list? As the hymn says Jesus shines brighter Jesus shines purer than all the heaven of the angels that heaven can boast. What is there to object to in a description like that of Jesus Christ? For three and a half years they've seen Jesus heal the sick. Are they opposed to health? They've seen Jesus feed the hungry. Are they opposed to being fed? They've seen Jesus cast out demons. Are they opposed to freedom? They've seen Jesus raise the dead. Are they opposed to life Instead of celebrating Jesus Christ, they accused him of casting out demons by the ruler of demons. When he healed a crippled man, they accused him of acting unlawfully on the Sabbath day. When he raised Lazarus from the dead, they conspired to put him to death and Lazarus as well. Get rid of the evidence. And then they had the nerve to ask Jesus, we wish to see a sign. Are you kidding me? After all that Jesus did, now that you now you're going to ask for a sign? They always explain it away. There was always a way to explain away the miracles of Jesus Christ. Having another sign was not their issue. And it's not that they had an objection to food and to health and to freedom or to life. They would have been happy to have all of that. What they objected to was Jesus' authority. That's what they objected to. In the in the parable that Jesus gave in Luke chapter 19 of the the noblemen who went away to receive the kingdom for himself Jesus portrays the hatred that was expressed towards him as the ruler. In Luke chapter 19 and verse 14, it says the citizens hated him And sent a delegation after him saying, We do not want this man to reign over us. It was the same jealousy that Joseph's brothers felt in Genesis chapter 37 when they learned that they would bow down to Joseph. Then his brother said to him, Are you actually going to reign over us? Are you really going to rule over us? It's the same response that the Israelites had toward Moses when he presented himself as the deliverer. A fellow Israelite answered in Exodus 2, verse 14: Who made you a prince or a judge over us? And this is the same attitude that the chief priests and the elders of the people have toward Jesus Christ. Who made you the prince and the judge? Are you actually going to reign over us? They don't mind the food. They don't mind the freedom. They don't mind the health, the life, the deliverance. But what they really have a problem with is what we find in verse 23 of Matthew chapter 21. By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? Who put you in charge? That's what they have a problem with. In other words, we don't recognize your authority over us. And that's the same problem that people are having today. They don't mind all the goodies of the gospel. People don't mind all the goodies. They'll gladly take the peace and joy and blessings and eternal life, forgiveness. What they really have a problem with is Jesus' authority over them. And that's the road. That's the obstacle and the path. That's what what trips people up when they consider turning to Jesus Christ. And it's interesting to compare The reaction of the disciples of Jesus Christ with the reaction of the enemies of Jesus Christ, the disciples were amazed by his power. And we'll we'll see that later on this morning. They were constantly shocked by the power of Jesus Christ, the power that He had over creation And right up to the very end, they struggled with little faith. They struggled with the power. Even here in this passage, we'll see that they struggled over the fig tree. How did the fig tree wither all at once? They struggled over the power of Christ. The enemies of Christ, on the other hand, don't seem to have a problem with the power. They don't even doubt his power. They don't doubt what he can do. They knew that he could heal. They knew that he could raise the dead. They even anticipated that something was going to happen on the third day. The disciples were moping around, you know, hiding behind the the walls and like, you know, heads hanging down. We thought this was going to be the one. You know, it's been three days since this happened. We thought he was going to be the one. The enemies of Christ, they had a guard around the tomb because they expected something to happen The enemies of Christ didn't have a problem with the power. They understood the power. What they struggled with was the authority. By whose authority? Who do you think you are? Let's take a look at our passage. We'll start at verse 18 for the for the sake of context. Look at Matthew chapter 21, starting at verse 18. It says, now in the morning, when he was returning to the city, became hungry. Seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And he said to it, No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you, and at once the fig tree withered. Seeing this, the disciples were amazed and asked, How did the fig tree wither all at once? And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, if ye have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what is done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, be taken up and cast into the sea it will happen. And all things you ask in prayer believing you will receive When he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him while he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? Jesus said to them, I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John was from what source? From heaven or from men? Then they began reasoning among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Then why did you not believe him? But if we say from men, we fear the people, for they all regard John as a prophet. In answering Jesus, they said, we don't know. He also said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you God, and Father, we pray that we would see once again the power, the authority, the beauty, the glory of Jesus Christ. Now, Father, I pray that you would uh open our eyes, Lord, that we may behold wonderful things in this passage, and uh that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The words power and authority are related words, but they're not identical words. Power speaks of a person's ability Often the word power in the New Testament is a translation of the Greek word dynamis. I believe we get our English word dynamic from that. It's a word that speaks of might, strength. The word authority, on the other hand, speaks of a person's right or privilege, you know, the freedom to do certain things. It's related to the to the word for power, but The right or privilege to exercise that power is what's called authority. So the two aren't identical. This week, just to illustrate the point, I heard a funny story about a man by the name of Christian Herder. who was uh a governor of Massachusetts in the nineteen fifties. Uh one day after a busy morning he's chasing votes and he's going out for lunch. He he went without lunch the whole day. He arrived at an evening barbecue and he was hungry by the time he arrived at this barbecue. He's famished. And as Herder moved down the serving line, he held out his plate to the woman who was serving the chicken, and she put a piece on his plate, and then turned to the next person in line. Then uh the governor, he turned back to the lady, says, you know, excuse me, but uh, you know, do you mind if I have another piece? Sorry, she told him, one piece to each person. Governor Herder was normally a modest man, but this time he decided to throw a little weight around. Said, uh, maybe you don't know who I am. I'm the governor of of Massachusetts To which the woman replied, Maybe you don't know who I am. I'm the lady in charge of the chicken. Move along. Governor Herter had more political power and likely more physical power, but the lady behind the line had the authority. She had the authority. Power and authority are two different things. And Jesus, and these verses that we're about to read, he demonstrates both. He has both power and authority. First of all, let's look at verses 18 to 22. We're reminded of the power that Jesus possessed over nature and the amazement that his disciples had over that. Look at verses 18 to 22. We already read this last week in the morning when he was returning from the city. He became hungry, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it, found nothing on it, except leaves only, and he said to it, No longer shall there ever be any fruit from you. And at once the fig tree withered. Seeing this, the disciples were amazed and asked, How did the fig tree wither all at once? And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what is done to the fig tree. But even if you say to this mountain be, taken up and cast into the sea, it will happen. And all things you ask in prayer believing, you will receive Like I said, we began to look at this last week, but we spent our time covering the meaning behind the cursing of the fig tree. We try to answer the question, why? Why did Jesus curse the fig tree? And it took an entire message to answer that one question last week. But these disciples completely ignored the significance of the cursing of the fig tree. They never asked the question why. They didn't bother to try to figure out why. Their question wasn't why, their question was how. Like, how did it happen? Look at verse 20 again. Seeing this, the disciples were amazed and asked, How did the fig tree wither all at once? Let me remind you of the events, the order of the events one more time. Early that Tuesday morning when Jesus was approaching the city of Jerusalem. He found a fig tree full of leaves. Mark chapter 11, verse 13 says that it was in leaf. So the leaves would have been broad, green, full. This is on the same day that he's going to cleanse the temple. It comes to this fig tree, and it would have been expected that the fig tree in leaf like this would have also had early figs because the fruit appeared before the leaf. So it gave the appearance of health, but in reality it was sick, it was deceptive, which was the perfect picture of the religion in Israel during this time, deceitful and desperately sick. So Jesus curses the fig tree and he moves on in his journey to Jerusalem. By the time Jesus and the disciples are on their way back, after he had finished cleansing the temple, he's on his way back to Bethany, down that same road. After he cast out the money changers, turned over their tables, on the same day he's coming back down that same road, and they're passing by that same tree, and the full broad green leaves of this tree are completely dried out. The branches and the trunk of this tree are completely withered out. And Mark chapter 11, verse 20 says that even the roots were lifeless. They saw the fig tree withered from the roots up. So so can you imagine something that looks this old this quick? It's like like you know those uh time-lapse cameras, you know, where they they show different stages. Maybe they they take a look at a scenery over the period of a year and you can just see all the seasons change. right in front of you. This is like what they're witnessing in a day. In a day it goes from full, broad, green to withered, dried up, worn out. You know, right right around this area we're enjoying the fall colors right now, right? You know, all the leaves changing colors. Imagine seeing all of that in one tree in a day. Seeing all the seasons in one tree in the same day. This is what's going on here. And as as astonishing as that was for the disciples, they're just blown away by this. From summer to winter in a day. Matthew uses the word thalmazo. It's a word that means to be surprised, to marvel at, to wonder at. It's basically a word that you use when you don't have words. Like I I don't know what description to put on this. This is just so spectacular. It's the same word they use when Jesus calmed the winds and the waves. Remember that? Over in Matthew chapter 8, they were amazed. This is the same word. Thou Mazzo. Like I just have no words to put on this. What kind of man is this? That even the winds and the sea obey him? And here these disciples are after three and a half years with Jesus, and they're still struggling to comprehend exactly what kind of man is this? Who is this? What kind of man is this? Like I said, they don't even bother to ask the question why? Like, why did you curse the fig tree? What's the significance? They just say, how did you do that? How were you able to do that? And Jesus doesn't really give them the answer for how. It's not like he explained how he reversed the process of photosynthesis It's not like he explains, you know, the process of decomposition within a a tree. That's not what he does. Instead, he uses this opportunity to build up their faith because if they knew who they were talking to, they wouldn't be struggling with this. They wouldn't be struggling with this. In addition to that, if they understood the power they had access to, they would understand that the fig tree was only the beginning. In other words, if you thought that was something, you ain't seen nothing yet. You're struggling over a fig tree. Wait until you see that the whole universe dissolve, right? I mean, the fig tree is nothing compared to the power that Jesus has. Look at how Jesus answers the disciples. Look at verse 21. And Jesus answered and said to them, Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what is done to the fig tree. But even if you say to this mountain, be taken up and cast into the sea, it will happen. What he says is that uh and his answer is that even a mountain is not impossible. You know, you you're amazed at the fig tree. I could uproot the whole mountain and throw it aside if I wanted to. At this time the disciples would have been headed back to Bethany, which is on the east side of the Mount of Olives, which is where Jesus would have stayed with Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. So when Jesus says, you know, you could say that this mountain, the mountain that's right ahead of them is the Mount of Olives. And it's not likely that the disciples thought Jesus really wanted them to redecorate the landscape, you know. Just kind of start tossing mountains around. You know, hey Jesus, what about this one? Let's cast that one aside. You know? Moving mountains was was a common way that rabbis talked about doing the impossible. First Corinthians chapter 13, verse 2, uh Paul actually used the same kind of language for for doing the impossible. In 1 Corinthians 13, he says If I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I'm nothing, right? Remember that? But he talks about the impossible. If I could remove mountains with my faith So it's a statement that talks about impossibility. You can do the impossible with God. In addition to that, in uh Zechariah chapter 14, verse 4, it speaks of the end times. When uh the Messiah will return and it says that he'll return to the Mount of Olives. So uh I wouldn't make much sense if his disciples are just gonna start throwing it all over the place, right? So he's coming back to a mountain. It would be difficult if somebody threw it into the sea to return to it. So God can do his own landscaping. He's not not here trying to introduce the disciples to say, hey, you know, can you start just kind of throwing stuff around and mountains and trees and everything like that? That's not what he's talking about. But what he's talking about is that with God it's possible to do the impossible. With God it's possible to do the impossible. So if you're impressed by a single fig tree, What do you think about an entire mountain being moved? Like that could happen if it would be God's will, right? You have no idea of the kind of power that we're talking about when it comes to God. The heavens and the earth were created by a word. And the heavens and the earth will be destroyed by a word. Just by the word. Psalm 33, verse 6. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made. By the breath of his mouth all their host. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 3. By faith we understand that the worlds were prepared by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things which are visible. That the heavens were made by the word of God. And the heavens will also be destroyed by word of God. 2 Peter 3:7. But by his word the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire. Kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. So if God chose to, the mountains of the earth could be uprooted. In a single word. In response to a prayer of faith. Do you really believe that? Do you believe that that's the kind of power that your God has? That as you come before God, that this is the God that you come before? Jesus had already said similar things to his disciples in Matthew 17, where he says, If you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible to you. And that's what he's saying here. Nothing's impossible with God, right? Nothing's impossible. Verse 22, it's exactly what he says. And all things you ask in prayer believing you will receive. And of course this has to be understood in the context of how Jesus already instructed his disciples how to pray, right? In Matthew chapter 6, he says, thy kingdom come, thy what? Thy will be done. So it has to be understood underneath the umbrella of God's will. You know, so we're not just praying for any and everything, just expecting it to happen because we pray. But if it's under the will of God, we can expect God to answer our prayers So the prayers have to be submitted to the will of God. But here is the unbelievable encouragement that we have as believers. There is no limit to what God can do. No limit. There's a song I used to hear growing up that said, it is no secret what God can do. What he's done for others he can do for you. But what we have here is just an explanation of the limitless power of God. But you know what we've done? We've limited God by what we think is possible. And we we don't bring certain requests to him until we figure out how does it work? How did you do that? How can he do that? And then we limit our prayers based on what we think it's possible for God to do. Some of us might even limit our prayers to only what seems possible for us. Well, you know I can't I can't bring that prayer before God. That's like too out there. It's like too far-stretched. That's too crazy. Too difficult. Is there anything too difficult for God? We'll back to Genesis chapter 18. You probably remember this story, but it's it's helpful to remind ourselves again. Genesis chapter 18 Remember the story Abraham and Sarah were visited by a number of heavenly guests. At the time, Abraham was 99 years old. Sarah was 89. Look at Genesis chapter 18. Look at verse 9. As these these guests, these heavenly visitors, spoke to Abraham and his and his wife, it speaks to Abraham here. They speak to Abraham there, and they said to him, verse 9, where is Sarah your wife? And he said, there in the tent. He said, I will surely return to you at this time next year, and behold, Sarah, your wife, will have a son. And Sarah was listening at the tent door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in age. Sarah was past childbearing. Sarah laughed to herself, saying, After I have become old, shall I have pleasure of my Lord being old also? And the Lord said to Abraham, why did Sarah laugh? Saying, Shall I indeed bear a child when I'm still old? Is anything too difficult for the Lord? At the appointed time, I will return to you at this time next year, and Sarah will have a son. Is there anything too difficult for the Lord? No, the answer's no. It's it's obvious answers rhetorical. Is anything too difficult for God? Absolutely not. There's nothing that's too difficult for the Lord to do. There is nothing. Have you limited God by what you think is possible? Because here the disciples seemed to do that. Limit God. They were repeatedly referred to as men of what kind of faith? Little faith. Oh, ye of little faith. You don't believe. And is there anything that you've been hesitant to bring before the Lord? I know that that sometimes sometimes I have hesitated to bring certain things, but uh if that's been you, you need to check your motives, make sure it's not To kind of selfishly indulge your own self, your own selfish motives, and then just bring it before the Lord, right? James chapter 4, verse 2 says, we don't have because we don't what? We don't ask. That's why you don't have. 1 John chapter 5. Listen to the words of John. 1 John chapter 5, verses 14 and 15. This is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the request which we have asked of him. Come before the Lord in faith. Come before the Lord in faith. If you thought the killing of a fig tree was something, right, you haven't seen anything yet The disciples were amazed by the power of Christ because of their their little faith in this instance, but at least they recognize his authority. Religious leaders, on the other hand. recognized his power, but they were appalled by his authority. Flip back over to Matthew chapter 21 again. Matthew chapter 21, look at verse 23. Says when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him while he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? Jesus said to them, I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of God was from what source? From heaven or from men? And we'll we'll stop right there. But what you have going on here is uh this right here takes place on that Wednesday. This will be the day following the cleansing of the temple. Uh Right after that that night when he spent the evening in Bethany, he returns back to the temple again. And you have this angry interruption while Jesus is in the middle of teaching, while he's teaching, verse 23. It says when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came to him while he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? Who gave you this authority? The day before Jesus had put their whole business to a halt. The whole operation stopped. Based on a calculation from an ancient historian by the name of Josephus. He said that there were 256 ,500 lambs that were sacrificed in the temple around Passover. And that even by a low estimate of around 10 people per lamb, that would have placed the number close to 2,700,000 people. So just imagine what kind of profit they're losing by the day. The whole operation is shut down You've got two million seven hundred thousand people, by some estimates, that are coming to the temple that are basically prospects for business. And here Jesus can shut it down. You can just imagine what's going through their minds They would have been forced just to accept what the people brought because Jesus released all the animals, kicked over the tables. There's no animals being exchanged at this time No money's being exchanged. No profits are being made. Jesus single-handedly shut the business down, shut it down. Mark 11, verse 16 said he would not permit anyone to carry merchandise through the temple. And this is more than just an exercise of physical power. This was an exercise of authority. And I've been to the Temple Mount and it's it's a huge area. Huge area. The entire Temple Mount is uh 36 acres. A football field is 1. 32 acres, which means you could fit 27 football fields on the entire Temple Mount. This is a huge, massive area. How does one man take control of twenty-seven football fields? He does it by exercising authority. It's like when a police officer walks out into traffic and he stops all the oncoming cars just by putting out a hand. It's that it's that kind of authority that Christ said. Stop. And nobody dared to challenge Jesus Christ. Nobody dared to challenge him. Even if he flipped over the tables, tossed their money away, physically threw them out, whipped. Some of the people. We learn about that back in John chapter 2 that the first time he cleansed out the temple, he made this this scourge of whips and whipped people, and nobody dared lay a finger on Christ. They just took it. Because because they knew who was in charge. They knew who was in charge It's like daddy's home, right? It's like like I'm in charge. This is my house. What are you doing in my house? Get out. Get out Jesus points this out when uh in Luke chapter 22 he says while I was with you daily in the temple you did not lay hands on me nobody dared to touch Jesus Christ nobody dared to he owned the place everybody knew That he was right and they respected his authority. But here they come the day after, licking their wounds, finally build up enough courage to ask him, by what authority are you doing these things? What why are you who gave you the right to do this to me? You know, my my tables are over, my money's flying. Like, who gave you this right? It's not an honest question. It's not an honest question. Because they already knew what the answer to that question was They already knew who gave them the right. When Jesus cleared the temple out three years earlier, John chapter 2, verse 16, listen to what he says. He says, Take these things away, stop making my father's house a place of business. Who do you think gave him the right? Just the day before, he was quoting from the words of Isaiah chapter 56, verse 7, where God says, My house shall be called a house of prayer. They already knew who gave them the right. They're not asking an honest question. They've already heard him speak about where his authority comes from. Why don't you turn with me to the Gospel of John? Just just a a few passages to help us understand how deceptive they are here. Look at uh John chapter 5. John chapter 5. When Jesus healed on the Sabbath day, look at look at what he says. John chapter 5, look at verse 17. But he answered them. He says, My father is working until now, and I myself am working. Verse 18, for this reason therefore the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him Because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father, making himself equal to God. Look over at John chapter 8. Where Jesus defended the truth that his words were greater than the words of Abraham. What it says in John 8, verse 58. Jesus said here, he says, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am. Using the same address for God in Exodus chapter 3, verse 14, I am. Verse 59, therefore they picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. Look over John chapter 10. This is where Jesus says that he does the work of the Father. Look at what happens in John chapter 10. Look at verse 30. Look at verse 30. Look what he says. He says, I and my father are one. In verse 31, the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Are you seeing a pattern here? Every time Jesus claims his authority and shows that he's equal in power and authority to God, what do they immediately do? They pick up stones to stone them. They're seeking for a way to kill him. So here they are again with the same tactic. By what authority are you doing these things? Who gave you this authority? They already knew the answer. Jesus had already given the answer several times before. Why do they need to hear it again? It wasn't an honest question. And in each of those instances, they attempted to kill him for blasphemy after he answered the question. And it could be here that the chief priests and elders are asking this question in order to convince the people around him that, see, he's a blasphemer. Let's take him out now. They want him to incriminate himself. Tell us by what authority you do these things. But again, these leaders have no idea that they're out of their league. You can't outsmart omniscience, right? You can't match wits with this one. Who holds all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge according to Colossians chapter 2 verse 3? But here they go trying anyway. And with one move by Jesus Christ, they're already done. Game's over. Let's listen to the wisdom of this response back in Matthew chapter 21. Look at verse 24. Jesus said to them, I will also ask you one thing, which if you tell me, I will also tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John. Well, from what source? From heaven or from men? Jesus answered the question without answering the question. And instead of Jesus stepping into their trap, they step into his trap. And there's no dishonesty in Jesus' question. He's not being dishonest. He would have given them an answer. You give me an answer to my question, I'll give you an answer to yours. But if they answered Jesus' question honestly, they would have already had their answer, right? And it's a question about John the Baptist. Here it goes. The ministry of John the Baptist, it wasn't some small, insignificant sideshow. The preaching in the wilderness was so weighty and so powerful that it attracted all of Jerusalem. All of Judea, all of the district of the Jordan. There wasn't anybody who didn't know who John the Baptist was. Even unbiblical, extra-biblical historians took note. of the desert crier, Josephus says this, he was a good man, commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to the righteousness towards one another and piety towards God, and so to come for baptism. Everybody knew about John. John was the prophet who broke the 400 years of silence from heaven. The last prophet who was universally recognized among the Jews. And all that's to say that John's voice would have been headline news All of Israel considered him to be a true prophet, which is what it says in verse 26, which is why the religious leaders were afraid to contradict them. But what makes John the Baptist such a perfect argument for Jesus is that just as John the Baptist didn't come through their ranks Wasn't you know identified by them, wasn't mentored by them, he wasn't ordained by them, he didn't come through their schools. He was still recognized as being an authority, and he had the authority from God. So here he brings up John the Baptist as a perfect example. You want to know where I get my authority? How about we figure out where John got his authority from? Let's talk about John the Baptist. Also, John the Baptist confronted their hypocrisy in the same way that Jesus did. Over in Matthew chapter 3, when he saw the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he says, You brood of snakes, you vipers. What are you coming down here for baptism for? Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth fruit that's meet for repentance. Show me that you're truly repentant. So there's no way that they can affirm John as a true prophet without also condemning themselves. And there's no way they could reject John as a true prophet without also discrediting themselves, because all the people knew that he was a prophet. So they call timeout, you know, timeout guys, you know, unholy huddle. Let's get together. Verse 25. And this is this is just deliberate deception. Deliberate deception. So they began reasoning among themselves, middle of verse 25, saying, if we say from heaven, he'll say to us, why did you not believe him? But if we say from men, we fear the people, for they all regard John. I mean you can just see it's like I mean come on guys, what are we gonna say You gotta come up with some kind of plan. I think he's got us. Not again, right? Here they go talking to each other, this unholy huddle And and really when the first question that you have is what will the people say? What will the people think instead of what will God say and what does God think? You know you're already in trouble, right? You're already in trouble. You've already lost your integrity. Already lost it. The truth has to mean more to you than your position, than your privileges, than your possessions, than your pride. But if you're committed to protect your kingdom at all costs, it doesn't matter what the truth is. It doesn't matter what the truth is. And this is the problem that they had right here. They they were committed to their they were committed to their own kingdom. They're committed to protecting their own kingdom. And that that's really the problem I have with uh some apologetics, a lot of apologetics. Because sometimes people think that as long as I can present them with the facts, I can convince people of the truth. As long as I present the facts to them. But the truth is, if people are committed to protecting their own kingdom, it doesn't matter what kind of facts you come up with. You couldn't come up with greater evidence than Jesus Christ. His entire life was facts. His entire life was evidence. His entire life was an argument, right? But with all that was presented to him, they still came up with some way around it, because they were committed to their own kingdom and not to Jesus' kingdom. They weren't committed to Jesus Christ. One of my friends in seminary, he used to say that when he talked to people and found out that they had objections for Jesus Christ, he says, oh, you have objections to Jesus Christ? They say, yeah, I've got some problems with Jesus Christ. He says, why don't you do me a favor? Can you can you list all of your objections to Jesus Christ? And let me just write them down. You know, okay, give me another one, give me another one. Okay, yeah, yeah, all right. Let me write that one down. And then he says, after he get gets his list, he says, is this it? Is this all all of your objections to Jesus? They said, yeah, I think that's it. So if I can answer every one of these objections, will you bow down and give your life to Jesus Christ right now? And they say, Well no, I'm not gonna do that. They says, Okay, well that list isn't your problem. What's your real problem? What's your real problem? And that's exactly what we have going on here. It's like Jesus can answer every objection, but they're not really interested in hearing an answer because they're already committed to their own kingdom. It doesn't matter if Jesus gave them an answer or not. It doesn't matter if you are committed to your own kingdom. And when they say no. Like I said, he said, you know, what's what's what's your real problem then? What is your real problem? You've got another problem besides these objections that you're putting before as a reason why you're not bowing the knee to Jesus Christ. There's something else going on And what's really going on is you're committed to your own authority. Heard an illustration about the grandson of a well-known atheist. Thomas Huxley, the grandson of Thomas Huxley, who admitted that the reason that he rejected God and the reason why he was drawn to atheism is because atheism doesn't interfere with his sexual pursuits. At least it's an honest answer. It's an honest answer. John chapter 3 verse 20 says, For everyone who does evil does what? Hates the light. Hates the light. Does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. I don't want to give up my deeds. I don't want to stop my sin. I don't want to let go of control. And therefore they reject Christ. It's not because there's some kind of intellectual disagreement that they have, some kind of objection that's placed, and so I just can't get over this one. You know, how how did Jonah survive three days in the belly of a fish? I just can't get over that. Oh, if I could just get an answer to that. Oh, where did where did Cain get his wife from? Oh, if I could only find out where Cain got his wife If I could only get that answered for me, I would become a Christian today, I'm telling you. This boy, you're lying! We believe in a God that created the whole universe by a word. And now you're telling me that that Jonah's a problem for you? Daniel's a problem for you? The resurrection is a problem for you? When Jesus created all life, when God created all life, but now you have a problem with him raising somebody from the dead? Are you kidding me? That is not your problem. Your problem is that you're committed to yourself. And they're too prideful here to admit that John the Baptist spoke from heaven because they're they're fearful. Fearful of the people. They're too prideful. How don't they know who John the Baptist was? Everybody else knew? And now these religious leaders, the spiritual elite, don't know? But like Proverbs 29, 25 says, the fear of man brings a snare. They're fearful, committed to themselves, and it's followed by an embarrassing rejection of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 27. And answering Jesus, they said, We don't know. So he said to them, Neither will I tell ye by what authority I do these things. In other words, you don't really want an answer, do you? You don't really want an answer. Neither will I tell you. You don't want to tell me, I won't tell you. It's an indication that the religious leaders are simply refusing to answer, not that they couldn't answer. They're simply refusing to. And Jesus is a perfect example of what we find over in Matthew chapter 7, verse 6, where he doesn't throw his pearls before the swine. Or else they will trample them under their feet and turn and tear you to pieces. He knew that that's all that was going on in their minds. They weren't really interested in the truth. They just wanted to turn on them, trample them Like I said, they didn't want Christ to reign over them. They didn't want Jesus to be the prince and judge over them. They didn't want this man to reign over us. They didn't want his authority. And really they're really an illustration of the greater enemy of Christ who also didn't want to bow down to his authority. Having the book of Isaiah and Isaiah chapter 14 , have a depiction of Satan, the great archenemy Verse 14, listen to what he says. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I'll make myself like the Most High. There was somebody else who didn't want to bow to authority. He didn't want to recognize authority. You also find him speaking in 2 Thessalonians. He's described as the man of sin, the man of lawlessness. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Verse 3 it says, Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first. And the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. Who opposes and exalts himself above every so-called God or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, displaying himself as being God. You know what's what's Satan's problem? He doesn't want to bow to authority. He understands the power of God. He understands more than any of us the power of God. But he refuses to bow the knee to God. I will not have him rule over me. And my question for you today is: where are you? Where are you? Are you like those that said, I will not have this man to reign over me? I'll recognize him for his power, but I don't want to recognize his authority. God, I want the goodies. I want all the blessings that you have for me, but I don't want to bow my knee and recognize you as the Lord of my life. If you will not have this man to reign over you, you will also not have this man to save you. You need to recognize Jesus as your Lord if you're going to recognize him as your Savior. Hallelujah. Let's turn to Christ. If you're here today, I just admonish you, urge you, beg you to turn to Jesus Christ. Don't assume authority for yourself. Trust in the Lord. Bow at the knee to him, because one day you will bow whether you like it or not. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess, that Jesus Christ is what? Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Amen. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we come before you, God, and we thank you so much for your word. Father, we pray that you'd help us to have humble and tender hearts towards you. Our Father, that we would recognize your authority for what it is, that we wouldn't be found like these chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees, the religious leaders, the elders of the people. Who refused to acknowledge the authority of Jesus Christ. Even though they saw it as plain as day before them. They witnessed the authority of Christ on display as he sent out the money changers. Father, we pray that you would help us to recognize Jesus for who he is. Father, that we would bow the knee willingly, Lord, now. And also that we would acknowledge his power, recognize his power, and Father, that we wouldn't be those of little faith like the disciples were. Amazed by the fig tree, not understanding who they were in the presence of. The Lord of glory. Father, I pray that you would help us to truly recognize you for who you are Father, we're grateful for your word, and Father, I pray that you continue to speak to us through it. In Jesus' name you praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.