The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Pause Fake Bottles and other comments in the Book of Romans. We're back in the Book of Romans, chapter 3. And today we're turning back to a section that we've uh been in for a little bit, Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 26. And this is the section of the book of Romans was considered to be the heart of the book of Romans and the heart of the gospel message itself. And one author said that here we find the theme of the epistle to the Romans And in reality, the name of the New Testament and of the whole Bible. And the glories of our salvation here are rich and almost continuing to to turn the diamond so that we can see all the beauties and the glories of salvation and catch the the different uh different facets of uh the glory of this year. The last time we were here together We considered the question, what does God do with the guilt of my sin? What does God do with the guilt of my sin? Because according to the Scripture, we're all guilty. Guilty as charged. And that's true whether we're uh Jewish people under the Mosaic Law or we're Gentiles uh who do the law instinctively, as Romans chapter 2 talks about, everybody is considered a lawbreaker. Whether it's written on tablets or written on your heart, we're all considered guilty of breaking God's law And in Romans chapter 3 and verse 24, it lets us know the answer for lawbreakers. That we are lawbreakers who are being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. All those who have sinned can find redemption and the forgiveness of sins in Jesus Christ. So what does God do with our guilt? As we learned last time, as an act of God's free grace, He pardons all of our sins, accepts us as righteous in His sight And that's only because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ, which is imputed to us. That's received as a gift coming from the outside, imputed to us, reckoned to our account. And received by faith and by faith alone. And that's what we covered the last time we were here in the book of Romans. But there's a different concern that's raised in Romans chapter 3 and verse 25. Because not only have we violated the law of God, we've also offended a king. We've offended a king. And God takes sin personally. God takes sin personally. And that's one of the major concerns of the book of Romans. That God is personally offended by our sin. We read this back in chapter 1 and verse 18, where it says that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. In chapter 2 and verse 5 it says, Because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Romans chapter 2 and verse 8 says to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there is wrath and indignation. There is a God who is angry against sinners. And there's this idea that wrath is not a personal idea. That's what 's meant by the wrath of God is It's just that uh uh it's the natural outworking of the principles that he's put into the universe. You know, if if you if you uh you know land on this side, you know, the bad things happen, if you land on this side, the good things happen. It's just this principle in the world, but has nothing like personal that God is actively doing. It's just a principle, but he's not personally offended I remember a number of years ago, I was stopped by the police in California. I won't tell you what I was driving, but I was stopped by the police. And the officer, after you know, I rolled my window down and had my hands on the steering wheel and, you know, answered his questions, he says, you know what, I I really don't care how fast you're driving, just put your seatbelt on so that I don't have to scrape you up off of the road But basically he was saying like I I don't really care. I don I don't care what happens to you. I don't care if you you know get into an accident or not. I just I just want to make sure it's easy easy for me if I have to come and pick you up But I have no personal interest in you obeying the law or not. But that's not how God treats our disobedience. It's not like God just says, like, hey, you know, you can do what you want. You know, if you land on this side, bad things will happen. You land on this side, good things will happen. But you know, I don't have any personal interest in what you do one way or another Deuteronomy 16, 22 says, You shall not set up for yourself a sacred pillar which the Lord your God hates. God is personally interested in what we do. Psalm 5 and verse 5 says, the boastful shall not stand before your eyes speaking about God. You hate all who do iniquity. God is personally involved. Psalm 11 verse 5. The Lord tests the righteous and the wicked, and the one who loves violence, his soul hates. And then we have the book of Nahum, which is a book written to the Nineveh, but it says in chapter 1 and verse 2, a jealous and avenging God is the Lord. The Lord is avenging and wrathful. The Lord takes vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserves wrath for his enemies. Then down in verse 6 it says this, who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the burning of his anger? His wrath is poured out like fire, and the rocks are broken up by him. This is a God who's active in his opposition towards evil. God is actively opposed to evil. He stands against it. He recoils against it. He's repulsed by it. And we understand that to a certain degree, don't we? For example, there's a difference between somebody scratching your car or taking your positions and somebody violating your wife. Proverbs chapter 6, verse 32. It says, the one who commits adultery with the woman is lacking sense. He who would destroy himself does it. Wounds and disgrace he will find, and his reproach will not be blotted out. Listen to this. Why? For jealousy enrages a man. And he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will not accept any ransom, nor will he be satisfied, though you give many gifts. You violate somebody's wife. It doesn't matter how much you want to give to them to try to make up for it. Your gifts will do them no good. Because they've been personally offended by your sin. There is wrath and indignation that just giving of gifts can't take away. What amount of gifts could make up for that? It's not something that money can pay off. We have a similar example over in Genesis chapter 34, if you want to flip back here. Genesis chapter 34, and this again just gives us a small idea. of the offense that that God endures. Because this is something that we can relate to. Genesis chapter 34. If you remember, this is the story where Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, was violated. Take a look at Genesis chapter 34, starting at verse 7. It says now the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it, and the men were grieved, and they were very angry, because he had done a disgraceful thing in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter, for such a thing ought not to be done. But Hamor spoke with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter. Please give her to him in marriage. Intermarry with us. Give your daughters to us and take our daughters for yourselves. Thus you shall live with us, and the land shall be open before you. Live and trade in it and acquire property in it. But that wasn't going to be enough for Jacob's sons. They had something else in mind. Take a look at verse 25. Now it came about in the on the third day when they were in pain, and two of Jacob's sons, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers. Each took his sword and came upon the city unawares and killed every male. They killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah from Shechem's house, and went forth. Jacob's sons came upon the slain and looted the city because they had defiled their sister. They took their flocks and their herds and their donkeys and that which was in the city. And that which was in the field, and they captured and looted all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives, even all that was in the houses. Drop down to verse 30. It says, Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi , You have brought trouble on me by making me odious among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites, and my men being few in number, they will gather together against me and attack me, and I will be destroyed, I and my household But they said, should he treat our sister as a harlot? There's no amount of goods and land that's going to make up for what he's done to our sister. And we recognize that the sons of Jacob went too far in their indignation. But at least we understand where they're coming from. Somebody's violated our sister. You're not just going to offer me land and goods and say, hey, you can intermarry with us. You violated my sister. There's wrath and indignation because of that. Land and trade and intermarriage wasn't going to make up for the shame and disgrace against their sister. But we disgrace and dishonor the Lord. And think nothing of it. We treat him lightly. And we who should be devoted to him and to him alone find ourselves on every high hill and under every green tree. with our lovers, and then we think we don't deserve his wrath. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3 says, Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind. and were by nature children of wrath even as of the rest. We were enemies of God according to Romans chapter 5 and verse 10. So the question is, what does God do with his wrath against us because of our sin? As we saw the last time, we're justified, that addresses the guilt of our sin. We're redeemed, that addresses the cost of our sin. But it's in propitiation, and we should we should love that word. Propitiation. You might not be able to spell it, but you should love it anyway. Propitiation. It addresses the wrath of God against your sins. That the wrath of God has been satisfied. That the wrath of God has been taken by him, diverted from you, and fell upon his son. Propitiation, the turning away of God's wrath from us. And that's what we'll take a look at in Romans chapter 3. We'll start at verse 21. We give special attention to verses 25 through 26, but back in Romans chapter 3, why don't you follow with me as I read? Romans chapter 3, starting at verse 21. But now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we do come before you, Lord, and we ask for your help, Lord. We need you every hour, we need you. And Father, we definitely need you as we look at these scriptures, Lord, as we look at these verses. As we contemplate what we find here, Father, we need your help to understand these things. So Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, that you would give us your aid, and Father, that you would use me as a week. Instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Back in uh the year 2007, uh BBC aired a series of talks during the season of Lent. where various religious and political guests were called upon to give their take on the Easter story. And a man by the name of Jeffrey John, who was a priest in the Church of England and the Dean of St. Albans Cathedral said this He said, the explanation I was given in my childhood went something like this. God was very angry with us for our sins. And because he is a just God, our sin had to be punished. But instead of punishing us, he sent his son, Jesus, as a substitute to suffer and die in our place. The blood of Jesus paid the price of our sins, and because of him, God stopped being angry with us. Well, I don't know about you, but even at the age of 10, I thought this explanation was pretty repulsive as well as nonsensical What sort of God was this? Getting so angry with the world and the people he created, and then to calm himself down, demanding the blood of his own son. And anyway, why should God forgive us through punishing somebody else? It was worse than illogical. It was insane, is what he says. It made God sound like a psychopath. If any human being behaved like this, we'd say that they were a monster. Well, I haven't changed my mind since then That explanation of the cross just doesn't work. It just doesn't make sense to talk about a nice Jesus down here placating the wrath of a nasty, angry Father God in heaven. The cross, then, is not about Jesus reconciling an angry God to us. It's almost the opposite. It's about a totally loving God incarnate in Christ reconciling us to Him On the cross, Jesus dies for our sins. The price of our sin is paid, but it is not paid to God, but by God. He enters his own creation and goes to the bottom line for us. Not sending a substitute to vent his punishment on, but going himself to the bitter end, sharing in the worst of suffering and grief that life can throw at us and finally sharing our death so that he can bring us through death to life in him. On the cross, God absorbs into himself all fallenness and its consequences and offers us a new relationship. God shows he knows what it's like to be the loser. God hurts and weeps and bleeds and dies. End quote. And though this explanation in some parts sounds maybe thoughtful or reasonable, it is blasphemous in its description of God. Strips God of his holiness. It's powerless in its explanation of the gospel because it doesn't save us from anything. Just God comes to be an example and he goes through our pain and he shows that I know what it's like to be a loser just like the rest of creation. And it is a rebellious attitude because it doesn't see sin as serious. Sin doesn't really deserve wrath. It doesn't deserve punishment. It just needs an example. Somebody who could come and enter into our pain and live life with us. But it doesn't remove the wrath of God. I mean, why should God have any wrath to begin with? In fact, the same priest also made headlines in 2003 for being the first person to have been openly in a same-sex relationship and be nominated as a Church of England bishop. Which shows you what kind of fruit is coming from that kind of tree. But the ideas that he has about the atonement are not unique to him. There's a number of others who have the same kind of view of The substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ. A number of years ago there was another prominent British evangelist and theologian who referred to the idea of the substitutionary atonement, and I'm sure you might have heard of this, cosmic child abuse. That's what he called the substitution of Jesus Christ. Cosmic child abuse. And others have picked up on that phrase to criticize the idea of a vengeful father punishing his son for the sins of humanity. And how are we to respond to that kind of criticism? And more importantly, how does Scripture respond to that kind of criticism? Is God just a vengeful, angry father? Who abuses his only son for the sins that he didn't even commit? Or is there more to the Bible's teaching? We're going to walk through three aspects of propitiation from this text. Which the Bible specifically reveals is a demonstration, it says, of the righteousness of God. So whatever else you think about substitutionary atonement, it is a demonstration of the righteousness of God. Not God is a cosmic child abuser. It's the righteousness of God that is revealed in the cross of Jesus Christ from what Scripture says This was to demonstrate his righteousness. And God is demonstrating his righteousness in this. And there's three aspects that we're going to examine. Number one, propitiation is initiated by God's love. It's performed by Christ's sacrifice, and it's displayed before all creation. Well, let's first of all define the term propitiation. That term propitiation is a translation of the Greek word hilosterion. You find the word propitiation used right there in verse 25. Speaking about Jesus Christ, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood. That word uh propitiation uh speaks of uh uh in the old testament of the mercy seat. It was uh if you remember it's the lid that covered the Ark of the Covenant It was made out of pure gold. It was decorated with a cherubim facing one another, the angels of God facing one another, spreading their wings to cover over the mercy seat. And the ark itself contained the law of God, which Israel repeatedly broke, and the mercy seat was there to represent the presence of God. Dwelling between the cherubim and the tabernacle. And once a year the high priest would enter in, first with the blood of a bull. for his own sins, and then he'd come back with the blood of a goat for the sins of the people. We actually find this mentioned over in Leviticus chapter 16, if you want to flip back there, Leviticus chapter 16. Take a look at verse 13, Leviticus chapter 16, starting at verse 13. Speaks about he, this is the high priest, shall put the incense on the fire before the Lord, that the cloud of incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the ark of the testimony. Otherwise, he will die. You know, you don't don't come into the Holy of Holies without something covering your eyes. So if it's not the curtain, it's going to be the incense that's rising up, covering you from the presence of God. If you behold me without anything in between, you will die. Moreover, he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east side. Also in front of the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times. Down to verse fifteen. Then he shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering, so the bull was for himself. Now the goat offering is for the people Then he shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering which is for the people, and bring its blood inside the veil, and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and in front of the mercy seat he shall make atonement for the holy place because of the impurities of the sons of Israel, and because of their transgressions in regard to all their sins. And thus he shall do for the tent of meeting which abides with them in the midst of their impurities. Drop down to verse twenty. It says, when he finishes atoning for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall offer the live goat. Then Aaron shall lay both of his hands on the head of the live goat. and confess over it all the iniquities of the sons of Israel, and all their transgressions in regard to all their sins, and he shall lay them on the head of the goat. Send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who stands in readiness. The goat shall bear on itself all their iniquities to a solitary land, and he shall release the goat in the wilderness. What was what was Israel supposed to learn from from all of this? Number one, instead of putting you to death for your sins, I'm going to put a goat to death instead. I'll put a substitute in your place. And instead of sending you away because of your sins, I'm going to send the goat away. as the substitute for your sins. And the place where that blood of the sacrifice was sprinkled was called the mercy seat. Mercy is granted to those who have broken the law of the covenant, which is resting right here underneath the lid. You have mercy Because something was slain in your place. There's a clear connection that was being made. And the mercy seat was connected to the sacrifice that turned aside the wrath of God from his people. And by the time we find this word used later on in Greek literature, it was simply used for the sacrifice that turned away wrath. And that was the way that the word was used even outside of biblical literature. A sacrifice that turns away wrath, that appeases God, that turns away his anger. So when a first century Greek heard this word, Hilisterion That's what he would have thought of. That there's a sacrifice that's turning away wrath. That was the traditional meaning. But it was in the 19th century that a theologian by the name of C. H. Dodd questioned that meaning of the term Helesterion and suggested that the word had nothing to do with the wrath of God. In 1935, he wrote a book titled The Bible and the Greeks, and he insisted that the idea of propitiation was a pagan idea. Of pagan origin, conjuring up notions of a vindictive deity who enraged demanded blood and that it was unworthy of God. To demand blood. So he attempted to completely remove any idea of anger from the word propitiation. God isn't angry. Actually, what he's doing in giving these sacrifices is just cleansing you from your sins. That's all it's doing. It's not taking away his wrath, it's just cleansing us. So he substituted a different word and used the word expiation. That our sins are cleansed, but it's not propitiation. It's not wrath that's being satisfied. Jesus is just removing the stain of man's sin. And the pictures of sacrifice in the Old Testament are just pictures of cleansing men from their sin. So they use the word expiation, actually. In the RSV, the revised standard version, there's a substitute of the word expiation for the word propitiation. But here's the problem with that. When an animal was brought for a sacrifice, they didn't just take like the wool from the sheep and like cleanse the temple with it, you know, wipe the top of the lid of the mercy seat. They didn't just take the wool. They didn't take the feathers from the birds and just kind of like feather dust. You know, God didn't need feather dusters in the tabernacle. No, just pluck some feathers and just you just need to be cleaned up. No. They didn't just like, you know, prick the animal. You know, we just need a drop of blood here from you and and we'll use that because that is gonna cleanse the the mercy seat and that'll atone for our sins. We'll just take a little bit of blood from you They didn't pluck their wool or their feathers. They took their life. There was a clear, a clear connection that was made. You know, they're not sending these animals away hurting but happy. These animals died. Why? Why death? Because death was necessary for sins. And that was as far back as Genesis chapter 3. That animals were slain to cover Adam and Eve. The day that you eat of this fruit, you shall surely die. Death was required. And it's not because God is just somehow removed and these are just the consequences. No, it's actually God actively being repulsed by their sin. It's the wrath of God. Why were they killed? Why were these animals killed? Because that's what it what should have happened to the worshiper The worshipper should have been killed. It's not a cleansing. It's a substitution. And beyond that, the Bible is not ashamed to let us know that God is angry with sin. Deuteronomy 9:7. Remember, do not forget how you provoke the Lord your God to wrath in the wilderness. Second Kings 22:17. Because they have forsaken me and have burned incense to other gods. that they might provoke me to anger with all the work of their hands. Therefore my wrath burns against this place, and it shall not be quenched. And if you look at the context of the book of Romans, the word wrath shows up repeatedly. Romans 1. 18, the wrath of God is revealed. Romans 2. 8. It speaks about the wrath and indignation of God. Romans 3. 5. The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? But that's actually what the world will tell you. That a God who is angry against sin is unrighteous. I mean, that's not too loving to talk about a God who is angry You know, let's just talk about the God of love and grace and compassion. Let's forget about this wrath stuff. That's unrighteous of God, but Scripture says the God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? No, that's actually righteous of God. And we are, we do have our sins expiated. We do have a cleansing of sin, but you can't remove the word propitiation from it. As J. I. Packer says, expiation only means half of what propitiation does. Expiation speaks about what happens to us. Propitiation speaks about what happens with God. That God is propitiated and our sins are expiated. So expiation doesn't answer the central question in Romans, which is what does God do with his wrath? What happens to the wrath of God? And all throughout Romans, we've heard about this wrath of God, the wrath of God. Well, what happens to the wrath of God? The wrath of God is satisfied in his son. That's what happens with the wrath of God. On that day, on that Friday over 2,000 years ago. Jesus took upon himself the wrath of God for our sins. Isaiah 53 verse 5 says it, but he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening or the punishment for our well-being fell upon him. And it's by his scourging that we are healed. We needed to be saved from what? We needed to be saved from wrath. People talk about salvation all the time, don't they? Hey, are you saved? You know, you walk up to somebody on the street. Hey, are you saved? Are you saved? You know, that used to be a thing Are you saved? Well the question is saved from what? Yeah, does the saved just mean like yeah, I 've I'm going to heaven, I've I've got the forgiveness of my sins. No, like when we're talking about saved, we're talking about being rescued. What have you been rescued from? I've been rescued from the wrath of God. That God's wrath was aimed at me like a target. But instead of the wrath falling on me, at the last moment before the blow struck, I was removed and Jesus was put in my place. And the wrath didn't just subside. The wrath fell. The wrath fell upon Christ. That is propitiation. The wrath of God was satisfied in Jesus Christ. Romans 5:9 Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. His blood satisfied the wrath of God, and that's the wrath that we deserved. And if there was ever a question about whether or not God is angry about sin. The cross should leave no questions unanswered. Propitiation answers the question. The cross of Christ answers that question. But let's take a look at our outline. I know I've gotten a little away from it. Number one, propitiation is initiated by God's love. Initiated by God's love. Look back at Romans chapter 3, take a look at verse 24 again. Speaks about Jesus Christ, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. Who is the one who displayed Christ? It's God the Father that did this. God the Father is the one who initiates propitiation. And this is what separates biblical propitiation from pagan propitiation. And the pagan idea of propitiation, there was something that you could do to appease the gods. It came from you and you were trying to appease the gods. Actually in uh 2017 there was uh an article in Forbes magazine. That was titled, Yes, People Still Throw Animals into Volcanoes to Please Their Gods and went on to describe In Indonesia, where there's an active volcano called Mount Bromo, and it's a SOMA volcano, which means it has a baby volcano in the middle of a of a you know the remnants of a larger volcano. And they still worship, they said in this article, in the old school way. Listen to this. Every year during the month-long Hindu festival of Yadnya Casada, these people nominate some of their clan to scale to the active volcanic crater of Mount Bromo to appease the angry mountain. And they throw all sorts of things into the fire, including fruit, vegetables, money, and even animals on the 14th day of the celebrations, according to the Guardian. And there's a picture uh uh that they had on the uh on this article of of this guy scaling the mountain with the goat in his arms, carrying the goat up to toss it into the volcano to somehow appease the the angry mountain. You know, please don't blow up on me. So you throw them your goat. I mean, we thought we had a barbecue, right? I mean this is this is it. You know, throw the throw the goat in It was the common way that people used to think if calamity is going to strike, we want to make sure that the gods are as happy as they can be We have a number of biblical illustrations from pagans in 1 Samuel chapter 5. If you remember the Philistines took the ark of God and they were struck with plagues, remember that? And they were sending the ark back. They said, hey, don't send it back empty-handed. You know, if you're going to send it back, send it back with an offering. You know, make the the golden tumors, which shows that they were struck with tumors and send the golden mice, which shows that there was a plague of mice. You know, let's at least let God know that we we recognize that this came from him. And maybe he'll stop it. That's an example of men trying to propitiate the gods themselves. Let's come up with our own idea. But what we find in this idea of biblical propitiation is that God is the one. Who initiates it? This comes from a loving God. John 3. 16, we all talk about this one. We all know, right? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That who gave? That He gave, that He's the one who loved, so He was the one who gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have eternal life. It is initiated by the Father. So we're not to think about our salvation as if you know God is up there, you know, he's just you know fuming and the son is saying, please Father, don't do it, don't do it I'll go down, I'll go down, I volunteer, I'll go down and be the sacrifice for those people. Father, please don't hurt them, hurt me instead. That is not the way we're supposed to think about propitiation It starts from God Himself. It's initiated from the Father. He is the one who loves. He is the one who gives. He is the one who initiates it. Romans 5, verse 8, but God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It is from our Father, God the Father. initiates propitiation. 1 John 4. 10. I love this one. And this is love. Not that we love God. But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. God is the one who initiates it. It's not that we love God, it's that he loved us So when we think about the sacrifice that comes from God, it's God that's reaching down to us. It's God that's initiating this. And John Scott writes in his book on the cross of Christ, he says it cannot be emphasized too strongly that God's love is the source. not the consequence of the atonement. Listen to this. I love this. He says, God does not love us because Christ died for us. Christ died for us because God loves us. It was from Him, it was initiated by Him So again, what's your conception of God? Do you have an angry God in your mind who just can't wait to sink his teeth into you? Or do you think about, no, this God has been offended, but he's the one who takes the initiative. He's the one who takes the initiative to take care of the wrath that he has against my sins. God is the one who initiates this. It's not the son who loves the sinner, but God is just angry at the sinner. No, both father and son love the sinner. Both father and son are planning to save the sinner And it is God's wrath which needed to be propitiated, and it's God's love that did the propitiating. It's the same God who demands satisfaction and God provides the sacrifice And this explains some of the imagery in the one of the most famous sermons in American history. It's the sermon Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. You guys heard of that one? Sermon preached by Jonathan Edwards, considered the greatest theologian that America's ever produced. He preached this in his own congregation in Northampton, Massachusetts, and then to a congregation in Enfield, Connecticut in July of 14 or 1741. And it was this sermon that was credited as being the catalyst for the first great awakening. And many perceive Edwards as describing a God who's just cruel and vindictive, he's a tyrant. Listen to some of Edward's words. Listen to this. O sinner, consider the fearful danger you are in. It is a great furnace of wrath. A wide and bottomless pit full of the fire of wrath that you are held over in the hand of that God whose wrath has provoked an incensed as much against you as against many of the damned in hell. You hang by a slender thread with the flames of divine wrath flashing about it, and ready every moment to singe it and burn it asunder, and you have no interest in any mediator. Nothing to lay hold of you to save yourself. Nothing to keep off the flames of wrath. Nothing of your own. Nothing that you've ever done. Nothing that you can do to induce God to spare you one moment. But listen again to what he says. You are held over in the hand of that God. You're held over the pit in the hand of that God. Who is the one who keeps you from the flames? It's the same God that's angry with you. God is right to be angry with you. God is right to have wrath against sinners. But it's that same God that withholds his wrath from you. Do you understand that? That this is actually a sermon in the midst of this sinners in the hands of an angry God. It's sinners in the hands of a merciful God. Because at any moment he could drop you. And there's nothing in you to stop him from doing it. Do you understand that? I mean, that's what Edwards is saying. There's nothing that he can find in you to keep him from unleashing his wrath upon you. other than his merciful hand that holds you up. God is a God of mercy, of great mercy, the same God who has wrath against our sins is the same God who holds us back from the flames. That's the God that we serve. Who is the hand that holds the slender thread? It's the God of mercy. And if you're breathing today, it's because of the mercy of God. It's because of the mercy of God. Propitiation is performed by Christ's sacrifice. Back to verse 24. It says being justified is a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. Whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation? Who is the one who's displayed publicly as the satisfaction of his wrath? It's Jesus Christ. And this whole nonsense about cosmic child abuse should be immediately rejected because it was the son who was of the same mind with the father in the plan of redemption. Just as it was not the son coercing his father saying, Oh father, please, please stop, don't don't judge him. It was not the father who was coercing the son. Hey son, you know, I'm going to push you down there and I think you should go. It wasn't the father coercing the son to do this. Jesus willingly yielded his life in atonement for sin. He willingly did this, voluntarily did this. Galatians 2. 20. I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. He gave himself up. He loved me and gave himself up for me. Ephesians 5. 2. Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us. An offering and a sacrifice to God is a fragrant aroma. Ephesians 5. 25, Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. Jesus is the one who gives himself up as an atonement for sins. And it's through Jesus that we have this redemption. And again, that that word redemption is a rich biblical word because it speaks of a release. secured by the payment of a ransom. We've been released by the payment of a ransom. And what was that ransom? It was the precious blood of Jesus Christ. You're not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your feudal way of life inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood as of a lamb unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. And that's also a word that's been disputed, this idea of redemption, because some people argue that you can be redeemed without the payment of a price. You know that that redeemed is just talking about you you're being set free, but it doesn't have to be a a price involved at all. And then some people will turn to Exodus 6 and verse 6 where it speaks about the sons of Israel being released from Egypt. So say therefore to the sons of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. And they say, see, God just used his power and redeemed the children of Israel. But do you remember the final plague? Flip over to Exodus chapter twelve. Exodus chapter twelve What was this final plague about? Exodus twelve, take a look at verse one. Now the Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, This month shall be the beginning of months for you. It is to be the first month of the year to you. Speak to all the congregation of Israel, saying on the tenth of this month they are each one to take a lamb for themselves, according to their fathers' households, a lamb for each household. Look down to verse 13. The blood shall be a sign for you on the houses where you live, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you. When I strike the land of Egypt. Even in the deliverance from Egypt, what was central was redemption through a lamb that was slain. Right in the middle of this And it was this aspect of their deliverance that they were to commemorate. And Jesus would eventually become the Passover Lamb for the sake of his people. 1 Corinthians 5 verse 7 says, For Christ our Passover has also been sacrificed. There was a payment of a price. There was the lamb that was slain, but then there was the future lamb who would come who would be slain. There was a reminder that there was still a price to be paid. And it was Christ who offered himself up eventually as the sacrifice for his people. So this is a price. It's deliverance through the payment of a price, and Jesus becomes that price. He is the price that sets us free He's the one who sets us free. It's through him. And finally, this is our last point. Propitiation is also displayed before all creation. It's displayed before all creation. Back to Romans chapter 3. Displayed before all creation. Verse 25, it says, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood. Through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness, because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. Propitiation is displayed before all creation. Why was Jesus displayed publicly? It was to demonstrate the righteousness of God. Righteousness, it's the central theme in the book of Romans. And Paul's desire is for all men to know that God is righteous, that his standard for righteousness will not budge for Jew, for Gentile, for anybody. God is unbudging in his standard for righteousness. Ye shall be perfect as the Father in heaven is perfect. You fall in one law. It's like you've broken them all, right? God's standard does not change. He demands righteousness, and the soul that sins shall surely die. You deserve death. For violating my commands. And there's no partiality with God. Romans chapter 2, verse 11 says. We know that whatever the law speaks, it speaks so that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God. We're all condemned. All of us. Every one of us. But what happens in history where God still allows people to sin and get away with it? That's the question in Romans chapter 3. How is God righteous and he still lets people get away? How did God spare people before the cross? Is God soft on sin? That's the question. And Paul is laboring to demonstrate to make it obvious to us that God does not remain soft on sin. That God has done something in history publicly that everybody could see, so that we would all know that God does not. Becomes soft when it comes to sin. How did God spare people before the cross? If the cross was so essential to people being redeemed and forgiven for sins , being taken care of for his wrath being propitiated. How did people get away before the cross? Why didn't God wipe them all out? I mean it's it's it's amazing when you think about, you know, Old Testament history. I mean the the things that kinda like rise to the surface is like when you know Uzzah touches the ark or God wipes out everybody and you know the flood. It's like you know, these things stand out but I mean, if if if God just wanted to show his consistency throughout history, nobody would have survived, right? Nobody would have survived. But we look at these examples like, oh, look at how harsh God is. He killed them for touching the ark. I can't believe that. Ananias and Sapphira, I mean, they just lied about what they brought for the offering. I mean, is that really that big of a deal, God? No, what God shows you by these little examples is that that's what everybody deserves. I'm just like showing you just bits and pieces. But this is what everybody deserves. This is what you deserve. How many people should have f fallen dead for what they put into the offering today? God is a God who is a God of wrath. And we don't have to be ashamed about that. Because his wrath demonstrates his righteousness. That I'm a God who is unflinching. How did God let Adam and Eve get out of the garden of life? As one of my friends said with a pair of leather pants or a leather skirt. As if that was going to make up for what they've done. They they just introduced the whole world into sin. And God says, Well, let me give you a pair of pants and you know I'll let you go. What are you talking about? Is that is that equal here? An animal dies and the whole world is in sin? How do the children of Israel get out of the wilderness with a couple of bulls and goats? Does that repair the infinite damage to God and his glory? What was going on during the time of the judges when everybody's doing what's right in their own eyes? How does David commit adultery and murder and still hear from God? And all he says is sorry and write a couple Psalms. How did Solomon get the right scripture? All of that before the cross. What about them? I've said this before, but sometimes I've heard that you know people say that the God of the Old Testament was a vengeful, angry God and The God of the New Testament is a God of grace. But that's not how Paul looked at it. He said, God, you are so merciful. How did anybody survive? Where is the God of judgment? Is God really righteous? And for centuries it just seems like a couple of animals is from your flack and an apology is all it takes to take care of your sin And if God doesn't take sin seriously, should we take God seriously? That's the question. Should we take God seriously? Does he really mean what he says? You know, if a police officer never makes an arrest, or a judge never convicts anybody of a crime, it would demonstrate that they think very little of the people that they're supposed to protect, right? You know, if if you're really serious about it, I mean somebody should get it. And that's kind of the way that people started looking at God. I mean, like, does God really care about his glory? Like, like, why aren't more people getting it? How are so many people getting away with it But Paul says the God in his forbearance, because God is patient. God is a God of tolerance that he lets us survive. Listen to this: nobody should have survived past Eden. If you're breathing on this side of Eden, it's because of the mercy and the tolerance of God, because of his forbearance. That's why we exist. And why? Eventually, because he knows that Christ was going to come and pay the debt. So how do we know that God is serious about sin? All you have to do is look at the cross. That's how serious I am about sin. That's what sins deserve. And I'm going to pour out my wrath on the infinite, eternal Son of God to show you just how serious I take sin. God is serious about sin. Somebody has to pay. Somebody has to pay. If you remember the parable of the unforgiving servant back in Matthew 18 , There's an aspect of that story that you might not pick up on at the first reading. But in Matthew 18 and verse 23 it says, For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. The one who owed him ten thousand talents, this is the uh a talent was the largest currency that they had in the the Roman system. There wasn't a higher denomination. 10,000 was the largest common number that the Greeks used, so there wasn't a higher number that they would have used. So basically when you said that he owed 10,000 talents, it was like the largest amount that you could think of And a talent was about 75 pounds in weight. Let me put that into perspective for you. According to the Troy standard of gold. Gold costs $3,330 per ounce. And a Troy weight uses only 12 ounces per pound instead of 16. Which would be $40,416 per pound. 75 pounds of gold would cost $3,312,000. And if you multiply that times ten thousand, you'd be at thirty billion three hundred and twelve million dollars. It only takes two hundred and fifty-six million nine hundred sixty-four thousand five hundred and twenty-nine dollar bills to circle the equator. You could circle the earth 117 times with the amount that this man owed. Think about that. That's staggering to think about. A ridiculous number. And verse 25 in Matthew 18 says he didn't have the means to repay. Of course he didn't have the means to repay. I can't repay that amount. Where would he come up with that kind of money? But in Matthew 18, 25 it says, since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children and all that he had, every payment to be made. So the slave fell to the ground, prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me and I will repay you everything. That's a joke He's never going to be able to repay this. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. Question, who pays for this debt? If the servant's not paying, somebody's paying. Who's paying for the debt? The master is. That's right, you got it. Jesus pays the debt. You owe an amount that you can never repay me. But I'm going to take that debt upon myself. And I will pay the debt. The king pays the debt when he forgives our sin. The king pays it. No one can charge God with being soft on sin. Why? Because Jesus paid the debt. Jesus paid the debt. He pays the price. I remember a co-worker once asked me, you know, if someone is a murderer and he's at the end of his life and he has faith in Jesus and repents of his sins, does he go to heaven? I said, yeah. If he truly repents of his sins, trust in Jesus Christ. He goes, I mean, what what do you think the thief on the cross was about? Yes, he he he goes to heaven. How does that work? The king pays the price. The king pays the price There's nothing that this thief could do. His hands are nails. He's not going to do anything. His feet are nailed. He's not going to go anywhere. But the king pays the price. And this murderer is granted entry into heaven because somebody else paid for him. Jesus is the one who pays the price for us. The king pays the price. So how do these people go free? It's because the king pays the price. Why does it seem like God might have been soft on sin. It's because he knew the payment was coming. I will be paid and I will be paid in full. When Jesus was hanging on the cross. What did he say? It is finished. It's done. I've paid it all. For us. Why does it seem like God might be soft on our sin? You know, there there's some of you that are just like waiting for the sky to fall anytime, you know? It's like Lord, did you did you see that last one? I mean it's like you're just waiting for it to drop Why doesn't it seem like the like we receive back for all that we've done? It's because the king paid the price. And it might seem like God is soft on our sins, like people are getting away with sin, like we're getting away with sin. But why does it seem like that? Why does it seem like God might be soft on your sin? It's because somebody else paid the price. Hallelujah, what a savior, right? Somebody's paid the price. And the cross was necessary to pay that price. The cross was necessary. There's no salvation without the cross. Verse 26 says, for the demonstration I say of his righteousness at the present time, so that he would be Just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So that he would be. What's the implication? If it wasn't for the cross, he couldn't be. He did this so that he would be. Just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. How can he be just and justify sinners? It's the cross. The cross is how he's able to be just and justify sinners. And it was necessary for the cross. And if you had any questions about that, all you need to do is think about Jesus as he experiences the agony in the garden. of Gethsemane. He's got sweat dripping down like great drops of blood. Desperation. He screams out to the Father, Father, if there's any other way. Let this cup pass from me. The end is coming. The blows of God's wrath are about to fall upon his son. And he cries out, Father, if there's any other way, let this cup pass. Did the cup pass? No. Jesus drank it down to the last drop. Why? Because there was no other way No other way for our sins to be forgiven except through the cross of Jesus Christ. The cross was necessary for you, the cross was necessary to redeem us, for God to pour out his wrath and demonstrate his righteousness. I love what Spurgeon said. He says, if there should come a wretched day when all pulpits shall be full of modern thought and the old doctrine of substitutionary sacrifice shall be exploded. Then will there remain no word of comfort for the guilty or hope for the despairing. The gospel speaks through the propitiation for sin, and if that be denied, it speaks no more. If we don't have a substitutionary penal atonement, a sacrifice for sins, if we don't have that, we don't have the gospel. It's penal, meaning that it's it's a penalty that we deserved. It's substitutionary, meaning that somebody took our place And it's an atonement, meaning that's an acceptable sacrifice before God. Penal substitutionary atonement. If you don't have that, you don't have the gospel. What are some applications from this? Number one, this guards us from self-atonement. Thinking that somehow if I've sinned, that there's something that I can do to make up for my sin? No, there's nothing that you can do. Christ has already done it. So we just go before him and seek his forgiveness based on what he's already done. The wrath of God has already been satisfied. There is no more condemnation for you as a believer. You can go before the Lord and receive his forgiveness. You don't have to atone for your sins. This guards us from demanding atonement from others. When believers sin against believers, you're not demanding an atonement from them before you forgive them. I mean, that was the point of Matthew 18, right? I mean, what they owe you is much less than what you owe God. You know, your worth is far less than the worth of God. So if believers sin against believers, you don't wait until they they finally show me that they're sorry enough. No, you you you forgive, you grant forgiveness because God is a forgiving God The atonement helps us to do that, to release others from their sins. This also guards us against taking sin lightly If you're sinning, do you know what it costs to pay for your sins? It costs Jesus' life. How could you take sin lightly I'm not just going to trample lightly on the sins that sent Jesus to the cross. I understand that there was a weight to that. So I don't take sin lightly. But it also guards us against viewing sin with hopelessness. That if I sin, oh the Lord can never forgive me for that one. No, when Jesus put his, when God put his son Jesus on the cross, that showed us that he can forgive all of our sins that the payment was paid. So we don't view sins with hopelessness. It guards us against that. It also guards us from any other religion. Because no other religion has a savior that paid the sacrifice for sins. Why would we go anywhere else? There's only one name given under heaven among which we must be saved, right? It's the name of Jesus Christ, and there is only one way and one sacrifice. There is no other sacrifice for sins. That's what the book of Hebrews tells us And it also guards the righteousness of God Himself. God's righteousness is defended and vindicated. We see that God takes sin seriously because of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. But there was no other way for this to happen except through the cross. I love these words from stricken, smitten, and afflicted. He says, stricken, smitten, and afflicted, see him dying on the tree. 'Tis the Christ by man rejected, yes my soul, tis he, tis he, tis he. 'Tis the long-expected prophet, David's son, yet David's Lord. By his son God now hath spoken. 'Tis the true and faithful word. Tell me you who hear him groaning, was there ever grief like this? Friends through fear his cause disowning, foes insulting his distress. Many hands were raised to wound him, none would interpose to save. Yet the deepest stroke that pierced him was the stroke that justice gave. You who think of sin but lightly, nor suppose the evil great, here may view its nature rightly, here its guilt may estimate, mark the sacrifice appointed. See who bears the awful load. Tis the word, the Lord's anointed, son of man and son of God. Here we have a firm foundation, here the refuge of the lost. Christ the rock of our salvation, his the name of which we boast, Lamb of God for sinners wounded, sacrifice to cancel guilt. None shall ever be confounded. Whom who on him Their hope have built. Have you built your hope on Jesus Christ and on Jesus Christ alone? He's the one who is wounded for sinners, stricken and smitten and afflicted So that we would be set free. And the debt of sin would be paid. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you, Lord, so much for this opportunity that we have to come before your word. My father, I pray that you'd help us to think rightly about the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, about the propitiation, the satisfaction of your wrath on the Son, and you did not withhold your wrath. on the sun, but in those three hours you poured out all the fury of your divine anger against sin upon him to the last drop so that guilty sinners could go free. So that there would be no more wrath left for us. So that there would be no more condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Father, we thank you for the sacrifice of your Son. And may ye be honored, may ye be glorified. May we lift up your righteousness before the world to say that's where the righteousness of God was demonstrated. And it's that place where you can find hope if you would trust in Him. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. This time let's uh rise for a word of benediction. And uh don't forget uh the children's ministry is asking for some help and also uh the golden nuggets out there. You can write your verses on there. You can even write Romans chapter 3, 24 and 25 on that if you want. But uh but let's remember and also there's decorations some uh uh that are also uh being done after service as well. So if you can help out uh with that, uh make sure you do that. As well as stop by the table for our um a family retreat that's coming up. Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the eternal covenant, even Jesus our Lord Equip you in every good thing to do his will, working in us, that which is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.