The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's open our Bibles to Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7 is where we'll be for today and uh it's our privilege to return to the most masterful sermon that was ever given, the Sermon on the Mount. And uh as we consider what our Lord has to say to us here, it's Important that I remind you again just of the context of the sermon as a whole, that this sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, is a sermon for followers. It's a sermon for followers. It's a message that was directed to the disciples of Jesus Christ. We learned that back in chapter 5 and verse 2. That's the king's description of who is part of his kingdom. and how those who are part of his kingdom are expected to live. And uh as we follow the flow of the sermon, again, just by by way of review here It opens up in chapter 5 with a description of the character of the citizens of the kingdom. In the Beatitudes, we have eight characteristics of kingdom citizens. uh who we are. Uh then it considers the influence that uh citizens of the kingdom are supposed to have that we're salt and light. We read about that in uh verses thirteen to sixteen in chapter five. Uh in verses seventeen to forty eight of uh chapter five we learn about what defines righteousness in the kingdom, what righteousness looks like. It's uh different than uh what the uh the world's righteousness looks like what hypocritical uh righteousness looks like it's from the heart it's not merely external uh but it's internal. And uh then as we crossed over into chapter six, uh Jesus addressed the motivations of the kingdom. Why do we do what we do. Everything that we do, we don't do for the applause of men, for the approval of of men. We do what we do because we want to please God. It's for the pleasure. of God and for eternal reward. And that's where we've been so far. Chapter 6 basically covered the motivations of the kingdom. And as we uh transition from uh chapter 6 In the chapter uh seven, uh there's a definite transition in the Sermon on the Mount. Uh for the most part, uh chapters five and six have dealt with the individual disciples' personal response. to the authority of the king. You know, my personal character, you know, my personal righteousness, my personal motivation, you know, all these things are discussed in chapters five and six. As we cross over into chapter 7, it introduces us to a definite transition in the sermon because now the focus uh doesn't remain inward Now it's the focus is is outward. You know, we've been considering, you know, what about me? You know, what about my righteousness, my character, you know, my motivation? And now it's like having had all that information, all that teaching, it's well well now what about them? You know, I n I know what about me now, you know, how I'm supposed to live and how my character is supposed to be. But but what about people on the on the outside? How am I supposed to respond to uh uh people who happen to to know uh the the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount, but maybe they're not living o obediently to it. You know how am I supposed to respond to them? And uh and these questions that we we wrestle with are the questions like uh You know, what about my brothers and sisters who who I notice aren't walking in obedience to the king? What about them? You know, in uh in chapter uh uh seven it starts to talk about this. You know, what about those who reject the authority of the king What what about them? How am I supposed to relate to them? How should I treat people who who accept the king's authority and how am I supposed to respond to those who are kind of undecided about the king's authority? You know, people who have yet to respond to following Jesus Christ. They're still considering it. How am I supposed to respond to those people on the outside? And that's really what chapter 7 is is all about in verses 1 through 5. It deals with uh how do we help uh brothers who get caught in sin? You know, how do I respond to them? If you look in chapter 7 and verse 5, look at what it says here. It says, You hypocrite. First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. So it talks about how do we deal with brothers that sin. If you look at uh Verse 6, it talks about how do we deal with those that reject the truth. How do I deal with people who reject everything that the king has to say? Well look at uh look at verse 6. Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before swine, or they will trample them under their feet and turn and tear you to pieces. So it talks about how do you deal with people who reject the truth. How about those who accept the truth? How are we supposed to deal with them? Look at verse 12 of chapter 7. In everything, therefore, treat people the same way you want them to treat you. For this is the law and the prophets. And then finally uh it addresses, you know, how do we deal with people who are undecided about the truth? They're still considering the truth. In uh verse 13 it talks about the urgent call that's supposed to be given to those people. Look at verse 13, enter through the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. So so you understand what the Lord's doing here? He's kind of moved from internal to now external. What about the people on the outside? You know, my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. People who are rejecting the truth, people who accept it, people who are yet to you know still considering uh the truth, they haven't yet accepted Jesus Christ in the call. How do I respond to those people on the outside now? And uh that's what uh uh the Lord is doing in in chapter seven and uh every one of us are dealing with people in one of those four categories. You know, brothers, brothers who sin, people who are rejecting the truth, people who are still considering the truth. This is this is where we live. This is where we live. There's people that we have to interact with uh that are kind of all across that that spectrum. Uh so this is going to be a very practical uh study because uh Jesus is talking about something that that we deal with every day as we interact with with other people And it's also going to be a convicting study because what Jesus does is he takes the light, you know, that we've kind of are used to shining out on other people and he forces the beam back on us to say you need to consider yourself as you consider others. You need to be considering yourself. So let's take a look at the first section here in Matthew chapter 7, verses 1 through 5. Do not judge, so that you will not be judged. From the way you judge, you will be judged, and by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, the log is in your own eye? You hypocrite First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we Thank you guys so much for uh another opportunity to uh to look at you into your word. My father, we pray that you'd speak uh to us through it. My father, that uh you would uh allow us not to be the people that look in a mirror. uh see what we're like and turn away unchanged. Father, I pray that uh our lives would be transformed as uh we continue to uh to look to you. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be uh humble, Lord, as we uh receive your word today and that you'd use me to be a blessing to your people, God. Jesus' name, Brian. Amen. Matthew chapter 7 and verse 1 is probably the most quoted Bible verse in America. The most quoted. I mean you you think that that uh the the favorite verse of America would be something like you know John 316, you know, or uh you know maybe Psalm 23. You know, is the most known Bible verse? The most known Bible verse, at least the one that you hear most often quoted by people, is Matthew chapter 7 and verse 1, you know, and usually it's you know in the in the King James, judge not lest ye be judged. You know, don't judge me. Nope nobody can judge. Only God can judge me, right? That's usually usually what you you hear from from people. And that that's kind of like right behind uh you know the other version of let him who is wout without sin cast the first stone. You know what I mean? And uh usually kind of said with that kind of attitude as well. Most people don't know where in the Bible it is. They don't know what the context is. But they know the verse. You know, there's somewhere in your Bible, I don't know where it's found, but somewhere in the Bible it says, judge not, that you shouldn't be judging me. Right? And they want to be quick to kind of point that that out to you. It's kind of like uh you know home base in a game of hide and go seek. You know, you get to home base, it's like, oh, you know, you almost caught me, owlie ollie action free. I got to that verse. You know, judge not. You almost got me there. But I I got to that verse. Judge not, lest ye be judged. So it's like I'm I'm free. I'm clear. You can't touch me. The the phrase only God can judge me has become a favorite trump card. Excuse for every kind of behavior. We have uh you know gangster rappers and self-proclaimed thugs that'll use it frequently, you know, only God can judge me When asked about a string of uh domestic violence charges, there's a well-known boxer uh who replied, you know, everybody's entitled to their own opinion, but when it's all said and done, only God can judge me You know, it's so like like it's some kind of excuse that's going to excuse, you know, battering his wives that, you know, only God can judge me. Like that's that's all you need in your defense is to be able to say only God can judge me. But here's here's the frightening uh reality, that that all this judgment that people are calling down from God, only God can judge me, only God can judge me, will one day come crashing down. This this judgment that they're crying out for. You know, God's going to judge me. God's going to judge me. One day that judgment will come. And the very scriptures that people use to try to hide behind, and the very scriptures that are the only source of help that they would ever have are going to be the same scriptures that are going to seal their doom. The same scriptures. It's kind of like uh what what the the crowd cried out in uh Matthew chapter 27. Remember during the crucifixion of Jesus And uh you know Pilate is you know asking, you know, what shall I do with this this one who's called king? You know, let his blood be on us and on our children, is what they cried out. Let God judge us for this. We'll take it on, we'll we'll take it on Bring it on, bring on the judgment, God. And this is what people are crying out for. Let God judge me. Let God judge me. Have no idea what they're asking for. No idea what they're asking for. That the only way that you're going to receive any help When that judgment comes, when it's time to face God, the only way that you're going to receive any kind of help when that day comes is that you're willing to accept the diagnosis of your condition now. There there's no hope when you stand before the judgment seat of God that now all of a sudden I'm gonna gonna make it right with God. Now all of a sudden I'm gonna make up for my past life in rebellion and sin. The only way that you're going to deal with that is if you do it now. If you acknowledge your sins now in uh in 1 John chapter uh one and verse 8, it talks about uh uh what we're supposed to accept for ourselves. It says, if we say we have no sin We are deceiving ourselves, and the truth is not in us. People who want to push off the judgment of God don't want to think about what I'm doing wrong. It says that if we say we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves. And one day you're going to have to face the consequences of your sin. Over in uh Proverbs chapter uh twenty-eight, in verse three, it lets us know that that all of us need to acknowledge our sins before it's too late. In Proverbs chapter 28, verse 13, it says, He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. You want to find compassion? The only way is to acknowledge that I'm I'm a sinner. Acknowledge that I need help. It's not to push off the judgment of God. I don't want to think about God judging me and my sins and nobody confronting me with the lifestyle that I live. The only way that you're going to get help is that you accept the diagnosis now. In Matthew chapter 9 and verse 12, Jesus spoke to the Pharisees, and he says, It's not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are what? Those who are sick. You've got to accept the diagnosis now. Instead of using, you know, don't judge, don't judge, it's like it's some shield that you can hide behind It's a sad thing. The scriptures were never intended to conceal and cover up your sins. That's not the purpose for the scripture. It's to dishonor the word of God And to disregard the context of the passage. If you look in your um your bulletins, you actually have a list of uh just clarifications for this idea of uh not judging First of all, just kind of talk about the context of this passage, okay? First of all, this verse is about relationships between Believers. You know that? It's about relationships between believers. Like I said in uh in chapter five, as the um uh the sermon opened up, Jesus said that he sat down and taught his disciples. These words are for his disciples. So when people want to use the the the you know the phrase judge not for them and they're not even a believer that scripture does not apply to you It doesn't apply to you. If you look in uh in chapter 7 in verses uh 3, verse 3 to chapter uh chapter 7. Why do you look at the speck that is in your hooves? Brother's eye. Verse 4. How can you say to your brother? Verse 5. First take the log out of your own eye. Then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. What we're talking about is relationships between believers here We're not talking about a judgment that goes out to the world, so uh we're talking about the family of God, those who have received God as their father, united to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. So when the world uses this and say, Oh, you're not supposed to judge, they're actually picking up a weapon that doesn't belong to them. They're reaching in a toolbox that's not theirs To try to use the scriptures uh against the believer. Second, when people use this verse to say, you know, you shouldn't expose or confront sin, doesn't that seem a little bit inconsistent with the rest of the Sermon on the Mount? I mean d during our time in the Sermon on the Mount, w would you say that that Jesus is like, you know, kind of afraid to confront sin, to talk about sin, to talk about what's right and what's wrong? I mean you wouldn't get that idea at all after you you look at the the Sermon on the Mount. I mean, are you kidding me? With all the things that Jesus says, I mean, think about it that the whole sermon is about exposing sin, not covering sin over It's essentially a critique of the religious practices of the day. I mean, how many times does Christ call out the scribes and Pharisees by name? How many times does Christ say, you know, you've heard it said, but I say to you, how many times has Christ said, don't be like them, pointing them out. Don't be like the hypocrites, don't be like the Gentiles. He points it out And right here in chapter 7, if you look a little bit further on in uh in verse 6, he talks about people that he calls dogs and swine. Sounds a little judgmental to me. Dogs and swine, you know, those who reject the truth. And later on in verse 15, he'll call false teachers ravenous wolves. These are the words of Christ. And he's not just saying this is the judgment that I make, but he says, this is what you are to recognize. You are to recognize who's a dog, who's a swine, who's a wolf. This is what believers are responsible to do. It's our job description. Number three, when uh people are using that phrase, judge not. They use it inconsistent with what the rest of the apostles do. How did the apostles live this out? Jesus' followers, those that were closest to him, that actually heard him use these words. How did they practice that principle? Judge 9. How about uh let's take John the Baptist, for instance, you know, one of the first kind of followers of Christ. In Mark chapter 6, verse 18, John had been saying to Herod, It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife. Sounds like uh like a little bit of judgment. And Herod was afraid of John the Baptist. He said that he's a holy man. He understood that when John the Baptist was judging him for a sin, talking about his sin, confronting him in his sin, that this is the mark of a holy man to confront me like this. How about Peter? Well he's uh speaking to Simon the magician. Over in uh Acts chapter 8, you have uh uh Simon the magician who's who's trying to buy the the Holy Spirit, the gift of the Holy Spirit with his money. Peter says to him in Acts 8, verse 20 and 21, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. You have John, who says, uh, you know, the one who says, I have come to know him and does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth isn't in him. In uh 1 John chapter uh 2, verse 4. And then you have Paul. Who says things like this, Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor violers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Judge not can't contradict the clear example of the apostles. Number four, the the rest of the Old Testament gives clear examples of confronting sin, right? Everywhere you look in the Bible. I mean I'm just I'm just trying to, you know show you the context of the the full breadth of scripture here. But you have uh you don't never have, you know, the idea that, you know, what you're doing is wrong, but hey, that'll be our little secret. Don't worry about it. You never have that kind of idea in Scripture. Never. Nowhere. Joshua confronted Achan. He stole what belonged to God. He says, I implore you, give glory to God. Don't hide it from me. What have you done? Right? Confronts him in a sin. Nathan confronts David when he sinned with Bathsheba and murdered his uh his her uh her husband Uriah David, you're the man. You're the man. Elijah confronted Ahab about calling a man to take his vineyard, and he says, I have found you because you've sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. Judge not can't contradict the rest of other scriptures. And number five, we're explicitly commanded to judge in other passages. Explicitly commanded to judge. John chapter 7 verse 24 says, judge with righteous judgment. That's a command. Judge with righteous judgment. 1 Corinthians 5. 12, do you not judge those who are within the church? Luke 17, be on your guard if your brother sins, rebuke him. Ephesians chapter 5. Don't practice the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but expose them. This is what we're called to do as believers. We're not called to ignore the sins of others, we're called to expose the sins of others, to bring it to light. Number six, when people say uh don't judge me, and they they mean by that, you know, you shouldn't point out what I'm doing is wrong, isn't that inconsistent with logic? Because at the same time, what are they trying to do to you? It's wrong to tell people what they're doing is wrong, and I'm just here to tell you that it's wrong to tell you to tell people that what they're doing is wrong. So don't judge me as I judge you for judging me. Because it's wrong to do that, right? That's what are you talking about? It's it's it's inconsistent. You know, you're coming to tell me that I'm wrong for judging By judging me, that I'm wrong for judging. It's inconsistent with with logic. Don't judge me. Don't judge me. And seventh, the whole point of this passage, if you look at uh and this we'll we'll study it In Matthew chapter 7, the whole point of this passage is not to say, you know, you're never to say and help anybody who's dealing with sin. It's to help you see clearly. So that you would be able to take the speck out of your brother's eye. So Jesus isn't saying, you know, hey, let's all just walk around with sticks hanging out of our eyes. You know, and I see your stick and you see my stick, but we're not going to say anything, right? He's not saying that. He's saying, I want to help you to see clearly so you can help to take the stick out of somebody else's eye. Help them clear some of the the sins that they have So these are some of the reasons why we can kind of push aside that objection, you know, oh, don't judge, don't judge. You know, we shouldn't judge anybody at any time. That's not what this scripture means. The kind of judgment that Jesus is talking about is a harsh and critical judgment that doesn't take into account that I'm a fellow sinner who's coming to another sinner. That's what Jesus is talking about. You know, a harsh and critical judgment that doesn't take into account that I'm a sinner who's coming to a fellow sinner. The problem that Jesus points out here, it's the way that judgment is happening. It's not just that judgment is happening, but how it's happening. Verse 2, for in the way ye judge, you will be judged by your standard of measure. It will be measured to you, so it's about the way we're we're judging. Uh also uh uh Jesus points out the lack of personal discernment in judgment in in in judging in uh verse three. You know, why don't you notice what's in your own eye first? before you try to help somebody else, so it's an order that's there. And also we know that Jesus is attacking a harsh and critical judgment because uh this is the kind of judgment that the Pharisees were engaged in. And throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus has been addressing and really attacking what would have been the picture of righteousness in the disciples' mind, which would have been the Pharisees. And he's saying, don't be like them. This is another one of those don't be like them kind of statements. The way that they judge, I don't want you to judge. The way that they judge is harsh and critical, and they don't take into account their own sins. I don't want you to be like that. The Pharisees were known for being unloving. In uh Luke 18, verse 9, it says they trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Jesus says, I don't want you to be like that. They were critical. In uh Luke chapter 15 and verse 2, the the Pharisees grumbled and says, talks about Jesus, this man receives sinners and eats with them, you know, making a judgment against Christ, had no business doing that. Critical. It was also hypocritical. Luke chapter 16 and verse 15 it says, And he said to them, You are those who justify yourselves in the sight of men, but God knows your hearts. They they try to portray themselves as somebody that they really weren't on the inside. They try to have this like external show of righteousness, but it wasn't what was really going on on the inside. And Jesus says, I don't want you to be like that Don't judge the way that these guys judge. And this is what we're we're talking about. So uh we're going to talk about just three points here. Uh Jesus lets us know that In this passage that if you follow the the Pharisees kind of brand of judgment, that it's a fearful thing, that it's a foolish thing And that it's a a flip thing. It's flipped around, it's backwards. And uh what you've really done is you've placed a target on your own chest for the the judgment of of God if you judge in a harsh and critical way. Let's look at uh point number one. It's a fearful thing. If you judge harshly and critically. Look at verses one and two. Do not judge so that you will not be judged. For in the way you judge, you will be judged. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. The Bible lets us know that that we're all going to be judged, right? All of us. And uh that's kind of like another, you know, uh reason you can chalk up to say that, you know, we're not talking about, you know, not judging at all. Because when it says, do not judge so that you will not be judged, it's not saying, well, God's not going to judge you if you don't judge anybody else. Like you're gonna you're gonna get a a get by get out of jail free car. Just as long as you don't judge, God won't judge you. That's not what it's saying. It's saying, don't judge harshly and critically so that God won't judge you harshly and critically. You understand? We're talking about a specific kind of judgment because everybody is going to be judged by God. We're not getting out of judgment. The Bible lets us know about three different types of judgments. There's what's known as the Great White Throne Judgment. It talks about that in Revelation chapter 20. Verses 11 to 13. This is where all believers, unbelievers, not believers, unbelievers, all unbelievers, at the end of time will appear before the great white throne. of God. Revelation 20, 11 to 13, it says this. It says, Then I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, the great, the small, standing before the throne. The books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged from the things which are written in the books according to their deeds. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. This is a judgment uh for all the unbelieving it it Talks about the the the the the earth and heaven fleeing away from the presence of him who's about to to judge. This is a fearful judgment when all unbelievers are brought before God. There's another kind of judgment. It's uh called the uh It's the judgment that happens at the beginning of the millennium when Christ returns to set up his kingdom on earth. It's a judgment known as the sheep and the goat's judgment, where believers and unbelievers are separated. The Bible talks about this in Matthew chapter 25 , 32, it says, All the nations will be gathered before him. He will separate them from one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed of my father, enter the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. This is where all believers are. welcomed into the millennial kingdom. Come, enter into the kingdom of of God that's been prepared for you. Enter the kingdom. So this is the this is the time when the the sheep and the goats are are separated, believers and unbelievers separated And then there's another judgment. Flip over to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. There's a judgment for all the believers of this age. When we're all going to appear before Christ to have our lives examined and to receive rewards for the works of faithfulness and watch all the wood, hay and stubble Go up and smoke. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. It's what's known as the judgment seat of Christ or the Bima seat judgment, it's called. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, look at verse 13. It says, Each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work which he has built on it remains, he will receive a reward. If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet so as through fire. This is a judgment for believers Where our works are examined, works of faithfulness, you know, works that are done with a pure motive towards God, and uh the works that are that remain, you know, those that are faithfully done for Christ, you know, that's what we're going to receive a reward for But the other things that, you know, the kind of showy religion and other things that we've done, we we just watch it all go up in ashes. And we're just like viewing all the stuff, you know, just happening before us And uh, you know, uh some of us might have like a nice, you know, chunk of gold or something else after the fire's consumed, but you know, some of us might be digging through the ashes for a while. Like uh you know, is anything down there? You know, what what do I have left? Flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Talks about this uh same kind of judgment. Just want to want you to see this that this is something that we don't escape from. Uh 2 Corinthians 5. 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good or bad. And then carries on to verse eleven, therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord we persuade men. We know that this is going to happen, and so we persuade men regarding this. You don't have a choice about whether you're going to show up for this judgment. There's no choice about that. But you do have a choice about how harsh this judgment is going to be You have a choice about how harsh the judgment's going to be. And uh we we do understand that the judgment for some is going to be stricter than others, right? You understand that? And uh James chapter 3, you know, talks about that, that uh for teachers, let not many of you become teachers. Why? Because you will incur a stricter judgment. There's a stricter judgment for teachers For people who get up and proclaim the word of God than there is for for others. So there's there's a difference in the way that God judges people. It's not just everybody alike. It depends on on you know uh where you are, your position And uh judgment will also be stricter for those that are busily engaged in judging everybody else. Judgment is going to be stricter for you. Stricter for you. If you don't uh Like I said, if if you don't judge others at all, it's not saying that God's not going to judge you. But what he is saying is that if you're merciful in your judgment towards others that he'll extend an extra measure of of mercy to you when that time comes. That's what he's saying. And uh some of us are are making it hard on ourselves come judgment day. Because of the the way that we engage with fellow brothers and and sisters in Christ. So so the question is uh is how do you judge? How how are you judging other people? How do how do you How do you criticize other people? Are you a difficult person to be around? Because uh you have to point out every error and mistake and deficiency in everybody else's life? You know, is that the kind of person you are? Do people avoid you because they feel like uh all they're going to hear from you is your criticism every time they get around you? Do you frustrate those around you because they believe they can never do anything that's good enough to please you? Are you quick to find the worst in others instead of looking for the best in others and trying to encourage people? And if that's you, what kind of judgment are you expecting on the day when Christ examines you? What kind of judgment are you preparing yourself for And I'm not sure if you ever thought about this, but uh Christ will reward us for less than perfect works. I don't know if you ever thought about that. Christ will reward us for less than perfect works because everything that we give up to Christ is less than perfect, right? Everything we give to Christ is less than perfect. Do you think he ever offered to Christ? Like, hey, today I just had like I knocked it out of the park today, man Man, I'm just gonna rack it up for this day. You've never had a day like that. Never. Every work that you offer to Christ is imperfect. The best that you have to offer Christ is imperfect But Christ still receives it and he still rewards us for those things that are done for him. And it's been described like this. Imagine a a child, right? You know, a child takes out a pad, you know, takes out a crayon, you know, big fat crayon I'm gonna draw a picture of daddy, right? Drawing a picture of daddy. You know, the eyes are disproportionate, nose is upside down You know, the mouth is out the side of the head, you know, something like that. And it's like, hey daddy, I'm drawing this picture. Look, Dad, look what I did for you, right? Does the father accept it? Of course he does. Of course he does. He rejoices in it. You know, puts it on the on display on the fridge. Look at look at this. This is beautiful. Babe, I love that. Daddy loves that. Right? Because because she did it for the father, right? Now take that that same child and uh suppose she's been making fun of her siblings drawings. You know, look at that That's nasty. I don't like that. Look at look at where your nose is. Look at your mouth. Look at the the ears that you've put on on daddy. That doesn't look like dad, right? And then she brings her artwork again to daddy. Do you think that that dad this time would be a little more critical and say, hey baby, you know, there's there's some things that that aren't necessarily right about this this drawing. I just just want to make sure that you know You know, the the ears are kinda out of place and you know, the the mouth isn't isn't really right and you know, daddy doesn't have a nose upside down on the top of his head. Why why don't you take this back and uh and try it again You understand the difference? What's the dad doing now? He's applying her own measure that she's been using on other people to her now. A drawing that he would have accepted before without a problem. Now he's going to apply a little bit more scrutiny to it before he receives it because she's been out busy trying to criticize everybody else. This is what it's talking about. What's the difference? He's using her own standard of measure against her. It's a uh the the word that she used for a um standard here, it's the word metron, where we get our English word metronome or meter to you know measurement and uh many of us wouldn't measure up to our own words you know the things that we try to apply to others you know you should be like this you should do it like that and we don't do it like that So the question is, how would you like your judgment? You're going to be judged, like I said, but but how harsh your judgment is, it's going to depend in part on how harsh you are with your fellow brothers and sisters. in Christ. John Stott said we need to be as critical of ourselves as we are of others and as generous to others as we are of ourselves. We like to be really generous with ourselves. We don't like to be so generous with others. It's a fearful thing to be a critical judge. Because God is, I mean, as hard as you throw that boomerang out, it's going to come back with the same kind of force. Number two, it's a foolish thing to be a harsh and a critical judge. Look at verses 3 and 4, Matthew chapter 7 again. He says, Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, the log is in your own eye? And and Jesus what he does here in uh in in these verses is just points out how ridiculous it is to be a harsh and a critical judge with this illustration. And if you if you don't appreciate humor in the pulpit, I mean I don't know what you do with the words like this, right You know, the the word speck or moat was used for small objects like a tiny piece of straw or a you know a piece of husk that might have come off a piece of grain and just kind of floating through the air, gets caught in somebody's eye. It's not something that that's going to dissolve, you know, or you know, the tears are going to just kind of wash out. You know, you actually have to get in there and and pick it out, you know, for it to get out of your eye. So it's serious, but it's not as serious as a log, right? I'd rather deal with a piece of straw or a little piece of husk, you know, any day. It's a lot less serious than a than a log And uh the word that's used for log care was used for like a heavy piece of timber that was used in roof construction. It was also a word that Josephus used for a large battering ram. uh that that was actually uh uh used against Jerusalem. There was a large battering ram that was used against the gates of Jerusalem, and one blow from this ram Caused the whole foundation, the walls to shake, you know, by slamming this battering ram against the walls of Jerusalem. And uh this is what the fault finder has stuck to his face As he's trying to help you out with the piece of straw that you have in your eye. And here comes the battering ram, about to take out both your eyes and your head with it. As he comes to to approach you to give you uh give you a hand. It's a ridiculous picture. It's ridiculous. You know, it's the the emperor with no clothes and he wants to complain about the hole you have in your jeans, right? It's like who are you talking to? Who are you talking to? It's the the dentist, you know, the teeth are falling out and he wants to set set you up for an appointment. You know, it's the guy who's burning holes through his shirt. You know, the odor just burning the holes through his shirt and he wants to, you know, offer you his favorite deodorant. It's like, use it, brother! Use it, please! Jesus asked two questions here. Two questions. The first question is is talking about what you notice. I mean why? Why do you even notice what's going on with your brother and you're not noticing the bigger problem that's hanging off of your face? Why are you even noticing it? Why? That's what he says, verse 3. Why? Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye? But do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Why is it that you're quicker to notice the faults of others while ignoring your own? Why do you do that? Can you can you explain to me your lack of personal discernment? Doesn't make sense. And here 's a question that'll tell you a lot about yourself. What bothers you more, the sins of others or the sins that you commit? The sins that other people commit or the sins that you commit? What bothers you more? It should be our own sins, right? Tell you a lot about where you are. The next question he he asks is this It's how could you? How could you? Look at verse 4. Or how can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold, the log is in your own eye. How does it even come out of your mouth? To ask somebody, hey, let me help you out with this when you got a log hanging off of your face. How do you even bring it out of your mouth? How can you say this? How could you And the question that interpreters ask is, you know, what kind of sins are we talking about here? You know, what's the log and what's the spec? That's the question. You know, are we are we talking about people who are engaged in horrific sins? And now they're trying to, you know, point out smaller sins than other people, you know, maybe like what we find with uh King David, you know, when he's uh all upset about you know somebody stealing a pet lamb from his neighbor to serve up for for a meal when he has a field of of lambs all of his own? Is it that kind of thing? You know, he's worried about a lamb but but here he's taken somebody's wife and killed the the husband You know, but now he's worried about a lamb. You know, he gets all excited about that. He's he should die. But then he's living this kind of life. You know, are we talking about big sins, little sins? Or are we talking about uh people who sin in the same way and then criticize others for doing the same thing that they're doing? Kind of like what we find in uh Romans chapter 2 and verse 1 where it says Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you, who passes judgment, for in that way you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. How can you come to somebody else knowing that you're doing the same thing that they're doing? But now you're going to try to help them with their problem. Or could we be talking about something else? Could the uh could the speck in the log be talking about something else? And uh and I I would agree that you know if you're trying to point out a smaller sin when you're engaged in a bigger sin, you shouldn't open your mouth You know, if you're talking to somebody about a sin that they're committing and you're committing the same sin, you shouldn't be opening your mouth. But I also think that uh Jesus might be pointing out something else that's more specific, and I I think it's the the beam that's right underneath our own noses. Let's look at it. What sin is Jesus pointing out here in Matthew chapter 7? What kind of sin is he pointing out? The harsh and critical judgment, right? Do you not judge? In what way? Harshly, critically, not considering yourself? It's harsh and critical judgment that Jesus is talking about here. And I believe that what Jesus has in mind is that the beam that needs to be removed before you're able to help anybody else, the beam that needs to be removed is your own view of yourself. The harsh and critical judgment of somebody else is the battering ram that you're whacking people around with while you're trying to help them. I'll give you a couple verses to back that up. Listen to what Galatians chapter 6 verse 1 says. It says, brethren, if anyone is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one. But how? In a spirit of gentleness, each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. How are we to restore our people? In a spirit of gentleness, looking at our own selves. 2 Timothy 2 verse 24 and 25 talks about the Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, kind to all able to teach patient when wrong with gentleness Correcting those who are in opposition. If perhaps God may grant them repentance, leading to the knowledge of the truth. So listen to this. The prerequisite for any of us addressing somebody else's sins. Is that we recognize that we're a fellow sinner, coming to a fellow sinner. That's the prerequisite. It's not saying that you have to be free from every sin. You know, some people take it like that, you know, if you gotta be clear of every known sin possible to man before you talk to me about anything. You know, that's I don't think that's what the the Lord is is getting at here It's not trying to figure out, you know, well, does this person have a bigger sin or a smaller sin than me and then I'll decide whether or not I can, you know, address it. It's uh I don't think that's what it's talking about. Like I said, of of course if you're in a blatant sin or the same sin you shouldn't be opening your mouth. But uh doesn't it make sense that what shuts people off quicker than anything is when you approach them with the harsh, critical, judgmental spirit. That that's like the battering ramp that they can't even pay attention to what you're trying to tell 'em because of the way that you're approaching them. It's about the way that you're coming at 'em It's hard to hear anything that's being said. Listen to what MacArthur says about this same point. He says, the wretched and gross sin that is always blind to its own sinfulness is self-righteousness. The sin that Jesus repeatedly condemns in the scribes and Pharisees, not only in the Sermon on the Mount, but throughout his ministry, almost by definition Self-righteousness is a sin of blindness or a grossly distorted vision because it looks directly at its own sin and still imagines it to be righteousness. The log in this illustration represents the same foundational sin of self-righteousness that Jesus has been condemning throughout the sermon. If you fail to come in a spirit of gentleness and recognizing your own sins, what you're doing is you're trying to use a battering ram to remove a splinter. That's what you're doing. The way that I'm approaching somebody with my harsh critical spirit, that's the log that's hanging out of my eye while I'm steady approaching them. Here I am harsh and critical and judgmental, and and they're like, whoa! I can't even see what you're telling me right now because it's like you're so overpowering with this harsh and judgmental spirit. That's the log. That's the log that has to first be removed if you're going to be able to help out anybody else. Does that make sense? Let's look at our final point. Verse 5. Judging others harshly and critically is completely flipped around. Look at verse 5. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. Like I said, if if you approach people with a harsh and critical spirit, it's it's totally flipped around. It's backwards. You know, you're trying to take care of their sin while at the same time you've got this glaring sin right in front of your face. Because you're engaged in it at the time. You're engaged in being harsh and critical. That's what's right in front of your face while you're busy trying to remove a speck out of somebody's eye And the person that needs to be addressed isn't theirs, it's yours. You have to correct yourself first before you can approach somebody and talk to them about their sin. Get the log out of your eye first. I'm not going to come harsh and critical. I'm going to get that log out Make sure that I'm examining myself, I'm coming humbly, I'm recognizing my own sin. Now I'm ready. I've taken the log out of my eye. Now I'm ready to go and approach somebody about their sin. That's the way it works The lack of mercy in the approach is is actually a weightier sin than whatever you're trying to address with your brother. So listen to how Jesus blessed the Pharisees. Matthew chapter 23, if you want to You can turn there if you want. Matthew chapter 23. I haven't had you turn around too much today. Matthew chapter 23. Look at verse uh 23 and 24. Look what Jesus says here. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Same word, right? For ye tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. You blind guides who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel. Uh according to Leviticus chapter eleven, uh both gnats and camels were unclean animals. You weren't supposed to eat them. But uh eating a camel was much more obvious than swallowing a gnat, you know, by accident Uh the Pharisees used to actually put like a a strainer over their drinks so that they wouldn't you know swallow a gnat by accident. Like a gnat might have snuck into my drink. I don't want to drink that. You know, so here they are straining out their drinks. You know, counting out their little garden spices, you know, seeds and stuff like that. And then they're neglecting the weightier provisions of the law. You know, justice and righteousness, you know, mercy. Pharisees would ignore these obvious and blatant sins, and even as they approached other people, approaching them in a harsh and critical and judgmental manner. So they're ignoring the the weightier matters of the law while they're telling them about, you know, you need to tithe and you need to do this and this is what you need to wear and this is how you need to walk or whatever They're coming with the weightier matters on themselves, the logs hanging out of their eyes while they're trying to pick something out of somebody else's eye. And what does Jesus call them? He calls them blind. Their self-righteousness blinds them. They can't see clearly to help anybody else because the self-righteousness is the log hanging in front of their face You can't see, you're a blind guy. And a similar thing can be said of believers if they have a self-righteous log hanging off their face. What are you doing trying to help anybody else? You can't see right You can't see correctly. Until you remove the harsh and judgmental spirit and come in a spirit of humility, you're not going to be able to help anybody else Listen to what Jesus says, you hypocrite. Back in Matthew chapter 7, he calls them hypocrites here in Matthew 23, talking about the scribes and Pharisees, and he calls believers hypocrites if you're acting like that. We're acting in the same way. In in many cases we can use our our criticism to distract people from what's really going on You know, the hypocrisy, if if you remember when we talked about hypocrisy, it's um you know trying to act in a way that you really weren't on the inside. You know, you're trying to put on the show for everybody on the outside. And in a lot of a lot of cases when we're like being harsh and critical of others A lot of times it's to cover up what's going on in our own lives. Because the more that I'm exercised and engaged in criticizing everybody else, nobody really has time to criticize me. Because I'm the one that's doing the criticizing, right? I'm the one that's always got something to say. Appear to men to be something that that we're really, really not. John Calvin put it this way, he says, These words of Christ are intended to cure a disease, which appears to be natural to us all. We see how all people flatter themselves, every man passes a severe criticism on others And this wickedness is connected to some strange enjoyment, for there is hardly any person who is not tickled with the desire of inquiring into other people's faults. Like we find some kind of enjoyment. Hey, you know, that's wrong and that's wrong, and you know Did this wrong over there? It's like we get some kind of enjoyment out of that. But it's accompanied by another and a worse plague. For the greater part of men think that when they criticize others, they gain for themselves a greater liberty for sinning That if I can be busily engaged in criticizing other people, that you know people will leave me alone in my sin. There's a number of years ago I was uh talking to a member of a of a church And he said that uh he had recently listened to this the powerful sermon by his by by one of the pastors, one of the elders at the church about adultery He says, you know, the pastor was like just exercise. He was all into the discernment. You know, came down hard on the adulterer, and you know, there's no excuse. It's inexcusable. And then a couple weeks later found out that the pastor himself was caught in the same sin. Was actually engaged in the same sin while he's preaching the sermon. But here he is, you know, trying to point the finger out there to everybody else, you need to do this, you need to do that, because he's trying to cover up what's going on in his in his own life. Reminds me of that line, you know, me think she protests too much. You know, just a little bit too loud on that one. What's going on here? Right But Jesus doesn't start with these words, you know, don't judge and you hypocrite. Because if he start with that, you know, people could assume that you know nobody's ever qualified to judge anybody, saying anything, right? That's not what Jesus says. That's not where he leaves us. Because the whole point, like I said, is to enable us to help others once we've honestly examined ourselves. Because then you will see clearly. That's the goal, right? To see clearly so you can help people. That's the goal. Just like uh Peter, you know, when uh you know Peter had all his proclamations about his loyalty to Christ I'll never deny you, not me. All these other jokers might, but not me. Not me. I'm the loyal, I'm the faithful Peter, I'm the rock. Jesus says, Yeah, you're gonna fall. But once you've turned again, strengthen your brothers. Once I knock that self-righteousness out of you, right? Once I knock the self-righteousness out of you, Now you'll be prepared to actually be of some help. Once you understand that you're a sinner, Isaiah had to see himself first in his own sin before he was prepared to Approach the people of God and be a mouthpiece for God, right? First thing Isaiah had to say is what? Woe was who? Woe was me. Woe is me, for I'm a man of unclean lips. That's the first thing he had to recognize before he could be any help to anybody else. I have to recognize my own sin. And the same thing is true for us. After we've come to grips with our own sin, that's when we're prepared. That's when the log has been removed, and now we're prepared to be of help. To other people. Galatians 6. 1 says, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, right? So the question is, uh, are you prepared for for this kind of work? Like I said, this is this is uh this is convicting. It's convicting to think about the kind of judgment that we have to face before God, and right now we're we're we're setting the stage. For what kind of judgment we're going to receive on that day when we stand before God? Are we busy looking over our shoulder at everybody else's drawings? You know, what are you going to present before Dad? You know, what are you going to present? Not looking at the paper in front of you? Are you being foolish? You know, you want to point out the sins in everybody else while you got the sin of being harsh and critical and judgmental hanging off the end of your face And uh do you understand that it's flipped around that there's an order that that after I've been able to deal with myself That that then that's when I'm prepared to to judge other people. When you approach people, is it is it to help them or is it to hurt them? What's what's the motive? You know, why do you come to other people? You know, do you really want to help? Or is it just to just to to point things out and kind of boost yourself up? Are you coming to exact the punishment or or apply the medicine No, what what are you? Are you the physician or the executioner? It would be uh unloving for us to ignore people's sins. That that would be unloving for us to do. You know, to just leave them in whatever sins they're they're in. Uh you can't say that we're loving our brother and and uh you know avoiding the the difficult conversations that we need to have, you know, with them. If your brother sins, you you need to rebuke them. But you have to do it in the right way. And you also realize that uh that when you approach your your brother, that you are a brother. You're not the master. In uh Romans chapter 14 and verse 4 it lets us know that we all have only one Master, right? We all have to appear before Master, and it's not us. Realize that when you come to your brother, you're coming as a brother, not as a master. Understand that as you come to your your brother to point things out, that you want to make sure you're examining things carefully because sometimes you don't have all the information Sometimes what you perceive to be sin might not actually be sin, you know? So you want to have a healthy sense of just humility as you approach people. You know, I'm not sure if I'm seeing this correctly, but this is what I think I'm observing. You know, can you help me out here You're examining yourself. Another thing that you don't know is you don't know your brother's motives. You can't see into their hearts, right? So we can judge actions. We can judge what's going on on the outside, you know, their words, their actions, their attitudes. What we can't judge is is why they did that. And a lot of times that's where we want to go. Well, I know what you did and I know why you did it And now we're trying to assume the place that only God has for Himself. God has commanded us to be judges. We're to interact with others, to point out sins to others, not to conceal and cover up their sins, but to expose it But God doesn't want us to try to assume his place when we do it. You're not the master. You don't know all things infinitely You may not have all the information. You don't know his motives. So the way that we need to approach one another is with a humble heart that's gentle and that wants to correct them in the same way that that we would want to be corrected Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, for this passage. It's a convicting look at um our responsibility to one another. in the body of uh Christ and um my father I pray that that we wouldn't shy away from uh the duty of uh approaching uh one another, approaching our our brothers uh when we do see them in in a trespass Uh but Father, I pray that the the way that we would do it wouldn't be harsh and judgmental and critical, uh that we want to approach them as if we're the the master and we have all the information and we know their motives and their hearts Father, I pray that as we approach one another, that it would be in a spirit of gentleness, humility, understanding that we're just a fellow sinner. Uh that we all have to stand before the judgment seat of Christ to receive recompense for the things done in the body. And uh Father, that that uh judgment is a is a fearful thing to look forward to And uh one of the ways that uh we make sure that that uh judgment is uh is more merciful uh to us is uh that we're acting in mercy towards others. So Father, I pray that within our body that you'd uh help us to be uh strong on what we believe, uh strong about um uh what we expect. Um uh how to live as believers and throughout the Sermon on the Mount that's what you've taught us. Uh but you also teach us that as we uh approach one another uh with that information uh that we we do it in a in a spirit of of meekness and and gentleness, removing the the log uh from our eyes in in order to uh to be of of help to to others that that struggle with sin. My father, we uh I pray that uh you'd convict us and uh uh help us to be transformed uh by the continued uh reading and understanding of your word. In Jesus' name You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.