Sixty seven May twenty ninth, today. I imagine Memorial Day for the Scarpola family is A lot harder than for most of us sitting here. Memorial Day started back in the 1800s in the southern states in memory of the Civil War dead. But it was actually preceded by a number of other memorials and memorial days mentioned in the Bible. And I want us to look at them this morning. In Exodus chapter 12. We know the story of Moses and the plagues and dealing with the Pharaoh, and finally the last plague would hit In which the Pharaoh was warned and all the people were warned that the angel of death would come through Egypt and the firstborn would die, unless The blood was shed by a lamb, and the blood was placed on the lintel above the door and the side post of the door. And we read in Exodus 12 of this event in verses 11 and 14. It says, the Lord's Passover, that is, the angel will pass over the houses that are covered in the blood of the Lamb. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. And it was called the Passover feast. And we read in Exodus 12 and verse 11: the Lord's Passover. This day shall be unto you for a memorial. Forever. One of the earliest memorials directs us to a particular day, to this day, that the blood of the Lamb would be shed. That God's people might live. Memorial Day, that God's people might live. There is the story that I would like to tie into that Memorial Day with a Congressional Medal of Honor winner. named Gunnery Sergeant Dan Daly of the Marine Corps. Dan Daly is a unique Marine for a number of reasons, not only because he uh was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor, but because he was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor twice Only two Marines have ever been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor twice. Dan Daly had a job in Bellow Woods. During World War One. And Dan Daly was told that all of the world believes that the Kaiser and the Germans are unbeatable They haven't lost a major battle ever. We need a victory. And so they sent the Marines to a little place called Bellow Woods. And Dan Daly, the gunnery sergeant, was leading those Marines at Bellow Woods. History tells us that the highest casualties the Marine Corps ever suffered up until that time. 80% of the Marines would die in Bellow Woods. At Bellow Woods, Dan Daly trying to get his men out from behind what few trees there were and to attack the Germans. He said to them, What? Do you want to live forever? It's a question we might ask ourselves than anybody else. Do you want to live forever? It was a question that Moses must have put to them at the Passover. To his Israelites, do you want to live? Then put the blood of the lamb on the lintels and the doorposts. And if you put it on your hearts spiritually, you will live forever. Joshua, we read in Exodus, discomforted Amalek. Perhaps you're familiar with that story also, where Moses and Aaron were out overseeing the battlefield and Joshua's down below fighting with the Amalekites. And it says that when Joshua lifts up his rod and he was there with Aaron and Ur in prayer, Joshua was Obviously getting the victory and pushing him back and defeating him. And when Moses' arm got tired and fell down and he could no longer raise the rod of power, and prayer that Joshua would be driven back and he seemed to be losing the battle. And Aaron and Ur held up Moses' arms and his hands in prayer with the rod of God, the symbol of his power. And Joshua won the battle that day. And it says we read here in Exodus 17, Joshua discomforted Amalek. And his people with the edge of the sword. And the Lord said, Write this for a memorial in a book. And rehearse in the ears, for I will utterly put out the remembrance of the Amaleks from under heaven. Joshua was to write this in a book for a memorial. Here is a memorial that was to be recorded. Here is a memorial that was to be rehearsed of the great spiritual warfare that Moses and Aaron had as Joshua had the physical warfare on the battlefield down below him. Write this as a memorial. All over the Washington, D. C. , there are things written in stone. In memorials of individuals. Our founding father, George Washington, written on his tomb Someone, perhaps he directed it, or the family members, or his wife after he died, but written on his tomb of the great spiritual warrior George Washington, and he was a spiritual warrior as well as a physical warrior And I wish we had time to tell you the stories of of his physical and his spiritual battles, but I I can tell you this that there are those at the end of one day as he came in from riding his horse in battle And they pulled off his cloak and his coat. There were seven bullet holes in the cloak. He said that day the bullets were so close it sounded like music singing in his ears. And how close were they? We know from the seven bullet holes in his cape, in his cloak. The father of our country was a warrior. The father of our country was a spiritual warrior. And someone took the time to write this for a memorial on his tomb. From John 11 and verse 25, if you ever visit down there at his home, you'll see this in the back of on the back lot of his house there. I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Write this. Joshua was told, write this for memorial. Someone said, Write this for George Washington for a memorial. Did not Pilate also record what could be Rehearsed and what would be rehearsed of one of the greatest spiritual warriors and warfare ever, the Lord Jesus Christ. And Pilate said, Write this: Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews, a memorial. That was written and that we still rehearse today. We read again in Exodus 28 of another memorial. Directions given to the men who were preparing the clothes and and the uh the priestly garments of Aaron and said thou shalt engrave the two stones. Two stones are going to be placed on the shoulders of Aaron to hold the breastplate and the garments together. Thou shalt engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel. Now the names of the children of Israel Those children were already dead. Those names engraved on the stones were as a memorial. Those children Dan, Issachar, Judah, Benjamin had died many, many years ago, back in the book of Genesis. But their names were to be engraved in stone as a memorial and placed on the shoulders. Of Aaron. Thou shalt engrave the two stones of the names of the children of Israel. Put the two stones upon the shoulders of the echid for stones of memorial. And Aaron shall bear their names before the Lord upon his two shoulders for a memorial continually. So when we engrave people's names in stone at cemeteries, it is a memorial. We can see where the idea of writing and engraving and having memorial days and people's names engraved as a memorial is very biblical, very Christian. And it was said here that this should be done in the days of Aaron. The memorial was engraved and carried upon his shoulders. I could not help but think on this Memorial Day of another man who carries the weight of the dead on his shoulders. The most decorated Army hero alive in America for the last decade has been Colonel David Hackworth. Who does not carry two stones on his shoulders, but carries on his chest as w close to the shoulder the weight are the campaigns of battle that he has been in. Ninety-one medals on his chest. You'll never see a general or an admiral as decorated as Colonel David Hackworth. 91 medals on his chest. He joined the army when he was 14, lied about his age, fought in World War I. fought in Korea and fought in Vietnam. He fought in all three wars, was put up for the Congressional Medal of Honor three times. And the third time is still pending at the Pentagon as I speak He will probably never get it because he refers to most of the pencil pushers of the Pentagon as perfume warriors. Perfume princes of the army, he calls them. Ninety-one medals on his chest from three wars. the most decorated soldier in the army, carries on his shoulders the weight and the memories of men who died with him. He has received the second highest, not the Congressional Medal of Honor, but the second highest Medal of Valor, the Distinguished Service Cross. He's received that twice. He's received ten silver stars. He's received eight bronze stars, but he said he's proudest of his purple hearts. He received eight purple hearts. Now these are not the purple hearts like Senator John Kennedy got, or Kerry got rather. When you read how David K Colonel David Hackworth got his purple hearts, At one point in Korea while crawling through the frozen chosen areas and with his men, they were surrounded by Tom Nichol trying to sneak back out to the wire and get back to to their their location into safety with his men and bring them back alive. And he was almost back when a Chinese communist grenade fell in the midst of his men and David Tackworth Sergeant then dove on the grenade and muffled the grenade with his body that his men might not die. And yes, Colonel David Hackworth lived I know of no other man who ever dove on a grenade that exploded and lived. They did find out later on that his rifle, his M1 rifle, was between his stomach and the grenade And the wooden stock of a rifle took much of the blow, but he lived to fight another day in Korea and in Vietnam. That was one purple heart. There was also a time in Vietnam where his his company and then what a company he had. He went into Vietnam And he took a ragtag outfit that was nothing. They were pencil pushers and Remington Raiders and and they didn't want to go out in the jungle. They didn't want to go out in the rice patties and they'd had a pretty good and gunnery Sergeant Hacco uh rather Major Hatcoff at that point. He said, uh we are going to go out and fight like the army is supposed to fight. And he and he whipped this bunch into shape. He whipped them into shape so much that within a couple of months there was a $3,000 price on his head By the army soldiers, they want they couldn't stand the guy But Major Hackworth took these boys out in the jungles after a couple of months of training in Vietnam and they found out, hey, what he says works. It really works. This stuff is this is pretty nice. Not that you enjoy world, but they enjoyed what he had taught them. They realized what he taught them, which they would they would live to survive And Colonel David Hackworth's men, he spent five years in Vietnam. He never left because his boys were there. When he left Vietnam, his outfit, Colonel Hackworth had seen a lot of combat, his men had a 2,500 Viet Cong kill. And Colonel Hackworth's outfit had killed 2,500 of the enemy, and he had lost 25 men in five years. He carries on his shoulders the memories of those twenty-five men and of others engraved on his heart, displayed in the ninety-one medals on his chest. And Colonel David Hackworth, the most decorated Army sergeant or Army officer alive. He'll be buried this Memorial Day weekend at Arlington Cemetery. He died. I don't know who the most decorated is today. They'd be buried this weekend at Arlington Cemetery. And it only goes to show you that what the stones cry out in Luke 19 and 40 is true, the wages of sin is death for the bravest and the most decorated. God has left us other stone memorials, has He not? Besides Arlington Cemetery, there's the petrified wood that is stone. There are the fossil records out there all over the world on every mountaintop. The fossil records are in stone that tell us about the death and destruction that this world went through another time. And that's quite a memorial, isn't it? that on every mountaintop in the world there are fossilized animals who, as we now know, a fossilized stone monument attributed that tells us that these animals on the top of the highest mountains over the world drowned On the top of the highest mountains in all the world, on the Himalayas, uh on the Appalachian Mountains, on Mount McKinley, on Mount Rainier, any mountaintop you go on. There are fossil stone records, a memorial that animals died, they drowned on top of those mountains. It is a memorial, it is a testimony whereby the world that once was, according to Peter, 2 Peter 3, 6 Being overflowed with water, perished. There is a stone monument on every mountaintop in the world that God destroyed this earth in the days of Noah. and left behind the fossilized stony record, a memorial that he did. What mean ye by these stones is another verse we find in the book of Joshua in chapter 4. And that comes from the story of Joshua when he set out to cross over the Jordan. We m most of us know the story of the Red Sea parting in the days of Moses and Pharaoh and his men charging, and Moses gets across and the men of Pharaoh are in the middle of the ocean. in the middle of the Red Sea and the sea collapses on them and they're all destroyed. Some of us are not as aware of the fact that later as Joshua was leaving leading Israel They came to the Jordan River at flood stage, and they needed to cross it, and the command was given that the Ark of the Covenant would go forth first, and as the feet of the priest hit the water of the flooded Jordan, the waters would part. And they would walk through the Jordan River. And on getting upon the other side And amazed that God had once again parted another body of water. Joshua in that book we find he directs them to go and pluck seven stones out of the riverbed. That they have just walked through, dry shod, as it were, bring those twelve stones out and set them on the shore of the Jordan. Pile those twelve stones up. As a memorial of again what God had done. And so we read there in Joshua chapter 4. What mean ye by these stones? He said, when the children come to us, In the days that go by. When the children of Say What mean ye by these stones, answer them. That the waters of the Jordan Were cut off before the ark of the Lord when he passed over Jordan, and these stones shall be for a memorial unto Israel forever. So the idea of engraving in stone the names of those who have passed on before us uh the idea of having a memorial day and now we read here of a stone meaning something to these people the twelve stones maybe it's where the Air Force got the idea If you ever get out to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado, there's a stone there you'll want to visit. You'll spot it rather readily. It has a name on it, Captain Lance Sizen. You'll spot it right away, even if you don't see the writing on the stone, because as people pass by it, they have to come to attention and salute the stone. What mean ye by this stone? I know the story of Captain Lance Sizen because he he joined the military about the same time as I did. In Milwaukee where I joined the Marines, he was joining the Air Force. He was shot down over Vietnam. He was quite the athlete, football player, karate expert the whole bit. And he was shot down in North Vietnam as he was a f He was a pilot dropping bombs and he was shot down and and he um he landed in the jungle and we couldn't pluck him out and for six weeks running through the jungles, evading the Viet Cong Finally captured, they're taken to the Hanoi Hilton. On the way to the Hanoi Hilton, he escapes again for a couple of days and they chase him again and they find him. And they are so upset with this guy they beat him to a smothering pulp They starve him to death. He is constantly on the list for prisoners to be beaten today. Captain Lance Fijan, top of the list. Beaten and beaten and beaten, down to about 75 pounds. They feel safe with him one day and they bring him in for interrogation. And he karate chops the Viet Cong and kills him. And they beat him some more. Finally wasting away to the point where when he has to do the the the daily toiletries, he's unable to walk. And two of the other Air Force men carry him out to the latrine. He can hardly breathe Suffering horrendously from diarrhea. His head is bobbing back and forth like a yo-yo. And he leans over and he whispers to the men on the day that he died. Guys, I've got another plan of escape. You've got to go with me tonight. Guy can't even crawl or walk. Wins a congressional medal of honor And they plant a stone at the United States Air Force Academy with his name on it. And you may forget to salute the lieutenants and the captains and the majors and the and the colonels that walk by you, but you dare not forget to salute Captain Lance Saijin, painted on the stone What mean ye by these stones? I wonder if the Air Force got that idea from another warrior named Joshua. The message that a rock or a stone can convey as a monument is also seen in the pillar of salt in Genesis 19 and 26 Outside of Sodom and Gomorrah. It can also be seen when Christ witnessed in Matthew 24 to the people, and he said, There shall not be left One stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. You go and visit Jerusalem today. The area where the temple sat is flat. And you ought to see the size of the stones that were thrown down. Some of them are still laying there in a pile beneath the the the the wall, the the wailing wall, and then beneath where the temple stood. The stones are probably uh some of those stones like about half the size of this here sanctuary. I don't know how they can move them, but they are throwing down. A monument, a testimony, a memory, a memorial to what Christ said would happen. That these shall be not left one stone upon another that shall not be broken, that shall not be thrown down. Stones are testimony. What mean ye by these stones? They found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. And that still speaks millions to us, doesn't it? Of volumes of words. They found the stone. It's a memorial. It's a memory to us. They found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and it told us of someone who had been dead. Memorials always talk about somebody who died, and that stone rolled away talks to us about somebody who died but now lives. In the book of Esther we read, Kee two days every year, these days of Purim. should not fail, nor the memorial of them perish. Again, the idea that days were important to God's people. And there were certain days that were to be kept as memorials. The day of Purim Wherein Haman had decided there was going to be a day when all the Jews would be annihilated. And Esther had gone to the king and I won't prolong the story, but she'd gotten permission that the Jews could fight back and the lot was cast on what day this would all take place and the lot meaning the peer or the lot And the day of Pyramid. And of course we know the rest of the story, how the Jews prevailed and they survived due to Esther approaching the king. For the right of self-defense. The providential preservation of God's people in the days of Esther is spoken of here. It is to be a memorial. And the Jews to this day still keep it. The feast of Perm. They still keep it. It is to be kept as a memorial of them, and it is never to perish. Esther 9 and verse 28. Memorials, Memorial Day, engravings, stones to be kept So, what happened to Memorial Stadium on thirty-third Street in Baltimore? Large concrete plaque in memory, a memorial It said on the plaque, dedicated as a memorial to all who so violently fought in the world wars. With eternal gratitude to those who made the supreme sacrifice to preserve equality. and freedom throughout the world. Time will not dim the glory of their deeds. That's what the plaque said. Memorial Stadium, 33rd Street. But the stadium must come down. Ah. But Governor Glen Denig said, have no fear The memorial slab will stay. After all, the memorial slab, it is to show our gratitude. And at the supreme sacrifice, time will not dim the glory. And then Governor Glen Denning, ignoring eternal gratitude and the supreme sacrifice He dimmed the glory of the veterans of World War I and World War II and their deeds by ordering it torn down. After promising it would not be, three months after 9-11. Oh, and yes, get this, during the Christmas holiday. Merry Christmas, Baltimore. Almost as if in the spirit of the Roman Empire who tore down the temple in Jerusalem Memorials are of a religious nature. And more to the point, the earliest ones point to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ As was duly noted in our reading this morning, that when the woman anointed Christ, he said, Whereasoever the gospel is preached in the whole world, also this that this woman hath done be told for memorial to her, or of her. Have you done anything that others will ever talk about or write about? That you did for Christ. What will they say at your memorial service? There's the old adage. You've probably heard it before. It goes something like this, all that we do shall pass. Only what's done for Christ will last. Will that be your memorial service? That you've done something for Christ? Let's pray. Father, we look to you today on Memorial Day. We think of all the blood that's been shed for the freedom of this country. We think of all the blood that is still being shed, perhaps even this very day, for our country. And we just pray, Lord, that on this Memorial Day, more important than all the bloodshed and all the wars, That we would reflect on the blood of Christ, who fought the greatest battle. And he fought it for us. And he bled for us. Shed his blood for us. Can each and everyone here this morning say that his blood was shed For them, personally accepting what Christ did for their sins. May we be able to leave this place today on Memorial Day, remembering that the greatest thing, the greatest memory The greatest sacrifice. We recognize it in a stone that was rolled away so that our rock Might be known as a resurrected rock, the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray for all those here today, Lord, that Memorial Day will always mean something to them. And it's in Christ's name we ask. Amen.