Chapter thirty three of the Psalms And I would have us address ourselves to just the first half of verse twelve of Psalm thirty-three. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. We have heard so much and most of it lies from our media and our educational departments over the last fifty years that this nation was not established on biblical principles, that our founding fathers were not of a Christian heritage. that our founding fathers did not love the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And I wish I had time to share with you 55 messages from the signers of the Declaration of Independence. But I have chosen to share with you the background of at least one of those signers that you might know that our founding fathers were lovers of the Christ who died on the cross and came here to promote. the freedom of Christianity, not religion, as you're often told, but Christianity. And I would have you to know this morning as we talk about this one founding father that he signed the Declaration of Independence And although over a dozen of the men that signed that declaration of the fifty-five, twelve would be caught, tortured, murdered, and killed during the war. Only two of the signers would sacrifice their sons on the battlefield. Many a father died, but not many the children. But the one I talked to you about this morning was a Calvinist, he was a Christian, and he was a Presbyterian from Scotland. And he lost his son, named after his father, named James, on the battlefield in Germantown. Only two signers lost a son. His name was Jonathan or John Witherspoon, the Reverend John Witherspoon, who signed the Declaration of Independence. He was born in nineteen twenty-three in Scotland. He was a descendant of John Knox. And yes, Reese Witherspoon is a descendant of John Witherspoon. And that's about as far as I'll go with that. But he was a descendant of John Knox, whose father was also a minister, and was determined that young John would be equipped for the ministry at a very early age. John himself gave his credit to the pious mother who raised him. By the age of four, he was reading the Bible. And within a few short years, he had almost the entire New Testament memorized He entered the University of Edinburgh at the age of 13 and graduated at the age of 16 with a Masters of Arts degree. Very intelligent man. We're told today that intelligent people don't believe in the Bible. At 16 he had a Masters of Arts and he was ordained at the age of 22. Those that seek me early shall find me. And his parents saw to it, the Proverbs 8 and 17, that he was a young lad who would seek the God of Scriptures early. Those scriptures were close to his heart. But who could have foreseen that the education that he received in Scotland Would so affect the American colonies all across the sea some 40 years later. Witherspoon historians note today that he and others like him, their Protestant sermons. In the colonies were most Christ-centered. And they also, these Protestant sermons that were Christ-centered, played a unique and a major role in the American Revolution. The second thing an honest historian will note today is that the calling of Reverend John Witherspoon to be president of Princeton University up in New Jersey was a decision that was also instrumental and fed the smoldering spirit of the revolution. It was significant that John Witherspoon, brought from Scotland, began instructing in Princeton for nine significant years prior to the Revolution. Witherspoon states in his writings and in his sermons that he was aware that educating the future leaders was vital. He said ministers had the responsibility to develop virtuous citizens, but more than that, virtuous magistrates that would rule this country. Magistrates, he said, were to encourage Christian piety. Not religious piety, not moral piety, but magistrates in this country were to encourage Christian piety. And they were to be an example to the rest of the community, these Christian uh magistrates And they were to be such an example that they were to make the object of Christianity something that the public esteemed. Now does that sound like a deist, as we're told? Oh, it was deist that signed the Declaration of Independence. Magistrates, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. Proverbs twenty-nine and two And thus it was that Witherspoon, in his early years at Princeton, would single out those he thought that should go into the ministry And those he thought should become lawyers, and those he thought that should be public officials or magistrates, and he gave them special attention. In fact, today we know that he, Witherspoon, is accredited with the notion, one nation under God. It's in the Pledge of the Allegiance. Oh, I'm sorry, we're not supposed to do that anymore, are we? But the sign of the declaration, he's the one who promoted the notion of one nation under God I wonder how John Witherspoon and those that signed the Declaration would feel about burning the flag today, would feel about using the word God in the Pledge of Allegiance today. I don't think we wonder at all, do we? When he took over Princeton he became popular immediately. The first thing he did is he he suspended flogging of the students for not having their lessons done. That made him very popular. And when the Boston Tea Party took place in Boston and everyone was wondering what he'd had to say or what he might institute or what part Princeton might take in it. John Witherspoon encouraged the students to come together and in a patriotic uh brotherhood or fraternity with the men in Boston, they gathered all the tea at Princeton and they burned it. There are those who are happy to believe that the old Calvinists and the old preachers of the 1700s were stuffed shirts. They were actually a good deal of enjoyment to have them in your company. It's where things were happening They loved Jonathan Withersmone. He went out on speaking tours as he saw the developments in the colonies taking place. He went out on speaking tours trying to drum up graduates, or rather to try to drum up students for Princeton And he went from state to state, found a young guy named James down in Virginia, named James Madison. He thought he might make a good preacher. And James Madison actually felt called to the ministry for a time He eventually ended up being the president of the United States instead. But Witherspoon went out among the colonies and he was preaching and searching and seeking out students for Princeton. His speaking towards among the colleagues as he as he emphasized looking for students, he would emphasize the freedom of religion, specifically Christianity. And that the freedom of Christianity would only be possible, he said, in a free society There were those who said that when he went out among the colonies looking for students and speaking about the freedoms in this country and Christianity and so forth, that he spoke with a revivalist fervor Then he is accredited with his revivalist fervor of mobilizing the colonists so much that Princeton was called over in England the seabed of revolution. During his twenty-six years as president of Princeton, three presidents of the United States sat under his preaching. George Washington, John Adams, and James Madison. They liked his preaching. They liked his talking and delivering messages on salvation, on sin, on damnation. and on hell. They loved to sit and listen to the great doctrines of Scripture as the Witherspoon expounded them. In those days, you may not be aware of the size of Princeton, but the graduating classes were often fifteen or twenty students. At the peak, maybe 30 students. There weren't that many that graduated from Princeton in those early days when John Witherspoon was there. And yet let me give you a list of those who graduated under John Witherspoon. One president, James Madison, a vice president, Aaron Byrd, six members of the Continental Congress, nine cabinet officers 21 senators, 39 congressmen, three Supreme Court judges And twelve governors were all told about the essential right and purpose and need for Christian freedom in this country. One of the governors was the father of Robert E. Lee Henry Lighthorse Lee. Now you might not know a whole lot about Robert E. Lee's father, but it was Robert E. Lee's father who who ran the Calvary during the American Revolution. He was a great Calvary man And when George Washington died, the Continental Congress came to Harry Lighthorse Lee and they said, We want you to deliver the message. uh at the funeral that would that for all the world to hear and that will go down in history is what we think about George Washington. And Henry Lighthorse Lee coined the phrase that we still remember of George Washington First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen. Henry Lighthorse Lee graduated under John Witherspoon. But that's not all that graduate under his teaching. 33 state and federal judges, 56 state legislators, and 13 college presidents. All of that when you're only graduating 50 or 20 a year. My word that goeth forth shall not return unto me Isaiah fifty five and eleven. And Witherspoon understood the importance of promoting God's word and delivering God's word and sharing God's word that it would not come back void. It would affect the hearts of this nation. It would affect the hearts of the leaders of this country. And so what we put in place in those days were congressmen and senators and presidents who loved the Lord Jesus Christ, Supreme Court judges who loved the Lord Jesus Christ And of course, James Madison was not only the president of the United States. But he basically authored our Constitution. Can you imagine? The man who sat under a Calvinist Presbyterian Princeton president Who thought about going into the ministry because the effect that Withersman had on his life, he writes our Constitution But what does the world tell us? Oh, the founding fathers and the rights of the declaration, a constitution, they were deists, or they were agnostics, or they weren't Christians, and they were for religious freedom. You're out to promote the Lord Jesus Christ and His gospel Our founding fathers. Not all, but most. And certainly the ones who were very, very involved were Christ-centered. Witherspoon had taught James Madison And he had taught him in such a manner that Madison and others said that when when Witherspoon was in the class teaching And preaching and sharing how the Bible should work with the laws of the land. And he would bring in the gospel and his uh our elders mor this morning prayed about uh independence day, the grace independence, our independence from our sins And Witherspoon would do all of this and he would share these things. And Mattis and others said that in the class, as he preached and teaching and taught, he said it makes one's blood shiver along your arteries to hear this man talk Your blood to shiver along its arteries as he spounded the scriptures and the need for a free nation. that would allow those scriptures to be used in the colleges, the universities, and the educational systems. What would the three Supreme Court judges who sat under Witherspoon think today of the schools not being allowed to pray in school, the students? Not having the Ten Commandments on display in the courthouse or in the schools. What would the founding fathers and the Supreme Court judges who were trained under Jonathan Witherspoon think of such a thing? I think we know what they would think Brotherspoon is quoted as saying, the duties owed to God include love, fear, Trust, worship, and prayer. And never shall our desires interfere with our duties to God Our desires should never interfere with our duties to God. When God said to take His words and to put it on our foreheads and to place it on the pillars of our homes and our doorways. Would would they would they have one of the Ten Commandments removed from our courthouses today? Judge Suder said that forty years ago when they put the Ten Commandments down at that Capitol in I think it was his Texas or Tennessee. When they did that, he said, What was on that man's mind was to promote religion and we can't have that First off, how does Judge Souter know what was on that man's mind 40 years ago when Judge Souter doesn't even know what his wife's mind is thinking? I mean, most of us can't understand what our wives are thinking at the moment. And we're supposed to know what a guy was thinking 40 years ago? And he said, Sudan said the man was thinking of promoting religion when he put those Ten Commandments on the Capitol grounds. What is wrong with promoting religion? Didn't the Constitution tell us that Congress should make no laws prohibiting the worship? of Christianity or religion? If Congress is not to make any laws prohibiting and by the way, when they put the Ten Commandments down at the uh the Capitol Congress uh that wasn't Congress doing that. So Congress wasn't prohibiting or inhibiting or or expressing or promoting any religion. Congress didn't do it. So the Supreme Court shouldn't have been involved in removing it Only Congress was restricted from promoting or prohibiting Christianity. States weren't permitted from or weren't prohibited from doing that Legislatures in the state weren't prohibited from doing that. In the early days, Virginia was a Baptist colony. It promoted Baptists. Up in Pennsylvania, they promoted Quakerism. In New Jersey, they promoted Presbyterianism. It was okay for the states to do it. Congress just was not to promote it or prohibit it Things have really changed. In another message, as he was on his circuit riding throughout the States looking for students. He had this to say. Reverend Witherspoon said, the fullness of divine vengeance shall speedily overtake you. Nothing less than the sovereign grace of God can produce a change in your heart or fit you. Nothing but the grace of God can change your heart or fit you for an immediate presence with the Lord if he calls you today. Some would say he was a grave and solemn preacher of the gospel, and so he was. He took it seriously. His sermons abounded in doctrines. An application, an exposition of the Holy Scripture? Someone observing him one time in his garden. He had a garden, he loved a garden, and they observed in his garden, he said, I notice in your garden it's all vegetables. And no flowers. And Witherspoon turned to him and said, That's right. Gardener, all vegetables and no flowers. Like my sermons, all vegetables and nothing flowery. An example, perhaps, of one of his sermons. Was he speaking a group of sermons, series of sermons called Letters on Marriage? And I guess he could do that series. He was his first wife died, and he married a second time. His letters on marriage, there were no flowers in that series of messages. He scolded the men in the congregation where he was preaching. He said, you choose a bride basically upon her beauty. There are a vast number of women out there who can be found who are not so beautiful to look upon. But man must look for the qualities in the bride that are far more important and enduring than physical beauty. Some have wondered what his daughters looked like when he preached that sermon. No flowers in his garden or his sermon. I suppose one of the reasons I chose the Reverend John Witherspoon this morning is the fact that he was noted in England as he was hated there. He was a traitor and a rebel, they felt, and in America The title he was given was the Apostle of Freedom. He was the Apostle of Freedom. He rejected democracy as they began forming the government. He said democracy, it's very subject to fad. Democracy is very subject to fad and mad popular fancies that are the rage of the moment. We don't want a government that is a democracy He said, we want a republic, but I must acknowledge that a republic cannot survive without moral and virtuous citizens A republic must either preserve its virtue or lose its freedom. And knowing that it depended upon a virtuous and moral people, he still backs. The idea of a government called a republic. He said, nothing is more certain than that corruption makes a people ripe for destruction. Corruption makes the people ripe for destruction. What would he have thought today of gay rights? What would he have thought today of abortion rights? Would he have thought that that was making us ripe for disruption? Oh, I think so. We need a nation, he said, that is pure, when true religion and principles are maintained The attempts of the most powerful enemies to oppress will baffle and be disappointed. If we can keep a pure nation, he said, There's no enemy out there that can destroy us. Every enemy out there will only be baffled and disappointed if our nation keeps its purity. If God be for us, who can be against us? Romans eight and thirty-one. If if a deal of God you cannot overthrow it, he would say in Acts five and thirty-nine Love God and love to man, he said, was the substance of Christianity. When these prevail, civil laws will have little to do. If we love God and love man, we're not going to need a whole lot of laws. Righteous people have little need for an active government. Do you realize that? If you have a righteous people, you don't need an active government. You don't need it. The government's gonna do something. If we have a righteous and pure people, we don't need to run the government, they're gonna do something, they've got to protect us From a criminal element in our society. If we have a righteous people, we don't have a criminal element society. If we don't have a criminal element society, we don't need all the police. We don't need all the FBI. We don't need all the armed forces If we're a pure country, a virtuous and a moral country, government has very little to do. But the ACLU doesn't want immoral country. Liberal politicians and atheists and agnostics do not want a moral and a virtuous country. And so the government has to step in and has much to do with our lives, don't they? There are many instances of rulers becoming tyrants, Witherspoon said as he was preparing to sign the Declaration of Independence. But there are a few causeless and premature rebellions. Often rebellions come almost too late. Rebellion was not new to John Witherspoon. He knew what it could cost. You see, the American Revolution was not the first war that he was involved with. In Scotland, when England and Scotland got into a TIFF called the Highland Revolt, Witherspoon was there. And he was captured. And he thought he was going to be executed. He's kept in a high tower. Eventually released, but he knew what it was to go to war for religious freedoms He urged the Congress, and he might not know this either, but we know that Jefferson pretty much wrote the Declaration of Independence, but you know there wasn't going to be a Declaration of Independence. And so John Witherspoon said, if you're going to rebel against King George in England, you need to declare in writing what your grievances are and that you are separating from them and declaring your dependence. From them, and it was Witherspoon who encouraged the Founding Fathers to write a Declaration of Independence. And when it was written and presented to the Continental Congress to vote on it One of the men stood and said, I don't think America is ripe for revolution yet. And a hush came over, and it seemed as though the Declaration of Independence would not be signed at all. The Reverend John Witherspoon stood. You ever look at the painting of the Decoration of the Panes? See him. He always wore his clerical garb, always in Congress. And everywhere he went, he always wore his clerical garb. You'll see him in the painting of the Declaration of Independence. And when he stood, a deeper hush fell over that group of men. They said that when it came to a man's uh presence or ambiance or whatever you want to call it, there was only one man who carried himself more regal in the colonies than with a spoon, and it was George Washington. And so when Witherspoon stood in response to this nation, we're not really ripe for revolution. Yet when he stood and opened his mouth, Even E. F. Hutton would have listened. He said, Sir, in my judgment the country is not only ripe, but rotting for want of it. And it carried the day. And the signatures replaced them On the Declaration of Independence, because of Withasun's speech. It was said of him he was this This came from England of Witherswin. They didn't like him. They said he was fierce as the fiercest, foremost of the first. He railed at kings with venom nigh onto bursting Sounds like John Knox and Queen Mary, doesn't bloody Mary. The English Parliament considered him a rebel and a traitor and remarked after he listen to this now they remarked that he was a rebel and a traitor after Witherspoon and fourteen other Presbyterians signed the Declaration of Independence. Some people ask me sometimes, why are you a Presbyterian? Well, that's one good reason. Our founding fathers were. Witherspoon and 14 Calvinist Presbyterians signed the Declaration of Independence. And you know that five of them who signed the Declaration of Independence had diplomas from Princeton with Witherspoon's signature on them. Do you think he had some influence on them? Some godly influence? Some Christian influence? Some gospel influence on these other Presbyterian men with his signature on their diplomas from Princeton Oh yes. England thought he did. And in Parliament John O'Dell stood and said, Our American cousin, that's a colonies, our American cousin has run off with a Presbyterian parson. And everybody in the English Parliament knew who that Presbyterian parson was. It was that Scotsman named Witherspoon who fought us in the highlands, and now he's fighting us in the colonies He was the only minister to sign the Declaration of Independence. He was also a member of the Continental Congress. He just didn't sign papers. He just didn't preach He was also involved in the overthrow and removal of the governor of New Jersey. There's a few governors in this land I'd like to be involved in the overthrow of today. He was involved in the planning, mobilization, and the overthrowing of the governor of New Jersey, and it happened. And you know who the governor of New Jersey was? Then Franklin's son, William Franklin, had him in prison. That's a Witherspoon, dude. He was not a respecter of persons, and James tells us, have respect they were not to have respect for persons, and so it wasn't like, well, let's get a governor from another state. He went after Ben Franklin's own son With the blessing of Ben Franklin, by the way, as I said, the price he paid was dear. You see, when the British got through at the Boston Tea Party and they were not happy, the next place they went, almost the next place they went, was to Princeton. They went after Witherspoon. Witherspoon fled to Baltimore. I can think of some better places to go. But Witherspoon left Princeton, he fled to Baltimore, the British came in, they burned his private collection of three hundred very, very valuable books, and they burned and scattered and destroyed another two thousand books in the Princeton Library. Washington came in. The Battle of Princeton I understand there's still holes in the walls up there from that. Washington drove them out of Princeton. But he lost his library. He lost many dear friends. And as I said, he was one of only two Steiners who lost his son. In the American Revolution. He would actually outlive seven of his twelve children. Five of them would never see the age of seven. I don't know if anybody here has lost a child. I know we've lost some in premature birth. But try losing a seven-year-old or a six-year-old or a five-year-old. He lost five children before the age of seven. Losing his son in the American Revolution, having lost several other children already, he says, and this is engraved on a statue in Washington, D. C. Go down by DuPont Circle. large statue of John with a spoon. He's holding his Bible, and underneath him these words are recorded, although these gray hairs must soon descend into the grave I would rather they should descend by the hand of the public executioner than desert my country at a time like this. He said, England, bring it on. If you cut my head off, it's fine. I'm heading for the grave anyway. And I'd rather go to the grave at the hands of a British executioner than desert the American Revolution When the war ended, Washington returned to Princeton for the college's commencement services that year. Witherspoon preached at the college commencement. Washington was so impressed by the message that he brought to Witherspoon 50 gold coins to promote the Christian gospel at Princeton. In addition to that, it was customary in those days that if a book was to be printed, it didn't get printed until there were at least a number of subscribers who said they want the book and they'd pay for the book in advance And so they wanted to put the works of Witherspoon into a bound volume or a couple of volumes, but they needed nine hundred subscribers to pay for the book in advance before the publisher would print the books And on the list of the 900 subscribers, three presidents. George Washington. He wanted a copy of Witherspoon's Sermons. James Madison, he wanted a copy of Witherspoon's Sermons and Works. And John Adams, he wanted two copies of Witherspoon's sermons, writings, and works. Don't let anyone tell you our founding fathers didn't have an interest in the gospel, interest in sermons, interest in Christianity Witherspoon's influence in the church was also immense. That's often forgotten. He organized the Presbyterian Church in the Connollys. He acted as its first moderator at the first General Assembly. And in seventeen eighty-nine, there were one hundred and seventy-seven Presbyterian ministers in the United States. Hundred and seventy-seven ministers in the Presbyter uh the Presbyterian ministers in the in the colonies Of the 177, 97 graduated from Princeton. Of the 177, 97 graduated from Princeton, 52 had Witherspoon signature on their diplomas. Do you think he had influence in the colonies in the early days? Oh yes. You shall know them by their fruits, Matthew 7 and 16, and he had lots of fruit. Lots of fruit. The last two years of John Witherspoon's life, he preached. He was blind in both eyes, could no longer read his Bible, but he had the New Testament memorized, virtually all of it. And so for the last two years of his life, they would lead this blind old preacher, 70-some years old, up into the pulpit, and he would preach. Let me share with you what people heard from Witherspoon in the pulpit Is it important to you, he would say, whether your children are rich or poor, at liberty or in bonds, or is it more important to you where they will spend Glory. Will they be in hell or will they be in glory? Is it more important to you what your state on earth will be for a few fleeting years? Or what your state will be in eternity for endless ages. We have assembled together imploring God's blessing on the armed service, on our armies in the colonies against England. We're so concerned about the war and what may happen to our children, our wives, or ourselves, or this country, or these colonies. But are you not concerned about where you will spend forever? He always brought it back, didn't he? To souls and eternity. Where will you spend forever when this earth and these colonies and these works shall all be burned up? Is it any wonder that when he died, they said, A man, a great man has fallen this day in Israel. On this 4th of July, we may we take some time today to consider that what it was said of Withispoon, a great man has fallen this day in Israel. May we take some time today to consider What will be said of us when we fall Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the testimony of Reverend John Witherspoon. May we just again rehearse it in the ears of others how you did bless this country. As we sang in the song this morning, how your grace covered us from see the shining sea, and how this freedom of religion was the freedom to preach Christ. Christianity. It wasn't Muslim religion. It wasn't Hinduism. It wasn't Buddhism. It was a freedom to preach Christ that our people fought for here. May we not listen to the news media, the public education that would tell us different, but may we read our own history of our founding fathers and understand That blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. We ask all this now in the name of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.