This morning as we look at a topical message, Mark chapter three Mark chapter three, and we'll be reading just one verse, and that's verse seventeen. Within the list of the disciples, the twelve disciples, we read in verse 17, and James, the son of Zibedee. and John the brother of James, and he surnamed them Bonagerus, which is the Sons of Thunder. Like to have heard them Preach sometime, wouldn't you? The sons of thunder. We have been hearing a lot this year, and perhaps this is a good time to talk about politics today seventeen seventy six and fourth of July, but we have been hearing so much in the news media that the Democrats have now produced this year a candidate for presidency who has got such a gift of speaking Have they never heard of Alan Keyes? I mean really I I don't find that Barack Obama is that gifted a speaker. I I guess in comparison to Bill Clinton, maybe, but I don't find Bill Clinton to be much of a speaker The Democrats would have to go back to J. F. K. And many of you don't remember John F. Kennedy. There was a man that could speak. That was a gifted Democrat. And I might add about as conservative as anybody running today. What we have to choose today, I'd have loved to have had a John F. Kennedy, a Democrat, as my next president compared to our choices. But John F. Kennedy could speak. He had a real gift. But he's been overshadowed, hasn't he, by Ronald Reagan over the years? Now there was a gifted man. And many of us here to remember that. And so when we hear the news media tend to always flaunt the great speakers in the Democratic Party. They never flaunt the ones in the Republican Party. They never talk about their great gifts They don't say much about Ronald Reagan, and they could go back further and probably not since Teddy Roosevelt. Was there anyone that could speak like Ronald Reagan? Reagan. And yet I would say to you this morning that none of them could compare to James and John, the sons of We have never heard a message from the likes of the men of James and John, from any preacher, any pulpit, or any politician. These were men that were noted among all the disciples as the sons of thunder. In all of American history, that term rises but one other time. And around about 17, early 1770s, it was used again as the American Revolution began to take shape. George Washington, who led as a commander-in-chief of the Continental Armies, was known as the sword of the Revelation, or of the Revolution, rather. He was the sword. He was the the captain of the host, as it were, of our country. And Thomas Jefferson, who penned the Declaration of Independence, he was known as the pen of the revolution. But there was one who was noted as the trumpet, as the son of thunder, and it was Patrick Henry. We had the commander in the field to fight, and we had the man in the in the closeted areas who could who could write, but we had one who could preach. And when we look at what people think of someone's ability to speak or to preach, we often have to look to see what the enemies thought of them. We find that the enemies in this day and age don't think much of Ronald Reagan. They don't think much of Teddy Roosevelt. They only think a lot of their own But when we look at the son of thunder of the American Revolution, when we look at Patrick Henry, we we look at mostly what the enemies had to say about him, what England had to say about him, and they thought he was the son of Thunder. Or in the Hebrew, uh rather in the Greek it also means the son of commotion. And they called him that too, the son of commotion, the son of sedition, the son of thunder. And these are complimentary, but they come from the Parliament of England in the 1700s. They referred to him as the agitator in the age of reason Why should there be such an agitator in the age of reason? And they referred to him as one of those Presbyterian rascals. Well Patrick Henry was not a Presbyterian, albeit his mother was, and albeit he attended the Presbyterian churches, but he never really relinquished his membership in the Anglican or the Church of England. England. But because he spoke like and because he attended their services and he ran with that crowd, he was called one of those Presbyterian rascals who sounded the trumpet of sedition. Only George Washington had more influence among the colonies than Patrick Henry. It is recorded. Patrick Henry's emotional oratory is what was the propelled the colonies to fight in the first place. For their independence. Those who heard him and saw him speak in the House of Burgess and on the floor of the Continental of Congress When they heard him, they said he had an actor's flair combined with a preacher's fervor. His eloquence made him as many enemies as it made him friends. But it was his preaching, it was his speaking that mobilized the religious dissenters of his day, and they were the Presbyterians. His messages the enemy, and those in England said his messages were riveting, and his points burst forth like London, like thunder rather, illuminating his hearers like lightning. It was said that his tongue was afire, as if it had an unction from the Holy One, 1 John 2 and 20. And that his tongue made things as clear as the handwriting on the walls of Belshazzar's palace. Now that comes from the King of England. They didn't just have to stop George Washington. They needed to stop Patrick Henry as well. Patrick Henry and his family, his mother, his father, his grandfather, his uncle actually was a preacher. They had experienced the new birth in the 1740s. When he was a young lad. It was a time of the Great Awakening. And young Patrick Henry, often with his grandfather, sat in the services of George Whitfield, a Methodist Revivalist preacher. His father and his uncle and others of the family had often been arrested for not attending Anglican services. For going to those rascal Presbyterian services and listening to the likes of that Methodist radical named George Whitfield and the Presbyterian radical named Samuel Davies When arrested one time and fined, uh the father and grandfather of Patrick Henry, they they asked the courts asked them why they continued to not Misservices. Why they continue to be dragged into court and pay these fines? What was their problem? And the father of Patrick Henry said That what he didn't like about the Anglican preaching was there wasn't enough about the Savior in their messages. And there wasn't enough concern about the state of man's soul in their dull homilies and their sanctimonious lectures in velvet tunes. Well that uptifying a bit They've been fined several times, and young Patrick Henry was raised in that atmosphere. He not only was taken to the Presbyterian rascals churches and the radical Methodist preacher Whitfield and so forth, but as as frequently as possible. But he was told by his mother, who was a Presbyterian, Son, Patrick, on the way home, I want you to recite to me what you heard in the message. So he had to pay attention because he knew it wasn't just taking some notes, but his mother was going to want to hear not just the outline, but she was wanting to hear exactly what he heard and remembered from the messages. Sunday service, Patrick Henry would repeat the sermon as well as he could. He played paid close attention, as we can understand And he had said, as others had said, that to listen to George Whitfield, the great Methodist evangelist, preach in those revival days of the great awakening To hear Samuel Davies preach, he was heard to say and others that concurred with Patrick Henry, it was like living in the suburbs of heaven. Oh, to be in their presence and to hear them thunder out their messages. We don't know what a good message would sound like today. We have no idea What Patrick Henry sounded like. Wish it had been recorded. We have no idea what James and John, the Sons of Thunder, sounded like, but I would Consider from what I read of the enemies of Patrick Kenny, what I read in the scriptures, that there are no sons of thunder today in any pulpit or in any politician. The fire has gone out Patrick Henry, of course, was a lawyer, and some of you may know that he uh yes, we have a lawyer that we We can love. Patrick Henry was a lawyer. He never went to law school, so maybe that makes a difference. I don't know. He was brilliant. He just got their law books, he read them. He went and he took the exam and he passed. Became governor of Virginia four times. They wanted to be governor more than four times, but he had enough of politics, he said. George Washington approached him and said, Would you please run for presidency of the United States? I'm retiring. I'm done. I don't want Adams. To be the president. And Patrick Henry declined George Washington's request to be the president of the United States. Governor Four Times of Virginia. And what I discovered in reading about the life of Patrick Henry was what made him such a different lord. And what made him such a thunderous man, the son of the thunder, was the fact that he had his whole childhood had been saturated and soaked in the scriptures. And the Bible and the Word of God. He had a love for the Word of God. He had a love for the Word. He had a love for the Christ of the Bible. And that made all the difference. And everybody took note when they saw Patrick Henry and heard him that he had been with Jesus. And we read how the disciples were referred to the same that he took knowledge of him, that he had been with Jesus, Mark, or rather Acts 4 and chapter 13. 13. What a man he was. He loved the Lord. He loved the Bible. He loved the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He was a man of God, elected four times as governor, but today Do you think Virginia would elect him as governor? Do you think Maryland would elect him as governor? Do you think California would, or New York, or any of the 50 states of this country would elect Patrick Henry today? I doubt so Or as governor, he requested that the taxes in the state of Virginia be summoned set aside to print up gospel tracts to promote the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, is that the kind of a guy you want to be your governor in Maryland? Yeah. Is that the kind of a guy that would get elected as governor in Maryland? No. Even Virginia in his day did not allow the taxes to go for gospel tracts And so Patrick Henry set aside his own money and had printed hundreds and hundreds of gospel tracts and distributed them throughout the college. Colonies. What a governor. But he wasn't noted for being a governor. He was noted for his unction of the whole He had never attended a formal law school, but he passed the bar. You might remember Psalm hundred and nineteen and verse a hundred. I understand more than the ancients, because I kept thy precepts, and that That was the difference with Patrick Henry. He kept the precepts of God. He loved the Word of God. It made him a brilliant man and a brilliant orator. And it made him a thunderous orator at that. He had something to get excited about, something to preach about. His courtroom style recorded by those he defeated in in class and case and case after case. They said his courtroom style wasn't like a lawyer's. His courtroom style was akin to the preaching that he'd heard in his youth. And his biblical sense and his bombastic style enabled him to win the tough cases against the older and more experienced lawyers. O God, thou hast taught him from his youth. Psalm 7116. You've had to have been there, and perhaps you have read some of his exploits in the courtroom. When they would give him the toughest cases, the case they knew that he couldn't win and that nobody else wanted. And when he was a young lawyer they said, look, if you want a case you have to take this one Because nobody else wants it and you can't win it anyway, but at least they'll give you some experience and he would go in there. The son of thunder and he'd be bombastic And he used the biblical common sense that he had, and he would win the case, and the farmers would jump up and they would cheer and scream, and the judge would be ordering, order to court, order the court And they paid no attention to the judges, they would throw the lawyer on their shoulders and carry Patrick Henry out of the courtroom and across the streets of the taverns and celebrate his victories. When's the last time you saw a crowd carrying a lawyer out of the courthouse? There's a few I'd like to see carried out of the courthouse, but Patrick Henry And these are quotes from his enemies. What did his friends have to say about him? He had uh endured in his lifetime and seen prejudice against Christianity, at least against different domains. Denominations, and uh it was he who insisted upon the first ten amendments to the Constitution. It was he who insisted upon the amendment Upon the what is called the Bill of Rights, the first ten amendments. And the first amendment dealt with our freedom of religion to worship as we so pleased, that the government could not make any laws That would enable us from worshiping as we saw fit. He had experienced firsthand government intrusion and government oppression. And there was a case where he had ridden fifty miles for a Baptist preacher who had been arrested. He'd been out on the streets preaching the gospel and handing out tracts. And the Anglicans in the area in the Church of England, the British uh officers, they felt that this was a rebel rouser, that he was a radical, and they had him arrested for disturbing the peace No lawyer would take that case against England for any amount of money. Patrick Henry, the young lawyer, heard about it He rode bareback, I don't know it was bareback, but he rode his horse fifty miles the night before to get to that courthouse. He wasn't a Baptist But he believed in religious freedom. By the way, Christian religious freedom. That I want to note. And he became that young Baptist pastor's lawyer And they got in the courtroom and everyone was surprised that he had a lawyer and some recognized Patrick Henry and they didn't see how he'd ever fight his way out of this one. Everyone on the court is Anglican, the judge is Anglican The other lawyer is Anglican. What's gonna happen here? And so Patrick Henry took the floor. Probably one of the shortest cases he ever had. Patrick Henry said This court is charging this preacher with the crime of, with the crime of, with, with what? With preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ? That's his crime? Is that his crime? Someone tell me, is that his crime? The courtroom is as silent as you are Nobody spoke. Nobody would speak. And the judge slammed on the gavel and said, case dismissed. Can't do what Patrick Henry did, but I hope you can at least envision a little bit of his his thunder and his the zeal that this man had. The case was dropped. To understand Patrick Henry, you'd have to read a lot of books. I've read a few, but George Washington, the founding father of our country, uh it would be hard pressed for us to find someone that wouldn't have something good to say about George Washington. And some of his speeches and some of his uh military uh records that are produced that that we read about all the time and and we we we loved the man. He was a godly man and he quoted the Bible and wanted Bibles printed and directed Congress to print Bibles and distribute them to all the soldiers and and Bibles to be distributed among the Indians here in America. I mean Washington was a wonderful fellow. But he sat in the house of Burgess for ten years and never said a word. He voted. He listened. Behind closed doors he would communicate his feelings and he could move people in one direction or another. But George Washington never stood on the floor of the House of Burgess The House of Burgess were were people elected by the different uh areas of the colonies of Virginia. Uh Britain allowed them to have some representation in uh America. They didn't allow the colonists to have a member of parliament in England, so naturally they said we have uh rep we have no representation. We have taxation without representation. And so these this the House of Burgess did not have the right to really tax or or to do anything without England's permission and they were kind of a you you can be a member of the House of Burgess if you're elected by your people, but you don't really have any power. But for ten years George Washington George Washington attended the House of Burgess and he had never said a word about anything. He was a quiet man. Patrick Henry, on the other hand, when he was elected, George Washington had already been there ten years. Jefferson was seated there. A lot of the greats names you would recognize were all there and Patrick Henry came to the House of Burgess and he wasn't there a week when he took the floor and thundered away and his o Astonished everyone by his command and his presence. Who was this backwoodsman in his leather buckskin clothes who had just come in from Gutting the Deer? And he didn't even look like he belonged here, but could he speak? He was called the Son of Thunder. They said when he spoke, it reminded him of Isaiah, how he his face was set like a flint. It was said that his manner in the courtroom and even on the House of Burgess was so impressive that it made one think that here was a man who was so earnest. His face so set like a flint that he probably had never laughed or uttered a joke in his entire life. He looked so severe that they said they'd never seen a country preacher look as severe as he looked. He spoke at the house of Burgess in the courtrooms as the lawyer. That first day when he spoke in the house of Burgess on the floor Thomas Jefferson, who, by the way, was not a friend of Patrick Kennedy. They they became uh I wouldn't say arch enemies, but they had a l they had an understanding that they would agree to disagree almost all the time. Well, when he stood on the floor that first day and spoke, Thomas Jefferson said, He speaks like Homer, the writer of the Iliad and the Odyssey. He speaks the way Homer would write. And he has an eloquence that seems to unlock the human heart. Others that day in the house of Burger said He resembles the apostle Paul as though he were calling the Athenians to turn from the worship of false gods. Only his message was to Turn against England for what they're doing, against the Stamp Act, against the T-Tax, against what they're doing in the Boston Harbor. He said, We thought we were listening to the Apostle Paul before the Athenians It's said that Sir Patrick Henry had no rival in his day. When it came to implementing Bible verses in his messages. There was no one it was as saturated and was able to expound and insert verses into everything he said. Like Patrick Henry. And it was his implementing of those Bible verses in his messages that opened the eyes of the colonists to the injustices of England and gave them a zeal for freedom and independence. At least that's what his enemies say. The enemy said that this Scotsman That's what England said. This Scotsman, and he was a Scotsman, this Scotsman, he blows the trumpet like Isaiah 18 and verse 3, he blows the trumpet of discord with his speeches, and they listen, was what Parliament was saying. telling King George. His messages were regarded as ecclesiastical fireworks, more like prayers and preaching at a revival meeting, it was said I wonder how many of you have heard this it's recorded that when the British came up to Lexington Concord, it was a shot heard round the world. Patrick Henry was called the shout that was heard round the world. Let me give you a little bit of his speech this morning, and I will read it, but it's because if you've been to public school you never heard his whole speech. You got the abridged edition. You'll get the abridged edition this morning, but I'm going to give you the parts that were probably left out. At least Some of it that was left out. I went on the internet and looked up his speech and I was amazed at how many places abridged that speech to give me liberty and give me death speech. But here it is, he said on the floor of the House of Burgess in 1776: Should I keep back my opinions? At such a time, through fear of giving offense, I should consider myself guilty of treason towards my country. And I would consider it an act of disloyalty toward the majesty of heaven, which I revere above all earthly things. For my part, whatever anguish of spirit it may cost I'm willing to know the whole truth, to know the worst, and to provide for it. Now, most congregations don't want to know the whole truth. They don't want to know the worst. They don't want to hear all the doctrines. This was Patrick Henry. Then he continued, suffer not yourselves to be betrayed with a kiss. We must fight. I repeat it, sir. We must fight. An appeal to arms and to the God of hosts is all that is left us. They tell us, sir, that we are weak, unable to cope with so formal an adversary Might I inject as the Muslims of the jihad? This could so much be given today in this country. He continues, but when shall we be stronger? We are not, Sir, if we are not weak, if we are made a proper use of those things which the God of nature has placed in our power We are millions of people armed in a holy cause of liberty And in such a country as that which we possess, we are invincible by any force which an enemy can send against us. Because We shall not fight our battles alone. There is a just God who presides over the destiny of nations, and he will raise up friends to fight and battle for us. And you've got to remember that this was given after the Boston Tea Party. This was given after the this Bunker Hill shelling. was given after Americans had already been shot and captured and put in chains in Boston Harbor, had had put an embargo around the harbor. It was already trying times and he says Our chains are forged. He says, up there in England, they've already forged the chains. The clanking, can't you hear it? He says, on the plains of Boston, can't you hear the chains? clanking on the planes of Boston are people who have already been imprisoned and in chains. The war is inevitable. He was noted for his speaking, then when he would speak, that one word would capture the whole audience And it says here at this point that he said the war is inevitable. The war is inevitable. Let it come. Let it come. Gentlemen may cry, peace, peace, but there is no peace. The war has actually begun. Our brethren are already in the field. Why stand we here, idol. What is that gentleman wish? And when he said that, what is it that the gentleman wished? There have been others on the floor of the House of Burgess not wanting war. And as he said, we're already at war When will we be stronger? He turned to those who didn't want the war and he said, What is it that you gentlemen wish? Our men are already in chains in Boston. We're already at war. What is it that you gentlemen wish? What would you have? Is life so dear or peace so sweet? This is the description of what he did. He said, as to be purchased at the price of changes. And they said as he walked across the floor of the House of Burgess, in the minds of the men they could hear the chains dragging on the floor. is to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery. Forbid it, Almighty God, I know not what others may take, but as for me, give me liberty, he said, or give me death, and he said stabbed his chest as though he had a dagger. You know much of that speech, perhaps not all what I've mentioned this morning. But that rousing evangelical combativeness of Patrick Henry with a biblical cadence which I cannot do, I hope you recognize some of the Bible verses in it But that biblical case, that evangelical uh combatantness and the reference of the scripture, it even carried the Quakers of that day, and they were the peacnicks. Even the Quakers jumped up and said, To war! To war Wouldn't she love to see someone get on the floor of a House or Senate and talk about what we're facing? In this world today. And to have someone who could be like a son of thunder who would get up and speak on the floor, someone like a Senator Zeller a few years ago. Someone to get up and do that in such a manner That the likes of Pelosi would jump to the floor and say, War, let's go, let's get him. Because that's what Patrick Henry could do. After the American Revolution, as I mentioned, he was the governor four times. And he printed tracts at his own expense. Romans 1. 16 would say he was not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. We also find that he did not trust government. He did not feel government was trustworthy. He was concerned about the constitution and the form of our new government. He insisted that there was a depravity of man. And he fought against the Constitution because there were things that weren't in the Constitution that he felt should be there. And he he wrote up some twenty odd amendments. They combined some of his amendments. It came down to about fourteen. They voted on and passed ten of those amendments. But he was concerned that all of all these amendments be in part of the Constitution because he didn't trust the government of the future where it might go and how it might interpret the things that were said and done that day Thomas Jefferson and others fought him on those ten uh amendments of the Bill of Rights. They said it's not necessary. He said it's already in he said I want an amendment that says we have the freedom to worship as you so please I want an amendment that says we have the right to possess and to carry arms. I want these. And they said, you don't need that. It's already implied in the Constitution These words are written. You can find them. They felt that the right to bear arms, to possess arms, it was already in the Constitution. We don't need the Bill of Rights. But Patrick Henry said, I want them added because somewhere down the future I don't want there to ever be any reason to dispute the right to bear arms Boy, I'm glad he put him there because what has saved our bacon this week was the Second Amendment right. Go home and read that. is long. The news media is not telling you everything that's in it. They didn't just say that you now have the right to own a gun to keep in your home and it doesn't have to be onloaded, disassembled, and trigger-locked. They said you can't defend yourself if the gun is unloaded, disassembled, and triggered a lot. The Supreme Court not only ruled that you had the right to have a gun in your home, but the Supreme Court ruled that you had the right to have that gun in your possession in public or private to protect yourself. They're not talking about that. In public or in private in private the right to bear arms, not just possess arms. It's quite an outstanding ruling. The news media is admitting ignoring much of it. And he was afraid that if it was not if there were not the Bill of Right to Ten Amendments, that they might be disputed someday. He was tenacious about protecting the people's rights and the states' rights against a all encompassing federal government uh taking over the rights of all the states and all the people. He was so tenacious and on one occasion so irritated Thomas Jefferson that he wrote in Madison. He wrote in Madison, he said, of Patrick Henry, this man is such an irritant, I suggest that we begin devoutly praying for his death. And I don't know if Jefferson's that much of a prayer warrior. We often think of the founding fathers as being just one good happy family all getting along. They didn't. Years later, Madison, not Jefferson, but Madison and Washington also thought that Patrick Kenney carried his obstinates too far, came to him, and they said, You were right. We should have allowed more amendments. Even in their Day they saw the federal government encroaching upon the rights of the states and of the people. In the last years of his life, as I mentioned, he declined running for presidency of the United States. He preferred, he said, to spend the last few years of his life. And I quote, I would like to spend my last years reading the Bible And he did. And the sermons of the English Divines. And every Sunday evening he would read the sermons of the English Divines to his family, and after which they would sing Hymns and Psalms. On his deathbed, Patrick Henney assured those that were present on his deathbed that he was confident that through the merits Of the bleeding Savior, his sins were pardoned. And in his will, as he broke up the land and the house And everything he owned, he was a rich man, and bequeathed unto his family and to his daughters. At the bottom of the will, he said, But the richest thing I can give you, the best thing I can leave of you is the religion of Christ which shall make you rich indeed. But we are all taught that in public school, aren't we? We hear that on the radio all the time. We'll hear it this 4th of July, probably, won't we? Not likely. He believed in the merits of the bleeding savior. For his sins. They were pardoned. We'd ask you today to join us in the communion service as we think about our freedom that Christ has purchased for us on the cross. I'd ask the elders to come forward this morning. Because the freedom that our founding fathers purchased for us was instilled in their heart through the f because of the freedom they had. Through their faith in Jesus Christ and the scriptures. Dr. Bob, I believe you would read a charge to us this morning before we uh just Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthinely shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. cups. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthyly, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not