The insert in the bulletin this morning. It doesn't really have anything to do with the Fourth of July, but it is a article on a patriot, Francis Scott Key, uh president of Baltimore, Maryland, who wrote the Star Spaniel Bannard, and talks a little bit about his Christian faith as well. Um thought you might enjoy a little bit of uh that kind of patriotism as well today. Remind those who may still be considering going to the camp. We're just about overdue as far as letting Pastor Chris Sidwell know that you're coming. But uh I'm sure that even if you're late, we can probably make some room for you if you've decided on this the last couple of days to go. Turn with me to Leviticus this morning. Topical message. Leviticus chapter 25. In verse 10, we're talking about liberty or freedom. And Leviticus 25 in verse 10 is the verse that you'd find it's actually on the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia. You can read a Bible verse, uh written there, not in stone, but I guess in brass and copper and whatever uh the the bell itself is made of. But this is what you'll find on the Liberty Bell, which was rung in the days of George Washington. It stood up there at in the Philadelphia at the assembly hall. It was rung to to gather the men in for the meetings. And uh that bell was rung until about seventeen seventy eight when the crack got too uh so enlarged it didn't ring it anymore. But George Washington undoubtedly heard that bell ring. And uh we can still, if we can't hear it, we can read what is on it. Leviticus chapter twenty-five and verse ten. And he shall hallow the fiftieth year And this is what's written on the bell, and proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof And that was what George Washington and the American Revolution was all about. It was desiring liberty, desiring freedom, uh desiring to proclaim this liberty and this freedom throughout all the land as they broke away from the oppressive uh British government at that time. Today our nation produces hybrid cars, our nation produces iPhones uh the space shuttle and uh numerous other things we could talk about. But not men of high moral caliber. That is a rare production indeed. And I would like to talk to you about one who was of high moral caliber, a Christian, uh uh George Washington, called the father of our country, our first president But I wonder how many know what produced a George Washington, what created a man like George Washington. He was the product of an early godly foundation laid down by his parents, who even restricted his companions to those of like precious faith. We need another George Washington today, but what it's going to take is what I'm going to describe somewhat to you this morning, what it took to produce one in 17 uh in the late 1700s. The Bible says, train up a child in the way he should go, Proverbs 22 and verse 6, and when he is old he'll not depart from it. George Washington was trained up in the way he should go and what he should do by his godly parents. Trained at a young age he was in the art of fencing and sword play, but his best sword play was conducted with the scriptures. He knew the Bible very probably better than anyone here When we talk about people who know their Bible well, we don't compare very well with our founding fathers, I have to say that. And so he knew the Bible well, and those that seek me early shall find me, Proverbs 8 and verse 17 And he was a young lad taught by his parents to seek the Lord Jesus Christ early in his life, and that he did. He was a voracious reader. as well as being homeschooled. And he picked up a book one day about a great military leader, uh Frederick uh the Duke of Schromburg. He he was the second in command under William of Orange. And he decided he wanted to read the book about this great military leader. And young George Washington was quite surprised as he read about this great military leader that it didn't deal much with his military exploits. Rather, the book dealt with the fact that he was a Christian and a gentleman foremost Rather than anything else. And George Washington was taken aback by that. He he wanted to read about strategies and the tactician and the battles that he was in. Instead he found out about his Christian uh love for the scriptures. George Washington would spend every Sunday in church. You want to know what makes a great uh man of moral character. Well George Washington at a young age spent every Sunday in church. It was never an option. His father was an elected member of the Episcopalian church. He was a vestryman. There was no option. He was going to be in church A not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. Hebrews 10 and 25 was well known in the household of George Washington. And consequently, Washington not only was in church every Sunday But he was taught at a young age, he memorized uh first off the Ten Commandments. Knowing the Ten Commandments and adhering to the Ten Commandments He soon came to realize, and in his own writings, he said that he discovered that if you're looking for answers in life, this young teenager now, George Washington, said, if you're looking for answers in life, you will find them in the books of Moses. All the answers in life. Any problems or trials or tribulations you have, he said, go to the book, the writings of Moses. He also understood early on in life that disobedience would be meet met with a birching, that is with the switch uh tree branch, a rod. He understood that. And uh it was instructed to him, it taught him, that when you do something wrong there isn't punishment. and that there was painful punishment and the punishment came from the rod or the branch of a tree. And he correlated that and he understood as he read his Bible that although we would be raised by godly parents we might feel uh the the painful swish of a branch from a tree That the Lord Jesus Christ would suffer upon a tree. A much more intense punishment for our sins. So sometimes when we talk about capital punishment, or not capital, but corporal punishment for our children, not capital punishment. You might feel like that sometimes. But corporal punishment, the idea of the rod or the branch uh rendered to your child who is disobedient and inflicting some pain on that child Think of the correlation between the branch and Christ is called the branch in Scripture, by the way, it's one of his titles along with the bread and uh of the living waters and so forth. He's called the branch. But the branch swishing the behind of a young child brought pain for his sins And then not just a branch, but Christ crucified on a tree. More intense pain did he suffer. There is a correlation that is taught there in the discipline of our children. As I mentioned, George Washington was homeschooled by his father. His father did most of the homeschooling. His homeschooling was six days a week, so for you homeschoolers that think it's tough doing four and five days a week, he was homeschooled six days a week and his textbook was the Bible. His father used the Bible to instruct him, regardless of whatever course was being taught. The Bible was used in every course, every course was woven through and through with Christianity. Whether it was math, whether it was English or grammar, the Bible was used. This is what produced the moral caliber of a man like George Washington And in being instructed through the scriptures in his homeschooling, he came to rev the word of God. He not only revered the word of God, but he revered God's name. He revered God's name almost like the Jews. So when they would write when they would uh when we were writing the Old Testament and it came the word Yahweh or Jehovah, they would set down the pen, they would change their clothes, they would wash and take the pen back up again They would write the name of God. They would continue when they came to the name of God again in the scriptures if it was Elohim or El Shaddai. They would set the pen aside, they'd change their clothes, they'd wash again and go back and write the hand if they cleansed hands that holy name, El Shaddai, El Hihim, uh uh Jehovah, and so forth. Well George Washington was raised to respect the word of God and the names of God so much That rare indeed was it that he would even utter the name of Jehovah or the name Yahweh. He would in his writings he would often write of the Almighty or of the Sovereign One. Uh he wo he would write uh other titles to God, uh but he was very reluctant. It was not often that he would write uh the name uh so revered to him that that would be the creator. He believed in the creator by the way, a six-day creationist he was, or in the province of God, he would say these things and and he had learned those he had learned that scripture from his homeschooling. And he believed uh the scriptures would have taught he believed that it said spare the rod, you hate your son. He believed that. He that loves the son chasteth him uh betimes. Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child He believed that, but the rot of correction shall drive it far from him. The rotter reproof giveth wisdom, Proverbs thirteen twenty four, Proverbs twenty two fifteen, Proverbs twenty nine, fifty He believed those those those scriptures and he he took them to heart. And so as he would quote the scriptures often, he would talk about his Creator Talk about the Almighty, talk about the sovereign, but he would not use the Lord's name lightly. He he understood in Exodus twenty, verse seven, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, for the Lord shall not hold thee guiltless So you you look hard and long to find him talking about Christ, talking about Jehovah, for that reason only. But he loved the Lord and he loved Christ and you will find it mentioned uh in his writings from time to time. I don't know what he would think of today if he was to come back and And watch the movies that we bring into our homes today. Um it's getting uh more difficult all the time for my wife and I to find uh a movie to watch, a video to watch. Uh we left off the R Rator movies long, long ago, a couple of decades ago. We were doing PG thirteens and we found they take the Lord Jesus Christ's name in vain. That was frequently enough that we just stopped all PG thirteens. Now we find the PGs take the Lord's name in vain too. Not once or twice, but several times. You know, we're down to the G's. Or down to the Disney movies. George Washington would appreciate that. If you want high moral caliber in your children, you cannot introduce them to films and language where Christ's name is taken in vain again and again and again. I'm hard-pressed to find a movie that takes the Muslim God's name in vain, but I find the Christian's God. is taken in vain all the time. Probably because they know it's the only God that really exists that they care to offend. So here he was. He was a man instructed and homeschooled by his father that they care to offend. So here he was. He was a man instructed and homeschooled by his father. At a young age he already stood at six foot three and a half inches tall. That was tall for a man in his day. That's Still tall for men in our day. I think Bob Young is six foot three, are you? Jack, you're six foot six foot one and a half. George Washington was taller than both of you. And that would be tall for today, but that's how tall he was. He weighed 225 pounds. And so he's a big young strappling teenage boy when he applied to be a surveyor in the Culpeper County. Well you say, what's that got to do with Christianity? Well, it does. You see, in order to be a surveyor, King of England, there were questions you had to answer. before he'd allow you to be a surveyor in his colony. And one of the questions was you had to give an understanding that you knew that transubstantiation was not biblical. You had to be able to, in writing and in an interview, you had to be able to say that I do not believe that the the bread and the wine actually turns into blood and flesh of the Lord Jesus Christ. It symbolizes, but it is not actually his body, his blood. You had to be able to substantiate that and from scripture just to get a job serving. In other words, you needed to know Christian Protestant theology before you could get a job with the government. Has that changed today? Anybody I think it's changed, hasn't it? It's changed You had to give a credible defense of your Protestant Christian faith, or you could not get a job in the government in those days. He was noted to be one shy around women, but not in combat. He was renowned in combat. He'd fought in the French-Indian Wars. Refresh your mind of that a bit. British British and the French were fighting over territory here in the United States or in the colonies, and the French had hired the Indians to join with them Uh the Indians were they were some pretty shrewd fighters hiding behind rocks and trees and crawling through the grass. They weren't like the typical British standing in long lines and marching straight towards the enemy to get shot at by guys hiding behind trees and rocks Uh didn't it didn't fare too well. But the French and the Indians fought against the British here in the United States, up in Pennsylvania and Ohio and areas like that. And uh George Washington fought in what was called the French and Indian Wars. And although he was shy around women, he was not shy in combat. He was noted as a man who was tenacious and uh full of courage and had endurance on the battlefield. Uh he was he was a most respected man, uh though he had not had the formal military training of most of the British officers In one particular battle when he was uh fighting against the French and the Indians, they were ambushed and they were losing men by the droves. Their men were falling all around him. bullet holes through his cap, bullet holes through his vest, and General Braddock is shot and he's dying and he's he's wounded and he's gonna die there and they didn't want to leave his body behind because the Indians would desecrate the body of Braddock And so Washington said, get him out of the line of fire, get him out of the zone of the ambush. I want you to take him back a hundred yards or so. And I want and we're going to go back there and we're going to have a Christian funeral They said we're in the middle of an ambush, we're pinned down, men are dying everywhere. He said we cannot leave Braddock's body here, and we haven't got the wherewithal to get it out of here either. We're to go back a few hundred yards where the Indians and the French can't see us And we're going to bury his body right in the road. And then as we leave the ambushed area and we pull out with the wagons and the horses trampling over Braddock's buried body, they'll never suspect there's a body buried there with all the hoof prints. and the wagon wheels and so forth. And so Washington told the men to hold the line and he held the line with them in the ambush while they went back and got the body buried. And then Washington went back and conducted himself The Christian funeral over the body of General Braddock while the arrows and the bullets were flying just a few hundred yards away where they couldn't see him The British remembered that, and they said, this is a man who is tenacious in combat. He is no coward. This is a man that is full of endurance in the battlefield. He was the kind of a man you'd want to be with you And so in 1776 with the Declaration of Independence when it took place and the British found out they'd be fighting against a general who was commanding a continental army, and that's what we called the army here in America The colonies got together. It was called the Continental Army. The Continental Army fought against the British, and the British found out that the Declaration of Independence was signed, that we'd raised an army, and the man in charge of the army was George Washington. And you know what the general said over there? You know what made the officers sitting in England at that time? I won't fight against him. I will not let the That man buried General Bradley, gave him a Christian funeral in the middle of one of the most heated ambushes we ever endured. He's a man of God. I will not fight against him on principle. And many a general and officer in Britain resigned their commission rather than come to America and fight against George Washington on the principle that he was a man of God, a moral caliber, a Christian, uh beyond a shadow of a doubt. They would not take up arms against him. Despite the fact Many knew that in all those wars, in all those battles with the French and the Indians, George Washington had never been in a major battle. That he'd ever won. They'd lost almost everyone he'd ever fought in. So it wasn't like they were afraid of his he's he's a great general, and every place he goes, every place he fights, they always win. He'd lost almost every battle he ever fought in But they loved him for his moral caliber, and they would not fight against him. Even the London newspapers would say of General George Washington. They spoke glowingly of him as a warrior and is a man filled with stretched virtue that from his lips no vulgarity ever fell That can't be said of me before I was saved. I don't know how young George Washington was when he was saved, but there are people alive days still remember when I had vulgar words come out of my mouth. But no one could recall ever a time when one vulgar word ever passed the lips of George Washington And that is recorded in the London newspapers during the American Revolution by the enemy. The enemy says never a vulgar word fell from his lips. Never was God's name taken in vain. Never was Christ's name taken in vain. Here was a man that never swore, never cursed. Never broke the commandment, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. This was a man of God, and his enemies so declared it. And so this was a man that on July 2nd, 1775, prior to the Declaration of Independence, was called by our Congress to become the general, the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army So on July 2nd, 1775, he introduced himself to the Continental Army up in Boston. Boston had already fought outside at Bunker Hill. He'd missed that battle. Lexington Concord had already taken place as well. In fact at Bunker Hill in Boston, that battle had already been fought on June 17th, a week or two before Washington arrived In Boston to take command of the Continental Army. The Bunker Hill had already been fought. It had been fought, but it had been preceded by the president of Harvard preaching to the men at Bunker Hill first. Can you imagine that? You're over in Iraq and you're getting ready to or over in Afghanistan or one of these countries and you're getting ready to head into one of these uh countries or one of these cities to take the city or to take it by storm or or or to fight the enemy And a preacher stands up and says, Wait a minute, I'm going to preach this sermon first. The sermon was an hour long. It wasn't a chaplain coming by and said, May just bless you men and bless your battle and God's mercy on you. And he walked away and went off somewhere and hid. Here was the preacher who stood there on Bunker Hill and he preached an hour-long sermon and he prayed with the man. He was the president of Harvard University. The British referred to him and other colonial clergy as a bunch of sanctified villains All these men in the pulpits are preaching, they said they preach sedition, they preach treason, uh they they preach rebellion. They're nothing but a bunch of sanctified villains, these preachers. And the and the Presbyterians are the worst of the lot, they said And whenever the British came through a town or a district that they found a Presbyterian church, they'd rip the pulpit out of the floor, they'd rip the pews out, toss them outside, and they'd bring their horses in and stable them in the Presbyterian churches And if that didn't work and didn't have time, they burned the Presbyterian churches to the ground. They recognized, in fact, they called the Presbyterians the Black Brigade, because they wore the long black gowns when they preached And so it was that they they found that there were plenty of preachers at every battle preaching and praying. for the Continental Army. And George Washington would have it no other way. Washington, you can go down to uh in fact you can go on the internet, look at the Library of Congress, and you see that Washington uh ordered Bibles to be printed and given out to every soldier in the Continental Army. I don't think it ever happened, but that's what he wanted done. He wanted every man to carry a Bible. So there was an animosity towards the preachers. There was an animosity towards the churches in America But they they they weren't gonna show the same animosity back towards Britain. They understood they were sometimes it was Christians fighting Christian brothers And so they they they they tried to meet England halfway. There was in on September twenty second there was always uh the King George Coronation Day. And uh the colonists the colonial army said, we're gonna still honor the Coronation Day. And so every September twenty-second during the American Revolution they would celebrate. Oh, they they called it then King George's Damnation day, rather than his coronation day. So they they said we're gonna honor that day, but we're gonna treat him a little differently in the in the phraseology we use on that day. Well, I I told you that on June 2nd, or rather July 2nd, 1775, George Washington arrives in Boston He arrives in Boston. Bunker Hill has already been fought. He's got the Continental Army together. And they asked him if he'd like to say a few words to the men. He said yes or would. George Washington. Just imagine. We just got a new general, General Petraeus, over in Iraq, and he was he was uh flowing in to speak to the men in uh Afghanistan and I don't know what he said to them, but I'm going to tell you what George Washington said to the Continental Army his first day as a commanding general. He got before the men, it was a short message, and this was his message. Psalm 101 to the entire Kutinong Army, I will sing of mercy and judgment. I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when wilt thou come unto me, Lord, he says. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I will not know a wicked person. I'm shortening this up because the psalm is longer than that. Who so privileged slandereth his neighbor, him will I cut off. Him that hath a high look and a proud heart will I not suffer. He that worketh the seat shall not dwell within my house. He that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. And I will early destroy all the wicked of the land, that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the Lord. And he was done. Can you imagine today a general reading from the Word of God, addressing his men, not the chaplain, but a commanding general? He was of high moral caliber. He perceived and was discouraged by what he saw among the continental army that day, a lack of spirituality and virtue in these men, and so he issued orders immediately against all profane cursing. Swearing and drunkenness. Well, I tell you, I spent four years in the Marine Corps. I never had a general told me we couldn't swear, we couldn't curse, we couldn't get drunk. I mean that was that was a part of being a Marine, you know. It's just, what is this? But if you're gonna go into battle and you may be dying any moment, any second, it's best you not have God's cursed Name on your lips, and Washington understood it. He was not just preparing his men for battle, he was not just preparing his men for dying, he was preparing his men for eternity. That was George Washington. No cursing, no swearing, no drunkenness. And so he began to form this army into a moral band as well as he could. And it was a tough situation he found himself in. I I don't know how much any of you have ever read about the American Revolutionary War. I know if you're going to read history books. In the public school system you're not going to get much. So I'm going to give you a little bit of what it was like. During the American Revolution, during almost all of those years the colonies, those those thirteen little colonies or states were on the verge of bankruptcy continually. Inflation was so bad the continental dollar was worthless. You know what it cost to buy a horse Twenty thousand continental dollars. Twenty you think you think inflation is bad today? Twenty y you can buy a horse today for five hundred dollars and back then The Continental Dollar was so worthless and the states were on the verge of bankruptcy, twenty thousand dollars to buy a horse, four hundred dollars to buy a hat Throughout the war, the Continental Army would lack ammunition, they'd lack medicine, they'd lack money, they'd lack men, they'd lack food, they'd lack weapons, supplies, transportation, and adequate fighting force was hard to be found as well. In addition, the men from one state would often fight against another state. They'd get mad. Rhode Island would say, why do we have to listen to this general from Virginia? We're from Rhode Island. Why can't we have a general from from uh from Rhode Island. And then you'd have a Delaware saying, why do we have to listen to this general from Rhode Island? Why can't we have a general from from Delaware? And there'd be fighting and bickering among the men and Washington's trying to make this this group a cohesion army and they're all fighting about where their generals come from. Today when you're in the military, you don't ask where your generals from or where your colonel's from. You just take command. And that was a part of Washington, trying to get these men to accept their commanders regardless of what state they were from. And in addition to that, he found his own officers getting mad at each other and dueling among themselves, dueling, back to back, ten paces of turning fire and killing each other, because one got promoted over the other This is what he had to deal with as he fought this war. Officers fighting among themselves. There were generals who wanted George Washington's job. They wanted his position. And so they had sent back to Congress false reports and evil reports about how the war was going. Some of the generals in the opposite of George Washington They would retreat when they were supposed to go forward. And they go forward when they were supposed to hold the line. They did things to make his battle plans fail. There was this it was constant for him. And then there were the assassins and the sharpshooters putting bullet holes through Washington's hat and through his coats. And yet he went on. He went on even when two of his brigades mutinied. They had not been paid in a year How many here could go without being paid a year and stay in the military? Well after a year they had not been paid and two of his brigades mutinied. Now you say, okay they mutinied. That means they left, they fled. No They got their canyons and they rolled them up to the streets of Philadelphia and threatened to blow away Congress. Let me take note of that. And Washington had to intercede to stop them. I mean, Washington had some problems on his hands, didn't he? Officers shooting each other, men refusing to obey orders, sending in false reports about them threatening to blow up Congress from the canyons, entire brigade of well-armed men He had problems running this war and trying to win it at the same time. He would say at these days that things were so bad that he already had one positive note, he had one super general that he could rely on with all this mess, and that was Benedict Arnold Wow. I mean seriously, that's what he felt. Benedict Arnold was the finest he'd fought in the French and Indian Wars. Arnold Arnold had already received well if he they didn't give Purple Hearts at the time, but he'd been wounded twice in battle for the American Revolution. He was a hero among heroes among all the men in the Continental Army. Everyone thought Benedict Arnold was just a super guy, and Washington knew he was good. He was a good soldier. He was a fighter, and he'd given his blood already He knew with all the mess he had with generals betraying him and backstabbing him and officers shooting one another and men refusing to obey the offer. He knew that he could at least depend on Benedict Arnold Does that give you an idea of how it struck his heart when Benedict Arn betrayed him? You know he hired assassins to find him and kill him? They came close, but they didn't. Even assassins to go over to London were told to go over and kill him. They found him in London The order was given, if he was caught, no trial, just hang him. And then he'd received a bullet, he'd been shot twice in the lake. for America, fighting for the Continental Army, Bennington shot twice, fighting with Washington for the cause. He'd been shot twice. And Washington said, when you hang him, when you get ready to bury him, cut off the leg and bury the leg with honor The rest of his body on Mark Grave. It didn't happen, but those were part of the orders that were out there. You have to wonder with all the problems that Washington had, wherein did thy great strength lieth Judges sixteen and six, that's what the Lila asked Hampson. But when you read the history of what Washington will deal with and to still win this war against the most powerful military army and navy in the world. Where do your great strength lieth? And it was on his knees in prayer. Now, there are those who poo-poo that and say that's just not true, that Washington wasn't that great a man of prayer, and that the picture, the painting of Washington Valley Forge out in the woods with his horse, I've got to hang in my office, in the snow, kneeling in prayer, that's just made up by those who love Washington. It's not true. The story of Washington on his knees praying does not come from the Continental Army The story of Washing on his knees praying does not come from those who love George Washington. That story comes from a Quaker and a betrayer who worked for the British intelligence. He was a traitor of this country. He worked for the British Army and he was out reconnoiting the area trying to find out where the troops were. And at Valley Forge, he discovered a man on his knees in the snow praying. And he discerned that it was George Washington and he hid behind a tree. This is the enemy of George Washington. And he listened to him pray. And he came back, and the story of Washington praying on his knees For the Continental Army and for the freedom and the liberty of this nation, it comes from our enemy that he was found on his knees praying In fact more of the story is told than you maybe have heard before. But he goes back to the British and he says, This is the positions they're in, this here, here, here and there. And he said, I actually I stumbled upon their leader, George Washington, in the woods. He said, Well, did you shoot him He said, No, he said he was praying. I didn't think it was right to shoot someone while they're praying. Well, well, what did you learn as he prayed? He said, I learned that if he fights like he prays, we aren't going to win. I never heard anybody pray like that. He said we can't win against a man who prays like that. That's the story of Valley Forge and Washington praying on his knees. It comes from his enemies. So don't let those who ridicule that story tell you it's not true. Valley Forge was a tough time. Yes, he was on his knees and he was praying because times were tough. feet and fingers and toes are being amputated due to the frost flight. It was a cold, harsh winter in seventy-seven and seventy-eight. These men were in these little huts Freezing, they had no soap, and so without soap diseases were spreading. Smallpox, typhus, malaria were common Fifteen percent of the men would die that winter of those diseases alone. Diseases, dysentery, there was desertion, there was defections to the British Army, there was starvation, so fear That the men so so severe was the starvation, that the men were found cooking their shoes and their leather belts and boiling their leather belts and shoes in water to make soup. and they were eating their shif, you've heard sometimes you've heard the story of Washington's army, they were marching barefoot. It wasn't because they didn't have any shoes anymore. Well it wasn't having any shoes anymore. But it wasn't the shoes that wore out. They'd run out of food and they'd eaten the shoes. Do we have an army like that today? No, we've got to complain about the MREs, we got complain about the C rations, we've got to complain about the K rations. These men ate their shoes And then they had to walk barefoot in the winter to places like Trent and Valley Forge. And you hope the British couldn't follow behind and find you, but all the British had to do was follow, they said, the bloody footsteps and they knew where Washington's troops had been. How do you win a war with like all these things against you like that? They would eat tree bark when they ran out of shoes and belts to eat. Man is born out of troubles, the sparks fly upwards, Job five and seven. That certainly describes the continental army, the men of that army. That certainly describes what George Washington had walked into. And so at Valley Forge, following the floody footprints in the snow that winter, he went from hut to hut to talk with the men, to pray with the men. And the men said he wept in our cabins with us at what he saw When he found where our soup was made from our shoes, when he found that we were serving the leather tongues out of our boots, Washington wept for his men. And they loved him for his compassion. It isn't just some cute little uh saying when people say that George Washington, first in war, first in peace. And first in the hearts of his countrymen. He was first in the hearts of his countrymen. He had compassion, a man of high moral caliber who worked with his men. Some of you are in the military. I uh recall an army general one time that I saw wheat for his men. And that's when the Pentagon got hit by the plane. And they were pulling the dead bodies out of the Pentagon. Secretaries, General Gunhas is his name. And I saw him weep as he told of pulling the secretaries and clerical workers out of the Pentagon, dead, burned. Boy, it's unusual to see a general weep. Men of compassion, George Washington, a man of compassion. Loved his people It was at Valley Forge that he forged a relationship with his men and with his God that would be invincible. Made it invincible. General Nathaniel Green would describe the Continental Army's strategy. What was your strategy? You can read through the battles and the wars and And the mistakes were made, continual mistakes were made that that God would in one manner or another. There would be times when when Washington's men would be fleeing the British And it w and it'd be raining like crazy and the mud would be thick and it was slowing them down and they were heading for this river and they'd barely get across the river and the British were right behind them and the river would swell and get so high with water that the British couldn't cross it And Washington's army had just made it through the swelling waters on the other side and survived. There were times when we were trapped on Manhattan Island and they couldn't get off it. And then the next morning the brakes were surrounded the largest navy had surrounded Manhattan Island, not by New York. They're going to bombard it. They're going to wipe out the entire Continental Army. And that night There was such a harsh, hard rains and wind. The Washington began to get his men off the island. It's blowing the British ships out to the sea. They couldn't see it. He was moving the men off the next morning. He still had men on the island. Now what's he gonna do? They're gonna they're gonna wipe out the rest of my continental army And a fog rose up so thick you couldn't see fifteen feet in front of you. And he cleared his entire army off of Manhattan Island. He said, In the province of God, the finger of God is protect us Time and time and time again. You cannot doubt there is a God. You cannot doubt that we are a country today because God intervened with his providential hand to protect us with all the mistakes we made. What was the strategy? I think Nathaniel Green, uh General Nathaniel Green, described the Continental Army strategy best when he said this. We fight, we get beat. We rise up and we fight again. And that's pretty much what it's like if you read the history of the American Revolutionary War. They lost and they fought again. They lost and they fought again. They lost and they fought again. And it just went on and on and on like that The army was described by friend and foe alike, the Continental Army, as poorly dressed. And poorly fed. They said they looked like scarecrows walking barefoot along the trail in the snow. So starved out they were. By 1778, now Washington's been agenda for just three years. By 1778, only twelve of the original forty-seven delegates Are still in office. I mean, these 47 guys say, we want you to be our general. We want you to conduct this war. You go to, you go and do it for us. Three years later, of the forty-seven men, only twelve of the original are left As delegates in Philadelphia. And the new guys, they want to compromise. They want some reconciliation. They think maybe we can work things out. This war's not going so well. And it wasn't Maybe the British will be nicest if we just give up and wave the white flag. Sam Adams said of their type, of their ilk, they are our most dangerous enemy, these new delegates to the Philadelphia Congress So it's not only got his army that's fighting among themselves and dueling with themselves and betraying Washington, he's got the delegates who sent him there retired and gone, and the new delegates wanting to reconciliate, wanting to give just to cave in. And so we ask again of Washington, tell me wherein does your great strength lieth? Wherein? Well herein. What was left in this Congress would proclaim a day of thanksgiving from time to time Prayers were always intermingled with Washington's daily orders. So the men had to listen to the prayers that Washington would write or his chaplains would write along with the daily orders. There were few that were ever assigned to any duty on Sabbath. He didn't want to fight on the Sabbath, attack on the Sabbath. He encouraged all in the army to attend the worship services At which there were hour-long sermons delivered to each brigade by chaplains, that's wherein their strength lieth. Their strength lay in the chaplains, in the prayers, in the sermons. And giving Bibles to the men. I don't think uh when I was in, they gave us Bibles. Pastor Dave, did they give Bibles when you were in the Air Force? Yeah. Did they g when you're in the Navy do you get a Bible when you when you joined it? Okay. They they would give out Bibles in the Marine Corps. Probably they give out a Quran today, I guess. That's seems like that's the direction they're going in Wow. When General Corn Wallace would finally surrender to Washington at Yorktown in seventeen eighty one, Congress as a body. You know what they did? They didn't yell hip hip hooray They didn't shout, oh good, it's over with. Oh, isn't this wonderful? He's falling at your account. They solemnly gathered together and they went to the largest church in Philadelphia and they worshiped God, giving him thanks in prayer and song When's the last time Congress decided to adjourn and go somewhere, not for a funeral, but just to get together and gather for prayer and to worship God? I don't in my life, I don't know if Congress has ever done that When the war was over, Washington would rescind his commission. He'd come before the seat of Congress a couple days before Christmas. The war is over. Britain has Capitulated and I now offer my sword to Congress, lay it aside. I am no longer going to be the commanding general of the Continental Army. Of all the delegates sitting there in Congress that day And we're only talking eight years later. Only one was one of the originals that commissioned him as general. The others are all gone. Dead, retired, whatever. There was only one left that every member didn't be made the general of the Continental Army. Congress celebrated that night with a dinner. I don't know. They celebrated different back then. Here it says they celebrate. I mean the war's over. They beat the greatest Navy the greatest army in the world, and they get together and they celebrate. And it is written here that they celebrated and it was a stately dinner in honor of General George Washington. And it says that it this great stately dinner, this great celebration, not our soul got Drunk. Wow. You know, the memory of the just is blessed, Proverbs ten, seven. They loved what they remembered and thought of George Washington. Can you imagine Congress meet a day for some big stately dinner? I mean Nancy Pelosi's her her booze bill on her plane that flies back and forth out to California was $100,000 just for the booze bill. I mean, I don't know how many people fly in that plane, but if it's 50 trips, 52 trips a year, $100,000 booze bill? Wow. But at the end of the American Revolutionary War, not one person got drunk Congress got together and decided to create a government. Not a democracy, a republic. I want to remind you of that. There's a difference, won't go into that this morning. Thirty of the 55 delegates of the Constitutional Convention had served as officers under George Washington. 30 of the 55 congressional delegates when they formed the new government. And these 30 of the 55 delegates, and probably some of the others, uh they knew enough of Washington, they asked him if he would rule the government, and they wanted him to be king. Why didn't he be king? I mean they've always had a king. They were Englishmen. They'd they'd broken away from England, but they'd always had a king. They had King George and there was King Charles. They'd always had a king. We want you to rule, we want you to be our king You know what Washington said? America has a King in Jesus Christ. You don't need another King. He quoting 1 Timothy 6 and 15, he's the king of kings. We don't need a king here. So finally the Republican form of government was settled on. But the smaller states are not comfortable about being equally represented and so forth. They were concerned about they'd be overshadowed by the likes of New York They'd be overshadowed by the likes of of Virginia. And they were very upset. And so forming this new government, the smaller states that were not comfortable with it Declaration of independence. We're not comfortable with the Constitution. We're not comfortable with this new form of government called the Republic. We are not comfortable with anything at all unless George Washington is the President. In mind. This constitution, as far as we're concerned, it is no good unless there is a man of high moral caliber who rules in this country. The Constitution, they said, is no good without a man like Washington to rule it. It was written with Washington in mind, they said. Washington became our first president. One of his big challenges came on his second tour as President of the United States in a little known battle called the Whiskey Rebellion. The whiskey rebellion out in Western Pennsylvania was over taxes, won't go in a long ordeal about it, but I just want to say this to you, that that this whiskey rebellion was it was taken off, it was it was getting larger and larger, and so George Washington, he got back, he he called in the the men from the American Revolution. got together an armed army of twelve thousand men and he sent them out to western Pennsylvania to put down the whiskey rebellion. Oh, but did I tell you this? He steps out of his office, straps on a sword, and he leads the twelve thousand men himself. When is the last time a President of the United States, commander in chief of the Armed Forces, led in battle? George Washington did. And the Witchley Rebellion, they heard that 12,000 men were coming, and they said, 12,000 men who fought under George Washington. Man, they will do whatever he says. We're in a heap of a lot of trouble. Who is the commanding general leading the 12,000? They asked. They said it's George Washington. The President of the United States is leading the 12,000 men? Yes. He's strapped on the sword? Yes. Oh my goodness, they said, do you know what it means when George Washington straps on the sword? And they said, What? They said it means that the talking is done. And the whiskey rebellion fell apart and not one soul was lost. Not one person died. The wicked flee where no man pursueth. The righteous are as bold as a lion. Proverbs 28 and verse 1. And by the way, George Washington, when he strapped on the sword and took 12,000 men, out into armed conflict leading him where he might have been shot or killed. He wasn't some young pup. He was my age. He was 62 years old. That's the kind of presence we had in the early days. Men of high moral care. Boy, if you told the president, well, we're going to go to war, and are you going to lead it, Mr. President? Are you congressmen? Are you going to lead it too? Are you going to fight? Or are you just going to send everybody else? What a difference it would make We probably wouldn't be in as many wars. In his farewell address, he said, religion and morality are indispensable. Let me read that to you again. In his farewell address, as he left the presidency, religion and morality are indispensable. In vain would the man claim patriotism who would subvert religion or patriotism. The politicians ought to respect and cherish morality and religion. For when the righteous rule Or in authority, the people rejoice. When the righteous rule, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. Proverbs 29:2. May we as Americans not forget that Come this November. Vote for men of high moral caliber if you want this country back Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the Father of our country. And Lord, we would pray that there might be Grandchildren and great grandchildren of the same moral caliber of Washington that would hold this country together, keep it where it once was, heading in the same direction that he had Set the course too. Lord, we just pray for our people. We pray for our young people who do not even remember what this country once was. We pray you'd raise up, move hearts of our young people. To recapture what this nation has already lost in moral fiber, in Christian heritage, in godly hope. And we ask this name of our great Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.