Psalm eighty-nine I'd ask if all those who have lost their fathers would please stand. Those whose fathers are no longer with us, please stand Wow. Well children, we're about almost half, aren't we? We've lost their father. She may be seated The number that stood today will only grow with each year that we meet here. So we'll be looking at fathers today, and I'd have you just to turn to Psalm 89, and we'll look at verse 26. He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. Many people seem to think that when Christ taught us the Lord's Prayer, Our Father who art in heaven, that that was the first time God had ever been referred to as our Father. But here in the 89th Psalm we find that God was referred to there as my Father. And my rock and my salvation. And there's other places as well. Directing in our prayers to our Heavenly Father, our hallowed Father, our Holy Father, that Christ did in the Lord's Prayer was not a new concept to the Pharisee or the Sadducee at all. All that being said, the the Muslims today teach that God is not a father. And they rebuke the Lord's prayer. They say that Christ was wrong to pray in such a manner And most Muslims are totally unaware of the fact that God was referred to as a father in the Old Testament several times as well. I remember some years ago hearing about a mother that she just continually undercut the father's headship and authority. And the particular story, and I I wish I knew how it ended, I really don't know how it ended, but uh she didn't have the concept of the heavenly father having the headship, didn't have the concept of the husband having to have the headship either And I remember it boiled down to uh many confrontations, but the one that I got uh to be made aware of was when she complained that her husband wanted her her teenage son to go out and and cut the grass with a riding lawnmower And she just thought that was above and beyond his duties in the household. He could take out the garbage maybe sometimes or whatever. But to cut the grass with a ridding lumber, it was dangerous. It was just dangerous For this teenage boy to do that. She had bought him a motorcycle the year before, and that was okay. But he couldn't ride the lawn. Something about a motorcycle at 85 miles per hour around the beltway was alright. But uh riding lawnmower at three to four miles per hour was dangerous. And so she was usurping uh the father's intentions to raise a man. And I begin to understand maybe a little more clearly why the scripture says Uh, thou art my Father, my God, the rock of my salvation, our Father who art in heaven. It takes a man to raise a man. And I begin to understand why we don't pray, our mother who art in heaven. God knew, did he not, what it takes for a headship and to rule And it takes a Father, a Heavenly Father, a Holy Father, and a Father here on earth as well. And so we observed this morning as we look at some of these verses that whom the Lord loveth and says he correcteth The Lord does correct us, and whom he loveth, he correcteth, even when it says as a father, the Son, and whom he delighteth. And we we see the comparisons all the time of the Father in heaven, our God in heaven. Being compared to the fathers here on earth. Whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth, even as a father, a son in whom he delighteth. And the scripture tells us in Proverbs 3:12, this, and we're going to be looking at a lot of verses this morning about fathers But First Corinthians fifteen and thirty-three t instructs us that there are good manners to be taught to our children. And certainly a father and a mother. And much of what I say this morning would apply to the mothers as well, although I may not mention her as as much because of the particular uh day. But you know, we are to teach fathers, our children, good manners. We had our grandchild but, you know, we are to teach fathers, our children, good manners. A book called How to Have a New Kid by Friday. Wow. And it works. I didn't know that before the book was ever written, my wife and I had applied most of what was in the book. But it really works. And we decided we'd try something with the grandchildren. It was a suggestion in the book. How do you teach little kids good manners? Now I'm not saying they don't have good manners, they have good manners But we want to see how this would would spark more interest in good manners. And so w w what you do is you just have a little paper cup with a bunch of kennies in it, and you sit down to have breakfast or dinner or lunch And you say to the children, we're going to play the game called Good Manners. And every time you catch someone not using good manners, you get a penny from them, and vice versa. And so the first thing that happened is they caught me with my elbows on the table and I lost a penny to all of them. And later on they caught me talking with food in my mouth. I lost another penny. And the game didn't go real well on my side But I'll tell you what, when you teach your children good manners, within two hours, all day long we kept hearing please and thank you and you're welcome and and excuse me and I mean it worked just within an hour we had more good manners. And I imagine they're they're still going on today. And they they had good manners before that. But it doesn't take much. If fathers will just take the time And we say in 1 Corinthians 15 that we are to teach our children uh good manners. Even Joab, uh for all his the the ilk we know about Joab, that David's uh commander of the armies, the host of Israel. Even he it says when he went in 2 Samuel 14 and 22 before David, it says he he thanked the king. Alright? Probably had a good father That taught him uh good manners. And we should teach our our children this, not to interrupt when other when adults are speaking, how to respect the elderly And to go to the elderly for good advice. We read in Proverbs twenty and twenty-nine that the beauty of the old men is their grey head, or it's really referring to their wisdom. The grayer the hair, the more wisdom a man is supposed to have In fact, it even talks about the Lord Jesus Christ in uh Revelation 1 and 14, describing his hair as white as snow, beyond being gray, now white as snow, and it talks about the wisdom that resides in the elderly. We've got to teach our children that. uh that wisdom. We ought to teach them. It says in fact it says that w w we were to teach them the dark sayings of old. We read that in a responsive reading this morning Our job as fathers and mothers is to teach the dark sayings of old. These are the sayings of old in your Bible. And his wonderful works that God has performed were to teach those of them as well as good manners And that he commanded fathers that they should make them known to their children. That's our job. To make these things known to our children, that we might set their hope in God. Psalm seventy-eight, verses one through seven. That was our responsive reading this morning. And we are to set these things before our children, the good manners, the great works of God, that they might have a hope in the Lord before they would die. When I look out around the country today and you do the same thing, if you're in a restaurant or you're driving down the road, you see some guy and he's driving down the road and and he's got these purple flags on the side of his car, it says, Go ravens! You know, and everybody says, oh, there's a There's a raven fan, you know. And um and yet when you see a a car going down the road with a with a fish on it, you know, just a little fish symbol, they say, Oh, there's one of them religious fanatics Why is that that the raven flags are a fan and a little cross or a fish on the car and they're a religious fanatic Uh why is it that you will see people all dressed in purple on Sundays, you know, maybe even painting their face up of purple and you say, Wow, now that's a fan, you know? And and yet when you see a a Christian walk into a restaurant and he's just putting away his his little pocket bible, oh, there's a religious fanatic over there. We wouldn't want anything like that, would we, uh around us or or perhaps our father And and then why is it that if you're in a restaurant and uh and there's a Ravens game on and there's maybe twenty people around the bar, they're yelling and screaming and they're carrying on and we're saying, those are some Those are some football fans. And they make more noise than the 80 people in church when they're singing. Wow. Why is it that the yelling and screaming in a restaurant over the ravens, they're fans, but three people over here at this table praying, saying grace over the food, are religious fanatics Something for us to think about his father's. A wise son heareth his father's instructions, we read in Proverbs 13:1. He hears his father's instructions, but a scorner heareth not. Our Heavenly Father came to Adam and Eve in the garden, and he told them that there was a tree of knowledge that they should not eat of in Genesis two and verse seventeen. Do you read the story again? He told them not to eat of that tree. He told them that how many times? Just once Just once. You see, God in heaven realize that I only have to tell somebody something once. I shouldn't have to tell you something two or three times. And as fathers and mothers, we ought to instruct our children in such a manner they only have to be told once. How many times they heard, have I got to tell you one more time, I've told you a million times Now you get in here, dinner is ready, and you brush your teeth. It's the third time I've talked to a brush. It shouldn't have to be more than once. You tell them just once. And then when they break the rule and touch the tree of knowledge, what did God do? consequences after only one warning. Do we do that? We we can learn a lot from our Heavenly Father Because he did that. He didn't repeat it. And so I think when fathers tell their children that just as God told them that he couldn't consume of the tree of knowledge We ought to teach our children there's something that they shouldn't consume. We ought to talk to them that there there should be no consumption of TVs and movies and books and music that has vulgar lyrics in it. It's not acceptable We just tell our children, you're not going to watch that show on TV. It's vulgar. You're not going to bring that video in the store, in this house, it's vulgar. Or that book or or that DVD or you know or that or that music with a with a vulgar lyrics will not be brought in this home. You'll not listen to it And you need to tell them just once. That's all it should be, just once. Not this the tenth time or the sixth time. So you tell them once, and then there are consequences for vulgar lyrics. That is watched and listened to, brought in and maybe even uh said from the mouths of your own children The reason for teaching Adam and Eve just one time not to touch the tree and there were consequences, the reason we need to teach our children one time And then there are consequences because if you see your child, your little three or four year old hidden for the streets to chase a ball and there's a car coming down the street You want to have to yell just one time, stop, and he say, Well, that's only once. Usually my mom's the third or fourth time before she really means it You know, they need to learn the first time. Don't touch that boiling water, their hands go into the boiling water on top of the stove or the burner and you say, Stop And the child mustn't think, well, when my mom says stop, she really means soon stop or pretty soon or uh you know, in in in in a certain amount of time, by the third or fourth stop I'll just keep reaching the boiling pot of water, right? They need to be taught, as God taught Adam and Eve, you get one warning and then there are consequences. Fathers, are there some adjustments we have to make? Perhaps in the raising of our own children. When your children disobey fathers, and we can fly as the moms too, have they learned that there are painful consequences? Painful? You say painful? Well. What is Eve told when she touched the tree, when she ate of the tree of knowledge, that from thenceforth she would have pain in giving a birth of her children. Any ladies here think it's not painful to give birth to a child? How many ladies think it's not painful to give birth to a child? Painful consequence, wasn't it? Painful consequence it was. And your children, if they are disobedient, and you've told them once, you need not tell them two or three times, fathers, you tell them once, and then there should be painful consequences. If there are painful consequences after the first warning, you won't need a second, third, and a fourth warning. And you won't get frustrated That you've waited three and four times. I love what one lady said after she read the book, How to have a how to have a new child by Friday. She said, You know what else I found? At the end of the week I was calm, cool, correct. The kids were now behaving, they're now responding. A few painful consequences immediately had changed everything. And I found when my husband came home Friday night, I wasn't frustrated. I wasn't exasperated. I was actually worth living with. My husband loved the change in me. I thought we'd change the children, but he loved the change in me. I was relaxed. I was calm. I was quiet There's an advantage to following our Heavenly Father and getting one warning. And when they break the warning, consequences And there were consequences when they ate of the tree of knowledge. God sent them from the Garden of Eden, Genesis 3 and 23. And you know God could do that. Why? He made the garden. God could do that. Why? He made Adam and Eve. He made the snake. He made it all. God in heaven held all the cards. God in heaven has all the power. He can do it. And fathers, you do too. I can't make my kids behave. Yes, you can. You've got the power. You've got all the cards in your own hands. You can do that. I don't have you have the power. It's your house. It's your car. It's your groceries. It's your money. And the clothes in the back are yours. When Israel rebelled, what did the Heavenly Father do? What did our Father in heaven do? When Israel rebelled, it says he withheld the reign. Whoa! It says he withheld. 2 Chronicles 6, 26 through 28 tells you all the things that God did when his children rebelled. When Israel, who were the children of God in heaven, rebelled, it says that he withheld the reign Wow. He sent pestilence. Whoa. He sent mildew, ouch, locusts, caterpillars, and the enemies called the Philistines to besiege them. And thus what we find that God in heaven, our heavenly Father, what he did to his children, Israel, when they rebelled, he placed restrictions upon their life. And when you're in bondage to the Philistines, you've got restrictions. When you've when the when there's a lack of rain coming, there are restrictions when the locusts and the caterpillars come in, uh and the enemies besiege you and the mildew and the pestilence God put restrictions upon his children. Moms and dads, you've got the power. Fathers, you've got the power. It's your house, it's your car, it's your money, it's your bank account I realize that when a father begins to act like the Heavenly Father, and when he sees to it that rebellion there's consequences that suffer. You know, I'm almost tempting to all the children leave the room. So they don't know the game plan, you know. And so you're not going to hear the whole game plan. Moms and dads, you come to me afterwards. I'll tell you how how it really works. We're not going to give all the clues away, all right? But we find that when the son or daughter doesn't like the restrictions and the consequences Things will get worse for a while. I'll tell you that right now. If you decide to punish your children, if you've never spanked your child before, if you've never restricted your child before, if you've never taken some from your child before, if you just just made it a oh you shouldn't have done that dear I hope you don't do it again for the umpteenth time and all of a sudden you decide I'm gonna do what God the Father does. I'm gonna say one time and if he doesn't do it right consequences and they're gonna and you're gonna see that the the immediate consequences are they're gonna get nastier and madder and and they're you're gonna have a worse problem on your hands than before you listen to this message, all right? That's alright Like the book says, how to have a new child by Friday. Not on Monday, when you start disciplining the child, the way God disciplines his children in Israel. The son or the daughter may slam their door in your bedroom door in your face and refuse to come out and refuse to do what you're saying. They will tell you that you can't tell me what to do. Just because I broke curfew, you don't like the friends I'm selecting just because they drink and you don't like the fact I'm skipping school and playing hooky. I don't care. There's nothing you do about it. She slams the door in your face. Wow, that sounds pretty bad First off, you need to address it through the door to them that they have not been obedient to Scripture, which says in Ephesians 4. 31, be kind one to another. Your son or daughter has probably broken that many times with their lip to you, with the rolling of their eyes when you suggest things, with the yelling at their parents, not honoring your father and your mother And so you can say to me have not been kind one to another. You can't make me change. I want you to know something right here. You can't. You can't make them. You can't make them change. You can't make them go to school. You can't make them come in a time to proper curfew. You can't Make them select the friends you want in the flight. That is true. That is so true. You can't make them But you don't have to take them to the mall anymore, or to karate class, or to tennis school, or to voice lessons. or or to Little League Baseball. You don't have to bring home junk food in the grocery bag anymore You see, you can't make them do things, but you you don't have to buy them designer jeans. And you don't have to get them a driver's license. And even if they've got one, you know something? You don't have to give them the keys anymore. You can't make me go to school. You can't make me select the friends I want. No, I can't make you. But you know something? I got a $32,000 vehicle out there and I'm paying insurance, $100,000 insurance, and I'm going to tell you, stitch somebody that isn't that isn't respectful to me In a $32,000 vehicle with $100,000 insurance to take me broke if you have an accident and kill somebody. No, I can't make you But I don't have to let you drive the car either. Oh And you know something? That's just Monday. We haven't gotten a Tuesday, Monday. By Friday, you're gonna have a different kid. And they're sitting right now thinking, well, what else can they do to us, you young people? I'm not going to tell you. But I'll tell the parents that want to come and talk to me. What do you mean I can't go to the mall? What do you mean I can't have designer jeans? What do you mean no allowance? What happened to my allowance? Allowance. How many of you have got allowance growing up? Okay. Let me let me explain what an allowance is. It is what you Allow. You see? It's what you allow. You don't have to pay the children allowance. It's what you allow. There should be responsibilities in the house whether there's an allowance or not So the next time you can't make them, that's right, but you don't take them to the snow cone stand anymore either. You don't take them to the baseball game anymore either. They're not going to see the Ravens and the Orioles play for a long time I knew a father that he he tried some of this. And by Tuesday the door was still getting slammed. By Wednesday the door was still getting slammed. Thursday the son comes home from school. There's no door on his bedroom. What about my privacy? Where's that in the Bible? You alarm privacy. I can't believe this. He steps in this room. Where's my chest on chest? Where's my TV? Where's my computer? My bed's gone. Just a mattress on the floor. What's going on here? Friday's coming. You can't do this to me. Well, I just did. Well that that was one angry young man. And I know that story personally. And I'll tell you. No, it wasn't me, Jack. But I yes you do. And it worked. And it's one of the most respectful young men that I know today. He loves his father. He would die for his father. And by the way, he's not 30 or 40 years old. It's a young kid. But he loved he it got the respect His father was owed him. Honor your father and your mother. He says, how do we get the door back? That's going to take a while. Well, what are we going to do? You got to re apologize the way you talk to your mother and the way you talk to me? You've got to repent of it. I apologize, I apologize. Well that's good. Uh time will tell. I mean I don't get the door bagged up. No. But I thought I apologize. There's consequences You're gonna suffer the consequences. Well what do I gotta do? Be more respectful. Policy is a nice start, but no. Well how do I get the TV back, the computer back, how do I get my bed mattress off off the floor in the bed? What do I gotta do? You have to be a good son. A respectful son, one who honors their father. Not just on Father's Day, isn't it? What? Just Father's Day? Is that the only day you're going to honor your fathers? That son learned, and the parents begin to understand when his repentance was genuine. You see, dads, you do have the power. You have the power. Our Heavenly Father has the power. When things are going wrong in our life, oftentimes it's because we've done something, right? We rebelled against God. We stopped reading His Word. We stopped praying to Him. We stopped coming to church and worshiping Him. We stopped thinking about Him. We stopped giving Him the glory. We stopped telling other people about Christ And so what happens? Our life starts falling apart and we wonder what is wrong and it's just going to pieces. It seems like everything in our life is is just a no, no, no, and nothing is ever a yes, yes, yes, nothing's ever happening. Oh my heavenly father's and my prayers aren't being answered and things aren't getting right. And and then you repent. And you go on your knees and you ask God, what is the problem? What do I got to do here? And you see what happens? God, I love that Psalm 65, bless is the man that God causes to come on to him. And so that God gets you the situation, because he's got the power. He gets you the situation where you have to come to him. Come on to him. And it says, and he will make you satisfied with his house. Oftentimes our children aren't satisfied. You know? They want things different in the house. They don't like the way things are going. And so you Don't like that you're not being treated respectfully by them and the door is missing and the furniture is missing and the TV and the computer are gone and after a while they say What are we going to do? And they come to you as a father and say, What are we going to do? What are we going to do? And it's the same with us. When when God removes things from us, when he sends pestilence and mildew and our enemies, we go and we finally go to God in our needs and say, We're sorry, we repent. What do we got to do? And and in Christ's name we pray. And God says, You see, by Friday, they're coming back to me and saying, What do I gotta do? And it will work with you too, dads and moms And when they repent and they say they're sorry, you don't remove the consequences. There are consequences. And they're going to last until you really are assured that they have repented. And when you tell your children no, they're not gonna keep skipping school, or no, they're not gonna talk to your mother like that. And they slam the door and they're very angry. You don't go to the door and beat on the door and scream, say, don't slam the door in my face, I told you. You lost it As soon as you lose your temper, they know they got you. They're pulling your chain, they're jerking your leg. The kids know they got you. You stay calm You walk up the door and you say to the door, I know you can hear me. I told you I don't like the friends you're picking. I told you that I don't like you breaking curfew. I don't like you skipping school. And it's not going to be that way anymore. You can't make me come to the side of the door. And you calmly say, No, I can't. And you walk away. And they come out, and it's a day or two later calm down a bit and say, hey Dan, I gotta get over them all. And you say, No, you don't. And they walk away. Hey Dan, I got I got a baseball leap practice tonight or a tryout tonight. You gotta take me to leap practice. No, I don't. By the third or fourth no Seem like yeses have ceased in the household, you know. They're gonna come and say, what's going on? And then you say calmly to them. Well you've got their attention. We're no longer yelling between you and the door You disrespected me as a father. You disrespected your mother. Can't have it anymore. And they'll stalk away and slam the door again. That's all right. It's not Friday yet. They can say they've repented, but the no's continue until you are confident That they really have repented and the attitude has changed. It may go beyond Friday. But you give them no's until you're sure they've grasped the idea that they must respect the father. Or there'll be no designer jeans. There'll be no TV. There'll be no trips to the mall. There'll be no Car keys, driving privileges. Oh I got a list to reach the basic of the no's that you can do And even 911 and the social workers will not say you've done something wrong. No social workers say, what do you mean you wouldn't give your kid the car keys? What do you mean you wouldn't give your kid a uh a a six-pack of beer? No one's gonna do that The word yes ceases until they grasp the idea that they must respect their mother and father. Don't cave into their tears. Don't remove the consequences until you know that the attitude has changed. How do you know the attitude has changed? They're listening. I can't tell you right now, all right. Please come to me afterwards. And I will tell you how you know when you can lift the consequences and how you'll know the attitude of repentance is genuine and they have changed. And once I tell you, you'll go, oh, oh, it's great. Oh, I love that. Oh my goodness! Oh I can't wait until they mess up on Mondays. start doing stuff. I can't wait until they get nasty with me. I can't wait until they see something repulsive to the mother. I oh I can hardly wait for that. Let the games begin. When I tell you How you'll know when their hearts are genuinely repentant. So you have to come to me afterwards. It's here, but I'm not going to use it. Until they have respect for their father and their mother, you will never have a working relationship with your child. Isn't that way to God in heaven? Isn't that way to the Lord Jesus Christ? Until you respect our Heavenly Father and you say, Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. That's respect Until your children respect you when you say yes or no. Until your children respect you, there will never be a warm, fuzzy, working relationship. nor will it be with the Lord Jesus Christ. If God says ten commandments, thou shalt not, thou shall not, thou shalt not, unless you respect Him and agree with those commandments, there will never be a working relationship And you want a working relationship with the children. So on Father's Day, you want to know how and what you can do to get that relationship you haven't had before. It says in Scripture in Proverbs 311, There is a generation that curseth their father. That's the day. I remember when I was twelve, fourteen, my mom and dad laid down some rules. I didn't like him. I went stomping downstairs. Didn't slam the door. I knew what happened. You're taking the door off the wise. My dad was like that. But I cursed my mother and father under their breath And God got me for years after that. And it took me years to realize God was getting me For cursing on her. Not to our face. It doesn't say to her face, is it? But the generation that curseth her father. You you stop and think about this a second. In case you're wondering whether your household needs an adjustment With you and your children. Think about this. The way your children speak to you sometimes Or the way your children speak to your wife sometimes, your mother sometimes, the father. Think about that. The way they speak to you sometimes, would they ever speak that way to their boss at work? They lose their job like that. And you're not teaching them that. You're letting them get by with abusing you. You're letting me get by with sassing you. You're letting me get by with rolling their eyes in your presence. You're letting them get by with mocking you, and you're not teaching them that that won't go in the real world. You'll lose your job in a heartbeat in the real world You'll never be able to keep a job. You'll never be able to keep a spouse or a fiance or a girlfriend or a boy. You'll lose it. You can't talk to people the way you talk to your mother and your father. And we need to teach our children. That is not appropriate The way they talk to us, the way they treat us. You'll raise a child that is unemployable. You hear me? You'll raise a child that is unemployable And more to the point, it says here that we are, be not deceived, we read in 1 Corinthians 6. 10. 1 Corinthians 6. 10 gives a long list of people who are going to hell. Alright? A long list of people who are going to hell. The drunkard and the adulterer and the fornicator and the effeminate the sodomite. It gives you a long list, but in that list How many remember this? Be not deceived, the long list of those going to hell that shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, thou reviler. And you say, what's a reviler? A reviler is one who uses vile and abusive language. Have you got a child that uses abusive language? They're abusive to you dads. They're abusive to you, mom. They're abusive to their father. They're abusive to their mother. Abusive of their children and their siblings You've got children that use vile language, or if it's not vile language, it's just abusive language. The Bible says they shall, it says, be not deceived. They shall not enter the kingdom of heaven If you allow this to continue in your home, your child will be destined for hell. Because you want them to love you and like you. And the fact is they curse you behind your back and under their breath. And they use vile and repulsive language, abusive language. They are revilers or railers, 1 Corinthians 6. 10. They shall not, not, may not, might not, they shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Now our fathers out there who try to control her children by bribing them. Moms maybe do that too. Now if you'll just stop crying, if you'll just stop screaming, if you'll stop pounding. If you'll stop being disrespectful, if you'll stop cursing, here's a piece of candy for you. You know what it teaches that child? Negative behavior gets results. That's what it teaches. You give a kid a piece of candy so he'll stop crying or screaming or kicking you in the shins when you're at the mall somewhere. It teaches him that negative behavior has its rewards. We can't do that. We can't endorse the negative behavior. Once they've learned that, they now know how to manipulate the father or the mother. They they think they can manipulate everybody by doing this, and often people do. They no longer respect the headship or the authority. When they when they tie the when they can manipulate you, they walk away and they're they're sucking that piece of candy, that lollipop, they say, huh, that negative That negative stuff really works. Boy, I get the reaction I want, and I get the reward I want, and I I've learned to manipulate my father and my mother. Oh, this is great stuff I've learned. And you know what? They don't respect you anymore. You're no longer their headship. You're no longer their authority. You're their toy that they manipulate to get what they want. They no longer respect your authority. And the sad thing about that is they're gonna walk out of there and they're gonna have no respect for dad. And then that girl's gonna look for a boyfriend to marry who she can also manipulate and push around. And he's not gonna have his headship either. And when she gets in the workforce, she's gonna tell her boss, You gotta be kidding, I'm not doing that. She won't respect her boss at work She won't respect authority anywhere. She will disrespect, or your son will disrespect, uh, or your children will disrespect if you teach them that negative behavior works, they're going to disrespect all authority. They'll res they'll disrespect mom The teacher at school, the policeman on the corner, the employer, uh their husband, and they'll author disrespect the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. Authority will mean nothing to people who find that negative reaction. gets rewards. They must learn that there are consequences. Painful consequences. Eternal consequences. And we need to note that our Heavenly Father didn't countenance even the subtlest of rebellions. You say, well that wasn't bad. Okay, they rolled their eyes. My son didn't curse me. My son didn't slam the door. My son didn't kick me in the shin. Uh my son didn't take a swing at me. He just rolled his eyes when I said something. Now I want you in by eleven o'clock tonight Yeah, all right, you know, just roll his eyes. He didn't say he didn't say anything wrong. Just just that little subtle rebellion. God doesn't put up with subtle rebellion. We read in Proverbs 30 and 17 The eye that mocketh his father. Just a rolling of the eyes. I don't like the friends you're keeping. You only a few of you are gonna recognize this one. You talk about rolling the eye, the best rolling of the eyes I've ever seen was Eddie Canner. Anybody remember Eddie Canner? There are couples in there. Well, he could roll his eyes, couldn't he? The rolling of the eyes, the mocking of the eyes, God will not put up with the eye that mocketh his father, the ravens of the valley. We got ravens in Loch Raven. Loch Raven Valley, right? The ravens of the valley shall pick out the eye and the young eagles shall eat it. That's what God thinks of those who mock the Father, the headship, those who mock authority, the child that does that. God, just just the mocking, just the rolling of the eyes. God notices when a child displays this respect towards the father. The eye that mocketh his father. God notices that. You know, you might walk away from your father and roll your eyes. He doesn't even see your eyes rolling in your head. He doesn't see the expression on your face. He doesn't see the the wink at your buddy. Yeah, well we get out of here. We're not gonna do what my dad says, you know, he did a little wink. The father may not pick up on this. But God does. And God says you mock your father, the ravens will pluck out your eyes, and the eagles will eat That means that something bad is going to happen to you. You're going to end up crashing a roadside somewhere, down in a drainage that somewhere in a ravine. You hear of that sometimes. Somebody drives off the road. Down the ravine, and nobody sees the car in the road. The car sits down there for four or five days. The guy's yelling for help. He's pinning the car and he can't get out. And you'll talk about the vulture's landing on the hood of the car waiting for him to die. Why? So they can pick out his eyes That's the first thing that they go for. They're juicy, they're soft, creamy inside, hard chocolate, yeah, well not quite, but But that's the that's what the vulture thinks And God says it, you mock your father, and your end may not be so pleasant. God notices the subtle rolling of the eyes. The Apostle Paul saw that. Similar, he was on the island of Paphas? And there was a sorcerer there. And the sorcerer came out and was giving Paul quite a bit of time trouble. And he in the passage he was full of subtlety And mischief, it says, a sorcerer. He was trying to stop the Apostle Paul from preaching the gospel. Acts 13, 6 through 11. He was full of subtlety and mischief. And what did Paul do? Paul saw in this man a subtleness. Was it a mocking? Was it a rolling of the eyes? We don't know. But you know what Paul's curse was? Paul cursed the man and said, You will be blind for a season. And the implication is that that the subtleness of this this Paul was told about there was only one God, one Savior, one baptism, one Lord, and the sources sort of going You know, rolling his eyes, mocking Paul, and Paul saw just the subtleness of the mocking and the rolling of the eyes, and Paul said, Those eyes won't mock anymore. You'll be blind for a season. He struck him blind So even the subtle nuances against our fathers, against authority, God notices, Paul notices, and it is dealt with Do any of you know a child that tells the father and mother what they want for breakfast? Complains about the food all the time? Complaints about the lunch that mom or dad packed for them. They have a TV and a computer in her bedroom and and they got laundry service at home and and and they got a chauffeur that takes them everywhere. Do you know kids like that? They're not living in a home, they're living in a hotel. I mean think about it. They got TV, they got computer, they got chauffeur system, they got laundry service. They they order out what they want to eat and then they can complain about all they want. That's not a home, that's a hotel you're running, moms and dads. Things need to change. And they can by Friday. Again. Wake up. Fathers, are your children living in a hotel? Wake up. Someone has removed the landmarks which a father sent, Proverbs 22 and 28. That's not the way it was in the Old Testament. That's not the way it was in the New Testament. The young people pitched in. The young people worked around the house and they didn't even get an allowance. The children ought to be out there cutting the grass, taking out the garbage, vacuuming the house, doing the dishes. There ought to be assignments and things to do. And when they're assigned, and if they got an allowance, that's great. Nothing wrong with giving the child an allowance But when they don't do it, you know you come home and they're there assigned this one assigned the dishes, this one's my household, my dad assigned one of us to do the dishes and one of us had to vacuum the rugs and we everything one had to cut the grass, it was all broken up And this is the way it works. I'm not going to cut the grass. I'm not going to do the dishes. That's okay. So you walk over to the brother or sister and say, Billy doesn't want to cut the grass. Would you cut it for dad and I'll give you his allowance. Oh, all right. Janie doesn't want to clean her room today. Well, this one works great with girls. Janie doesn't want to clean her room today. She's supposed to. It's part of her getting up her allowance. Janie doesn't want to clean her room today. So you go to Kathy and say, Kathy, Janie doesn't want to clean her room. Would you clean your big sister's room and I'll give you her allowance? Now that has two positives. First off, she gets another allowance, right? And the older one, Janie, doesn't get any allowance at all, and Kathy gets double allowance, and that irritates him. But there's nothing a big sister hates worse than a little sister going through her room and her drawers and her floor and all her stuff. She'll clean the room next week. Oh yes she will. Allowance or not I should have let that one out But I only did that because there's better ones than that. So much better. So you teach them responsibility. You teach them hard work. Because if you don't teach children responsibility and to respect authority fathers, if you don't teach them that there should be responsibility, they should be respectful of authority, if you don't teach them these things How do they get a job? How they hold a job? How they keep their boss happy. How how on earth are they going to hold down a job in the real world if they haven't learned something about hard work at home? I used to say to my parents, the only reason you had us three kids is sorry because we were cheaper than slaves. Are kids cheaper than slaves? Oh, dumb Is that why they had us? So we could pick up our toys and clean up our mess? There wouldn't have been our toys in our mess. My parents could have had a whole lot more if they hadn't had us. They taught us hard work. Put me out on a farm when I was five or six years old, picking rock and milking cows, some of them by hand. It was hard work. Fathers, you need to teach your children about hard work. The Lord Jesus Christ, uh he says, well for his father says in Genesis 3:19, In the sweat of thy face shall thou eat. If your children aren't sweating, they shouldn't be eaten. There ought to be some jobs around the house to do, whether they get an allowance or not. They ought to learn about hard work. The Lord Jesus Christ said elsewhere, a certain man had two sons, and he came the first and he said, Go work today in my vineyard See the Lord understood the concept of your father sending his sons out to to work in a vineyard. That's hard work. Weeding and planting and plucking and picking and there's thorns. It's hard work And Christ said, He had two sons. He said the first day to go and work in my vineyard. And he said, I will not. He said, No. But that was on Monday. We find later on that son didn't go out. And he did work. As a father were to set a good example before our children, as a father were to set good habits before our children. We are to set good working habits before our children. And we should also set good worship habits as well before our children We can make a lot of mistakes, Dad, but don't set a poor worship habit before your children. Don't drop your children off of church and skip out. That's not a good example. The Bible says that we're to teach these words to our children. These words, which says in Deuteronomy 6, 6 and 7, teach these words, teach them diligently unto thy children. Talk of them when thou sittest in the house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou lies down, when the rises up, and others we'll take every opportunity we can to see that our children are be instructed in the Word of God. But the finest and the most appropriate and the best time for the most impression to make upon your child It's to be in the house of God on Sundays. You read a book. You can teach them when you're lying down, when you're sitting up, when you're walking, and you do all of that, and that's all well and good. But you miss a tremendous opportunity if you don't join them in the worship service. On the Lord's Day, making it a real habit. If you don't, immense harm will follow And I know that. Not just because it's in the Bible. I know that from personal experience, because my father would every Sunday, this was his habit, he would take me to church. Open the car door, dump me out, and he would drive away. That was my father's idea of Sunday habits. He let me off of church. And I eventually dropped out of church. I eventually quit going to church. You know why? My dad doesn't go. He doesn't need it. I don't need it. Obviously, right? I want to be a man. I want to be like my father. He doesn't go to church. I'm not going to go to drops me off. I'm dropping out of church too. And my whole family paid. the consequences of my dad not going to church with me. So important that moms and dads and your children go to church together. You know what they're getting in church? You know who the role models are going to be that they're going to select in the church? You want to be in church together. And my parents, we weren't. And my not just my dad and I messed up our relationship and my mothers and my brothers. The consequences went on for many, many years. Develop a good worship habit with your children, fathers, not just on Father's Day. Let's pray. Father, we thank you That you are our Heavenly Father, that you have set up a relationship with us that couldn't be any closer than a Son to the Father. A child of the Father. You are our protector. You are our provider. You are our instructor, our savior, our redeemer. You are our all-in-all. And that's a big heavy target for earthly fathers to shoot for, but we need to shoot for it. May we protect our children from the wiles of the devil. May we provide them with the Word of God, opportunities to worship in your house. And may we see to it that they know these words and know the Redeemer, the everlasting Father, Jesus Christ. And it's in his name we pray this day. Amen.