To one verse. This morning is a patriotic message because of tomorrow's Memorial Day. People sometimes will ask me, where did you get your information on the Founding Fathers? And I'll share with them a book I've read of late or maybe several books. And I would say this morning that uh how many here have heard of David Barton and Wall Builders? Okay, there's a few names up. If you have never uh go go to the internet website for David Barton and Wall Builders and he has a compiled an abundance of information on our founding fathers. It's just just uh unbelievable. And I've been looking at some of them and I will say this with you up front that I am relying heavily on a compilation of things that he's put together on our founding fathers. And so I don't want to be accused of plagiarism, but we read books and we we gather information from different people. And uh David Barton has done a wonderful job and if you've never gotten any of his series on on uh the American history, you really need to look at it. And I know that many of you are not going to do that. And so you're gonna get uh a David Barton's uh compilation of our founding fathers this morning and uh I trust that it will be a blessing to you coming to you almost second hand. But let's look at Acts chapter three as we begin this morning. Acts chapter three And verse 13. We've read in a response reading this morning how Moses was told of the God of his fathers, uh at the burning bush. And in Acts chapter 3 and verse 13, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus Christ. And so I want to talk to you about the God of our fathers today. Some people will be have heard it said and and maybe even believe it that our founding fathers were for the most part not Christians They may have been Unitarians or they were deists, you know, they believed in a God, so to speak, but not in a triune Godhead. And we hear that, especially I did, going through the public school system. Some have called George Washington, who was a signer of the United States Constitution, a Unitarian and a deist And yet Washington actively attended, not only attended the Episcopalian church, but he's a vestryman. That would be compulsive today what we call a deacon one who helps distribute the funds to the widows and the poor, took care of the finances and the treasury and so forth. So he was an active member of the Episcopalian Church He was a vesseryman, it's like a deacon. And so to say that he was a Unitarian is bizarre. Episcopalians are not Unitarians at all. In fact, not only that, but when the American Revolution War was done And Washington and then they came together with Britain to sign a peace treaty. The peace treaty began this way. This doesn't sound like a Unitarian This doesn't sound like someone uh that denied the Trinity of Jesus Christ. This is how it began, the treaty with Great Britain. In the name of the most holy and undivided trinity. Amen. That's how it starts Washington was hardly uh a deist or a Unitarian by any stretch of imagination. In fact, according to his wife, and according to the Chief Justice, the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, uh John Marshall and many others It would be easier to question Washington's patriotism and his love for country than to question that he was a born-again Christian. There is more information that proves he was a Christian than there is that proves he was an American patriot. And yet we're often being told, and we see it in magazines and on the news media, that he was just a deist, that he wasn't a Christian. In 1855 there was a book written called The Maxims of George Washington. You can purchase that book at Mount Vernon. In fact, I did many, many years ago, and I read it And it has a section on his p politics and a section on spirituality and so forth and on morality. And I thought this would be a great book to read. And I read it and I was a little disappointed in it. I thought I'd find some better inferences of his Christianity And I found out from David Barton this past week that the book I read was printed it was a reprint. It was a revision of s of Washing of the Maxims of Washington. The book that was written in eighteen fifty-five is not the book that you'll buy at Mount Vernon today. The book that was written in 1855 in the preface, it had uh oodles and oodles of men who who gave bare testimony that George Washington was a Christian The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Marshall was in the front of that book, as as well as the uh Elias Boudinot, who was the first president of the Continental Congress. And several pastors and ministers who worked with George Washington on the battlefield and in his church all bear testimony of his great Christian heritage, his great Christian belief. That's all been removed From the maxims of George Washington, the book you can purchase at Mount Vernon, that was redone in nineteen eighty-nine. You need a book written before that Because they removed all those Christian references. Those are called revisionists. Those are called people who ignore historical facts and just put their opinion out there instead. And that that's a sad thing, and that's what many of us are getting today. Another founding father was President John Quincy Adam, who read through the entire Bible. He reads through the Bible once a year, every year. John Quincy Adams is a renowned Christian, and we understand why with all the reading of the Bible that he did. He was once said to say that the celebration of the 4th of July, it's a wonderful celebration, it's a great celebration, but it's only second. It's second to the celebration of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Wow, another one of our founding fathers, and that's a great quote. He said the Declaration of Independence, it laid the cornerstone of governments upon the precepts of Christianity, John Quincy Adams. John Quincy also said, man's heart must be ruled by the Bible or the bayonet. And that's what happens when you desert the Bible, you desert the Word of God, then you have to bring in all kinds of laws, you have to bring in a police state, as it were, you have to bring in an army. If the people's hearts are not ruled by the Bible, then the government must rule them with a bayonet. And we see that all over the world. Where there isn't a Bible, there is a sword. You go to any Arab country, and they rule it with a mighty sword, don't they? Because there are no Bibles allowed there. When one walks around the inside of the United States Capitol, it becomes very, very evident that nearly all of our founding fathers were not only Protestants but Christians. Christians. There's one exception that I know of, John Carroll from Maryland. He was a Catholic. And yet, and perhaps we'll get that today, when he died, his testimony, his deathbed sounded more like a Protestant than any Catholic I ever heard, and we'll hear that in a moment, I trust, too. There are credible professions of our founding fathers that they were Christians, and I want to share some of those with you this morning. And starting all the way back to the beginning, When you walk in the rotunda of the Capitol, if you know that that big round dome, and you walk in the rotunda, and that's the place where most people just love to go inside, and there's all those paintings on the walls 14-foot by 20-foot paintings on the walls. And those paintings are there to represent the founding moments and our founding fathers of this country. And the first painting is of Columbus in 1492, landing over here. And in that painting, they're on their knees praying and are thanking God. And they're asking that the Lord Jesus Christ would bless their endeavor in the new land. That's a 14 by 20 foot painting in a rotunda. The second painting you have is one that takes place in about 1614 And it is the baptism of Pocahontas. Pocahontas was one of the very first Indians who was saved. uh under the uh missionary work of those who came here to America. In 1614 she was saved. She married a man named John Roth And uh she didn't want to be known as an Indian anymore. She wanted to be known as a Christian. And at her baptism, she said, I'm changing my name. And she changed her name to Rebecca Rebecca. In fact, over in England she was known as Lady Rebecca. They didn't call her Pocahontas. If Disney had got it right, they'd have made a movie, and I called Pocahontas, they'd have made a movie called Lady Rebecca, because that's what she cared to be called. She totally deserted her pagan, heathen, Indian ways, and she was Miss Rebecca or Lady Rebecca. And that's a painting on the wall in a rotunda. 14 foot by 20 foot painting of the baptism of Pocahontas. And they even, in fact, a part of the painting, it's just not a painting, it's yeah, wonder what's going on here A part of the painting. It was so remarkable that an Indian would get saved. She was about the first one. So remarkable that the painter, uh John Trumbull, he he paints on there the baptism of Pocahontas. And that's a part of the painting. It's not like a little metal plaque at the bottom. It's actually on the painting. Now if you get a postcard at the Capitol, or if you want to get a postcard or a little picture frame of that They've cut out the baptism of Pocahontas. You're not supposed to know that. This is a religious moment, a Christian moment. You're not supposed to know that anymore. For those of you that really care, I do, in the painting, she is sprinkled as a Presbyterian. I kind of like that. But it it's one of it's uh talking of the two of the main paintings in Rotunda. And then the third painting is the embarkation of the pilgrims Where they left Holland, they came here in sixteen twenty and landed at Plymouth Rock and they signed the Mayflower Cun Compact. We know that story. In fact that painting is is a print in the back of on the alcove of our church as you come in And I don't know how many of you appreciate that print, but it's the only print I know of in the world. That's at least that's what the United States Capitol told me. We went to the Capitol, we asked for a printing of the embarkation of the pilgrims They said there are no prints and you can't have any prints. Can we take a picture of it? No. We went to Plymouth Rock. We talked to people in Plymouth Rock over the phone. Because they have the second painting. And we said, can we have a print? And they said, no, there are no prints It took us months to talk into we we hired a photographer to go into Plymouth Rock and take a picture of the embarkation of pilgrims and they sent us a print us on the back of the Octobe. They told us it's the only one they know of in existence But in the rotunda is the embarkation of the pilgrims, and they're in Holly, getting ready to leave in 1620 to come to America, and they're on their knees praying over a Geneva Bible. Those are the three major paintings in the rotunda. And that's not bad. Our founding fathers weren't Christians. Those three paintings depict two prayer services and a baptism. Christian baptism and Christian prayer meetings, two of them. Our founding fathers thought that was important. They commissioned, our Congress commissioned John Trumbull to paint those and hang them in our Capitol. And that Plymouth Rock, of course, was the first document ever written on this continent called the Mayflower Compact. If you ever want to read the Mayflower Compact, I love the words. It says the purpose of this compact is for the advancement of the Buddhist faith? No. For to to promote religion? No. Muslim, Mormon, no. The purpose of our compact is to advancement of the Christian faith. That's what it says. The advancement of the Christian faith. In other words, the very first document that this country ever had written on this on this la in this land was to evangelize the heathen for Christ In other words, the Maryland the Mayflower Compact was saying this, go and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Matthew twenty and twenty-eight and verse nineteen. That hangs on the wall of the rotunda. And yet people tell us our founding fathers weren't Christian, maybe religious kind of. It just doesn't add up. One of the most famous paintings, it doesn't hang in a rotunda, but it's it's near the rotunda, is a signing of the Declaration of Independence. Many can pick out Ben Franklin in there and Thomas Jefferson, but the truth is that All in the painting bear a remarkable resemblance to the signers. John Trumbull who painted, and by the way, I made a mistake, John Trumbull did not paint Pocahontas and Embarkation, those were other ones. John Trumbull painted the Declaration of Independence John Trumbull, he knew the signers of the Declaration of Independence personally. And so when you're seeing the painting and you see Franklin and Jefferson and then a bunch of other smudgy faces, you say, Well, nobody knows who they are. Oh, yes, they do. They look exactly like who they were John Trumbull, the painter, knew the men of the who signed the Declaration of Independence. And and the British did too, and they were looking for him also. That's probably why it wasn't painted until after the war. They didn't need a poster painted by someone that knew them No, no, what they look like, but they actually look like the people on there. And if they were to come back alive and and walk into the United States Capitol and see the painting, it's oh there I am, oh there I am, they they would recognize themselves. Those are actually what they look like And he knew them personally and made sure that that painting uh was done just so. He was a Christian artist. He knew them personally and um he wanted them portrayed for the heroism. that they did. The signers of the Declaration of Independence. You're not going to know all the names. You're not going to recognize most of them if you've been to a public school. If you've been homeschooled, you might recognize them. If you've been to a Christian school you might, but I was raised twelve years in a public school and grace of God, right? Got saved anyway, you know, it happens. Uh but I didn't know hardly any of these people James Wils who's James Wilson? Well he was a signer of the Declaration of Independence, and he's also a signer of the United States Constitution. He was an United States Supreme Court judge And he said, our laws must be founded on God's laws, and we must, he said, holding up a Bible, we must embrace God's laws. He was a Christian. Second sign that we'll talk about today is Reverend John Withersman. Reverend John There was a sign of the Declaration of Independence that was a Reverend and Ordained Minister? Yes, there was. He wrote books on sermons, and he produced the first two editions of the American Bible here in the United States. There was Charles Carroll, I mentioned him, that he was the only Catholic signer. The others were all Protestants, the others are all uh avowed Christians. He was a Catholic signer, but his in his last will and testament as he lay dying on his bed. He wrote this in a letter. I rely on the mercy of my Redeemer. I rely on my Redeemer for my salvation and on his merits, and not on any works I have done. That's not Catholic friend, that's Protestant. Of course he was surrounded by fifty-five other signers who were Protestant, had an effect on him, I believe Dr. Benjamin Rush, some of you might know Dr. Benjamin Rush. He was the father of American medicine. He established five colleges in America, including one college for women alone. When he died, the newspapers carried an article and said he was one of the three greatest men alive. In that time frame, they they put him on level with George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. Bench Dr. Benjamin Rush. Dr. Benjamin Rush in 1791 founded the Sunday School movement He also started the first Bible Society in Philadelphia in 1808. And this is a quote from Dr. Benjamin Rush. You think our founding fathers weren't Christians? The benefit of a personal relationship with Jesus Christ and Bible study, he said, would diminish all our social problems. A personal relationship with Jesus Christ. That's what he says. It was through his joint efforts at James Madison, another signer of the United States Constitution, that Congress printed the first Bible in mass production in the United States. So here's Dr. Benjamin Rush, who thinks we need a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, and he says we need Bibles printed. He goes to James Madison, by the way, I swept this in, I guess I can, who became President of the United States, the smallest president of the United States Nothing to do with his Christianity, but he he was only 5'4 and he weighed 100 pounds. Oh my goodness. I don't think there's anybody that small here Again, President of the United States. You know, it's the heart of man that gives him his great stature. And John Madison at a hundred pounds, soaking wet, had the heart of a Christian And he wanted Bibles printed. And he and Dr. Benjamin Russ saw it. They actually pushed the effort through Congress, and it was Congress that decided to print those Bibles and pay for them. And allocate them. And they were never allowed you know, Bibles weren't allowed to be printed in America until after the American Revolution. England said you can't print any Bibles. The only Bibles you have are the ones we print. They were afraid that the colors would print the Geneva Bible And England only wanted to print the King James Bible. There was a big fuss over that. The King James didn't have any marginal notes. The Geneva Bible had lots of marginal notes that were against royalty and kingship and so forth. And so no Bibles were allowed printed here until after the American Revolution. And it was James Madison and Benjamin Russ that that saw to it that Congress would do just that. And in doing so, Congress passed a law that these Bibles would be printed, be produced in America, and that those Bibles would first be directed to be used in the government schools. Wow. That's what they're supposed to be used in the schools first. Francis Hopkinson was also a signer. May not have heard of him either, signed their Declaration of Independence He was a church leader and a choir director. He was responsible for the first Christian hymnal ever printed in America in 1767. It was almost exclusively Psalms. Richard Stockton, another signer, and not not only is Richard Stockton another signer of the uh declaration of independence, but his statue is actually in uh the Rotunda. They have a sta they have what they call statutory hall, or statuary hall, rather, statuary hall, where they have statues. Each state is allowed to have two famous statues of two famous men uh from their states. So there's at least a hundred statues there. And uh Richard Stockton was chosen by his state and he has actually a statue there of himself, as does uh Charles Carroll from Maryland Uh and and here he has a statue there of himself. And uh he says his quote was, I subscribe to the entire belief of the great and leading doctrines of the Christian religion. the existence of God, the depravity of man, and the redemption purchased by the blessed Savior. Wow. But they weren't Christians, were they? Our founding fathers weren't Christians. But you listen to the fellows when they talk And then he said, it was like his light verse. He said, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. He quotes from Proverbs 9 and Psalm 111. The Pennsylvania State Supreme Court judge, uh, Thomas McKean, uh, sign of a declaration. And this I I wish you could have seen this. If you if you ever get a chance to look at David Barton's state, they have actors that that do some of these things. That that they not only speak these quotes but they they enact them. And here was uh the one up in Pennsylvania, the Supreme Court judge Thomas McKean, a man has been caught for treason in the United States And he is to be put to death. And they bring him before the bar and and I I wish they could have written down the whole thing. But here's what Kenan said to him. You've been sentenced to death Before we launch you into eternity, repent of your sins and rely on the Redeemer for a place in heaven. And then he proceeds with what we would say, that sounds like an altar call And he just he just lays it on this man before he's put to death to turn his life over to Christ, repent of his sins, ask the blood of Christ. I mean you ought to hear what this judge said from the bench. Today if a judge did that, what? They'd throw the whole conviction out of court, wouldn't they? But he was the Supreme Court judge of the state of Pennsylvania and a sign of the Declaration of Independence. And of course John Hancock, big signature, we knew that one. And uh he also has his statue in Statuary Hall. He was the uh also the governor of Massachusetts, and he would make many a proclamation as a governor. Every once in a while you make a proclamation for a day of prayer And this is how we would always the day of prayer in Massachusetts today and the reason for the day of prior, and this is what John Hancock said, that all bow to the scepter of our Lord Jesus Christ. That was a governor's proxy. Can you imagine if O'Malley did that here? We have a day of prayer in there and I want everybody to bow their knee to the Lord Jesus Christ. What would happen to him? He might get re-elected. Wow. This is our founding fathers. Sam Adams, we have to sure you all know by Sam Adams, and of course again his statue is there in the in the halls of uh United States Capitol as well. He was the father of the American Revolution and the leader of the Boston Tea Party, for all you tea drinkers. He he was the leader of that. He was also a governor of Massachusetts, and here was his proclamation. He made a proclamation when he was a governor. of Massachusetts. That that's a pretty liberal state today, so I don't know how this would go over. But this is what he said. That the glorious reign of our Redeemer may be made. No one he sets aside this day of prayer That we would enjoy throughout all mankind our Redeemer and speedily beginning, bringing together the holy and the happy period when the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ may be established, and people will bow to the Prince of Peace. Oh I don't think Massachusetts governors would do that today. I I just I don't know if any governor would do that today Is there any wonder that on the American Revolution the paper money uh often the paper money that you know they called the Continental wasn't worth the Continental? Well what was printed was pretty nice An open Bible, and it was surrounded with these words of the open Bible. The law. Here's the on the on the American Revolutionary Money would be this Bible, and written around it was the laws are king. The law is our king, not King George. We have no king but Jesus was one of the shouts of the American Revolution. We have no king but Jesus. The law is our king And that was on the money in the days of George Washington and the Revolution. I mentioned Statuary Hall. Let's look at some of those who states selected to bring to to carve in marble or bronze. There's about most of them are marble, some of them are in bronze. How many have you ever been to the United States Capitol and seen some of these statues? They're great. They're just great. I wish I could had time for doing all of them, but you you walk through there and you want to know if our founding fathers were Christians or not. You want to know if they had an interest in the things of God Well, one of the statues you see there is of Reverend John Mullenberg. Mrs. Davis Church up in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. He actually preached there one time. That church's been there a long time. And uh John Muhlenberg was a Lutheran preacher who stood in his pulpit one morning and he was preaching on Ecclesiastes, chapter 3. And he was talking about there's a time for peace, there's a time for love, and there's a time for and he says, and he said there's a time for war, and he rips off his cloak and under his his Lutheran garb This clergyman garb was the continental uniform of a colonel, and his sword was there, and he said, There's a time for war, and how many are going with you in the field that joined George Washington? And a couple of hundred men walked out with him that Sunday morning at the end of that sermon John Molenberg, founding father, Reverend John Molenberg, has his statue in the United States Capitol, and it the statues of him ripping off the clerical garb, and you can see the Cottonell uniform. form the sash and the sword. That's who Pennsylvania thought should represent their state, an ordained minister. Then there's Daniel Webster, served ten years in Congress and twenty in the Senate, cousin of Noah Webster. We won't give that this morning. but both of them were Christians. As a young lad, he's in Sunday school class, having Sunday school class on Saturdays. I don't know why they did that, but they did. And he's having Sunday school class on a Saturday and the teacher said Monday, when you come back for Sunday school class again, they just go to church once a week. They were to church a lot. He said, when you come back Monday, whichever boy in this class has the most verses memorized gets the brand new jack knife And so the boys come back to the everyone's a brand new jack, nice, you know. And they come back to class, the kids are doing their verses and so forth, and finally Daniel Webster stands up And he gets up to the 70th verse. 70 verses from Saturday to Monday. He's got 70 Bible verses memorized. He's just rolling them up. The teachers, okay, okay, that's it. You win, Daniel. You win. He said, no, no, no. He said, I still got a couple more chapters to go I mean he had a love for the Word of God. He could memorize it like nobody's business. That was Daniel Webster, founding father. Oh, but he wasn't a Christian, of course. No, no, not that at all. He was renowned as a lawyer in the courts. It was said that people love to come in here and just read the Bible You know there's certain people on the radio you hear their that that Bible voice, you know, it sounds like God do something. And they said people would gather to hear him read the Bible On a regular basis, they said he had this booming, thunderous voice when he read the Bible, and the people loved it. And when he got into court And when he's going to defend someone or prosecute someone, they said the other lawyer would show up from the opposition side. And as soon as he found out he was against Daniel Webster, many times they just quit. I'm not going against him. They had a hard time finding a lawyer who would oppose Daniel Webster. He was just that good. He was a man of God. that made him so good. He would just use verses in his positions from as he argued his positions, in fact he argued before the United States Supreme Court that No government-supported school could ban a minister from a faculty. No government-supported school could ban or stop a pastor or a minister from teaching religion in the government classrooms either. And he won. We we must have forgotten about that ruling, right? Now you can't even walk into school with the Bible Marcus Whitcomb, another statue in the United States Capitol. He was a Christian missionary. Jonathan Trumbull. Oh, he was the Minister of the Gospel of Jesus Christ also. He served as governor for 14 years during the American Revolution This is a different Jonathan Trump from the artist. He's the governor and master. He's a minister of the American Revolution, he like uh Muhlenberg, he joins Washington, becomes a a general under Washington, and he's and then he becomes a a a a the governor For 14 years he serves as governor all through the American Revolution. He is the governor. And when the war was over Jonathan Trumbull resigned as governor. He said, I want to go back to preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. Founding father. But our founding fathers weren't Christians. They were just ordained ministers who preached the gospel. But they weren't Christians. Just ordained ministers who preached the gospel. They were Christians. The governor of Mexico, Lou Wallace, his statue stands there. He had heard about Christ being the Son of God and about the Bible and he was very bothered by it. He actually took a trip over to Israel. He decided to investigate the whole claims of Christ and come back and write a book about it and settle everything once and for all. You know, he was not a Christian when he left for Israel. He was not a Christian when he began to write the book and investigate who this Christ really was But he came back and he wrote a book that substantiated that Christ was really resurrecting the grave. He really was the Son of God. He really was God coming. He was everything that Christ said he was. Everything Christ claimed to be. Lewis Walls came to the conclusion that he was And he wrote a book far better than the movie called Ben Hur. Lou Wallace Believed that the Lord Jesus Christ was God. He became the most influential Christian writer in the 19th century, Lou Wallace. And Ben Hur became the best-selling book. of the 19th century. Makes you think, wow, I saw the movie. I may read the book. What on earth is in the book? It wasn't in the movie. Right. William Jennings Bryant, we can go on, we can come up to later date. William Jennings Bryant, Presbyterian minister. Did you know that President James Garfield was a minister prior to becoming president He was a minister. He used to go out and he preached some revivals, leading people to Christ and baptizing people. President James Garfield. Now I realize that's getting closer to our time. We don't think of them as the founding fathers But his statue is there. Darfield statue. William Jennings Bryant, Bible Presbyterian, his statue is there. And then there's the signers of the United States Constitution Abraham Baldwin, never heard him, but he was a theologian. He was a minister, he was a chapter during the American Revolution. His statues are Roger Sherman, uh uh Roger Sherman rather, signed the Declaration of Independence and his statues there. He also helped film uh frame the Bill of Rights. Why is that important? Well, Roger Sherman, in filming in in framing the Bill of Rights, what's the first one? Freedom of religion, right? And Roger Sherman is involved in the framing of what comes first, what comes second, and so forth, of the Bill of Rites. And he also was a minister, a theologian. In fact, in his quote, in one of his quotes, he spoke of the pains of hell and God sending his son to die in the place of sinners and offer salvation in the resurrection of the righteous, acquitted by the Christ the judge And the wicked resurrected everlasting punishment. That was one of Roger Sherman's sermons. And he frames the Bill of Rights. But we're told that our founding fathers weren't Christians. They were just deists or something, or religious. Makes you wonder whether they were Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons or Buddhists or Hindu, you know. They were just religious. You get the same thing down here at uh uh Fort McHenry. You got Francis Scott Key picture there, and it says this was a religious man. He was a Christian He was a Christian. I've got his obituary. Talks about his love for Christ and his obituary. The revisionists, the liars. They would have us to believe our founding fathers were someone other than who they really were. William Samuel Johnson, founder of Columbia University, also uh there he has his statue uh there in the uh Rotunda area. He preached to his graduating classes. He found the Columbia University, so I guess he can preach. He can do it. If I found the university, I can I can give the commencement speeches, I can give the graduation speeches, and and his speeches were sermons And he would preach to the people. And here was one of the part of one of his sermons to the graduating class. Our first duty is to the Creator and to the Redeemer. And our first duty to the Redeemer is our piety and our reverence and our fear of his holy name. That's quite a graduation message, isn't it? He says, You have been bought with the blood of the Son of God. And so whatsoever you do, it should be true and honest and pure and holy, and we're to think on these things, he says in Philippians four, eight, and nine. That was the founder of Columbia University. Statuary hall, statue of him He loved Christ. There was Charles Pinckney and John Langdon, signers of the U. S. Constitution. They founded the American Bible Society. Have you ever heard of the American Bible Society? Well it was founded by two of our founding fathers. And they picked Elijah Boudinol as the As the president of the American Bible Society. And Elijah Budinova, he was the president of the Continental Congress. Under Washington, the president of the Continental Congress. He's the first president of the American Bible Society. And he also helped frame the Bill of Rights. The first president of the American Bible Society sat on the framing of the Bill of Rights with Roger Sherman, the theologian. Wow. James McHenry of Fort McHenry, so I know the United States Constitution. And one of the founders of the American Bible Society. Did you know that? Fort McHenry? Named after the man who founded the American Bible Society. He was also president of the Baltimore Bible Society You go down to Fort McKenna, they have this little program, they talk about him with this funny little hat and his military universe, and they tell you all the things about him. They don't tell you that he was That he was the founder of the Baltimore Bible Society. They don't they don't tell uh rather the president of the Baltimore Bible Society. They was the founder of the American Bible Society, which is now called the Maryland Bible Society And he said this, distribution of the Holy Scriptures can alone secure society. Distribution of the Holy Scriptures can alone secure peace. Purity and stability. He said, this is Fort McHenry, fame Fort McHenry. James McHenry, who's buried, by the way, in the Presbyterian church, down where Edgar Allan Poe is buried. He says, in vain without the Bible, we will increase the laws. When Bibles abound, men cannot pursue wicked courses. James McHenry, Fort McHenry fame. And I know we're running late. And I'm probably putting some of you to sleep about now But I want you to walk away remembering this. When someone tells you our founding fathers weren't Christians, you can say, boy, where did you go to school? Did you go to school? John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, appointed by George Washington, he was president of the American Bible Society for a while. He said the Bible encourages the assurance of divine mercy to a fallen race. The Bible conveys to the people it's an act the Bible is an act of kindness that God has left us. that we learn that man was created by a gracious creator who provided a redeemer, who made atonement for the sins of the world, and gives us the way of salvation, a free gift of God. That's what John Jay, the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, said. Oliver Ellsworth became the Chief Justice after him, and he said this, legislature must aid the maintenance of Christianity. He said not only must we may, he said we we have that entitled. We we should we should we may there was a question whether legislation should help Christianity be We promoted the United States. He's a c and he ruled from the bench, he said, legislation may aid the maintenance of Christianity, whose influence on morals, he said, is universally acknowledged And it's not to be abandoned. That was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court saying that our government, our Congress, our Senate, ought to aid the promotion of Christianity, and we ought never to abandon it. Today, the courts and the laws are doing what? Putting stumbling block after stumbling block in front of Christian evangelism. Joseph's story. His father took part in the Boston Tea Party with Sam Adams. He was a member of Congress. He was the founder of the Harvard Law School. He was known as the father of jurisprudence or the father of theoretical law. He was the youngest man ever appointed to the United States Supreme Court. People will tell you, well, I Joseph's story. We all know the story of Joseph's story. Okay, well let me give you the story of Joseph's story Kind of a way to remember it, right? Joseph's story. You'll hear this, you'll see this in history books, you'll hear this in the liberals, you'll hear it out there when they type start reading off the people who are founding fathers who weren't Christians, they were deists of the Unitarian. It's Joseph's story was a Unitarian. He was. Joseph's story was a Unitarian. He was one of the Founding Fathers, and he was a Unitarian. Did I mention he was a Unitarian early in life? Oh, I didn't tell you, did I? He got converted to Christianity. Did I tell you that? He did. They don't mention that. They'll tell you he was the unitary. Oh Joseph's story. He was raised in the Unitary. Here's the United States. Well everyone knows that. He was, but he converted to Christianity. He said from the bench. Here he is. He he sits on the bench. He says Starts a Harvard Law School. He's the father of jurisprudence. And sitting on the bench of the judge, he says, now he's not a Unitarian anymore. He says, we place our confidence in the laws of Christianity. Anything offensive to them is wrong. Anything offensive to Christianity said is wrong. Where can morality and the principle be more clearly learned in our schools? than from the sacred book of the Bible. This is what Joseph's story says. He's no longer a Unitarian. That Christianity is held in more reverence by the Father. That Christianity is held in more reverence by the founding fathers than any other religion can hardly be contested. He said, I was Unitarian, but I'm here to tell you That Christianity, that was our founding fathers' religion. It can't be contested, he says. It just can't be. He was a Unitarian, now he's a Christian, and he says, our founding fathers They were they were they were Christians. Any attempt to level oh I love this part. Here he says as a judge he says, any attempt to level all religions, that is to say, well all religions are equal. They all got a God. We're all head in the same direction. He says, no. He's a Christian now. He's no longer the Unitarian. He says any attempt to level all religions would not have been met with acceptance on any level of society or by any of the founding fathers, but rather it would have been met with indignation. Father of jurisprudence, founder of Harvard Law School, sat on the bench, once a Unitarian, now a big-time Christian. Frederick Molenberg, John Muller's brother. Well, where would Frederick Molenberg give her a living, you know? I mean, we know that John Mueller ripped off a cloak and he worshold the sword and he was a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What did his brother Frederick do? Frederick was an ordained minister also. Oh, there we go. Again, another one And he was also one of two people that signed the Bill of Rights. When the Bill of Rights was completed, when the Bill of Rights was framed, two men at the bottom of the Bill of Rights signed it. John Adams And Frederick Muhlenberg, an ordained minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But our founding fathers weren't Christians. Oh no. Where does that lie come from? What I like about Frederick Mullenberg is that every morning when Nancy Pelosi walks to the speaker's lobby, there's a large painting of the ordained minister Frederick Mullenberg. Look at that. It's still there. He was the first speaker of the house. That's why it's there. Nancy was she was the mouth of the house too, wasn't she? But she walks through there and through the Congress and and there the first Speaker of the House was an ordained minister, Frederick Molenberg, who signed, one or two minutes signed the bill of rights, and his painting, his portrait still hangs there. And every morning Congress walks to the lobby. and sees him looking at them. That painting could talk, I wonder what it would say. When the Supreme Court met in the Capitol and sat before a sculptured angel, Supreme Court now sat before a sculptured angel of God holding up the United States Constitution. The founding fathers of in and those in the Supreme Court They had no hostility towards the Christian faith. Let me say that again. Our founding fathers had no hostility towards the Christian faith because they were of the Christian faith. Today there's a hostility against the Christian faith. In our schools, in our colleges, in our universities, in our Congress, in our Senate, in our White House, there's a hostility, but not from our founding fathers. There was no hostility They opened every Supreme Court session with prayer given by an ordained minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's how the Supreme Court opened Can you imagine? You go to the Supreme Court and say, I want to know if we can have prayer in the schools. Excuse me, we haven't opened the session yet. And they bring in a minister, ordained minister of God, who preaches the gospel of Jesus, and he opens a prayer. And he said, now what was your question? Oh well uh never mind. You know, they'd have walked away, wouldn't they? Congress with the approval of both the Senate and the President Determined the Capitol building would be used for the purpose of worshiping Jesus Christ on Sundays. And that took place for over 65 years For 65 years, the United States Capitol of Rotunda, with the permission of Congress and the Senate, and they got it every year, and the President of the United States, they worshipped until sometime shortly after the Civil War when it did stop. And while they were worshiping in that Congress, guess who attended those services? Who we are also told was a deist and wasn't Christian, but he attended the Christian services or heard the gospel of God preached on those Sundays, President Thomas Jefferson. Wow. So many quoting about separation of church and state. I mean, Thomas, where are you going this morning? Mr. President, where are you going? Well, I'm going to Rotunda. We're having a church service. We're preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. What about separation of church and state? Boy, have you got that quote wrong? You gotta be kidding. There's no separation of church from the state. It's trying to get the state out of the church I'm going to the Capitol and I'm going to be worshiping the Lord Jesus. In fact, I love it so much. And you know what he did? Thomas Jefferson? For music he brought in the Marine Corps band. Hoorah! And the Marine Corps band played in a rotunda at the White at the U. S. Capitol, along with the services. Our founding fathers believed that the Christian faith was to be promised Promoted. Our founding fathers believe the Christian faith was to be protected. Our founding fathers believed the blessed is a nation whose God is the Lord. Psalm 2033 and verse 12. That's what our founding fathers believed. What do you believe? What do you believe? Not about the founding fathers, but what do you believe about Christ? So what our founding fathers believed It's hard to find an exception among any of them. They were Protestant, Bible believing, blood washed, born-again Christians. John Carroll, the one exception, and it sounds like he came around I pray that everyone here will come around someday as well. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for this day that on Memorial Day we would remember The sacrifice that our founding fathers made that we might have a country where we could worship Christ freely. And Lord, although this has not been a uh a a message filled with Bible verses, may we at least grasp the concept of those who died that we might have Bibles in our hands to read. That we might have the gospel preached. And that blood was shed in this country, that we would have these freedoms, and the blood was shed on the cross, that we'd have eternal freedom and eternal life. May we walk away this day believing that as our founding fathers did. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Yeah, it's really good.