Looking at just one verse this morning, Psalm 113 and verse 9, for a Mother's Day message, Psalm 113 In verse nine, he that is God maketh a barren woman to keep house And to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the Lord. We find in this day and age that often people think that by striving they will attain a particular grade in a class or a particular position in life Or rank, or status, or a particular degree of success in striving But the title of mother is attained only and according to Holy Scripture when the Lord is so inclined. He maketh the barren woman to keep house and to be a joyful mother of children. It's all of the Lord. No doubt Sarah, remember the stereotypes Sarah and Abraham late in age, 90 when she has a child. Hannah who cried and wept in the temple that she wanted a child and God gave her Samuel and four others later on and Elizabeth, John the Baptist's mother, well beyond the age of having children And Sarah, Hannah, and Elizabeth, no doubt, and many other women seeking to be mothers, have found that their prayers to the Lord Jesus Christ were far more profitable than the aid of any physician. So do you really think that you're here this morning because of your mother's fertility or your mother's diet or your mother's timing or your mother's good health? It just isn't so. You're here this morning. Because God blessed your mother. On Mother's Day we all have a mother. Only Adam didn't have a mother We all have a mother, and that's what we're celebrating today, the fact that we all had mothers. We, as we said this morning, are a gift from God. We wouldn't exist unless he had blessed our mothers. And in addition to being a gift from God, uh there are many years that she has spent raising us, also gifted our mothers with some really very special insights, you know. Mothers are not slow learners, and they get a great deal of insight in raising us. Some of us gave our mothers more insight than others, didn't we? Women's intuition, we've all heard of that. Women all have got intuition. They know if you're cheating on them, they know if you're lying to them, and they also have a discernment that grows in the raising of children. It grows rapidly. And moms can tell when we were lying to them, couldn't they? Moms can tell when we were hiding something from them. Moms can tell when there was something wrong with us that day, and we'd say nothing, but she knew it was that nothing was something. We couldn't hide from her. Mothers have great discernment, great discernment, and they're even able to spot the character flaws in our friends. Ooh. When mothers look to you and say, I don't like that boy or that girl that you're running around with, or that gang you're running around with in school or in the neighborhood, mothers not only can tell when you're lying, but they can tell when your friends are lying. Mothers have great, great discernment. They've learned it over the years. And not only do they have the eyes in the back of their heads, but they can spot the character flaws in your friends, character flaws that not even you discern. At your age. It may be annoying how accurate your mother may be when she says something about your friend that She didn't think you noticed or should know. And you might even accuse her of of being paranoid. You might even accuse your mother of not knowing what she's talking about. But as you walk away to the other room, you're saying to yourself, How does she know? How did she pick that up? I didn't even find out till last week. Mothers have great discernment. They are so so wise that Solomon, the wisest man that ever lived, here was his what he had recognized in a mother, he tells us in Song of Solomon, chapter 3 and verse 4. That when we think we have found a life mate, when we think we found that person we want to marry, his advice was this. I have found him whom my soul loveth. And I brought him into my mother's house. to check 'em out, right? If you're seeing someone or or you want to start going with someone or making a friend of someone The first thing I say to you is, has your mother met him yet? Oh no. Well why not? Oh I don't want her to meet him. Oh really? If if you think there's reasons why you don't want your mother to meet someone uh your best girlfriend, your best buddy, there's probably a good reason. In fact she'll probably see more reasons than you see. What Solomon said when you're getting ready to make that jump, getting ready to make that leap, that the the the marrying of that life mate, that soul mate. I have found him whom my soul loveth. And I brought him into my mother's house. That's what Sodom says you should do. You're not just bringing them by and say, here's who I'm marrying. You bring them by you say, check them out. Check him out. Had that happen more than once here where someone brought by uh the young one that they wanted to marry And they asked me to talk with them and and then tell me what I thought of their life choice. Huh I said I didn't think she was saved. I thought she was liberal. I thought she would wear the pants in the household and you need to marry somebody else. I was shaking my boots because it was the son of our elder. And I thought they'd really be upset with me that they must like this girl They agreed with me. They thought it was great. And he married a lovely girl afterwards. He brought her home to his mother. He didn't tell me his mother didn't like her. He wanted a second opinion. Mom's opinion is good enough, friends. Don't bring any more of them to me, I'll tell you. Mom's of great great discernment. Your mother, she does really know the difference between Jacob and Esau She really knows the difference. Isaac may have not known the difference between Jacob and Esau. Your mothers know the difference between Jacob and Esau. Your mothers know the difference between a Rust and a Jezebel. Your godly mother knows the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian. She does. She really does Samson should have listened to his mother and not married that Philistine girl, right? Now some here may not have an ideal relationship with your mother. You ever had that moment in your life when you're angry and you You rocked out of the room, slammed the door, went downstairs, upstairs, or wherever, and you said unto your brother, I wish he was dead. Maybe it maybe you haven't. But it's a wicked thing if you have. You're bringing a curse down on your own head is a wicked, sinful thing if you had And you need to repent of the Lord Jesus Christ if you've ever wished your mother was dead. And I know that from personal experience. Because I have. And now she is. Well I don't even know where she is today. Oh, I hope she's in heaven. But if you've ever cursed your mother, you need to repent of it fast and seriously. We need to listen to them. The truth is that your mother has known you longer than anyone else that you'll ever know. She's known you longer than anyone else will ever know. She knows you better than anyone else. And she still loves you. She knows you better and she still loves you. Wow. I mean she's seen you nasty, she's seen you angry, she's seen you grumpy, she's seen you cranky, she's seen you irrational She's seen you uh just just in every motion she could possibly see you. Unreasonable. And she still loves you. Wow There's many a husband and wife that won't say that of their spouse when they see all these things that mom has seen for years And that's why we read in Proverbs 4 and verse 3, I was only beloved in the sight of my mother. There's no one that loves you better. If you want good advice, you go to the one that loves you the most. They will be the most honest. They will be most concerned about your eternal choices. They'll be most concerned about the decisions you make in life because they love you most. They're not going to be so concerned about if their answer makes you happy today or if their answer makes you happy for the next couple of weeks. They're going to give you the answer that will make you happy for all eternity. What will be best for you? Because they love you more than that girl or guy that you've been running with in high school the last couple weeks or months who tells you they love you so much too. No one loves you like your mother. At least that's what the scripture says. It says, I was only beloved in the sight of my mother. And some of you are not very lovable, except to mom. Some of you here may not have a warm, fuzzy relationship with their mother. I didn't. I uh had a rough go of it in the early years of my mom. And we we got things back together again when I was about 43, 46. It's hard to recapture all the years you lose. But um made things right. I repented of some things I had done, and she repented of things she had done It wasn't the warm, fuzzy relationship that some of you have with your moms. But it was it was it was workable. And uh I thought when I lost my mother that it would be like losing a an aunt, you know, it would be like losing someone that was family that you you liked I don't care what your relationship is, it hurts If you don't have a good relationship with your mom this morning and you think when she's dead, she's dead and I'll be fine, it's the rare person that will be fine. It's the rare person that says, well, we don't have a great warm, fuzzy relationship, and when she's gone, I'll be alright You're in for the biggest shock of your life. I turned to my wife. Today my mother died, and I said it hurts so much. Why does it hurt so much we weren't that close? And so if you're not close to your mom today, I'm here to tell you it's gonna hurt. It's still gonna hurt. I don't care if you're a hardened criminal. I don't care if you're a soldier of fortune or a warrior out in the battlefield. I don't care what kind of prodigal son you are, it is gonna hurt when you lose your mom She takes with her information that you can get from nowhere else. Facts about you, facts about others who have passed away. Your mother is an encyclopedia, she's an almanac of all the things about you that you wonder about And there's no one else to ask. You lose an immense amount of knowledge when your mother dies. And you also lose the one. That loved you the most when nobody else did. Loved you when you weren't very lovable. And that's what he says, I was only beloved in the sight of my mother. And I can remember days when I don't understand how she loved me either. So may I encourage you this morning not to forsake the laws of your mother, not to forsake your mother. Well it says not to forsake the laws of your mother, and that's recorded in Proverbs 1-8, and again in Proverbs 6 and 20. Forsake not the law of your mother. What law? What do you mean the law is of your mother? Talking about the Ten Commandments, or what are you talking about? Forsake not the laws of your mother. I'll give you some of them. They're the house rules. They were not to break. Moms have house rules. Forsake not the laws of your mothers. Eat everything that's on your plate That's one of mom's laws, right? Forsake not the laws your mother. Wash your hands before dinner. Share your toys. Look at people when they're talking to you or when you're talking to them. Sit up straight, stand up straight. Don't talk with food in your mouth. Do your homework. Am I starting to grow the metal there a little bit? But these are the laws of your mother. Get the household chores done you're responsible for. Come home at a decent hour. Show them respect. Don't talk back. Go to church. Read your Bible. Pray. These are the rules. These are the laws of your mother. And note it says, Forsake not the law of thy mother. It doesn't stop when you're married and you walk out of the house. Because those laws still fit. You should still look at a person when you talk to them. You should still stand up straight. You should still clean your plate. You should still take care of some of the household churches. The laws forsake not the laws of your mothers. They don't pass away when you're married and you're gone. How many here have found out that even after you're married and got a couple kids, the mom still tells you what to do? Amen? Yeah, it doesn't stop. And is she generally right? Yeah, that bugs us too. Forsake not the law of your mother. Even after you're grown and you've left home. It's a foolish man that despiseth his mother. That's not my words, that's the Proverbs 15 and verse 20. It is a foolish man that despiseth his mother Some of you may have thought, just ask you, have you ever thought your mother was a little lame, a little slow, party pooper, maybe a witch, out of touch of the real world? A relic, a dinosaur, old fashioned and an old fogey? Does that fit anything you ever thought about your mother? Old fashioned and old fogey? Despise not thy mother when she is old, it says Proverbs 23 and 22. Have you ever said why should I listen to my mother after I see all the mistakes my mother's made. Why should I listen to her? Your mom has made mistakes. You're gonna make them too. And your kids are gonna remind you of the mistakes you've made also Your mom has made mistakes, so why should you listen to her? Well David said, It's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn. Psalm 119 and 71. Mom has made mistakes She's paid for those mistakes. Mom has been afflicted and she's learned from those mistakes. The school of hard knocks. Wow, let me tell you, if your mom's made mistakes, she's not the one you should ignore talking to about something you get ready to do. She's the one you need to talk to. She's been to the school of hard knocks. She's been afflicted. She's the one you need to talk about, the mistakes she's made, because you may be making the same ones if you don't talk to her. The school of hard knocks will either kill you or it'll produce one wise Christ-like mom. One wise Christ-like graduate. Our mistakes, if we learn from them, we become wise. If we don't learn from them, we repeat them until they kill us. Miriam. She was a mom and she uh she didn't listen to her elders and she was She was upset with Moses and and she was struck with leprosy. And Moses, uh same thing he found that in the school of hard knocks that he had not made a covenant with his children and circumcised them and he almost died. And Jonah, he didn't want to do what God wanted to do, and he got caught up inside a fish. And eventually to the school of hard knocks, Jonah learned, Moses learned, Miriam learned, your mom has learned She's the very one you should go to if you think she's made a lot of mistakes or big mistakes. And you say, I'm not going to make the same mistake my mother did. Good. Then go and talk to her. She'll tell you how to avoid it Your mother may have made some poor choices, but whom better to ask than one that has been there and gone through the mill? Don't become like those it says here in Proverbs nineteen twenty six, who chafeth away his mother. I'm not listening to her, she's made mistakes, I don't want to hear her. Just get away with me, walk Don't be like he that chaseth away his mother causeth shame and bringeth reproach. Proverbs nineteen and twenty-six. If you don't want to listen to mom because she's made mistakes, you're chasing her away. You don't want her her input, and you are losing a great deal of wisdom and knowledge. And it says if you do that, you'll cause shame, you'll bring reproach, you're going to do the same stupid thing. When I was in the Marine Corps and got over to Vietnam and and I I didn't know uh it top from bottom and and east from west, I mean it was a nerve wracking, it was a frightening thing. And the first thing I looked for was someone who'd been there. eight or ten months. And if I can find somebody on a purple heart, I want to talk to him even more. He had been afflicted. He had felt the pain of making a mistake, sticking his head up when he shouldn't, or or walking through the jungle without looking for trip wires or or booby traps. I wanted to talk to a man who'd been hurt and afflicted by his mistakes so I wouldn't make them. I wasn't looking for the guy with a clean chest with no ribbons and no time there. I wanted someone who'd been hurt. Your moms have been hurt We've all seen the vet, haven't we? We've heard our moms. So he that chased away his mother He'll cause shame in his own life. If you push your mother out of your life, you're cutting yourself off from a major source of wisdom. In case you haven't gathered by this morning's message, although it applies to all of us who've ever had a mother Let me just speak to the young people here this morning for a bit. If you don't think I'm speaking to you already. Do you really think that your friend, who you think is so cool and so smart, and better and sharper than your mother, do you really think your friend, who just got out of diapers eleven years ago, knows more than your mother? Thanks. Let me try it again. You think your friend is so cool and so suave and so devonair and so oh man he knows what to smoke and what to drink and he knows how to party Or she does too. Do you really that person that that just got their training wheels removed from their bicycle five years ago knows more than your mother? Do you really think that person you think is so cool and so great, who just got the braces off and still has zits, knows more than your mother? Wow. Oh, the answer to all three of those questions is no. Because I know some think That their friend is really sharp. Especially if they're a year or two older than them and they've they've really been around the world. I mean they've been all the way to Glenn Burney and back. Oh! World Travers You can talk that person that's still got the zits. Just got their training wheels removed, been out of diapers about eleven years now. You can talk to that person and and see if their advice is better on drinking and drugs and dating than your mother. What a fool, if you think so Not only are you a fool, but he that curseth his mother is a fool too. He who curseth his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness, Proverbs 20 and 20. Woe to the one who abuses the mother. With bad language or cursing. It's a violation of nature to abuse your mother. It's a violation of nature. You ever watch a a young dog with the puppies when she's nursing them? And if if the puppy bites too hard or or or or a goat, they'll they'll butt 'em, they'll kick 'em, they'll they'll nip 'em in the ear. You don't mess with mom. Even the animal world knows that. It it's it's it's just wrong to abuse your mother. It's a violation of nature. It's biting the hand that feeds you It's spiritual suicide. For Christ taught us. Now Christ taught this one in Mark 7 and 10. This is what Christ taught. Honor your mother. That's what Christ taught. Don't curse her. Don't abuse her. Christ taught Mark 7:10, honor her. We also read the eye that despiseth. We read this morning response. We read the eye that despiseth, obey his mother. The ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it. It's probably not the verse you're gonna put on your tombstone. Proverbs 30 and verse 17. But some of you have not honored your mother's advice And it this is we look out in the world and we see young people to not honor the mother's advice. Mother's advice such as stay close to me now. Stay close to me. Stay in shite, don't hitchhike, etc. We've heard all that, haven't we? And when people do not follow their mother at a young age as they get older and they start hitchhiking and doing things they said not, we find her pictures on milk cartons And sometimes worse because they didn't. You see the six year old yesterday? He went to the zoo with his class? And he didn't obey what his mother said. His mother says, stick close to the teacher, do what your teacher says. He climbs over a five-foot fence. Teacher's trying to watch the whole first grade. Goes inside, there's an eight-foot space between the five-foot fence and the leopard's cage. And so he stands before the leopard's cage about two foot away, he's looking at the leopard. No one's a class aside. And the teacher told him, Read the signs, obey the sign, don't go to the fence. And he goes over it. And he goes, he plays two feet away from the cage. But the leopard's arm is two foot one inch. Have you seen the story this morning? Grab that child, the claw has just got the clothing, whipped that child up the bar, throw that child out of the bar, and sunk its teeth into its head. Will the child live? I don't know. But you know something? There was a child that disobeyed his mother. Pay attention to the teacher, stick close to the teacher, don't stray, don't go out of sight, obey the rules. And you won't end up on a milk carton. You won't end up Even worse. Okay, so you haven't cursed your mother. You haven't wished your mother was dead But there is a generation, or even Proverbs 30, verse 11, that doth not bless their mother. Oh my goodness, if not, we can't curse her. We can't only not only abuse her, we can't only not ignore her, but we're supposed to bless her Have you been a blessing to your mother? Boy, I'll tell you, I had a lot of making up to do when I left home. I don't think I ever made it all up to her. In fact I know I didn't. It's too late now. If your mother loves the Lord Jesus Christ, surely she has been a blessing to you. She has been a blessing to you from day one. How can a mother be a blessing from day one? I mean what's he talking about? Well David says that thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breast, Psalm 22 and 10. How so? How can a mother be a blessing to a child wise other mother's breast from day one? Come on. He doesn't understand that. How can he be a blessing? From day one, many a mother begins to sing to her child from day one, Jesus loves me. This I know to calm them down when they're crying, to calm them down when they're upset. Or Jesus loves the little children. We begin from day one calming our children by singing to them and singing them Christian songs and psalms. That's what we do. From day one, your mother's been a blessing to you. And a few days later, she'll often do this, she'll take you from day one, or a few days later, she'll take you to church. Again and again and again and she'll take you to church and she'll even dedicate you to the Lord. The Baptists do that. They bring the child in, they dedicate this child to the Lord, that they will bring him up, they'll train him up in the way he should go. Your mother's been a blessing to you. And this morning we're going to see that again as we ask Jason and Desi to bring up Sarah Lynn Everett. Sarah's coming forward and I I don't have a lot of time today because of the Mother's Day message, but let me just say this that we're going to dedicate this child to the Lord. And our Baptist brethren do this, we do it too, we do it a little differently, and I'll explain that in a second. We the Baptists dedicate the child to the Lord. We do also we go one step forward after dedicating the child. We place a sign upon that child. In the Old Testament, they would dedicate a child to the Lord and they would circumcise the child. In the New Testament, what we do is we dedicate the child and we then pour water or baptize the child. We put a sign upon that child. Dedication is biblical. I I don't think the baptists were wrong at all in doing that. I'm glad they do that. Go back if you have a concordance and look up the word dedicate. In the Bible, when they dedicated anything, when they dedicated the gates of Israel, When they dedicated the walls of Israel, when they dedicated the altar of Israel. Dedication is biblical. They poured or sprinkled water on the gate, on the walls, and on the altar. Dedication was It fought it was a dedication and then it was followed with a sign. Our Baptist brethren do a dry dedication. We do a wet dedication. We baptize them. We lay that sign. In fact, when you do a dedication or you make a promise, and that's what the Baptists do, and God loves them, and God honors those promises. We take it a step forward with a sign, a promise becomes a covenant. It becomes it's a visual covenant. And that's what we're going to do here this morning. So we have Pastor Dave up here to help us this morning. And uh I want to ask some questions. uh of those who are standing here. I want everyone to please understand that we are asking this family to raise up Sarah Lynn Everett. Train her up in the ways of the Lord. What we do here today doesn't save her. What we do here just starts from day one, from the get-go. They're promising. They are dedicating themselves to training up this child in the ways of the Lord, and may God be gracious, may God bless him, and may God save this child someday. This is not a Catholic baptism. This is not an Episcopalian baptism or a Lutheran baptism. This is a covenant that we make and we seal a covenant with a sign. Abraham would do it with circumcision. Today we don't shed blood in our covenants. Our covenants were made, they're bloodless covenants. So I have some questions to ask you this morning. And first let me read. Baptism is a sacrament and ordinance ordained by the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a sign teaching that we and our children are conceived and born in sin. I try to make that clear that the reason that we pour water on this little baby is we're saying He is a filthy little she this time is a filthy little sinner. She needs cleansing of the Holy Spirit. And may God be gracious to do that someday. But you know, we have adult baptisms here. In fact, Desiah baptized you not too many years ago, was it? We have adult baptisms as well. We're saying in that baptism that we need cleansing We need cleansing of the Holy Spirit, and this child needs to be cleansed too. And it won't happen today. But we're asking God to someday cleanse her heart. Baptism with water signifies that we need to be cleansed by the sin, from sin rather, by the blood of Christ. And the washing of regeneration, which is the work of the Holy Spirit. When we are baptized, we promise that we'll continue to renounce the devil, the world, and the flesh. And they will walk humbly before our God in devotion to his commandments and his words. Our young children do not understand these things. Nevertheless, they were baptized since God's promises and signs were also applied to those within the household. If there was time today we could talk about uh the New Testament baptisms, Cornelius in his household, Lydia in her household, Stephanus in his household, uh the Philippian jailer in his household. We find the New Testament when someone got saved, when an adult got saved The whole family was baptized, and the children also. Repent and be baptized. We read in Acts 2, 38 and 39. Repent and be baptized, for the promise is unto you And to your children. And we believe that. We believe that if we're saved, that God has promised us that He will take us into heaven and into eternity. And that we are to baptize our children with the hopes that someday they'll also make that same profession. Now parents must acknowledge their duty to believers to train up the children the way they should go, Proverbs 22 and 6. So I asked Desi and Jason this morning, do you acknowledge that children are according to Psalm 515 conceived and born in sin. Yes. So what we're holding there is a sinner. Had a lady jump up and walk out one time because I called the baby. Well, she thought was an innocent little baby, a sinner. She thought that was a portable. She never came back. That baby's a sinner. Needs to be cleansed as well. The water won't do it. The blood of Christ will The Holy Spirit? Well, we trust someday we trust early as well. Do you promise to instruct Sarah in the principles of our holy religion as revealed in the scriptures of the Old and New Testament? Yes. Do you promise to pray with and for Sarah and to set an example of piety and godliness before her? Do you promise to endeavor and strive by all means of God's appointment to bring Sarah up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I charge you that you diligently and faithfully teach Sarah, Lynn Everett, the Ten Commandments, and as she grows in years, you place in her hands the Holy Scriptures, and bring her to the services of God's house, and provide for her instruction in the Christian faith. Do you believe in God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth? Do you believe in Jesus Christ as only Son our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born the Virgin Mary, suffered of Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and buried, descended to hell, and on the third day rose again from the dead? You believe he ascended to heaven and sits on the right hand of God the Father Almighty, from whence he shall come again to judge the quick and the dead. Yes, I do. Do you believe in the Holy Spirit, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body, and life everlasting? Having affirmed these, we see no reason why we would not allow you to make a covenant this morning to raise up Sarah. Lynn Everett, and we ask you to step over here for a moment. And Pastor Dave, you are the grandfather and an ordained minister as well. And so we'd ask you to if you have any words to add or a prayer to add after making the sign of baptism honor for this covenant, you take all the liberty you have like, all right? Thank you. Well everyone in this country today has heard the charge given by Minister Burr and the questions, vital questions that were asked, and Desi and Jason have answered yes Therefore, I baptize thee, Sarah, Lynn, Everett, in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Father, we do come before thee today and a great day, a wonderful day. with this baptism of Sarah. We Father with all of our hearts thank thee for the great covenant. And we thank thee for the testimony that Design and Jason have given. This day, and may this child wax strong, and may this child love the Lord Jesus Christ with all of her heart and all of her mind and all of her soul And we ask thee, Father, that thou would bless this service today, bless this congregation, bless these families. And we ask this in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. Boy, this is a good kid. I can take this one home, huh? I don't think I've ever had one so calm, cool. Maybe I'm just getting the old grandpa arms, you know, or something. I don't know. Wow. And you know, she has a soft spot. She has a soft spot? Is that on top of her head? Okay. And on the back. On the back. Okay. There you go. Whoops. Thanks. That was Lord bless you. Ask if our brother Rob would come forward as we close our service today in song. 460 in your hymnal? Then the phone number is 460, but can you see it? It's very that number as we close our service point. 460-12.