Second Corinthians, Chapter Three And verse seventeen. Title of the message this morning is The Spirit of Seventeen Seventy It's our 4th of July message. We generally do a topical about our founding fathers. This morning we're looking at just one verse, 2 Corinthians chapter 11. three and verse seventeen. Now the Lord is that spirit And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Fifty-six men would sign the Declaration of Independence. in open defiance of Britain, the mother country, the greatest military power in the world at that time. And there's much to be said about that this morning. At first, I'd like to say that this declaration of independence was not due to just some rebellious spirit. It was not due to just some revolutionary spirit, but it was the spirit of a revival that took place back in the 40s. in 1740s. That was the birth of the revolution. That was the birth that gave birth to the rebellious hearts of their day. It was a great awakening It was led by men like George Whitfield and Jonathan Edwards. They gave birth to the spirit of seventeen seventy-six. And those are not my words, those are the words of a story. When England said, what is happening in America? What is going on over there? They said it started with the Great Awakening. The people are awake and they are repulsed by what the Pharaoh of Egypt is doing. They called King George the Pharaoh of Egypt who knew not Joseph. After the signing in Philadelphia of the Declaration of Independence, it was customary that such things like that would be a ringing of a bell to call people to the assembly and they would hear the reading of it. And they chose to ring out the news that day in Philadelphia with a particular bell that we know today is the Liberty Bell. But that bell was chosen for a particular reason. On that bell was inscribed from Scripture, Leviticus twenty five and ten, our responsibility. Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. And they rang that bell called the Liberty Bell And then they read in the Declaration of Independence because they were proclaiming their liberty from England. I don't know how long it's been since you've read the Declaration of Independence. And our young people today won't be able to read it in 20 years because they're taking away the right to read cursive or even write cursive. And so our young children will no longer be able to read the Declaration of Independence. But you can read it, most of you here, read cursive, and you read it. And when you read it, I think you'll be quite shocked at how it sounds like it was written last night And if you were to quote and some have quoted the Declaration of Independence, and they have sent it to their senators and to their congressmen and to the presidents residing in the White House of the last president few years and when they've done that they've been put on a terrorist watch list because what is in the Declaration of Independence is inflammatory. What is in there is rebellion It is revolutionary. It is a spirit of seventeen seventy-six that irritated the reigning government of their day, and today it still irritates them Were you to quote the Declaration of Independence today, you would find out that those who sit upon our government in the highest places of power today are more tyrannical than King George himself was And that comes not just from me, that comes from historians of our modern day. Some of the most liberal historians will admit that our government has become more tyrannical than in 1776 The 56 men knew when they signed the Declaration of Penance they were signing their own death warrant if captured, and some were. But they believed and were willing to sign it because they believed that the righteous have hope even in death. Proverbs 14 and 32. They believed, and it is stated in there that no human laws have validity in the If contrary to the laws of God. Let me say that again. No human laws have validity if contrary to the Word of God. And so they found this in the scriptures and they wrote, and that was the spirit of 1776. All of mankind should be subject, they said in the declaration, to the laws of nature and nature's God. That was rebellion. That was revolutionary. That was a result of the revival in the 1740s. I often stop and think, what would Benjamin Franklin think today of partial birth abortion? And unless you think I'm putting words in his mouth, let me tell you something Benjamin Franklin got a girl pregnant out of wedlock and he did not abort the baby. I know what he would have thought of abortion. I know what our founding fathers would have thought of abortion. I think sometimes whoa John Quincy Adams A bloodwashed, born-again, Bible-believing fundamentalist Christian. What would John Quincy Adams think today? Of taking the name of Jesus Christ in vain Or under the guise of freedom of speech, that would be okay, I guess, in this day and age. What would he think of that? What would George Washington think if the ACLU showed up on his doorsteps and told him That the chaplains in his military who were going down to Brandywine or marching on Saratoga or marching on York, what would he think if he's told his chaplains could not pray in the name of Jesus Christ? He'd have dispatched Reverend John Peter Gabriel Mollenberg. Gabriel Mullenberg would have blown the trumpet. Gabriel Mollenberg, you know the story? The Lutheran minister Up there in Pennsylvania, who ripped off his clothing in the middle of a sermon, and he had a sword dangling, and he had the colonial uniform on of a colonel, and he led the men out into battle. 300 men left this church and went to battle with him. He did it. Washington, you tell you can't pray in Christ's name. The chaplains can't pray in Christ's name. That's what they're being told today. You told Washington that back in 1776 The spirit of 1776, he'd have sent Reverend Muhlenberg with the sword. Oh yes, he would have to deal with the satanic spiel. It comes from the lakes of the American The ACLU, the American Civil Liberties Union. Mullenberg in the pulpit that morning as he led them 300 men out of his church, which according to Ecclesiastes 3. And verse 1 through 8. To everything there is a season, a time of war, and a time of peace. And he ripped off his garments into today. Is not the time of peace. That was the spirit of seventeen seventy six. It wasn't so much the T tax. It wasn't so much the Stamp Act as it was that they'd been meditating on the manuscripts of Moses and the writings of Moses. of the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. The spirit of 1776 was a Christ-led spirit. The first official act of Congress, when they got together and realized they needed to start governing as they fought against the British, the first official act of Congress was to open Open with prayer. You're probably familiar with that. The prayer was led by a Presbyterian minister named Jacob Duches. And Jacob Duches, as he was to lead them, he was the chaplain of the Continental Congress, and as he was to lead them in prayer. And he began to pray. George Washington dropped to his knees in reverence as he prayed out to God. And John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, fell on his knees as As Duches was praying, and Henry, Lighthorse Harry Lee, Robert Lee Lee's grandfather, fell on his knees, and Patrick Henry fell on his knees Not all the men in the assembly did, but some of the greatest men that we know in our American history, our founding fathers. They felt that it was important enough. They felt the reverence and the awe of what was happening at that moment. And as Reverend Duches prayed, they they fell to their knees in awe before the presence of God and the prayer on their knees lasted for three hours. That's a prayer. That's a fervent prayer that can keep men from falling asleep, can keep men on their knees that long and not want to get up. And these weren't young men, some of them on their knees Oh, to God that we pray out today in such a way that people would fall out of their chairs and fall on their knees and ask God to save this country. We don't need a we're hoping the tea party will spark a rebellion Spark of revolution or spark of turning around this country. It's not going to happen until God first precedes it with a revival, with an awakening in the pulpits, in the pews, in the hearts of the people It will not happen. That's the way it took place in 1776. The spirit of 1776, it was the birth, the baby of the great awakening of the revolution. The revival. preceded the revolution, preceded the rebellion. One can imagine if some liberal had walked in that Congress. that morning and saw Washington on his knees praying and Patrick Henry on his knees praying and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the first Chief Justice of Supreme Court, John Jay on his knees praying and and Henry uh lighthouse Harry Lee on her knees praying in Duche, waxing eloquent for three hours in prayer and then walk some liberals say, You can't pray in here. You can't pray in Christ's name in here. I I almost shudder to think. That perhaps Patrick Henry would have got off his knees at that moment. The man who said, give me liberty or give me death, and he'd have given him his choice right then and there Thundering out against a blastless barrage of you can't pray in 1776? You can't pray in the House of Congress in Christ's name? Patrick Kenning and those like him knew. The enemy sleeps not except they've done some mischief. You know, there's people out there. They are so wicked. It says in Proverbs 4 and 16, the enemy sleeps not. They can't sleep unless they've done something wicked for the day, unless they've done some mischief, have caused someone to fall. Proverbs 4 and 16 16 says, and they understood this because the spirit of 1776 was a Christ-led, Christ-filled spirit. There were committees of correspondence set up. I never quite understood that till recently. What were these committees of correspondence? They would write these letters up in Pennsylvania, they'd send them to Connecticut, and they'd They sent him to Virginia and they sent him down to Maryland and they were trying to let them know what was going on. You know, if there was a battle in Brandywine or Saratoga and how it had gone or the battle on Titans Trying to keep everybody informed what was going on. But the reason they had the committee of correspondence. You see, there were newspapers in that day. There was a media in that day. But our founding fathers, you know what they said back then? You can't trust the media And so they set up a correspond, a committee of correspondents. They didn't trust the media. Wow, some of this sounds familiar, doesn't it? How can you trust the media when the Lord says, Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed? Proverbs thirteen thirteen Those that God is going to destroy because they despised the Word of God are in charge of the media in the days of Washington and Patrick Henry. They couldn't trust the media that despised the Word of God. people get their news today. ABC, the Atheistic Broadcasting. Is that who it is? Atheistic Broadcasting Conference. NBC the nasty broadcasting conference, CVS, the Carnal Broadcasting System. It's the media and you cannot trust them. They knew that. We hear talk about our founding fathers that they were terrorists. Our founding fathers didn't kill women and children. They didn't leave bombs in marketplaces, hoping to kill a British soldier here and at the same time kill off a couple of women and children in the in the the end term or while trying to kill one British soldier. Our founding fathers are not terrorists. Sam Adams, a god a godly man, a man of God, a a Calvinist who loved the scriptures. He's called the father of the American Revolution. And they say, well well he was a terrorist. That's what our kids are being taught in public school. If they talk about anything about our founding fathers, it's always in a bad light. And Sam Adams, he was he was a terrible person He he was this this individual who led the Boston Tea Party and he broke into these three ships and he just wreaked havoc on the ships and threw the tea off and he didn't care about damaging uh the property of the owners of the ship and how terrible that's not what happened He did break in on the ships. He did he did break in and throw the tea off the ships, but the following day he returned and he repaired all the locks they broke on the ships and any damage done the ships was repaired and put back in pristine condition. Now does that sound like a terrorist to you? Oh, there's a different spirit in 1776. This was a colonist, Samuel Adams, and others. He wrote that the rights of the colonists. Samuel Adams wrote, the rights of the colonists are Christian rights. Right, Sam Adams wrote, and every college should read his New Testament. That's what Sam Adams wrote. That was the spirit of Sam. There was Reverend James Colwell, and I I wish I had the time to talk to you about all the ministers. I've got a few of them here, and I think I'll do that probably next year or sometime during the coming year. But there was also Reverend James Caldwell, a Presbyterian minister, whose wife was shot and killed by the British, and he was also shot and killed by the British. But he was a he was called the soldier parson. He not only led them in as a chaplain of his group, but he was also he he was out there combative with them and fighting with them. And there was a time when you remember the old Flintlock ri long rifles, how you'd have to po uh pour put the wadding in and shove a rod down, drive the wad of paper down inside or cloth, and then you pour the powder in it, and then you drop the musket ball in it, and then you can ignite it and shoot it. Well they'd run out of the wadding And so if you pour the power down without water, the powder just ran out the other end. It didn't work. And they've got the British coming and they don't have any water. And so he's famous as a painting of a Reverend James Caldwell, the minister. They went to a nearby Presbyterian church And they grabbed the hymnals out of the pews. And he started saying, rip the pages out. This will make your wadding. This will make your wadding. And the hymnal back then was a hymnal that had almost nothing but Watts hymns in it. And our hymn was today, you still have the Watts hymns in it. And he says, stop the watts pick. He says, give them watts, boys. Give them watts. Or give them what's for, some people like to say. He says, give them what. These British, they don't understand doctrine And there was doctrine in the writings of the old hymns. I like the old hymns because of that. There was doctrine in the old hymns, and Watts had lots of doctrine in it He said these British they don't understand the reason and the cause. They don't understand doctrine. Give 'em watch. Shoot 'em in the heart with it. Maybe they'll understand before they die the doctrines and what's really leading this seventeen seventy-six rebellion. It's the Spirit of the Lord. The spirit of seventeen seventy six Today people are upset about the Tea Party movement. Today people are upset. They say, well, we're people are just upset about social security and not getting there. I'm gonna tell you something. They don't understand what's got people here today today. What's got people here today is not Social Security, it is sin, sin, sin We're tired of seeing the Sabbath broken in so many ways. We're tired of sodomy being legalized out there. We're tired of them seducing the souls of our children with scientific stuff falsely so-called evolution. We're tired of hearing and reading about them sucking the souls of little babies out of the wombs of our women. It's sin that's a problem in this country. And they're not getting the picture Ethan Allen, another founding father, understood the driving force that had him also involved in this Rebellion, the American Revolution, he understood what led. He understood that the spirit of 1776 went much deeper than the Tea Party He understood and and had an idea that he commanded a small group and they went to Fort Ticonderoga. It was manned by the British and he He slipped in early at night and they weren't expecting. He took over the whole fort and he finally went to the main uh quartermaster area where the commander of the fort was and beat on his door. And when he answered the door, he says, Surrender this camp to us. And he said, the British commander said, By what authority do you ask me to surrender this? He said, by the authority of Jehovah God. And yet the British commander said, Oh, that's good enough for me. Turned over sword by the authority of Jehovah it's just it just shook into the bottom of his boots. By the authority of Jehovah and the continental Congress and it was sufficient for him. That was the spirit of seventeen seventy-six. Oh, that today God might have the final word on everyone's questions Here is the commander. Who I should I surrender my fort to you? And the answer to his question was, By the authority of Jehovah God. Oh, that every question asked out their people said, What does the word of God say? What does Jehovah say? Or as Galatians 4 and 30 says, nevertheless, what saith the scriptures? That ought to be the end of every conversation, that ought to be the end of every debate. Why don't you want gay marriage? What does the scripture say? Why don't you want us to continue to have an abortion in this country? What does the scripture say? There were a number of British colonial governors They wrote letters to the British Parliament. And they said it's not about the tea. It's not about the the Stamp Act. It's not about the taxes. Oh that's got a lot of them irritated, but the ones that are taken to the streets with the muskets, the ones that are taking The streets of the guns, the ones that are taking. They said, What do you mean guns and muskets? We took those away from the colonists. Did you know that? That's what Britain did. They saw this coming down, they saw the agitation, they saw the irritation They saw that they were no longer obeying the laws of Parliament. King George, they just took the laws of Parliament, the laws of the land, and tossed them aside. And they saw this coming. And so Britain had already already ordered that the people in the colonies were not allowed to have gunpowder. They didn't want them to have guns anymore. You see, whenever a nation wants to take away your guns, they've got other plans for you You you look down through the history of the number of people have died in wars, it's it's minor compared to the number of people who have been put to death by their own governments. Russia put to death seventeen or nineteen million Of their own people after World War II. China under Mao Tae Sheng put to death over sixty million people. I mean, these countries are uh in America. We lost we lost hundreds W what we lost against the British was horrible. It's always been our own government in any nation that's done more damage to the people than a foreign government And so in 1776, these British colonial governors, they were living here. They knew what the problem was. It wasn't just the taxes. And so they wrote and they said, these people, they don't want us to govern them. They have no here's what the people you you ask these ri rebels, you ask these people in the American Revolution Who had this spirit of 1776? You ask them, What do you want to govern you? And they say, Jesus Christ should govern us. Jesus Christ, it's the motto of these rebels. They wrote the parliament They wrote King George. They said, the rebels said there is no king but King Jesus. There were some that understood that the spirit of 1776 was the The birth, that which had been given birth in the Great Awakening under Jonathan Edwards, under George Whitfield, for the preaching When the war was over, Washington was approached by the colonists, by the men who had written the declaration Declaration of Independence by the men at the Continental Congress, and they asked George Washington if he would be their king over these United States And George Washington refused, saying, America already has Christ as their king. It doesn't need another king. On May 12, 1779, Washington was also approached during that war by the Delaware Indians chiefs. They wanted their young people to be trained in the colonial schools. Do you know what George Washington said to those Indian chiefs? You do well to wish to learn the arts and the ways and the lives of our people. It's a good decision you've made, he told the chiefs. Chiefs of the Delaware Indians. But above all, if you come into our schools, I'll tell you this. So one thing we're going to teach you, and you must know it from the fore from the very get-go. He didn't use the word get-go I did. But you must know this if you want to learn the ways and the arts of our people, it will be good for you. But above all, we will teach you the religion of Jesus Christ, for this will make you greater and happier people than anything else you'll learn from us. But in the separation of church and state. He's telling me you want to come to our schools, we want to teach you about the religion of Jesus Christ. That was the spirit of 1776. Thomas Jefferson, another president of the United States, and very involved. He wrote the Declaration of Independence. He would later author the Plan for Education of Washington, D. C. Washington, D. C. had He wanted two books used in the Washington DC public schools. Jefferson set these two books out. One was the Bible I thought Thomas Jefferson was against religion. You know, I thought he was supposed to be so anti-Christian. I thought he was supposed to be so opposed. Separation of church is that he wanted the public schools in Washington, D. C. to teach from the Bible and watch hymnals. If there's any pages left in them after the battle of brandywine, I guess they've been tearing the pages out, stuffing them down the muskets. But that's what Thomas Jefferson wanted 1781, as the war neared the end, there was a shortage of Bibles. Congress approved the printing and recommended its reading to the inhabitants of the of the land. That's in the Bible. There are some people who still have copies of that old Bible printed in seventeen eighty one. It says that they recommend its reading to the inhabitants of the land. You know, we ought to say that to every immigrant that comes over here. And they used to do that immigrants come over than hand them Bibles. We said if you come to this country, that's fine. But this is a Christian country. And we worship Christ here. If you come here, there's churches there. Pick and choose, attend a church, you know, uh have at it But we want you to come here, and if you're going to be an American, not going to be a German-American, Italian-American, or African-American, you're going to be an American and you're going to About the God of our religion, Jesus Christ We think we recommend the Bible as a ring for all the inhabitants of this land. I love what Proverbs 22, 20 and 21 says. Have not I read to thee absolent things? God says, Have not I written to thee excellent things, Old Testament? Have not I written to thee excellent things that I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth. God said, we just didn't memorize it. And everybody have certain books and verses memorized. I have written it down so that you might know for a certainty the words of truth. And by the way, he's preserved that for about 35 years. hundred years we still got it. Some people don't think we have it anymore, but we do. President John Quincy Adams, who was on the inside, he was a young fellow then, but he still The inside with his father. He knew George Washington, all these fellas, Patrick Kennedy, Paul Revere. He knew them all. He's on the inside. He knew the movers and shakers of the American Revolution He knew what drove the 1776 Revolution. He knew what drove it. He knew it was the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ. And those aren't my words, those are his words. On the Fourth of July celebration in 1837, he was the last of the founding. fathers to die. He lived long enough to be the only one they ever took a photograph of. They had cameras by then, took a picture of them. That's for you, Faith. But in 1837 of the Fourth of July celebration, John Quincy Adams said of this of our founding fathers, have you noticed he said that the celebration of Christmas And the 4th of July are two top holidays. And the reason they're both two top holidays is because they both represent the birth of this nation. They are linked together to the birth of our savior. The birth of this nation, he said, was linked together with the birth of our savior. John Quincy Adams was saying there wouldn't have been an American nation There wouldn't have been a rebellion. There wouldn't have been a revolution. There wouldn't have been a spirit of 1776 except for the fact that the birth of our Savior meant so much to this nation that they're interlocked The birth of the Savior and the birth of this nation are linked together, and there are two greatest holidays. He went on to say the Declaration of Independence was and is a leading event for what? It is the leading event for dispensing of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what John Quincy Adams said, our president. He lived back then in that revival. He lived back then during the revolution with those re revolutionary rebellious men. And he said that the leading event, the Declaration of Dependency, the leading event for the dispensing of He said that the Declaration of Penance was founded upon the Redeemer's mission here on earth, that the first Christian government might be established. That was the spirit of 1776. People tell you we weren't a Christian nation, we weren't founders of Christian nation, but our founding fathers say we were. Our founding fathers were Christians. I have some amazing quotes here. I'll try to read them very quickly to you. If someone wants to copy them and have them, but uh this these are these are descriptions of some of our founding fathers, and the reason I want to read them to you is because they were found in the public school textbooks. Not recently, alright. But these are the quotes in our founding fathers about the sign of the Declaration of Independence in the founding school history textbooks. This is what it used to say. Dr. Matthew Thornton, who is known as a consistent and sincere. Christian. One of the signers. And then it goes on to see Governor Samuel Huntington was also committed Christian. Supreme Court Judge Samuel Chase of Maryland. Heard of that name at least. It was said of him that in all of his walks he exemplified more than anyone else his sincere Christianity. William Ellery, a Christian whose name was ever revered. Governor William Walcott, another very sincere and devout Christian. Reverend John Witherspoon, few superiors as a Christian writer as a humble Christian, when he died, it says of Witherspoon, the chariot of Israel and the horseman thereof is gone from Second Kings two and verse 12. There was Benjamin Rush. They said the Bible is a lamp onto his feet. He never neglected to consult the scriptures. It was manifested in all of his works. And I could, you could be hard-pressed to find these quotes today in any Public school history book about our founding fathers. You'd hear about Benjamin Franklin's illegitimate child for sure, but you wouldn't hear The good stuff, the true stuff, the spirit that drove these men in 1776. Would they tell you about all the ministers involved in the revolution? Probably not I know when I was in public school, I didn't know that any ministers were involved in revolution. But the first Continental Congress, the delegate that went to the First Continental Congress, Reverend Elihu Spencer, the North Carolina delegate And Reverend Joseph Montgomery, the Pennsylvania delegate. And then there was the likes of James Francis Armstrong. He fought in battle. He served as a chaplain. You ought to know James Francis Armstrong. He served as a chaplain in the 2nd Maryland Brigade in the American Revolution. But I bet you're not taught that. here in Maryland, are you? Probably never heard that name before. And then there was Reverend Daggett, bayoneted to death in battle. There is a treasure trove of ministers and it's just not time to elaborate. But when the authority of the people rejoice, Proverbs 24. And that was the spirit of seventeen seventy-six. Our problems today did not begin in the White House. Our problems today did not begin in Congress or the Senate. They did not begin with the covetous voters who vote in who and what they want and what they'll get. Our problems in America today began in the pulpit They have long abandoned and aborted their faith, preaching no longer. Thus saith the Lord. That's where the problems began It's been an anti-great awakening for many decades in this country. When you look at the signs of the Declaration, most of them went on to write the constitutions of their local state governments. Listen to Delaware's constitution. I'm only going to give you one constitution because I'm going to give you one of the w weakest ones written. Among the thirteen colonies, the weakest constitution written, one of the weakest written, was the Delaware one. Everyone appointed to public office. Governor, state senators, legislators, mayors, everyone appointed to public office must, the Delaware Constitution says, must give a profession of faith in God the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ as his only son. And in the Holy Ghost. And acknowledge the Holy Scriptures, both for the Old and the New Testaments, to be given by divine inspiration. And that is one of the weakest state constitutions. Wow. Oh, but we're not a Christian nation, are we? We weren't founded by Christians, were we? That's what we're being told today. In the eighteen fifties, a congressional investigation was begun to reveal whether we were a Christian nation or not. In eighteen fifty The congressional investigation also ended House Judiciary Committee in eighteen fifty-four found this, after four years of research, this was their conclusion Had the people during the American Revolution had any suspicion that there would be attempts to go against Christianity, the revolution would have been strangled in its cradle. They said there had been any inkling that any of the founding fathers was anti-Christian or go would oppose Christianity, the revolution would have been strangled in its cradle. That's the the Judiciary Committee In Congress discovered. By the time of the adoption of the Constitution, they went on to say this: by the time of the adoption of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights and Amendments, the sentiment was that Christianity should be encouraged For in this day and age there can be no substitute for Christianity. That's our founding fathers. And that was the result of an investigation by Congress and the House Judiciary Committee that the founding fathers said there can be no substitute for Christianity. That was the spirit of 1776. They went on to say that the religion of the founders, that the religion of the founders, which is Christianity, that the founders expected to remain the religion of their descendants. That was the spirit of seventeen seventy-six The final conclusion they said was the belief of our people. In 1776, Congress said this: the belief of our founding fathers was in the doctrines and the divine truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. That's our Congress telling us that that's what our founding fathers believed, that that's what they wanted. That was the spirit of 1760 Today, today, today, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and I will forgive their sin and I will heal their land. That's what's needed today. It's not a rebellion. It's not the Tea Party movement. It's not a revolt. It's an awakening. It's a revival that we ought to be praying for. And then Then the spirit of 1776 would reign once again among us. You're sitting here this morning. The Lord Jesus Christ does reign in your heart. And you have the spirit of the founding fathers of 1776 that Christ would be preeminent in your life. We'd invite you this morning to partake in remembrance of him at our communion table this morning. On this Fourth of July, a day of liberty, a day of freedom. And if you're saved, you have liberty from the power of sin. If you're saved today, you have freedom from the punishment of sin If that describes you this morning, we ask you to partake in this. I'd ask if our elder and our deacons would come forward this morning to help us in the distribution of the elder. Larry, would you ask the blessing on the distribution of the bread, please? Our Heavenly Father, uh we thank you, Lord. Lord, that we are adhering to the biblical imperative to they came from the very lips of our Savior to do this in remembrance of of me and so lord as we remember uh our savior and the terrible price the blood gift that he gave un to us Lord uh may we remember uh that we are a needy people and that we are indeed even as Christians a sinful people for if we say that that we have no sin we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. So Lord, may we be introspective today. May we examine our hearts, Father. We pray that thou would give us a heart of repentance, Lord, to turn from the sin that does so easily beset us, our Heavenly Father. And we understand that we are without ability apart from thy Holy Spirit. So we pray, Lord, an indwelling of thy spirit this day, a renewal, a commitment again to uh the precious precepts of the scripture and allegiance to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who paid it all. For he who was out with was without sin was made sin in for us. So we uh we praise thee this day. Uh it is indeed fitting that we remember our our heritage, Father, and at the heavy price that was with the formation of our country and the love that was apparent, that was so apparent for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his finished work at Calvary cross. So as we uh break the bread Lord as we sup with thee uh may we be mindful of the separation that you suffered from the Father for that moment, uh, for the heinous pain and suffering that you went through, Lord, on our behalf. And that we uh we shrink, Lord, and we uh acknowledge that we are unworthy to receive or the least of thy blessings and yet Lord we covet them. So we praise you this day and ask you to bless Separate. Then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers clad a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe. And they said, Hail, King of the Jews! And they smote him with their hands. Pilate therefore went forth again and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him And then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, and Pilate said to them, Behold the man. When the chief priests, therefore, an officer saw, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him! And Pilate saith unto him, Take ye him, and crucify him, for I find no fault in him. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. When Pilate therefore heard that saying He was the more afraid. And he went again into the judgment hall, and he saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer Then saith Pilot unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and I have power to release thee. And Christ answered, Thou couldst have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. Therefore, he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend Whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth. Sat down in the judgment seat in a place that's called the pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabatha. And it was the preparation of the Passover, about the sixth hour And he saith unto Jews, Behold your king. Scripture tells us that not a bone of Christ's body But he was broken in every other way he could be. Broken, humiliated, as they spit in his face, punched We've often said to ourselves, I would I d with the the week was so horrible, things were so bad, I was just broken, I had no energy left. Had nothing left. I was just so humbled by what happened. I was so embarrassed by what happened. And we're just so broken. But he was broken as no man was ever broken. And he was broken for us. Us. He gave his all for us. Us who struggle to give a tithe once in a while. 10%. He gave it all. And as we think of his body being broken for us, may we think that this day we owe him so much. And we give him so little, and yet he loves us and forgives us. What a savior. What a shepherd. What a great God that we don't meet the standards, can't meet the standards, but He loves us For trying and for loving his son. Take and eat, he said, in remembrance of me On the night in which he's betrayed. We're reminded of not only was he broken for us, but he shed his blood for us. In a painful way. And we've had doctors' descriptions of how painful crucifixion was. That doesn't begin to even touch on The satanic assaults that he had. Some of you sitting here know that some of the worst things you've gone through were not physical assaults, but mental and emotional and spiritual assaults. You You've had things you've struggled with that were far, far more. A death of a loved one. You've had painful things that happen to you that were far beyond any physical endurance you've ever had to go through. And when we look at the crucifixion of Christ, so much emphasis Place on the nails and the spirit on his side. But we have no comprehension that the spiritual assaults, the emotional assaults, and the psychological assaults that came against him were far greater. They came out of the pits of hell Causing him, it says, even to sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. You've never been that upset. You've never been assaulted that much. He shed his blood for us. I'd ask if Dan would ask the blessing on a cup this morning as we pass around the cup in remembrance of the blood that he shed for us. uh uh people have a fast circuits but it's immediately so being given uh we're very careful and circuits and momentum looking at us request from one day in the year. So we are we are back by the subject tape and by its desire to go to us uh in this role and the entire boy was I said you would lift it up in the same way as that circuit I think what can you not you get from the snake sacrifice that was necessary and religious sins would be made and given it might be your sins. We were plans in that fountain or plans and why Lord, because we can pay that price, we can pay that penalty. We deserve to have our own bloodshed for our sins. And yet even our own bloodshed, but not the prices If we die in our sins, we still suffer in terrority. Perhaps we don't agree as we should. I'm praying that you would uh teach us in the Holy Spirit. What it is that you have that we might uh praise you with more and we might give thanks of you that we might be humble before you that we look you go for presence and for self power of this message of the gospel we go forth. Taking into confidence and spread strengthens and nourishes austerity and truth We pray God for this and this blessing of the among us and for the man you're this way. And in the name of H you chose life for us, Lord Jesus Christ. And they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. And Pilate saith to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Then delivered he them to And they took Jesus and led him away. And he bearing the cross went forth into a place called the place of the skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha Where they crucified him, and two others with him, one on either side, and Jesus in the midst. And Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross, and the writing was Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. This title then read many of the Jews. For the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city, and it was written in Hebrew and Greek and Latin. And then said the chief priest of the Jews to Pilate, Write not the King of the Jews, but that he said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. And then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, they took his garments, they made four parts to every soldier apart, and also his coat. The coat was without seam, woven from top throughout. And they said therefore among themselves, Let us rent it, but cast let's not rent it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be That the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and my vessel they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did. This cup represents just a small portion of the quantity of blood that he shed. If we had his blood with us today and we do not, we know that they can put it under a microscope and they can look at our blood, find the chromosomes do donated by our mother and our father What an amazing thing they would find if they looked at Christ's blood. They would see the chromosomes of Mary, but there wouldn't be chromosomes from Joseph or any man. He had no human father. What an unusual, unique, precious blood. A blood that was Stainless. No sin. A blood that coursed through his veins and would have kept him alive alive not till he was a hundred or a thousand or ten thousand Years old, it would have kept him alive forever. It was sinless blood. Hang on to it, can you live forever? And he shed across Sinners that might live forever. Shed it for us. If you're holding that this morning, and you know he shed it for you. How can you not be thankful? Because he didn't have to shed it for anyone anyone and he could have lived forever. But we wouldn't have. We owe him. Every day of our life that we're saved, we keep wanting to say thank you Thank you. Thank you. That's your heart. That was the heart of our founding fathers in 1776. Thank you. Thank you, Lord, for the spirit in my heart. If that's your spirit in remembrance of him, drink ye all of it We'd ask you if you hold on to those cups to the end of the service, and then you can return them up here to the tray. Ask if our song leader, Bob, would come forward as we close our service today.