Father God in heaven, Lord, we thank you that you have called us unto worship. Without such a call, Lord, we would be left in our huts worshiping idols. Wasting our time with vanities, Lord, you have called us out of darkness into the glorious light of thy Son. Lord, that we may use and redeem this time of worship. We would use it, Lord, as a means of grace to be reminded of this great God of whom we worship, to be relieved from the afflictions and the cares and the affairs, and yea, even the successes of this life. And that we would be, our hearts would be turned once again to thee. Lord, please find our worship acceptable in thy sight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, turn to your blue uh songbook. We will begin with number 46, All Hail, the Power of Jesus' name. And in the privileged diversity of our musical talents today. We shall be accompanied and led by the uh violin and we are grateful to our sister for her aid to that effect Um and uh we will begin by singing today at number 46, all hail the power of Jesus' name, and we'll sing all four stanzas. Oh hilar Jesus made angels prostrate, bring forth the royal diamond. And from him Bring forth the royal diagon and crown him En choice and sea will Hill him goes wages by his grace and from him home. Hill him goes late. By his grace and crossing load alone. On this aggressive. Through him all my chest bear and crowd in the wall. Oh that with yonder sacred will join. Will join me every single day. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Please be seated. For our instruction and confession this morning, please turn to the back of your one-page bulletin. where we will uh responsibly recite, collectively recite the Belgian Confession, the first part of this 24th article, Man's Sanctification and Good Works. Christian And what do you believe? We believe that this true faith, being wrought in man by the hearing of the Word of God and the operation of the Holy Ghost doth regenerate and make him a new man, causing him to live a new life, and freeing him from the bondage of sin. Therefore, it is so far from being true that this justifying faith makes men remiss in a pious and holy life That on the contrary, without it, they would never do anything out of love to God, but only out of self-love or fear of damnation. Therefore, it is impossible that this holy faith can be unfruitful in man, or we do not speak of a vain faith. But of such a faith as it is called in Scripture, a faith that worketh by love. Which excites man to the practice of those works which God has commanded in His Word. It appears that one of the conundrums that is common in the camp of those who hold to the doctrines of grace, by that I mean those who know and believe that it is only because of the operation of God that they found in their heart and in their life any interest whatsoever in the gospel. that it was God Almighty who called them unto His grace, who quickened and changed their dead heart to a living heart. Those who see this first operation of God as primary in your salvation then have the vain notion that If they don't have the ability, your religious friends say, that if they don't have the ability to choose God, and if I believed like you did, then I would live any old way I want to. If I'm just waiting for God to move, and if he called me, and it wasn't because of something I did, if I believed that, I'd live any way I want to, to which I say, you're correct Live any way you want to. And there's the question, what you want to. As you want to, then change. Because if there's no change in the want-to, you can choose all the gods out there, including the false Jesus that's propped up on the shelf, with all these other pagan idols saying, Oh, come to me, your life will be better No, the God of the Bible isn't trying to win a beauty contest. He's actually saving souls. He's actually changing men's hearts. He's actually pulling you out of the bottom of the dunghill and setting you up among his princes He does change hearts. And because believers have a changed heart, of course they are interested in the things of God. Of course they want to live a life that bears fruit. Of course there's an interest in hearing the Word of God, which is the water of God, the fertilizer of God, the life, the light And the soil of God in which new fruit is brought. Isn't this the first parable the Lord Jesus gives? The sower went forth to sow seed. Some seed fell on stony ground, some among thorns, others in the trodden path hardened down by the world's ways, but some fell among what Good ground. Well, man ain't good by nature. It had to have been ground, that heart that was made good by God. It was a converted heart. It was a changed heart. I will take out of you. That stony heart, God says, that heart of stone that cannot receive the seed, it just bounces right off of it. I'll take away the stony heart and give you a heart of flesh, a living heart, a heart that is sensitive to the praise of God. And so the confession is technically explaining this business of your sanctification by the means of grace, where good works come in. We're not caused. We're not robots. Brother Bernie used to say, oh please make me a robot. Make me automatically do the things of God. Oh yes, please. But our God is so sovereign that he can give you and I individually little tests, little trials to test your faith, not to trip you up. But to prove that Christ be in you, the hope of glory. But to prove that, yes, indeed, you're a child of mine. Yes, indeed, you will seek, and you will call me, and I will be found of you. Yes, I will walk with you when you go through the valley of the shadow of death. He will not let go of your hand. He hasn't left you. He hasn't departed. All of these things are actually faith-strengthening exercise And I leave you with one illustration I heard years ago from the wine, the famous wine grower. Now I'm not a big wine connoisseur, but I believe his name. I'm going to get this wrong. I think it's Rothschild, but I could be incorrect. There's a famous wine grower. They go back four or five generations in Italy. And they're known for their very expensive bottles of wine. If you want to impress a business client, you would take them to the restaurant that sells these $400 bottles of wine. And I asked him on an interview on CBS, what is it that you do to make that grape of such excellent vintage? And the old seasoned vineyard man says, just very curtly, you have to torture the grapefy. What an interesting comment. There has to be a scourging and great difficulty that the grape has to endure for the very finest wine. So God has a purpose in your life, and He's working in you and through you to willing to do of His good pleasure. And it's a rejoicing of the heart that He would do such things. Amen. Join your hearts with me now in our congregational prayer, shall we pray? Dear Lord our God, Lord, we are grateful for the mercies, thy tender mercies which you continually show unto thy people. You have indeed called us from life unto death. This we cannot deny any more than we can deny that a little child is something we produced. that this dead table in the patio holding up plants is something that is alive. It's not. We know the difference between life and death. We have indeed passed from death into life and we're grateful that you have called us. into the kingdom, into the life, into the light, into the joy of thy dear son Lord, make us people today that are ever grateful for this glorious work which you have brought in us. Drive out from us, Lord, the thoughts of complaining. Lord, the silent murmuring Drive these little snippets of ungratefulness far from our lips, Lord. Please cleanse us, Lord, with the blood of Jesus Christ, afresh and anew. Lord help us to confess our sins. Confess even thou that we might be found clean of thee. Whosoever confesses and forsakes shall find mercy. And Lord, we do lift up many, many in our midst, Lord, which indeed, from man's vantage point, have an occasion for which to murmur, to complain, or to cry out, or could we all change our complaints to cries? decries to thee. Lord, on the behalf of many of our beloved ones who whom we don't find present with us even today Lord, we think of the brother as dealing with cancer and is currently not in our midst, Lord, from weakness. Lord, we do pray your hand of graciousness and comfort and peace and mercy upon him. I rejoice, Father, that a season ago visiting him in the hospital Where the testimony of his lips was, where's heaven? Let's get this business going. He's ready to be with the Savior. And he has great strong faith looking forward to that which is to come. And Lord, you uh have said in the scriptures it is appointed, it is ordained It is sovereignly set into men once to die, and after this the judgment. We thank you that you've rescued our brother from judgment, and we know that there is a day appointed for all of us. Lord, we do pray that your hand of comfort, peace, and patience would be upon him. Lord, we would desire to see him and to see him more. We would desire that his strength could come back. Lord, our perception, it is not yet his time. We would desire to have his fellowship. We miss hearing his voice. We thank you for our Pastor Emeritus. a retired brother who has ably fought as a veteran for this country, has preached thy word. And Lord, we thank you that you've spared him from this recent critical illness and that you have allowed him to come back home and is beginning to recover. We thank you, Lord, that you have spared our brother's life, and we long to see him again. We do pray that you would be gracious unto him and to his dear wife likewise, who suffers many ills. Lord, we thank you for their valiant testimony, their bold testimony of faith, their encouragement to others, even in the midst of their own affliction, their thoughtfulness. Lord, I need not even wonder whether they pray. I know they pray. And they pray off because when they do come into our midst, they ask, how are you doing? And they'll ask about a prayer request from weeks ago. One, perhaps, that some in the congregation have forgotten to give praise and glory to your name because you've already answered it. They're still praying for it. Father, we thank you for their life and their ministry. Be gracious and merciful to them. Lord, we thank of the sister in Wisconsin, Lord, we do lift her up. We pray that her recovery would continue strong, surely, steady and solid with this new liver that she has. We thank you that you have finally gotten us past this horrible uh torture of driving her back and forth and back and forth to the hospital only to be told, well, this one won't work, no, you're not fit. Just misery. Oh Father, thank you for granting her this uh this wonderful used part that uh seems to be uh giving her life and uh sustaining it, Lord. Lord, we pray that you would continue to bless her. Grant that she could enjoy, give her, Lord, a good long season of enjoyment. We pray for all of our children, for all of their richest spiritual blessings, for their needs of employment, for their time on their work and their jobs. Lord, we we we pray for them. Lord, we lift up our dear brother and sister of Texas. Lord, what a great source of rejoicing. Lord, I pray for this dear brother of mine, likewise. uh a true war hero. Lord, for this odd pain that is now racking him. Lord, we pray that uh The VA would be able to find a the issue, whatever it is that's wrong. We pray that This injection that they're contemplating would be effective for the purpose for which it will be given. And you would give him relief and grant that this would be effective Lord, please rescue him from this. Thank you for his interest in the gospel. Thank you for his readiness to want to put a hand in somehow to support this new mission that you've given him. And uh we pray that he would be faithful and please bless his wife as she cares and supports him. Please help her with the recent loss of her mother the disposition of her mother's estate, and for her sister's salvation, for that of her children and her grandchildren as well. Lord, we do lift up the sister who recently found herself in the hospital totally by surprise, unexpectedly, totally oblivious as to what had happened, Lord, by Virtue of a stroke. We thank you that she's back home. We thank you that uh her voice sounds the same to many. We thank you that uh there has been to a high degree uh a good recovery and very little apparent damage, or we do pray that Her recovery would continue. We pray for any remaining blood clots and issues therein. We pray that those could be dissipated. What a marvelous body that you've given us Lord, that ultimately the healing comes from us, which is of course through thy hand. It's the body that you've made that actually heals itself. Medicine and doctors can only cut. They can't touch and heal. They can't form a new organ. But Lord, you did, and you can and you still do. You still work your miracles of gracious healing. Fit in thy sight. Lord, not to prove that the messenger is coming with a new word, but Lord, we beseech thee that you would heal people and indeed your faithful so to do. Pray for our dear sister's husband who plays for us musically. Lord, we pray for it. the recovery of his surgery for his hand to resolve some issues there and that the next surgery uh to occur shortly thereafter will address these corporal tunnel issues in his hand. We pray that he regain the use of it that they would be most helpful to him. We pray for the salvation of his family, particularly to lift up the son-in-law who's struck with a very grievous, grievous disease. Uh and Lord, we pray your mercy upon him. Grant that uh that bills could be paid for all the medical expenses, that his uh his wife, my brother's daughter, could be strengthened, Lord, that her issues as well, Lord, it's Being a caretaker such takes such a toll on the one giving the care that sometimes they they too fall into uh difficult uh medical situations. We pray your hand there and your blessing of salvation to come upon them. And Lord, we also pray for those who are just simply elderly by virtue of years and thank you that you've given them good long life. Yea. The days of a man are of seventy years or eightieth by reason of strength. And Lord, we have some strong widows here who by reason of strength are with us beyond even eighty years And we pray that you be gracious and gentle and merciful to them. Help them as they deal with various aches and pains at this stage. Uh we can only ask that you would be exceedingly gracious to them, prevent them from falling, keep them from slipping and hurting themselves and winding up in a hospital somewhere, give them good caregivers, give them give their caregivers knowledge of what to help and what to look for and how to be on the watch for things that perhaps they can no longer watch out for themselves We do thank you and pray for those things. Lord, we uh lift up the uh the youth in our midst, and youth I mean by anybody at the age of fifty. Uh Lord, we uh do pray for our young people that are struggling with jobs. There's a great uncertainty in the economic climate today, particularly in the state of Maryland with all of the federal layoffs. Lord, this is greatly impacting Employment opportunities is greatly impacting those who run their own business. Lord, we pray for recovery there. We pray for those seeking jobs that you would grant them, that you would bring them to the job that they would have That you would provide for them all that they have need of. We pray for those endeavoring to start a business as well as those trying to retain and stay in business We do pray that you would uh bring to them, Lord, let them not suffer. And uh we pray that you would feed thy people. Let it not be said, Ah, this person was a Christian, that's why they failed and fell, because their God could not deliver Lord, let not such a claim be made against thee. Lord, I place thy glory in the name of thy powerful providence, Lord, on the line here. I ask that you would provide for them. Lord, please let it not be said you cannot provide. Lord, I pray for uh the brother who soon will be traveling to Texas for uh or to some state, I believe it was Texas, San Antonio, I believe, for business. We pray for safe travels there, pray for his family that they would be able to to make it safely and without any issue. We pray for um uh those uh that all that's required to prepare for it, uh not only for business, but also in the bringing of this family. I thank you that they seek to raise a God fearing home. And uh we do pray that you would be pleased to give them that request, Lord. Bless it mightily, grant salvation to come. Lord, we uh thank of our sister in uh North Carolina moving to Florida. Um greatly infirmed and has need of aid and is going to find that aid in her son-in-law and her daughter. Lord, we pray for the son-in-law who seeks to gain citizenship He appears to be a man who's a good man who's paid taxes, worked long and hard, and and is even comfortable taking in his mother-in-law to help care for her. We thank you for putting that kindness in his heart. We pray for his salvation. We pray that he'd be spared from deportation. He would have no place to go. And we pray for others in like situation. Lord, we lift up our sister who is greatly grieved by the devastation that is occurring overseas in Gaza. It is not hitting the news, but 80% of that country's infrastructure is utterly, entirely, and completely destroyed They do not have hospitals. They do not have schools. Many of the buildings in which they live are gone. There's nothing but rubble. Where are these people supposed to live? Even Egypt won't take them in. Other borders are shut off They're just living in a devastated heap and ruin. Lord could it be that uh in the midst, surely, beyond the humanitarian crisis, there must be thy people there. There are Palestinian Christians as much as there are Jewish Christians As much as there are Jordanian Christians. There are people out of every tribe, kindred, tongue, and nation. We pray, Father, it'd be a solution to that. Uh the wars would cease, righteousness would prevail, aid would be given to those that are in need. We pray the same for uh people in Ukraine suffering mightily. And yea, even on the Russian side. Uh some people conscripted into service on both sides. And in North Korea, Lord, where there are Christians there operating very subtly in order not to be sent off to these horrible camps. That with the most despicable human environment in which to operate and try to live. Lord, we pray your your great blessing and strength upon them. Lord, they rejoice just to have one copy of a book. They hide in a forest under a rock Literally, and to go out there just to read a portion of it and to share it with somebody they brought along. One covert. One covert What bold faith. What bold faith. Please strengthen them, Father, that they may come to visit us. Lord God, we do pray lastly for our beloved pastor, give him a good vacation. Let his rest be sweet. Thank you for the many hours and weeks and months in which he has labored in the study, in prayer, in the pulpit. He's a praying pastor. The congregation ought to know that he prays for each and every one on a very, very regular basis. Father, we pray that you give him good rest. Be with our brother today as he preaches to us and brings the word from the pulpit And all these things, Lord, may thy name be glorified. In Jesus' name. Amen. Turn, if you would, now, to Matthew chapter 25 for our responsive reading. Matthew chapter 25 is our responsive reading for the day. 25th chapter of the book of Matthew. Rise when you locate that, and if you're able. Matthew, the 25th chapter. And we will read responsibly the first thirteen verses. Matthew 25, beginning in verse 1. Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom. Five of them were wise and five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And then there were the prior. Go ye not to be him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps. And then the wood said unto the wise, Give us their oil, for our lamps are gone. But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there be not enough for us and you, but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. And one of them went to the body. They went into the hands of the fresh. And the door was shut. Afterward came also the other virgins saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. Verily I say unto you, I will not and altogether watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh May God add a rich blessing to the reading and hearing of His holy preserved words. Please now take your rejoice signals and open to number four sixty-seven for our psalm singing. That's 467, the steps of a good man. And we will sing both stanzas and the Amen at the end. Oh God give you the day For me, in hollow and thy birthday wave. For they reserve the sunshine or rain the last Riding all the shot, be all we saw. For the Lord, for the Lord you went to Oh the laugh and logo and over the logo Ah bellow doing the Random Tour Only whatever is full of For gave Christ life, whatever it's a good man. Though we all we shall not be cast down for the Lord, for the Lord. Here we go. Thank you. You may be seated. This time we have our beloved brother Anton come and deliver the word to us today. We've all evidently seen manifestation of his gifts, and so we seek to have those exercised as oft as we can, and so we had an opening here. Uh we tried to get in two Sundays, but that's a little too much. What that work thing getting in the way? Uh but uh we rejoice to to have uh Now anyone capable of bringing forth the word, it's always a delight to ask. Brother, if you would, please come give us the word Good morning. Let's go ahead and seek the Lord for his help and uh the proclamation, the declaration of his word, and the hearing of it. Move us even by it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, we look to you. We pray that this morning as we gather We would take earnest heed to what your scripture says, to the warnings of it. Oh Lord, you have the words of life. Please help me in bringing it forth, O Lord. protect from any error. And we pray, O Lord, that you would even stir up your church, draw us closer to you, to a closer walk with you, to a closer walk of wisdom even as we go through this life We pray it all in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ's name. Amen. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn to the book of Proverbs. We'll be reading from chapter thirty, Proverbs chapter thirty. We're just reading a portion of Proverbs 30. It's verses 24 through 28. These are the words of Agar, one of the writers of the Proverbs. Proverbs 30 verses 24 through 28. There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise. The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer. The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands. The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in king's palaces This portion of scripture that we just read is about four unique creatures. Might be interesting, but you might be thinking to yourself What's this about? What does this have to do with me? I'm learning here about some animals and that's nice. But what does that have to do with me? What does that have to do with serving the Lord But what we know from the multitude of scriptures is that God teaches us spiritual truths through animals. God's put forth nature. He's created it for his own glory, but also to teach deep spiritual truths that we can learn from, that we can use in our walk. You know, those that believe in macro evolution, that we came from animals, they'll say that we can learn things from ther we can uh learn things from animals because we actually used to be them They say, oh well we used to be a lobster or a or a spider or a monkey or this or that, so therefore we can study them and learn something about ourselves. Now that's foolishness, that's utter nonsense. The truth is we can learn things from them, but it's because we have the same creator. The same creator God who created the animals in those six days also created man. But man is very different. He's created in the image of God. And he teaches us certain things that we can see from some of those portions of nature that he's created, from animals It's as it says in the scripture, the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even as eternal power. and Godhead. We often hear references to different animals in the scriptures to teach us. Christ is referred to as the Lamb of God. Satan is referred to as a roaring lion, because he's a fierce foe. He can easily scare some. Believers are called his sheep, and the unbelievers are goats. The wicked are referred to as dogs, and we're told to be wise as serpents, and yet harmless as doves. So it's not a stretch at all to look for and find the spiritual truths here in these in this passage about the four creatures. The first thing that you should know about this passage, how is it that you can profit from it, is that you have to understand your own frailties your own weakness. Otherwise it won't make sense. And this is how this passage starts. Look at the verse twenty-four in vr in Proverbs thirty. There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they're exceeding wise. That term little means small or insignificant, unimportant. And you know that is our condition as mankind. We're very weak after the flesh, as the Lord says C C for a man whose uh life whose breath is in his nostrils, we are very easily able to be put to death But at the same time were very weak spiritually. And you think about your walk with the Lord. How did it begin? How was it that you entered into fellowship with the Lord? If it is that you've truly tasted of his grace and you're walking with him. Did it have something to do with yourself? Were you wise enough? Were you strong enough? Well no, we read in the scriptures that for we for when we were yet without strength Without strength. In due time Christ died for the ungodly. Yes, we were without strength. We did nothing to contribute to our salvation, to the entrance into a fellowship, a walk with the Lord. It was all of the Lord. But now if you're regenerated, you're in Christ, now do you have all power and strength to stand for every trial, just of your own strength? There's no potential for falling Well no, we see even now we're weak. Through our flesh we're weak. As Christ uh told Peter when when Peter was supposed to pray with him in that Garden of Gethsemane He said, Yes, the uh the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. And we read that a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. We do hear that there's potential to fall. It can happen even often. And the Apostle Paul speaks of that law of sin that's warring in his body against the law of his mind. He says, I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. For I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into the captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. In his final declaration, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Though you might desire to serve the Lord with your mind, you still have the flesh that will pull you into being like the world, that will pull you into the old habits of sin, that will pull you into disregarding the Lord. Will pull you into all sorts of ungodly things. Just disregarding the Lord. And so it's important to acknowledge our weakness, our frailty. And then we can benefit from this passage where the Lord turns to these four creatures and says, look at them Look at these four creatures. They're feeble, they're weak, they're little, they're small. Yet they're exceeding wise. They do something that's very wise, that's very beneficial to them And the key is it the Lord is the one that's giving them certain advantages that they take up. They have advantages available to them and they act upon them. We can learn that from ourselves. The Lord gives us certain advantages, and we'll see that as we go through each of these animals. So let's look and consider that first creature that the Lord speaks of in this passage. The ants. Look back to our passage. It says, the ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer. You can understand the natural explanation, answer week, and they'll usually come once it starts getting warm outside. You'll even see them in your home unless you put some good poison up or something that'll keep them away from your house, keep them away from your food. But they're a weak creature. You can easily crush five, ten of them. Just stamp your hand down and they're done. They're over with There's also a s only a certain uh season when they can gather up their food. Food and harvest and all of that is not available year-round, it's available in the summertime when the harvest comes But they are wise because they're diligent. Once that time comes for gathering, they're very actively busy working. And uh if you were listening to this morning's Sunday school, you would have heard much about this diligence of the ant. And the uh another Proverbs, uh Proverbs 6, verse uh six through eight says, Go to the ant, thou sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. Yeah, these times of summer and harvest are the advantage that are given to the ant, this weak ant, but yet the ant is wise in being diligent during that time. It takes up that advantage that the Lord gives it. And they're diligent. They work busily. They're exceeding wise in doing that. So what does this have to do with us? What does this have to do for the believer? And the believer's walk. Well, there's a few angles to look at this. There's the initial call to seek the Lord. You know, some people think they'll have an eternity. They think summer and harvest is always. Well there's a the w there will always be a chance and a time to turn to the Lord. I don't have to worry about it right now. That's okay. There's tomorrow. They always say there's tomorrow They'll say, I'll turn to God later so I can enjoy what I'm doing now. I don't want to change up my life right now. Maybe later on when I'm uh nigh unto my death, then I'll think, okay, yeah, I should probably think about where I'm going for an eternity But this time of summer, this time of harvest, this season when you're able to turn to the Lord is not forever. In Isaiah, we read, it says, Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. That while shows that there is a certain season when you can no longer seek the Lord. That time is up. That season is over for you. And uh you can ask the rich man that's in hell. Is it too late for him? Yes it is. He couldn't even get a drip of water. It's too late to to act up on that advantage Ask those five foolish virgins that we read about in our responsive reading. There was a day when they came. The bridegroom was there. The door was shut. It was too late. They didn't have oil in their lamp. It's too late for them to come in You can ask that man in the scriptures that wanted to break down his barn to build more barns. What did the Lord say to him? He said, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? Time is up. People are always thinking, people who are walking in the flesh, Well, I'll have a time later to seek the Lord. I'll have a time later to learn about this Lord Jesus Christ that we hear that there is salvation in him. Well I'll I'll I'll put that off to later. Right now I want to build my kingdom. I want to set up for here. I want to enjoy these things now. There's a time when it's too late There's also a call for those who are regenerate, for those who are walking with the Lord, to be spiritually diligent, to be preparing, to be laboring right now, even as those ants. We see that those ants were diligent storing up food for themselves for a season when it was too cold, for a season when the fruit, whatever it is that they're looking for, to gather into their into their home that they could uh feed on. They're looking for that so that once that winter time comes, they'll have something to take from, to eat, when it's no longer available, once that season of advantage is over. They're looking for that. But God called us likewise to a diligence in spiritual matters. It's not always the time. seek the Lord to simply um labor for him. You know, there's no evangelism in heaven. You can do it here and now. And likewise, uh even building up your mind for the scriptures, if you have a season when your mind is focused and actively available, you ought to do those things now, not hold it off, not pursue the things of the world now. And so you have to ask yourself, which kingdom are you being busy for? Which kingdom are you laying up for? Which kingdom are you storing things up for? We read, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through, nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also You can tell a lot about an individual. What is it that they're seeking? What is it that they treasure and value based on what they do with their time? What are they being diligent after? What are they doing? You know, you might say, well, I'm a working man or I'm a working woman. I have to provide for my family. Or there's a lot of things I perhaps don't even have a job outside of the home. There's a lot that you're doing in the home taking care of children or taking care of your spouse. Perhaps you're in retirement. There's much needed to be done there for your health, for for your spouse, for visiting people. And so I'm I'm diligent. I'm busy. Those things are all good. God calls us to be good stewards. of that which He's given us. But at the same time, if that's all you're doing, you have to understand that you're being grossly negligent of the higher calling that the Lord has given you. There ought to be a serious seeking of the Lord in prayer. There ought to be a serious studying of His Word, laboring for His kingdom. You need to be building yourself up in the things of God now. Any abuse of time that you have now to avoid the spiritual buildup of yourself, it'll lead to your spiritual collapse In due time your own mind will go astray. And those that you were supposed to minister to, those that you were supposed to look out for, your spouse, your children, their minds will go astray. you'll this uh spiritual lethargy it'll lead to much destruction. And now listen to this uh phrase I came up with and I believe it's very biblical. Spiritual lethargy leads to spiritual poverty. which will ultimately lead to spiritual destruction. Spiritual lethargy. That that um that that lack of diligence And pursuing the things of the Lord and doing that which the Lord has called us to, it'll lead to spiritual poverty. You won't have much to pull from When difficult seasons come, when time, as time goes on, you'll be spiritually poor, and ultimately it can lead to spiritual destruction. Listen to the Proverbs where it says, Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep, so shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man And later on in Proverbs 24 we read, I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding And lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. Yes, this is what happens. When an individual is slothful in the things of the Lord, in due time the thorns will grow up around their house. And we know from the scriptures that the thorns are a picture of the cares of this life, the cares of this world. Everything else will be a priority other than the Word of God. It'll ru rise up and choke the Word of God. So it has no no no no meaning, no No uh importance in your life anymore. That's a scary thing. But also we read that the stone wall is broken down. That stone wall is a protection From all the evils around that can come into your home. A stone wall, it's like that shield of faith that's there to quench the fiery darts of the devil But if it's been taken down, if you haven't exercised yourself in the things of the faith, built up that wall, then all of the scary beasts that are around will be able to come in All the false teaching, all the false doctrines, all the perversions of men will come and they'll bother you. They'll molest you so that your mind has gone astray on other things. And so we're called to spiritual diligence here and now. A soul that's not tended to will in due time be overrun with those thorns And their stone wall will be broken down. So the Lord calls us. He says, See then that you walk circumspectly not as fools, but as wives, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Now let's look at this second creature. Turn back to our passage. We read of the Conis. That they are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses and the rocks. Again we see that they're weak. But they do something wise. It's about where they build their home. If you're like me, I didn't really know what a Coney was before reading this passage. And my first uh understanding was that it's like a bunny, but no it's not a bunny. Bunnies burrow under the ground. But this is more like a hyrax or a rock badger. They live in the hills and they make their homes, they find rocks to to to to get themselves under there and live in there and be protected there. Though they're weak, they're small little furry creatures, they can be easily killed by a predator, they can be overwhelmed by the sun, or even by storms that'll come and be able to toss them around and and and kill them easily. Yet they're wise because they build their homes in the rocks And so we understand that natural picture there. It's it's uh those rocks are actually something that the Lord's given them. In Psalm 104 we read that the high hills are a refuge for the wild goats. And the rocks for the conies, it's something that the Lord has given them. But you know, God has also provided for us a certain rock for our salvation. The Lord has provided for us a place of refuge that we can go to to hide from the judgment, from sin. That we can be spared from condemnation. And that rock that's provided to us is the Lord Jesus Christ. We have that advantage right now, that right now you can seek him. You can build your home there. You can believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. And you can teach your own house, your children, the people that are in your home, about him, and find safety there in that rock. But this advantage isn't around forever. Those that are in hell can no longer do this. It's too late And uh we read continually throughout the scriptures that the Lord is provided to us for a rock. He is our rock. Psalm 18, verse 2 says, The Lord is my rock and my fortress. And my deliverer, my God, my strength, in whom I will trust. And then later on in Psalm 18, verse 31, For who is God save the Lord? Or who is a rock, save our God? All glory is to him. He's the Savior. And again, Psalm 62, He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. He only. Truly, He only. Where are you finding your safety? Where are you finding that you'll uh but by what reason, by what purpose will you be spared in the judgment that's to come? Where is it that you find your safety? This is the only one that the Lord has provided. It's in him. It's in the Lord Jesus Christ. But the people of God have to uh acknowledge their sin, their weakness, to take heed to this, to turn to him And the people of God of course believe what the scripture says that the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment. There's no way that you're getting by if you don't have a coverage for yourself And specifically, just this coverage under the rock that he provides, they'll be wiped out. The ungodly will not stand in the judgment And we read in Isaiah 32. It's a uh prophetic portion of scripture that speaks of Christ. It says, And a man shall be as in hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest As rivers of waters in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land. That man is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's that covert. He's the shadow of a great rock in a weary land And again in Psalm sixty-one says, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. And so we ought to find our refuge, as these conies, in a rock, that which is stronger than us, that will defend us. that wrought the Lord Jesus Christ. But we're also to find and make our home our place of shelter in his word. You know, when Christ speaks about the uh wise man that built his house upon the rock. He uh he likens it to those that hear and do his word, not just the those that claim that they're in Christ. Listen to Matthew seven verse twenty-four. It says, Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock. Like the ants, there's a time when it's too late to build or find your house. You have to have that ready on a good day. You think about those conies. If they thought, oh well, I'll wait till the storm comes, I'll wait till the predator comes to go ahead and find my home. It's too late then. Too late then. It's uh it's something that has to be done now. When the calamity comes, you just need to be able to enter into that strong house. So it is with the trials of life. There's a day when the trials and hardship will come, and it's difficult to open up the word. You know, there's been several in our congregation that have been smitten with some serious illness and had to go to the hospital. And uh when you're in a time of Serious illness. This isn't a time when you can spend hours studying the scriptures, learning what they mean, and encouraging and building yourself up. No, you have to be already ready by that time. Or else when that time comes, if you're not built up in the Word, you're going to be dismayed. You're going to be moved aside. You're not going to be able to bless the Lord, to think on him. It's uh that's that's a time of trial. But praise the Lord. The Lord keeps his people. Like Job when he was smitten, he said Yeah, he'll still that he still blesses the Lord. The Lord gives and the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And so if you're wise, you'll make your house in the rocks, in the teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so then you'll be able to encourage yourself when a difficult time comes. And we'll move on now to the teaching of the locusts. Look back to our passage. It says there about the locusts that they have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands And we can see the natural teaching there. The locusts, they're a certain insect. I believe it's like a grasshopper that eventually builds wings and they can go after vegetation. and really uh devour it and uh eat it up. But it says that they don't have a king, but rather they go forth in bands That that word bands means division, it's groups. They go forth together. They're laboring in their mission together, even though they don't have a king. They don't have somebody that points them, go ahead and do this now, go ahead and do that Someone that will look out for them for their provision, someone that will guide them with their own interests. And so what's the spiritual picture there for us? Well, the true church of God, we don't have a king on this earth. We don't have, as it were, a pope. That's not something that the Lord has called us to that can can go ahead and direct the church and say, now you're gonna go ahead and do this, I'm gonna call the shots for you. But no, our King is reigning in the heavens. He's sitting at the right hand of the Father. And he's told us to occupy until he comes And a part of that command is also that we're to gather with his people and understanding our own weakness. We don't have an earthly king here, but there is much wisdom to gathering with the saints, to gathering with his people. It's for our protection and it's also for our productivity. You know, the uh Prince of the Power of the Air, he would be pleased to destroy us all. Like the locusts, you know, the locusts are very weak. You if if it's just one roaming around on its own, it would be easy to swat it with the broom and kill it. Problem is over. But if there's a whole swarm of them, it's hard to take them out. There is a blessing or there is an advantage to them in gathering together. And indeed, in the Church of God, it's easy to crush the spirit of just one individual, but it's difficult if you're gathering together, you're consistently encouraging one another. And in Hebrews we read, let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Did you hear what I just read? Let us consider one another. This walk of Christianity isn't a business of, well, I read the Bible sometimes. I don't need that church stuff. I'm just gonna go ahead and seek the Lord on my own and that's good enough for me. No, but there are commands to consider one another. See how is it that your brother's doing? And you're supposed to provoke them to love and to good works. Build yourself up in the scriptures that you have something to share with the others And that's where you go to for encouragement as well. In that Hebrew passage, it continues, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. That's amazing. This saying that there's a time coming, there's an end to this, as you see the day approaching We're supposed to be diligent in these things and exhorting one another and gathering them more and more. We're to gather with the people of God. It's for our encouragement, for our growth, for our spiritual protection as well. You know, the psalmist in Psalm 73, he was he was uh um vexed by the prosperity of the wicked and all throughout the Psalm it explains his his grief over it. And when is it that he actually receives encouragement again? It's until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I understood therein Yeah, it's when you gather with the people of God, you hear the preaching of the Word of God. Then you remember, oh yes, though I expake though I um experienced much difficulty, much trials in this life, there's many wicked around us They don't care for the things of God. Yet you understand that their uh that their end is coming soon. They'll soon be cut down like the grass, and soon the Lord will come and give strength to his people, give his people eternal life, give his people that eternal rest. But you won't receive this encouragement from the world Even though it might be your family, or even though it might be uh those that profess to be Christians. Just because you're gathering with someone that says, Well, I'm a conservative, or yeah, I'm a believer Does that mean you're gathering with a church, with with the true people of God? No, it doesn't. So we ought to be careful there We need to gather with the people of God and actually meditate on the Word of God. And so it's not actually sufficient just to gather with those people that you say, oh yeah I know they truly know God. I know that they have the Spirit of God. And yet when you gather you have no desire to hear what it is that they have to say. You have no desire to bring up the things uh of the scriptures to have any spiritual speech. That's a danger there too. There needs to be a gathering and a consideration of God's word As it says in Proverbs 13, 20, He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. So we see we need the gathering, but we need the gathering of those people that truly have the Spirit of God, that delight to meditate on the Word of the Lord. So we see that there's protection, there's good protection, spiritual nourishment for the people of God when they gather. But also from what the locusts teach us, they're most productive when they're together. you know, one locust on its own can probably chew through some leaves, chew through a couple of fruits. But what is that to an entire garden? It means nothing. It it it it hasn't done any damage really to that garden But when you have a whole swarm that gathers together and jumps on them, they can be very productive. They can destroy the whole garden. And uh in the scripture the Lord calls the locusts his great army. You know, he uses them often for judgment, as we saw even in Egypt. When they gather together, they can accomplish much. So it might be to uh an individual's grief, but they can accomplish much when they're together and we're called uh the body of Christ and we're supposed to be working together under our head, the Lord Jesus Christ. We're supposed to be going forth laboring together and in that we're productive You know, even the victories and the struggles are supposed to be together, not something that the individual just does astray In First Corinthians we read, and whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it In the labors and the trials for the believer. They're supposed to be gathered with the people of God and rejoice over one another and even suffer together. God doesn't call us to a lone wolf Christianity. It's not like the superhero movies or the comics where there's one individual, he has a superpower, he doesn't need anybody else's help, he'll conquer all the foes, he'll restore peace and do all these things. No, that doesn't happen with us. We're feeble. We're weak. We're like these pesky locusts. We're weak alone. The only hero that we have is the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're supposed to follow his commands. We're supposed to follow his direction and guidance. And the Lord calls us to gather together as we labor. You know, we're supposed to labor uh one to another with our unique gifts, yet we're to have the same goal. It's the same kingdom that we're laboring. in building up. And different things, you're supposed to come together for that one goal. In the ministry you always need the body. There's somebody who can teach. There's somebody who's there to be able to pray. Well, everybody should be praying, but It's it's a good thing when you have multiple members praying. You need somebody to maintain the earthly things as well. But everybody's laboring for the same goal. Everybody's laboring for that bringing forth of the Lord's kingdom. Even in preaching, when Christ sent out his disciples, it wasn't solo mission. We uh see that he sent them two and two before his face into every city and place. He understood the weakness of man, how easily we can fall. And so he even sent out his disciples in pairs and groups of two. And he gathers us or he t he commands us to gather continually In Ecclesiastes, there's also a passage that speaks of this, the benefit of having multiple or having more than one. It says in Ecclesiastes 4, 9 through 12, two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up Again, if two lie together, then they have heat. But how can one be warm alone? If one prevail against him, two shall withstand him, and a threefold cord is not quickly broken Truly, woe to him that's alone when he falls. Woe to him, there's not another to pick him up. Woe to those that desire to purposely remain in the shadows There's those individuals that don't want to come to church at all and so they say I I put that stuff away altogether. But there's those that even come to church and yet at the same time They don't care to engage in the spiritual conversation, in the spiritual uh discussion, in the labors of the people of God. They think, well I've made it, that's enough, that's good. No, but Truly you're still alone. If you're not engaging with the people of God, then you're alone. You're separate. And as the scripture says, as that verse says, Woe to him that's alone It'll be so easy to conquer you when Satan and sin and all these temptations come after you, how easily it'll be for you to fall. And indeed, a as uh we read from Ecclesiastes, what a lack of a reward. You could have been there laboring for this kingdom to come and have a great reward with it, and enjoy it with the others But instead, what a lack of a reward when it's just you on your own. But again, you need to acknowledge your weakness, your own frailty in order to take these commands seriously. If you truly acknowledge that you're weak, then it doesn't matter how shy you might be or how much you don't want to talk or w whatever your flesh might say. If you understand that you're weak, you'll obey this command to gather, to exhort one another. And so now we look at the spider, this fourth creature. If you look back to our passage. We read that the spider taketh hold with her hands and is in king's palaces Very brief description you might think what's the point here? Sure, spiders make their way into kings' palaces. What does that have to do with us? Well, you know, the spiders, like the locusts, they're unwanted. Matthew Henry notes in his commentary that uh often men will labor purposefully to get rid of them, try to get rid of them. They don't we don't like these pesky things like the the spiders, these insects. And yet how is it that somehow they end up in kings' palaces? Well, they're small and by reason of their uh their uh small stature, they're able to get into places undetected. They have a decision whether to go ahead and make their house somewhere in the fields, somewhere around the outside of a house They have the decision, if it's nearby, to go ahead and enter a poor man's house, or they can go ahead and enter into a king's palace. They have that advantage that the Lord's given them. But then there's the spiritual picture here. You know, we as men, we're like these spiders. We're we're pretty vile because of our sin and our iniquity. You know, as we read in Isaiah 59, your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. Because of our sins and our vileness, we don't belong in God's kingdom. There's there's uh because of what we've done, because of our works, there's no man getting into heaven because of something that we've labored for And you know, even the spider's web, it's a picture, I believe, of man's works. We read in Isaiah fifty-nine that of the wicked, that their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they cover themselves with their works. Their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands You know, uh it's the the wicked are described weaving their webs, they're working certain things, they're doing things to build themselves up, to make a home for themselves. But it says in that scripture in Isaiah that uh Their webs shall not become garments. They won't be able to cover themselves with them. Neither shall they cover themselves with their works. You know, even as it was back in the garden with Adam and Eve They attempted to cover their own nakedness with the works of their hands, that that uh mending together of the fig leaves, but it wasn't sufficient Not sufficient at all before God. Their webs shall not become their garment. And yet we find that in Christ there is reconciliation. There is a way into the king's palace. There's a way to the throne of God. By God's grace, right now, you have the ability to make it into the palace, into the presence of the King of Kings. Though you're a vile, wicked sinner, just like these spiders, you're detested. You're um any king would not want filthy insects inside of his palace They never ask for, oh hey, can somebody come bring some vile insects and put them somewhere around? No, they don't ask for that. So it is with the Lord. There's there's no desire for wickedness and and and sin to be in his kingdom. Yet though you're a sinner because of Christ, because of his priesthood, because of his vouching on our behalf We have a way that we can make into the very presence of the King of Kings. We can make a presence into that place of royalty. And uh it's like it says in the scripture in Hebrew 4. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. It's a throne of grace. It's a place of royalty. But it is a place of grace where we can obtain grace. Let us come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. If you're wise, though you understand your sinfulness, you'll desire and seek after being in that place That's not uh common to your nature. Your nature is to be with other insects and do filthy things. But at the same time, if the Lord gives you wisdom You'll, through Christ's permission, enter into the kingdom of heaven. You'll enter into his presence You know, even when the people of God are gathered together, we read in the scriptures that for where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. We have the presence of the very King of Kings gathered with us in our presence when two or three are gathered in his name. What a glory that is. And you know, there's uh there's many spiders, there's many sinners congregating with other spiders or sinners, these detestable creatures in the field and in the world and they enjoy their spider or their center like things. You know, the spiders kinda like to be with one another. They kind of have interest in one another's things. They usually don't care too much for royalty. They usually don't care too much to see what's going on in a king's palace What are the decisions being made there? What are the what is that glorious food that's being made there? Instead they'd rather be away entertaining and building themselves up with uh speech about sports and drinking and slumbering and doing everything that doesn't have to do with the king's palace. Because by their nature, if you're a spider, you're a spider. You like spider like things Same thing with the sinner. If you're a sinner, you're a sinner. You like sinner-like things. But yet by wisdom you'll make your way to that house of the king, to that royal palace If the Lord gives you wisdom, you'll make your way to his palace and you'll take hold of the greatest blessings known in the universe. It's only found in that King's Palace. You can go ahead and enjoy your sinfulness and enjoy all those things in the world and it'll feel good to your flesh. But you have no understanding of what blessings there are in the King's Palace In the king's palace you can eat from the most delightful food, which for the believer is the sound preaching of the Word of God. In the king's palace, you can lay hold on eternal life. Receive that greatest blessing that you don't experience out there in the world. In the king's palace, you can experience a forgiveness of your sin, a total putting away of your sins, so that it's not named with you. You can be made pure and clean through the blood of Christ. In the King's Palace, you can experience an eternal fellowship with the King of Kings. Have you thought about that? An eternal fellowship with the King of Kings. you would think, well, it would be pretty impressive if Trump or or who whoever one of these presidents invited me over and I could have a a speech and a dialogue with him. He's the one that's navigating and directing a lot of these decisions that are made in one of the most powerful countries in the world. But who is he to the King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ? He's a nobody And yet we can have that presence and that fellowship, a walk with the Lord, as God calls us to humbly walk with thy God. Isn't that an amazing thing? Isn't that such a thing for us to to to have our minds seek after? As the psalmist says, one thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. Yeah, that Thomas he understood it. He wanted to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of his life. For what reason? To behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. There's no greater company than being in the king's palace. There's no greater thing that you can seek after but to desire that one. But ask yourself, is that really your desire? Do you personally really desire to walk with the Lord Jesus Christ, to know him, to experience the blessings that he has, to be more and more conformed to his image? Ask yourself, is that your desire? Well, in conclusion we've learned of these four weak creatures. They're weak, yet God has made them, as it says from the Scripture, exceeding wise through these things that they do. But here I tell you today, unless you understand your own frailty, your own weakness as these creatures, then you won't act upon these things. To him that thinketh that he standeth, take heed lest he fall. You know, God will resist the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Those that humble themselves acknowledge, yes, I'm weak, Lord. Give me your help. May it help me to be found in the Lord Jesus Christ and to walk as He's commanded us to walk. The Lord will help. He'll give grace unto the humble I urge you to take heed to rightly acknowledge your proneness to wander and to act wisely together with the people of God to Make use of this time that you have right now. If you have an active mind, use it to seek the Lord. Use it to study, to build yourself up in the scriptures. And indeed, make your dwelling place, your de destination, ever to be in that palace of the King of Kings. Let's go ahead and pray. Our Father in heaven. Lord, what a privilege it is that we can pray to you, that we can come into this uh palace of the royal King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ. O Lord, we pray that you would give us wisdom. Help us, O Lord, to to know our frailty, that indeed we're just of uh but dust and ashes. That's what we're made of. But help us, O Lord, to take wise counsel of your word, to walk according to your ways. Please mold us, conform us to the image of your Son. Lord, and help us not to be deceived by the ways of the world, all the glimmer of the world, O Lord. Help us to set our affections on the things above. And Lord, we ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, brother. We turn to our uh closing hymn. It's number six hundred and sixty-seven in your blue song book. 667 in your blue song book. And Marissa, I failed to give you my clue key. When I tell the congregation how many stanzas we're singing, that's when you get the start. I failed to clue you in on that, so Six sixty-seven. And see this the song leader's not turned to the right page yet either. He's getting there. All right, folks, who is on the Lord's side? 667, all four stanzas. Who has hold the horseside? Who will serve the king? Who will be his lippers of her life? Who will leave the world's right? Who will be the call? Who is on the Lord's I look for him will go by thy fall of mercy, by thy grace. We are on the world side, Savior. We are by Not for wish of worry, not for one and all. Enter with the raise the warrior song. But for love that claim lies for who he dies. He who Jesus' name must be on it. By thy love constrain by thy grace divine We are on the world side, Saviour, we are lying. Jesus thou have bought us not with golf. But with thine old life lord or thy other thy bastard Truly thou hast made us willing, thou hast made us free by thy grand beath. By thy grace divine. We are on the world's side, Savior, we are line. This may be a place, some may be a call, but that is so me done can all. Around his standard ranging Victory is sexual for his true unchanging. Makes us try to show joy and less things by thy grace divine.