We're in Hebrews 13 10 to 12. Wow. We're gonna really throw the uh transmission into third gear and see if we can move ahead three verses at a time. Hebrews 13, 10 to 12, we read this. We have an altar. We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle. For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned without, meaning outside the camp. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without, or outside, the gate. The discussion question that I sent to myself and forgot to address to everybody else is as follows. And this is not a tough one, so you know you're not gonna Rue me for not giving you ample brain cycle time to think about it. Because it's a pretty simple one. You know, sometimes we use the phrase, uh boy, I got burned by that deal I might use the phrase, I got absolutely roasted at that business meeting. Or uh, she burned me bad, you know, thinking back to high school. and dates and stupid things like that. But no fire is involved. What are we saying when we use that language? Didn't go as planned? Didn't go as planned. Okay, well sometimes that could be good or bad. You got the bad end of that deal. You got the bad end of that deal. Yeah. How bad end of how how bad was the end of that deal? It hurt hurt. Yeah, it was so bad it actually hurt. You know, we uh adopted the use of certain words into our language and we carry over with it certain connotations even though when we use that one that phrasing I got burned by that deal it really doesn't mean you know, physically by fire. But we use that. Hebrews has a word that it uses very commonly through the book, and it's the word better. That he's a better offering, a better sacrifice, a better high priest. That word features prominently throughout Hebrews. And actually, the concept is right here in our verses 10 to 12 because it's going to be talking about a better altar without using the word better. And that's what uh we've kind of got in front of us here. We're going to talk about the division here, their altar, their tabernacle. which is how the verse opens with to an extent, and then we're going to talk about our altar and our meat. I also have to confess that um I uh uh shortcut you short shortcut cut you short a little last week on the tail end of the ninth verse which says this uh be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. That was correct, but it's this latter part here. It's a good thing that the heart be established with grace Not with meats which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. It turns out that the Edmund for Hebrews is introducing a concept of meats not profiting those that are occupied therein. What I said last week was true, doctrinally speaking, but the Bible is so rich that many a time it will have more than one level of meaning. To the first audience, I don't think they would have thought of Joel Osteen or the Roman Catholics. They were not around at that time. But what was around for the days of the Hebrews were the priests in the Old Testament temple having a tabernacle, and it had not yet been destroyed, which is why some scholars date the book of Hebrews prior to 70 A. D. If you view verse 9 as referring to the meats that we're discussing here in verses 10, 11, and 12, for the bodies of those beasts, which is whose blood is brought in the sanctuary by the high priests we're sin are burned without. uh they have no right to eat and so on. I think there's a connection there. But the Penman is elevating us to another level. Everything I've said at this point, you may be struggling to figure out our tires are spinning, but we're not making forward progress. So to make forward progress, we're going to have to put on our Jewish thinking caps. And to help you with that we need to turn to the book of Leviticus and the very opening chapter. So I invite you to turn with me to Leviticus chapter 1. This is the time when your paper Bible is going to come in very handy We're really going to be looking mostly at the opening verses of the first six chapters. Because this is where we find description of the various sacrifices. You know, what were some of the sacrifices of the Old Testament? Can you name some of them? What were some of the Old Testament sacrifices? Uh well that was the animal. Uh but what was the title of the sacrifice? It was the blank offering. There was a burnt offering? It's a sin offering. Peace offering. Meal offering, peace offering. You got it. We're going to read about those in Leviticus, right? You're familiar at least with the the names. What you may not be familiar with is the nuanced distinction. That is being made here in Hebrews 13, 10, 11, and 12, particularly 10. So let's start with Leviticus chapter 1 And I'm going to start in verse 3 because I kind of want to get right to the point and allow some time for discussion as needed. Leviticus 1 beginning in verse 3. If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd. So this is referring to a burnt offering Let him offer a mail without blemish. He now he here is not referring to the priest, he is referring to the sinner. It's the sinner, the man who is bringing a burnt offering to the priest. He Shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of congregation for the Lord, the priest isn't going to go and yank it out of his his herd He's got to recognize he's the sinner, he's got to bring it. And he, not the priest, the sinner, shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering. Now that's a reference to laying on of hands. It's imputation. I am imputing my sin to this animal. Okay? And it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. So he's now transferred his sin to this this beast And he, the sinner, shall kill the bullock before the Lord. Freddie, when's the last time you put a knife to the throat of a uh uh of a heifer that weighs, you know, five times our weight Never. I had a friend that lived in Mexico. He came to my house late one evening. He was red as all get out. I said, Craig, what have you been doing today? Well I slew a that animal next didn't have quite the time to totally bathe up. I was hoping I could use your shower. He was as red blood. Nasty. Anyway, you shall kill the bullock before the Lord and the priest and Aaron's son sons shall now now here's the blood They shall bring the blood and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So we find that the animal is killed and his blood is poured out. It's going to be poured into a basin of some sort. They take that in. The guy with the dead animal stays to the to the back wherever they they killed this thing that stays behind and they take this bowl of blood and boy I tell you when I cut open a two pound meat of ground beef or stew meat or something there's a lot of blood that comes out of it I can't imagine a whole animal. You take this bowl and you put it around the altar. You're pouring it around the altar. The man is back there. Only the priest can approach the altar. All this blood goes to the altar. Okay, now what happens? Verse 9. Skip ahead to verse 9. His inwards, his legs, he's going to wash in water, so it's talking about now preparing the carcass, and the priest shall burn all on the altar. To be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire of a sweet savor unto the Lord. Alright, so you've just slain a six hundred pound heifer, uh a male, not a heifer. 600-pound bullock, little bull. You've drained his blood, you wash him out, you haul him up to the altar, and you burn the whole thing Every bit of it. The only thing that was used was the blood of the animal. That was the burnt sacrifice. That's the burnt offering appropriately named, is it not? It's going to be burnt in its entirety. Go to chapter two. Let's look at another one. Chapter 2 Chapter 2 of Leviticus, the first three verses, we read this. And when any will offer a meat offering unto the Lord, His offering shall be of fine flour. Now, for years I kind of didn't like that word meat. I thought meat, I'm thinking meat, you know, like we use the word meat, it can be rendered meal, could be rendered food I like the word meat, and I'll show you why in a minute. There's a nice connection here. It's a food offering, if you will, but it's a meat offering. Fine flour, very fine flour. There's no blood in flour, right? I mean that's kind of how that operates. He shall pur pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon, and shall bring it to Aaron's sons, the priest, he shall take there out his handful of the flour thereof, and the oil thereof, with all the frankincense The priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar to be an offering made by fire, the sweet savor to the Lord. Alright, you get the picture here. There's a heap of flour, fine meal. There's some Things put on it, oil. Priest take some. The rest of it is burnt. You burn the flour. Alright, and then it continues in verse 3. And the remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons It is a thing most holy of the offerings of the Lord made by fire. Alright, so if someone brings a meat offering, they're actually bringing food to the priest. Part of it is burned, because it's still an offering. The other part he gets to eat Okay? You tracking? We're just gathering facts right now. Don't connect too many dots. I think you're going to see a pretty consistent pattern here, but this is where we're going. Turn now to chapter 3. Again, the first two verses The chapter divisions are according to the type of sacrifice. Chapter 1, burnt offering. Chapter 2, meat offering. Now in chapter 3, we get to a sacrifice of a peace offering. If he offer it of the herd, whether it be male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord. Here it doesn't have to be a male, now it can be male or female. But it does have to be something from the herd. It could be a an a lamb or a bull. Without blemish, he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation Again, the sinner brings his offering and he puts his hand upon it. It's accepted, and he kills it. Okay? And Aaron's son, the priest, shall do what? They shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. Later we read. uh that uh uh there's more that goes on but I want to kind of accelerate here for purpose of of of time here. That's the peace offering. Hand on it, kills it, blood sprinkled about. Okay? Chapter four Chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. This is the sin of ignorance. This is the and I just, you know, I have to weep when I read some of these things. It just shows how far we as a society have degraded. We as a Planet as a race of men. Look at the kinds of things that trigger this this sin offering. Look at this. Verse 2 of chapter 4. Say speaking to the children of Israel, if a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done and shall do any against them. You made a mistake. You made it a just an honest mistake, but it was against the commandment of the Lord. What would you do today? Move on. Nobody would think twice about it. You rolled out of Walmart, you had a pair of boots underneath the bottom of the shelf of the cart. The checkout counter never caught it. Hooray! Throw it in the trunk. That's great Got away with theft as opposed to running back inside and paying for it. Right, this is common. I you know you're in DC, this is this is how the city operates. It might collapse if it stopped operating. Listen to this Uh uh verse uh um uh uh it it's just incredible the the the various things Uh this is perhaps not the chapter I was thinking of. Let's continue on now to verse uh seven of chapter four. It says this And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the Lord. This is the altar of incense. just on the horns, and shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. Alright, so again, all the blood is poured out at the base of the altar. Skip down to verse eleven. The skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head, his legs, his inwards, even his dung. Verse twelve, even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp. unto a clean place where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out, he shall be burnt. This is just the sin of ignorance. This whole animal is consumed, constantly consumed, and the only thing that appears to be of any use to the tabernacle is the blood poured out around the base of the altar. Go to chapter 5. This is the another offering. Oh, this is the one I was thinking of where we've really digressed. Look at verse 1. If a soul sin and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he's seen or know it, if he doesn't utter it, he shall bear his iniquity. How many times have you heard swearing and don't bear witness to it? Hey, you shouldn't speak like that. That requires an offering. That's a sin. Kane is the one who asked, Am I my brother's keeper? The answer is yes. Hey, don't do that. Can you imagine a society that polices itself with even these low-level, what we would call low-level things Amazing. We continue on to verse 5. This is talking about the various trespass offerings. Verse 6, he shall bring his trespass offering unto the Lord. For his sin which he has sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin. If he's not able to bring two turtle doves two pigeons, etcetera, he can bring tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering. Put no oil on it Uh we continue ahead. The priest is going to put uh a handful, um his handful of it, even a memorial, and burn it on the altar according to the offerings made by fire to the Lord. It's a sin offering. That was verse 9, verse 10 The priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his sin that he has sinned, and one of these it shall be forgiven him. The remnant shall be the priest as a meat offering So, again, the only thing the priest gets to eat is if the fine flour is brought forward. There were some times when an offering of an animal Could be made uh in in some rare places. But look at Leviticus 6. Because so far, if he's bringing a bull, the priest is like, oh, it's gonna be a bloody day today And he don't get no prime rib. He ain't getting no T-bones or or barbecue that day. Not happening. It's all gonna get roasted right. He stand near the fire. Oh man. Oh smell so good But he can't eat it. He literally can't eat it because it's a burnt offering. But if it's fine filled or flour, he gets a biscuit. How nice That's just Ducky. But this is all he gets. Then you go to Leviticus 6 and verse 24 to 26. The Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Aaron his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering. In the place where the burnt offering is killed, the sin offering, uh, shall the sin offering be killed before the Lord is most holy. The priest that offered for sin shall eat it. So there is sometimes when he can't eat of it if it's slain. In the holy place it shall be eaten in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation. However, skip down to verse thirty Because there's some clarification brought forth here. And no sin offering whereof any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation To reconcile with all in the holy place shall be eaten. It shall be burnt on the fire. So, what do we learn from this? Well what we learn basically is that if it's a burnt offering and it's an animal, if it's an animal sacrifice that's to be killed, and God says you pour out the blood Nobody gets to eat from that beast. By the way, it was the best of the herd. Pastor Byrd made the point one time in the message that this would be the grand champion lamb out of your flock, the one you would enter into the state fair. The best. He only got the best, the Lord. Only the best. Anton couldn't slip up and kick his toe on a back step and curse and have to bring a you know, a a maimed or a lame lamb, he had to bring the best. The best. And if it required the blood to be spilled around the altar, you couldn't eat the flesh. It was burned up totally. Meal, flour, you could eat that. We also find that blood throughout the Bible represents life. Because the life is in the blood. We refer to it as lifeblood. And in battle and in war, it doesn't matter the color of the skin of the individual. The blood inside runs red, and it's either O positive or A-positive, A-negative, B whatever, but if it matches, you can be a donor But blood represents life, and therefore only life that is poured out before the Lord satisfies for sin. God requires life for life. The wages of sin is death. The paycheck is death. You've got to have a substitute. And there was a substitute. And in fact, that is my second point, is that this lifeblood of the animal was a substitute for the sinner's life. He would lay his hand on this animal and he would watch. He would have to take the animal, slit the throat. He would have to bind it up, do whatever is required to kill it. They didn't have twenty-twos back in those days. They have knives or sharp. He had to do that. I don't know if you've ever witnessed that before, but it's a gruesome scene when an animal have his has his throat cut. It's just gruelsome It would be a reminder to you, God takes sin seriously, and sin requires death, from the smallest to the greatest. We've been reviewing things that are just sins of ignorance. You find here also that this constant requirement of atonement throughout the life of a Jew is overwhelming. It's just overwhelming. Just the number of times, I mean, if I were to set a high threshold in my own life, giving myself a break on a great many quote-unquote minor things. I would have to have a mighty large flock to get through the year. I'd be looking for some rapidly multiplying animals because if I didn't have a large herd I'm down to turtle doves and a lot of fine flour. I mean it was just a constant, constant reminder. The old covenant was very bloody And it's just astounding how much that was. It's hard for us to imagine, but this was the norm. in a faithfully functioning Hebrew society. Now, I'm not talking about those who are not faithful, such as the sons of Eli, who would dip their flesh hook in the pot. No, give me boiled flesh to eat. He made the offering of the Lord a stench in the nostrils of the people because of what he did. They also lay with the women at the gate. They were just totally wayward. And they did not carry it out correctly. You know, while we're on this topic about a bloody sacrifice, you know, the Roman Catholic priest, and curiously enough, I had prepared this point and I sent it to our brother in Arizona concerning the Roman Catholics and their Popish pagan mass, where they are re-sacrificing the body of Christ, that if they hold that to be an offering, and it was an offering made by blood, They're not sacrificing it correctly. Number one, you never read that the sinner would partake of the offering, only the priest. And number two, if its blood was poured out, you certainly couldn't partake of it. It had to be burned whole. So whatever their little thing is they got going there If you're eaten of a sacrifice, you're basically offering it to yourself because the priest is the only one who can partake of that, not the sinner. And they're making themselves out to be their own little gods by their own little works. Hmm. I guess that fits their theology, huh? It's altogether pagan, it's false Now let's go back, having covered this insight from the first few chapters of Leviticus, and now with These Hebrew glasses, these Hebrew lenses placed on. Let's reread Hebrews 13, 10 to 12, and I think you may get a different sense. Hebrews 13, 10 to 12 starts off by saying, we have an altar. We have a different altar. We have a better altar. As compared to what? Well, as compared to this. Whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle for the bodies of those beasts in their tabernacle. Whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin? It's burned. It's burned outside the camp. Chapter 9, the verse, the last part. Not with meats which have not profited them that have been occupied there. And every day these guys are hauling. It's the worst butcher shop to work in in the world, because you never get to partake of the meat. You get the sense here? You're doing all this work for some perfectly good food, the best cuts you've ever seen, and you can't partake of it. You're not permitted. It's not awful. That is their altar. Now there's a contrast. But we have an altar. So let me ask the question. So what is our altar? And don't be quick to answer. Think it through. What is our altar? Think about it Yeah, I have a right answer in mind, but I'll entertain different ones because I came up with all kinds of wild ideas until I went through Leviticus myself and thought about it a lot. What is our altar? Any thoughts Bingo. Jesus Christ was Burnt. Remember that first discussion question? What does it mean I got burnt by that deal? He got burnt. The full wrath and judgment of man and God was upon him on the cross. Oh, but when you're killed, your blood has to sprinkle around about the altar. Well it did. His blood dripped around The sides of the cross. That's our altar. It's the cross of Jesus Christ. That's our altar. But how does it profit us? How does it benefit us? You know, his his blood sprinkled across And around the base of that cross altar, if I can use that term, cross-bash altar, made an infinite atoning payment for sin because we had an infinite sin debt Job says, Are not our iniquities infinite? And it was never to be sacrificed again. And frankly, this whole point has already been explained and expanded upon earlier in chapter 9 of Hebrews. So let's reflect back for a moment now on Hebrews 9. 11. So Christ is that Lamb sacrificed on that cross altar. That's our altar. And what's the difference? What's the benefit? Because they had no right to eat. They couldn't benefit from all the flesh meat they processed daily. Hebrews 9. 11 tells us this But Christ being common high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building, not of this creation, neither by the blood Of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered in once in the holy place. So he was the offering. He was also the high priest. He literally offered himself. He fulfills all those types of figures Having obtained eternal redemption for us. The payment is made and it's one that pays all the price, never to be done again. You have no need to sacrifice them again. Praise the Lord. If the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies to the purifying of the flesh. Now let's think about that for a moment. That purification is a spiritual purification. It is a metaphorical one. It is one that depicts the cleansing power of the blood of Christ on the cross for us. That's all they did. It was a picture, sensible picture, a weak picture. He says if that Old covenantal sign, the blood of bulls and goats, ashes, purify the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God? Yes, he was spotless Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. You see that cleansing of ashes and those sorts of things. The the the sprinkling of blood. All of that purified. It said to the law of God, blood has been shed, the sinner has paid the ultimate price, I'm satisfied. The blood of Christ has been shed for you. God down looks down and says, I'm satisfied. And it has a purging, a purifying effect on your conscience to serve the living God. It has an effect, it has an impact. So Christ is that sacrifice slain on our altar. Well, what is our meat? How do we profit from it? And I'm going to close out here in John chapter 6. And now we're going to turn to John chapter 6 to see how we profit from this radically different altar, this radically different sacrifice. Compared to what they had in the old. It's a simple message. You guys know this. But I want to connect some dots. I want to expand on what this passage is saying The Old Testament priests couldn't partake, but glory be to my soul, the New Testament priests can. The New Testament priests can partake of that offering. In fact, they're commanded to. They must. They must partake of it. Jesus said so. Look at John 6. 52. John 6. 52. The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? And Jesus said to them, Verily, verily, I say unto you. Except, and unless, and only if, ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. This is a shocking statement to these people, and it continues to confound the Roman Catholics today, who double down on this point, that, oh, Jesus is talking physically. Well, you fellows would have a mighty hard time fulfilling it physically, because I guarantee you none of you fellows in there are eating physical human flesh and drinking physical human blood. You're spiritualizing it somehow Except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoso eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life, and I'll raise him up at the last day. And look at this beautiful connection. For my flesh is meat indeed. Meat, meat offering. Connection? That's what the priest could eat. The meat offering. My flesh is. Meat indeed. . . He makes a connection to the meat offering. Alright? And my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood dwelleth in me, and I in him. As the living Father has sent me, I live by the Father. So he that eateth me, even he shall live by me. And then he goes on and says something else interesting. This is that bread. Remember the meat offering? Fine flour? This is that bread which came down from heaven. Not as your fathers did eat men and are dead. He that eats of this bread shall live forever. Do you see the connection? He's making his flesh, his blood, he is the bread. He's tying them all together He's saying this is you have to eat that. You gotta eat it, or you're gonna be dead. You need it for life. And then as they continue to get confounded and are confused by it We read in John 6. 63, Jesus gives a concluding statement. He says, it's the spirit that quickens, that makes alive. The flesh. Of bulls and goats, your own flesh. The flesh profits a little? No, it profits nothing. It certainly didn't profit the Old Testament. Priests, they couldn't eat it, they had to burn it. There's no profit to it. None None. They got no nutritional benefit from it whatsoever. He says the flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak unto you They are spirit and they are life. And that's why you read in John chapter 1, the word became what? Flesh. And dwelt among us. This is the meat that profits you They didn't get any profit from it. They served day in and day out and day in and day out and they got no profit from it. They couldn't partake of the animal, but you can. You can. This is The meat, the flesh, the blood of Jesus Christ. You read this book, this is what you're partaking of. You can profit from it. We have an altar They have no right to eat that serve in that tabernacle. By the way, it doesn't say serve in, they serve it. They serve the tabernacle. They're servants and slaves to it. They're not just menial uh laborers, that is their life as it were. And so in conclusion, you know, I think we would say that it's what Jesus has done for our atonement, not what the priests do with needs. And you can read about that and you can profit from it. And you must. You're encouraged to. You know, coming up here in another month, we're going to partake of the Lord's Supper. Again, another sensible sign, but it's not bloody, and it's memorialized to teach us, to remind us that yes, there's much in the atonement of Christ Him on that altar is what the consummate point of all the old covenant was aimed to point at and talk about, all that the prophet spoke of. It's a highlight of the scriptures. It's a big deal because it has many, many, many ramifications. So many ramifications. Your adoption. And payment for sins a great deal. How many of you have ever been in really deep debt? You know, you looked at your mortgage or you looked at, you know, uh a credit card gone astray or I mean Really deep debt is just uh it's depressing. You don't want to look at it like I'm never gonna get to a hole. I can remember coming out of college and getting into debt and I just oh what a deep hole to climb out of. You never want to get in that deep hole, it's horrible Imagine a payment that says you'll never get in debt again. It's gone. Further still, you're adopted into the family of God. Further still, you're aided and supported by the the Spirit of God and the Word of God here and now. Further still, great and exceeding precious promises, none of which will be canceled, because He's always made good in His promises. It just keeps getting better. We need not even fear death. Death itself is an enemy that shall be conquered and destroyed by the Lord Himself. And so indeed do we not have a better altar? We do. We have a much better altar. I close with that. Um sorry I didn't have too many additional questions, but uh I trust it was a benefit. Jeffrey, could you close us in prayer please? Oh Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. We thank you for causing us to believe on your word, for therein is eternal life. And we thank you for applying your word to our hearts. Jesus Christ name. Father, one more thing