Turn with me to the Gospel of John this morning, and I'm just going to read a few verses from chapter 14, starting in the 15th verse and reading through the 18th verse. John chapter 14, verses 15 through 18 for our scripture reading this morning. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him But ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come unto you Let us bow for prayer. Gracious Father, now as we approach thy holy word, we thank you that the Holy Spirit is indeed the interpreter and the guide in the word. And so, Father, as we look to your word this morning, may we be instructed. May we be equipped to give answer to those that cry falsehood in our day Father, bless your word to our hearts and exalt your son in our eyes. In Jesus' name. Amen. The title you have for our message this morning in the bulletin is a biblical examination of the Holy Spirit. And that word biblical is the key word of the title. This morning we're going to consider the Holy Spirit. But a biblical examination of the Holy Spirit has nothing to do with how you feel. A biblical examination has nothing to do with your opinions or the opinions of anyone else. A biblical Examination of the Holy Spirit really does not rely on commentaries, though the commentaries may give us a lot of insight and wisdom. A biblical examination of the Holy Spirit does not rely on your experience. It's not a matter of what has happened to you. But rather, a biblical examination of the Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and nothing else. And looks at what does the Word of God tell us about the Holy Spirit? Now, for our scripture reading this morning, we could well have read John 14, 15, and 16, all three of those chapters. Because most of what we're going to consider this morning about the Holy Spirit is confined to those three chapters. And if you were to give those three chapters a cute little name, I would call them a reader's guide to the Holy Spirit. Uh when I first started thinking over that concept this week, at first my mind was thinking an owner's manual for the Holy Spirit, but I didn't think that quite fit well. But a reader's guide to the Holy Spirit. Any of you ever use reader's guides? A reader's guide takes a broad concept and it's kind of like cliff notes. It kind of boils it down to something that you can read quickly, read succinctly, and yet it tells the whole story. And so we're going to begin with the very basics this morning, and then spend most of our time on two elements. What does the Bible say the Holy Spirit will do? And what does the Bible say the Holy Spirit will say? And so, first of all, who is the Holy Spirit? And we find here In verses 15 through 17 of John 14, that he is called the Comforter And there in this verse is the first time, verse 16, is the first time we find this name, the Comforter. And we only actually find this word five times in our New Testament. Four times it's translated comforter and one time it's translated advocate is the word paraclete or paracletos. Para, we know that that word in our English, a parallel, are two lines that line up. The word Paraclete, the comforter, literally means one who comes to the side. It's a legal term. If you were in court, You will have an attorney that stands by your side, and that attorney is your advocate And that is the way that Christ here describes the Holy Spirit. He is the comforter. He is the paraclete. He is the one who comes beside the believer who stands by our side. I mentioned that this word is only used five times in Scripture. It is translated the comforter, four of those, and then the other time it is translated advocate. And of course, John wrote the book, the Gospel of John. He also wrote the three epistles, 1, 2nd, 3, John, in 1 John 2 and verse 1. Jesus John says, My little children, these things I write unto you that you sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate. with the Father Jesus Christ the righteous. And that word advocate in 1 John 2 and verse 1 is this same word comforter that is used of the Holy Spirit in the Gospel of John. And you see there a picture of the Trinity. For if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And Christ there is taking that comforter position, that advocate position, standing beside the believer. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Godhead. Now, I don't believe that anyone here would dispute that with me I believe that all of you would agree that yes, the Holy Spirit is indeed God. He is not the third God. He is God Himself. He is equal with the Father and equal with the Son, and yet He fills a different role. And so I'm not going to go into all the biblical ramifications of the deity of the Holy Spirit, because I don't believe that is in dispute, other than to look at three things about the Holy Spirit. Which are good arrows in your quiver to stand against false doctrine and false views of the Holy Spirit How do we know the Holy Spirit is God? First of all, because He is essential to redemption. There is no redemption without the Spirit of God. And this is found in John chapter 3 in verse 5. Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. You're not going to get to the kingdom of God without being born by the Spirit. Therefore, the Spirit must be God. And then secondly, the Holy Spirit is the quickener of the resurrection. He's the central to redemption. He's the quickener of the resurrection. This comes from Paul in Romans chapter 8 and verse 11. But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus for the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies By his spirit that dwelleth within you. It is the Spirit that brings about the resurrection. Therefore, the Holy Spirit must be God. And then thirdly, on these three very brief things, the Holy Spirit is the agent of sanctification. And this is in 1 Peter 1 and verse 2. We are elect according to the foreknowledge of God through sanctification of the Spirit and obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. And so it is the Spirit by which we are sanctified. Therefore, he must be God. And so the Holy Spirit, who he is, he's the comforter, he's the advocate, he is the third person of the Trinity. But where does he come from? What is the origin of the Holy Spirit? If you look back to our text there in John chapter 14. We find first of all that he is given to us by the Father. John 14, verses 15 and 16, if ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. The Father will give another comforter. Who was the first comforter? That was Jesus Christ. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. And so Jesus has been with his disciples And remember his prayer, Father, I have kept those that thou hast given me out of the world. I have been their comforter. I have been their advocate. But now Christ is returning to his father, and he says, I will pray the Father, and he will send you another comforter. And where do we get the first? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. God gave his son to come and be our Messiah, be our Savior. And so, first of all, we find that the Holy Spirit is given to us by the Father. But Christ was returning to his father. And so he says, now I will give you another comforter. that he may abide with you forever. Christ is not physically present with us today. That's a good argument against transubstantiation. That he is not physically in the elements of the Lord's table. He's not physically with us, but he is with us today in his spirit, and his spirit abides with us. And this is a fulfillment of the messianic prophecies. Because you see, we find a difference in the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament from that which we find in the New Testament. Remember Saul? We have this sad account of King Saul in 1 Samuel 16 and verse 14. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. And an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And it's 1 Samuel 18, verse 12, And Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was departed from him, and was departed from him. Uh sorry. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him. The Lord was with David and was departed from Saul. And so in the Old Testament, the Spirit would be given and the Spirit would be taken away. And that is why we find Balaam prophesying in the name of the Lord, and yet we find he was a wicked prophet. And so the Spirit did not continue on men as it does today. And remember the prophecy that God gave to John the Baptist, how he would recognize Christ. The one on whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining. Remaining. And so Christ has been with the disciples, but Christ said, I'm going to send another comforter that he may, I will pray my father, and he will give you another comforter that he may abide with you. And so in Psalm 51, we find David in his sin, having witnessed the Spirit of God being taken from Saul, and David set praise there, Take not thy Holy Spirit. from me. But with Christ restoring the work that Adam destroyed, now the Spirit of God, given by the Father, abides with us. We might grieve him, but we cannot lose him. He abides. What a glorious thing that Christ did for us there in the crucifixion. Because his prayer to the Father, the Father gave us, gave us this Holy Spirit to abide with us in the new covenant. And so the Holy Spirit, first of all, is given by the Father But we find also that he is sent by the Son. Flip over a page to chapter 15 of John and verse 26. John fifteen verse twenty-six But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from my Father. Even the Spirit of truth which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me. And so the Holy Spirit is given by the Father is sent by the Son. But then we find also that he proceeds. He proceeds. 15 and 26 from the Father. And that word proceed is a word we need to pause on for a minute because it means to go forth. And we find this word multiple times in Scripture. Matthew four, verse four. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. It's the same word there that's used of the Holy Spirit. And where does the word of God come from? Well, holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And so that's a very brief overview of who the Holy Spirit is and where he comes from. But now we get down to boilerplate teaching, if we want to call it that We live in a world today when religion has an awful lot to say about the Holy Spirit, and where a lot of quote unquote churches Worship the Holy Spirit to the exclusion of the Father and of the Son. All you hear from them is the Holy Spirit But let's take a biblical view. What does the Bible tell us in these three chapters that the Holy Spirit will do? Well, first of all, he does exactly what his name says. He's the comforter. He is the advocate. When Satan accuses my soul, the Holy Spirit steps in and says, No, he's mine, whether he feels like he's mine or not. Know he's mine, whether his actions are good or evil. Because we find in Scripture the Spirit beareth witness with our spirits that we are the children of God. Aren't you glad that spirit never leaves? Because I don't always feel saved. And to my shame, I do not always do and say the things I should. My flesh rears up and gets control from time to time, and the only way that that is ever defeated is when the Spirit of God beats him back down. I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I. Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death. And so the first thing that we're told that the Spirit of God is going to do has nothing to do with miracles. It has nothing to do with speaking in tongues. It has nothing to do with healing. It has everything to do with what the Spirit of God does in the heart and the life of the believer. He advocates for me before the throne of God. He argues against my adversary, the devil, within my soul. And he is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. He never leaves me nor forsakes me. Because it is in the person of the Spirit that the Holy Christ that Christ is expressed, the second person is expressed. to my soul. And so he advocates for me, and he abides with me. And look at what it says there in 16 and verse 14. Well, let me read 16, chapter 14, verse 16 and 17. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever, even the spirit of truth. Whom the world cannot receive. Whom the world cannot receive. You think about these big charismatic meetings that you may see on TV. and people who care nothing about truth and nothing about God, but they heard that this guy is a good luck charm for getting rich. They heard that this guy can make your prosperous. There was a lady in Jamaica that you would go to if you went by her little shack of a house. You would see Volvos and Mercedes that had driven up a horrible, horrible potty fold road pothole-filled road to get to her Because she could give them financial advice. Now if her financial advice was so good, why did she live in a shack? If she had such good financial advice to give, why didn't she live in a mansion? But you see, they believed that the Spirit was somehow there and they could get something, and so they came with no care whatsoever for God. But a big care for the tires on the Mercedes because they were falling in the potholes all the way up the road. Now, this is the spirit that the world cannot receive. You see the contrast from the popular teaching of the Spirit. Even the Spirit of Truth, verse 17 of chapter 14. whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you But notice also in that context that these things are inseparably linked to keeping his commandment. Look again in their text. Verse 15. If ye love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another. Comforter. You see, that is what the whole charismatic movement totally ignores in their preaching of the Holy Spirit. If ye love me, keep my commandments, and I will pray the Father, and He will send you the Holy Spirit. They just throw the commandments out the windows and go that they may consume them upon their eyes own lust. What does Scripture teach us that the Holy Spirit will say What speech and words can biblically be attributed to the Holy Spirit? I saw a thing the other day on Facebook that spell of um uh Noah Jamaican guy. Uh he lists himself as as apostle so-and-so or prophet so-and-so is the name he has on Facebook. And he said that something, something, within seven hours every sickness will be gone from your body. In the name of Jesus, amen. That was his Facebook post. So you know me. I can't keep my mouth shut or my fingers still. So I replied, so what you're saying is that in seven hours and fifteen minutes, if I'm still sick, you're a false prophet. He didn't reply. Didn't fit the narrative. No, didn't fit the narrative. Okay. What will the Holy Spirit truly say? Difficultly. Let's look at the scriptures and see what it says. First of all, The message of the Holy Spirit will always come from God the Father. The Holy Spirit does not teach doctrine. The Holy Spirit does not come up, I shouldn't say doesn't teach, he does teach us doctrine, but the Holy Spirit is not the origin of doctrine. The Holy Spirit does not come up with some new doctrine for us. He does teach us the doctrines in the written Word of God. But the Holy Spirit is not the origin of doctrine. It doesn't come from Him. It comes from God the Father. And if you turn over to chapter 16, we'll find this in the Word of God. John 16, verses 12 and 13. I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. Howbeit, when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself. But whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. Now, I would imagine most of us at some time or another have heard some quote-unquote preacher say the Holy Spirit told me X. If a man says that the Holy Spirit or a woman says that the Holy Spirit told them something and you do not find exactly what they say they were told in the Word of God, they're a false prophet. That's right. Because the Holy Spirit only speaks the words of the Father. He does not originate any new doctrine. Christ declared this about himself. If you look over to chapter fourteen, verse twenty-three. Jesus answered and said, If any man love me, he will keep my words. There's keeping the commandment again, and I will uh pray the f Uh and my father will love him and I will come unto him and make our bow with him. He that loveth me uh not He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings, and the words which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. Christ said, the word that you hear is not mine. It is the Father's which sent me. And verse 10. Believest thou that I am in the Father, and the Father in me. The words that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself. But there's many other instances. John 17, 16. John 8, 28 and John 12, 49, where Christ says this same thing, that the message that he speaks is not his own. originates with God the Father. So first of all, the message of the Holy Spirit will always come from God the Second, the God the Father Secondly, the message of the Holy Spirit will always point to Jesus Christ, never to himself. The message of the Holy Spirit always points to Christ. Look at verse 26 of chapter 14. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance Whatsoever I have commanded you. Now As Brother Vince opens the Word of God in Sunday school, as I open the Word of God in the morning worship service, even as uh Brother Anton expounds upon the scriptures. That are the backing of our confession. The Holy Spirit in those verses will speak to our hearts But what he will speak is Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ. That's right. The Holy Spirit will always testify of Christ. The Holy Spirit will never testify of himself. Now again, compare that with the popular preaching of our day. The Holy Spirit this, the Holy Spirit that, and the Holy Spirit told me to do this, and so on. And so the message of the Holy Spirit will always come from God the Father. The message of the Holy Spirit will always point to Christ. Thirdly, the message of the Holy Spirit will always speak truth. He will always speak truth. I I bypassed one verse you should have read. There in fifteen twenty-six, but when the comforters come, whom the Father will send unto you, even in the Spirit of Truth, he shall which proceed from the Father, he shall testify of me. Christ says He shall testify to me. But the Holy Spirit always speaks truth. Look at verse 13 of chapter 16. Chapter 16, verse 13. How be it when the spirit when he, the spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth. For he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. The Holy Spirit will guide you into all truth. You know what? The Holy Spirit of God never speaks nonsense. There's someone here this morning. And their knee is hurting. Where are you? Your knee is hurting. There's only fifteen thousand people here. Somebody's gotta have a hurting knee. Where are you? The spirit tells me your knee is hurting. Folks, the Holy Spirit isn't concerned with your hurting knee. I'm sorry. The Holy Spirit is not going to tell some preacher that you got bit by a mosquito last night. That's not what the Holy Spirit speaks. The Word of God tells us that the Holy Spirit's job is to guide us into all truth. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. What the Holy Spirit does is takes the Word of God, faithfully proclaimed, and applies it to the hearts of the belief of the unbeliever and transforms them from a child of Satan into a child of God. The Holy Spirit speaks truth. And the job that is described for the Holy Spirit in the Word of God is a guide into all truth. Not into nonsense about somebody is going to get a check for $30,000 this week. The Holy Spirit always speaks truth. The message of the Holy Spirit is prophetic. We find that as well. Again, look at verse 26, or ver uh chapter 13, verse Chapter 16, verse 13, and he will show you things to come. The ministry of the Holy Spirit is prophetic. Now we need to be careful with this one. Because this does not mean that the Holy Spirit is going to tell you this there's a storm coming next week and you need to get your crops in. It does not mean that the Holy Spirit is going to tell somebody today something is going to happen in five years. We're not talking about Gene Dixon here, folks. Before the completed scriptures, the Holy Spirit gave John a vast exposition of things that were going to happen. In fact, the Holy Spirit showed John, and he was showed by Christ himself when he was taken up into the third heaven. showed things that he could not even mention, showed him things he could not describe, and even things that he did not understand And then God said, that's it, the book is done, there's a curse on anybody that adds to it or takes away from it. So how do we say that the ministry of the Holy Spirit is prophetic? Because the Holy Spirit takes the Word of God and illumines the hearts and minds of his people to what God has said. And I believe we have a better understanding of things to come today than even the apostles had. And I say that for this reason. They looked for Christ to come in their own time, in their own day. They did not believe the year one hundred would be reaped, and they didn't believe the year two hundred would be reaped. We can look at the Word of God today and we can see the wind in the top of the mulberry trees. We can See the end coming near. We can see prophecies being fulfilled. And how is it that we understand these things? Because we're smarter? No, because the Spirit of God illumines our eyes and our hearts And even there we must be cautious because many godly men have gotten it wrong because they followed their own wisdom rather than all the scriptures. Because the scripture says, no man knoweth the day nor the hour. And yet we know of godly men that have started setting dates. And when they went away from the completed word of God, they ran into error. But the ministry of the Holy Spirit is prophetic. Not that we are to start setting dates, but we can look at the Word of God and we can say, you know what, I can face the future with peace. Peace. Because I see the hand of God working in history. I see God preparing all things before me, and I know that all things are going to work together for good. Because I love God and I'm called according to his purpose. It doesn't matter what the stock market does, it doesn't matter who's in the White House, it doesn't matter what China does, it doesn't matter if North Korea starts sending rockets. It was said by a teenager many years ago, I know not what the h future holds, but I know him who holds the future. And the Spirit of God, speaking prophetically in the written word of God, still has that ministry of prophecy to the heart of the people. But here's the one, and I know our time's getting away, but here's the one that is missed most of all in the days misuse of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. The message of the Holy Spirit is a message of judgment. It's not a message of blessing. It's not a message if you're going to get rich and be happy. It's a message of judgment. Look at chapter 16, verses 7 and following. This is the reader's guide to the Holy Spirit. Chapter 16, verse 7. Nevertheless, I tell you the truth. It is expedient for you that I go away, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. But if I depart, I will send him unto you, and when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment Of sin, because they believe not on me. Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and that ye see me no more. of judgment because the prince of this world is judged. That doesn't sound very comforting, folks. But it's not talking about us. Look who it's talking about. Of sin, because they believe not. Of righteousness because I go to my Father. Well, he's gone there to prepare a place for me, folks, of judgment, because the prince of this world is judging. You see, to the unbeliever, he's not the comforter. To the unbeliever, he's not the advocate. And you don't find the Holy Spirit being preached as a God of judgment today. You find him preached as he's going to make you healthy, wealthy, and wise. From spirit. But what we need to preach is the Holy Spirit's come to judge the world. He's come to reprove the world of sin. Repent Except you repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Of righteousness, flee from the wrath to come. Repent, forsake your unrighteousness And of judgment, because the prince of this world, Satan, is judged, and all his followers will be judged along with him. They were cast in the lake of fire, prepared for Satan. Angels. The message of the Holy Spirit is a message of judgment. That's the true message of the Holy Spirit. And then finally, who does the Holy Spirit exalt? Does he exalt himself? No, never, never, never. John 16, verses 13 and following. Howbeit, when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. For he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. He shall glorify me. For he shall receive a mine and show it unto you. This Holy Spirit does not exalt himself, but he points to Christ. He points to Christ. He points to Christ. And as you read the Old Testament and you start seeing Christ in the Old Testament, it is the Holy Spirit that is pointing to Christ, pointing to Christ, pointing to Christ. Here he is, here he is, here he is, here he is. That's what the Holy Spirit through the Holy Spirit exalts. Verse 14, he shall glorify me, for he shall receive a mine and show it unto you. All things that the Father hath are mine. Therefore I said unto you that he that's the Spirit shall take of mine and show it unto you. So very quickly a summary, and we'll close. The Holy Spirit is our abiding comforter, John 14, verse 16. The Holy Spirit brings all things to our remembrance, the words of Christ, John 14, verse 26. He has no original message. The Holy Spirit will always testify of Christ, John 15, verse 26. The Holy Spirit will reprove the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment, John 16, verse 8. This is an echo of the preaching of Christ. The Holy Spirit will not speak of himself, John sixteen verse twenty-six. This message is the message of the Father and the Son. The Holy Spirit guides us into all truth and shows us things to come, John 16. 16 verse 13, and the Holy Spirit will always bring glory to the Son. John 16, verse 14. That's it, folks. That's it. That is what the biblical view of the Holy Spirit is. Don't listen to the false prophets, but rather be equipped to give a reason of the hope that lieth within you. Let us pray. Father, I thank you that you've not left us to wander in confusion. Your word is very very concise and is very clear and is very plain if we simply just read it. Father, we thank you that the Holy Spirit does guide us in the truth. The Holy Spirit does interpret and teach the word to our heart. Father, may we be biblical in all that we say and do. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.