Turn in your Bibles with me, please, to the book of Colossians and the first chapter, the New Testament book of Colossians and chapter one. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, 1st and 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. The book of Colossians, chapter 1, and I think I gave instruction to those that prepare the bullets, and I'd read through verse 11, but I believe we'll actually read through verse 12. uh for our reading this morning. Colossians chapter one, beginning with verse one Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, or Timotheus, our brother. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ, which are at Colossae, grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying also for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus. and of the love which ye have to all the saints, for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of the of the truth of the gospel which is come unto you, as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it does also in you, since the day ye heard of it and knew the grace of God in truth. As ye also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit. For this cause we also, since the day we heard of it, Do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. Let us bow for prayer as we begin this morning. Gracious Father, now as we approach thy holy book, the Bible. Father, we thank you for it. We thank you that we have it today translated into our own language. We thank you, Lord, that you have preserved it in its originals, Father, that it might we might have a faithful source from which to receive a translation. Father, you've been good and gracious to your people. Father, today we pray that you would open our hearts to receive thy truth. And, O Lord, graciously open thy word to our hearts. Show us glorious things out of thy law. Correct us where we wander. Sharpen us where we are dull. Lord, make us into profitable servants for thee. For Lord, we confess that when we have done all, we are unprofitable. Bless thy truth to our hearts, we pray. Enable this failing man to be able to expound thy word effectively and efficiently this day. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you notice in your bulletin this morning, our theme as we look into God's Word is the matter of fruitfulness. We're going to use this first chapter of Colossians as our jumping-off point, and we will refer back to it as we consider various points and matters that are concerning this idea of fruitfulness. But I would have us to note at the very outset that we find there in the sixth verse that from the day the Colossians heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. It bore fruit, that first fruit being their very salvation, and then it began to produce fruit within them. For Paul commends them for their love of the saints. Look with me at verse 3. Paul says, we give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Praying always for you, since we heard of your faith and of the love which we which ye have to all the saints In the book of Galatians, chapter 5, we have recorded for us the fruits of the Spirit. What is the first fruit of the Spirit recorded in Galatians 5? Well, the fruit of the Spirit is love. And here, Paul, in the beginning of his letter to this church at Colossae, he's commending them for having that first fruit of the Spirit, for love. And then he continues there in verse 5. For the hope which is laid out for you in heaven, whereof ye have heard ye have heard before in the word of the gospel which is come unto you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it. And knew the grace of God in truth. Remember the parable of the sower, where some seed falls on the stones, and some seed falls by the wayside. But other seed falls into good ground. And it is only the seed in good ground which ever bears fruit Here, Paul is testimony, testifying from the day these people heard the gospel, it began to bring forth fruit. That first fruit was they they believed the gospel. And then it began to produce in their lives. Oh folks, what glory. For if you were a child of God, you know that you're a child of God. Why? Because I told you? I hope not. Why? Because you saw a seven-foot Jesus? No, that was the chili you date last night But how do we know it? Because it springs up in my soul to everlasting life. Just as it did in these Colossians. And it begins to bring forth fruit. It changes you. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And folks, I believe every one of us can testify that We came to faith in Christ and suddenly we we were different. Suddenly, as the kids in Jamaica used to see in the course, the things I used to do, don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. You began to look at yourself and say, no, I don't want that anymore. But oh, I want to hear the preaching of God's word. I want to spend time in prayer. I want to read my Bible. I need to know more about Jesus Christ. And I need to be more like Jesus Christ. Paul testified of these Colossian believers that there was an immediate spring up. There was an immediate change from the day they heard of it. Things were different. And folks, if we're going to honestly talk about fruitfulness today, we have to begin with good seed and good soil. You see, cares cannot bring forth fruit. And the wrong soil cannot bring forth fruit. But if the good seed of the Word of God has found root in the good soil of your heart, Then it will bring forth fruit. And so our first point is actually this: fruits expected. There is an expectation of fruitfulness. In Luke chapter 13, Christ gave us the parable of the fig tree. And in Luke 13 and verse 6, we find this. And he spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. And he said unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on the fig tree, and find none. Cut it down, why cumbereth it the ground? You see, when we plant a seed, when we plant a tree, we do so. Because we expect fruit. Oh yeah, a lot of us enjoy gardening. We enjoy getting our hands in the soil. But we're not doing it simply for ornamentation. We are doing it for fruitfulness. And there's the expectation that the believer will bring forth fruit. Christ said, I'm the vine, he that abideth in me, the same, bringeth forth much fruit. You see the expectation there. We also find that the absence of fruit was the impetus for Christ. to curse the barren fig tree. Now we we need to clarify here because in Luke 13 it is a parable that Christ is giving. Christ is giving a story which illustrates a truth But then when we go to Matthew, we find that Christ and the disciples are walking, and Christ sees a tree, and he sees seized the leaves thereof. And in Matthew 21, 19, and when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it and found nothing thereon but leaves only. And he said unto it Let no fruit grow on thee henceforth for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away And so we have two different stories here. Sometimes they get conflated. We have the parable of the man's fig tree in his garden. But we have Christ literally coming to a tree and cursing the tree. The absence of the fruit was enough to bring Christ to cursing. Now this is not cursing as in foul language. But rather it is cursing as in Christ pronouncing a curse upon the tree. Let no fruit grow on this tree henceforth forever. And of course, we know the fig tree there was was typical of the na national Israel who should have brought forth fruit to God and they had failed in their fruitfulness and Israel was on the decline, the church was on the rise. But the illustration is this. Fruit is expected, and the lack of fruit is condemned. The lack of fruit is abhorred. The lack of fruit is a great grief to the master. In Luke 3 and verse 9, John the Baptist talking to the scribes and Pharisees says, and now also the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Some of the folks, particularly some of the folks online, have have made comments about my references to my three apple trees. I planted three apple trees probably six years ago now and I have fertilized them And I have pruned them, and I have sprayed them with bug spray, and I've sprayed them with fungicide, and I have worked with my trees, and right now my three trees have a total of about 14 apples. And I'm tired of mowing around them. I could mow that yard much faster if I just had a straight line. The one tree, the one I was most excited about, was a Macintosh, a wonderful apple. It's full of blossoms every spring, but it has not had a single Apple. And folks, I have no choice. At this point, I'm not going to waste spray on them. I told Penny I said I'm not going to spray them anymore this year because the spray is expensive. the ground. Why come with it the ground? Fruit is expected. And folks, if you truly, like the Colossians, heard the word of the gospel. And received it with fruitfulness. Received it right away. There is an expectation that you will bring forth fruit. Trees were created for fruitfulness and are expected to be fruitful. Israel was created for fruitfulness and was expected to be fruitful. And every believer is created for fruitfulness and is expected to be fruitful. But not only is fruit expected, secondly, fruit's desired. Fruit is desired. It's anticipated. It is looked forward to. Again, in the parable in Luke 13 and verse 6, a certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. It didn't grow up by chance. It was not a wild plant. It was planted in the vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon. Do you realize that Jesus Christ is seeking fruit in you? Jesus Christ desires that we as Christians show forth the fruits of righteousness? That we show forth the fruits of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, against such there is no law? Christ desires this for us. And a barren fig tree is not a matter of rejoicing, a matter of, it's a matter of cursing. But those of you who are gardeners know the joy of that first tomato of the season, of that first ripe fruit. And you know what? It tastes better than any tomato you ever buy in a store. Why? Simply because it's your fruit. It's sweet and it is pleasant Our master desires our fruit. He comes seeking fruit. He comes looking for fruit. In fact, if you go all the way back to Genesis 1 and verses 27 and 28, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he them, male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. Okay? What does that 28 verse say? It says, God blessed them. Does it mean that God gave him millions of dollars? No. Does it mean that God gave them houses and lands? Well he did give them the garden. But God's blessing was this: be fruitful. And multiply. That's the blessing that God is declaring there on Adam and Eve. Be fruitful and multiply. Children are heritage to the Lord. We find that worked out. But think about this. I am a newborn Christian. And God says to me, be fruitful. Here's the great blessing. that God wants for his people. Be fruitful. Be fruitful. Be fruitful. Fruit is expected. And fruit is desired in the believer. And so if we go back to Colossians chapter 1 and look at verse 9 and 10, there Paul says, for this cause We also, since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you and to desire. that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord in the all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. Paul says, we heard that you have faith in Christ. We heard of your love for the brethren. And we are praying for you that all the knowledge of God might be poured into your soul, that you might be fruitful. Here's a good shepherd, isn't it? Here is the Apostle Paul, who has been by God given responsibility for these young believers, and Paul says, I desire that you be fruitful. It is my burden and my prayer for you that you grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you be fruitful. And we find Paul had the same desire for the Philippian believers in Philippians chapter 4, verse 15 and following. He says, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel we departed when we departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with us as concerning the giving and receiving, but ye only For even in Thessalica ye sent once and again under our necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Paul said, we rejoice in the way the Philippian church has responded to the needs of the ministry of God, not because we want to accumulate all these things. But we desire that you be fruitful. We desire that the evidence of your faith, the evidence of the good seed that was planted, the evidence of the good soil into which the seed was planted. be that ye bear much fruit, that ye be fruitful. And so fruit is expected, and fruit is desired. But thirdly, fruit is glorifying to God. Fruit brings glory to God In John 15 and verse 8, Christ said, Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. But you bear much fruit. This is how my father is glorified. You know, it's interesting there. We we hear a lot in in shall we call them worldly churches. About praise music. And there's this idea, oh, well, we have these worship leaders, and this praise music, this is going to glorify God. Well, no, here we have an explanation of how God is glorified. That you bring forth much fruit. The Christ-like actions of the believer bring glory to God. Let your light so shine before men That they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven You see, a fruitful believer, a fruitful congregation, does not bring attention to itself, but rather it brings attention to the God we serve. Why are we called Christians? They were first called Christians at Antioch. Why are we called Christians? Because we are followers of Jesus Christ. We are to walk as he walked. We are to talk as he talked. We are to present ourselves to the world as he presented himself to the world because now are we ambassadors for Christ. And so the Christian should show forth that light of the gospel and that likeness of Christ, and in so doing, the light is shined on Christ and not on the man. Herein is my Father glorified. And so in Proverbs 14, 31, he that oppresseth the poor reproach his maker. But he that honored him hath mercy on the poor. He that honors his maker has mercy on the poor. His good works. Philippians 1 verse 11, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ under the glory and praise of God. Being filled with the fruits of righteousness which are by Christ, the fruits of righteousness are by Christ to the glory of the Father. And again, if you look in this book of Colossians, chapter 1, and down to the tenth verse of our text this morning, Colossians 1, verse 10, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Who is it that is pleased there? Well, it is the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful unto every good work. Again, Paul speaking to the Philippians in Philippians 4, verse 10, said, But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but lacked opportunity. Paul said, I rejoice that your care has flourished again. You wanted to do more, but you didn't have an opportunity. Paul says, I rejoice that the opportunity is coming along again. That God has given you the means to do more in the service of God. Fruitfulness is expected. It is desirable desired and it is pleasing to God. But the fourth point that I would like us to consider this morning It's a little different than the first three, fruits expected, desired, and glorifying to the Father. But number four, enhanced fruitfulness requires pruning. The enhancement of fruitfulness requires pruning. What plant likes to have parts cut off? Oh no, no. One of the most odious jobs that any gardener has is weeding. And weeding is only second to digging out the rocks. At least when you dig out the rocks, they're gone once they're gone. But my father used to say that when he was a farmer his fields grew rocks. Right. Because he would dig out rocks this year and he'd go back to there's more rocks. And not to get too far off the subject, but my father used to tell about a huge rock, a a rock that was, you know Piano size that he had broken a plow point on like three years in a row, and he finally decided, okay, I'm going to take care of it. So he dynamited it. And he said that was all well and good except for the fact that it threw baseball side rocks all over the place. So instead of one big rock, he had hundreds of little ones. Lovely Pruning is not fun. Pruning the plant doesn't like it, but pruning is essential to fruitfulness In John 15, verses 1 and 2, I am the vine, and my father is the husband. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it might bring forth more fruit. That word purge means to cut away. Cuts away the dead, cuts away the unfruitful, thins the fruit, that there might be more fruit. That phrase, every fruit, every um Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh it away. It's a glorious phrase. It's not a frequent phrase. In fact, that actual taketh away translation that our King James is only find found twice, and the other time is Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. Folks, it ain't coming back when he takes away the sin of the world. And so when he takes away the unfruitful branch, it's not coming back. This gone is cast into the fire. But the idea is here is he he purges. In Luke 13, verse 8 and 9. Where we have the parable of the fig tree, the barren fig tree, the tender answers and says, Let it alone this year also till I dig around it and dung it. And if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. If it's not going to produce, it's cut away. And folks, God has to cut away out of the life of the believer that which is unfruitful. It's taken away. Pruning is necessary. When I worked in the orchards as a as a young teenager Every winter we would prune and the rows between the apple trees would be piled high. It looked like there was more cut off than was left on the tree And when I prune my grapes I I cut it back to the bare wood. But if you don't do it, it doesn't produce fruit. And folks, if God is to make his people fruitful, he's got to be constantly cutting away the Dead wood. He's got to be taking away that which is unfruitful. The enhancement of fruitfulness requires pruning. But folks, I would submit to you on the matter of pruning. If there's some pruning we have to do ourselves as well. You're kind of looking at me, and I expected that. There's pruning we have to do for ourselves. I saw a quote and I probably can't quote it right, but a fellow said he prayed for God to to take away his bad habits. And God's answer was no, you need to give up your bad habits. You know, sometimes we we pray, Lord, Lord, forgive all my sin and remove it from me. But Scripture instructs us to make no provision for the flesh. You see, we we find in Scripture Wherefore, seeing we are encompassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which just so easily beset us. That's self-pruning. Let's say, you know what, this is a hell hindrance to my fruitfulness for the Lord. I gotta cut this one out myself. I need to do some self-pruning. And again, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your body a living sacrifice Holy, acceptable to God. The night is far spent, Romans 13. The day is at hand. Let us cast off the works of darkness. Ephesians 4, he that uh that ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. Put away from you malice. Grieve not, or quench not the spirit. You see, there's some pruning that we can't sit around and say, hey God, you need to take care of this in my life. We have the promise that our sins are cast into the depths of the sea, but there's also the matter of self-pruning. For enhancement of fruit requires pruning. And so, to keep repeating, fruit is expected, it is desired, it's glorifying to God. Fruit is enhanced by pruning. But number five, fruit is evidentiary. Fruit is evidentiary. I'm not a good enough horticologist or whatever the correct term is to walk up to a tree and tell you what that tree is. There's some people that can do that. They can walk up and they can look at the leaves and instantly tell you what the tree is. I have to see the fruit. When I see the fruit, I know, oh okay, that's an apple tree, that's that's a peach tree, that's a pear tree, that's a plum tree. By their fruit ye shall know them. Fruit is evidentiary. Ye shall know them by their fruits. And of course Christ there was talking about the false prophets, but it is true of the believers themselves. Ye shall know them by their fruits, Matthew 7, 16. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth corrupt fruit. Oh, but I'm a Christian. I go to church on Easter and Christmas. You see, you shall know them by their fruit. The evident fruit is evidentiary. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit Neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire, wherefore by their fruit ye shall know them See, there's a lot of people in this in our world, and particularly in our nation, that call themselves Christians because we are a Christian nation. And yet their fruit is anything but the fruit of righteousness. Every president we've ever had has been able to tell you what church he's a member of. But of the presidents we've had, how many have truly known Jesus Christ? How many have truly known what repentance is? I was sharing with some of you before the service today that online this week I encountered a United Methodist pastor. in North Carolina. And on his Facebook page he had a big rainbow banner and he wasn't talking about Noah. Um ha had something about um uh the Lord's table and um each ye all of it on the top and then a pride banner below that all are welcome at the table. Blasphemy. But their fruit shall know them. He's a false prophet. That's right. He does not know the Lord. That good seed and the new birth that we find here in Colossians. He never had it. He had evil seed to begin with. He had the seed of Cain. And that's the only seed he's ever known. Fruit is evidentiary. If you are a believer, there will be good fruit. If you are a child of God, your fruit will be good and not evil. If you claim to be a child of God and yet you're bringing forth evil fruit, you better back up and examine closely. Because by their fruit you shall know them. Fruit is evidentiary. Matthew 12, 33, either make the tree good. and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt. For the tree is known by his fruit. Matthew twelve thirty three Little sewing produces little fruit. Abundant sowing produces abundant fruit. For we find in 2 Corinthians 6 verse 9, but I say unto you, he that soweth sparingly shall reap sparingly, and he that soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully. Are you a Christian? Are you producing a bushel or a truckload? Fruit is evident free. It is an evidence of the abundance or lack of abundance of your planting. But Lord, I knew that you were a hard man and you reap or you sow not, and so I buried the talent in the ground. Fruit is evidentiary. Little sowing results in little reaping. Number six, and this follows right along with the idea of good fruit and evil fruit, fruit will always be after its kind. Fruit will always be after its kind. Genesis 111, and God said, Let the earth bring forth grass the herb yielding seed, and the fruit trees yielding fruit, after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth. And it was so Can a fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either a vine, figs, so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh Fruit will be after its kind. Be not deceived. God is not mocked For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the Spirit shall the Spirit reap life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them that are the household of f Faith. Folks, the fruit will reflect the seed. The seed of the gospel that came to these Colossians sprang up into everlasting life. Ye are of your father the devil. And the works of your father ye will do. He was a liar from the beginning and the father of it. Why can ye not hear my words, even because ye are not my sheep You see, folks, the fruit that your life is producing will be an evidence of the seed that is planted If the seed of the new birth is planted in you, it will bring forth the fruit of righteousness. If the fruit of your life is the fruit of iniquity, the seed of the new birth is not the seed in you. He shall know them by their fruit. The fruit will be after its kind. My father used to say, and I know it wasn't original with dad, but my father used to say, you can't sow wild oats and then pray for a crop failure. You know, I think that's what a lot of Christians do at times. We go out in iniquity and then pray that God will fix it for us. We sow to the flesh and then pray that God will give us a reaping of the Spirit rather than sowing to the Spirit in the first place. Paul said to the Romans in, or Paul said in Romans chapter 6, verse 20 and following, for when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. What fruit had ye in those things whereof now ye are ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now, being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have fruit unto holiness and the end everlasting life. That's shouting words, folks. Now you have fruit to holiness. You were ashamed of those things. You don't want your brethren in Christ to know what you used to do. But now you have fruit of the holiness. Ah, the fruit will be after its kind. But then finally, fruit is rewarded. Our fruitfulness for God will be rewarded. Mark chapter 9, verse 41, for whosoever shall give a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward. God will reward our faithfulness. Hebrews 6, verse 10. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which you have showed toward his name. in that ye minister to the saints and do minister. The ministration was to the saints, but the work was unto God And we find that again in Matthew 25, 34. Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was in hunger and you gave me meat, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger, and you took me in naked and he clothed me. I was sick and you visited me, I was imprisoned, and you came unto me Then shall the righteous say unto him, Lord, when saw we thee hungered and fed thee, or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in, or naked, and clothed thee For when saw that we these sick were in prison and came to thee, then the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren Ye have done it unto me. Folks, our work, our fruit is rewarded. Our work for God is rewarded. It may be scorned in the world. I mentioned to you that my wife and I saw down in Ocean City a group of believing teenagers passing out tracks. On the on the boardwalk. And you could tell that they were scorned by a lot of people that walked past them. They were were not viewed as of anything of any value. But I tell you this They were of value to their Heavenly Father, and their work was seen by the Heavenly Father, and kind of reward those young people for that. It will be a growing in grace experience for them. They will be sharpened for the service of God. By having stood there on the boardwalk and testified to Christ. And they may not see the reward of that until they get to heaven and meet somebody that read one of those tracts. But great is your reward in heaven. Fruitfulness will be rewarded. I read Or I had us read for our responsive reading the 92nd Psalm. And I would close with the last three verses of that Psalm. And Psalm 9272 and verse 12, the righteous shall flourish like the palm tree. He shall grow like the cedar in Lebanon. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of their God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age They shall be fat and flourishing. What a glorious promise. Those that are planted, the righteous, shall flourish like a palm tree. Those that are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish. Folks, we're in this world. We live in this world. We earn our bread in this world. But our feet are planted in the house of the Lord. And those that are planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish. And even in old age, they'll be fruitful. God, don't let me wear out for thee. But may I be faithful, may I be fruitful to thee end. Some of the plants in her garden only produce fruit for one season Some of the plants will produce for many seasons, but eventually become old. But the righteous bear fruit forever. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the testimony, the account we have of these Colossian believers that from the first day they heard the gospel, it immediately began to bring forth fruit. It brought forth the fruit of eternal life, and then they began to be fruitful. Their love was evident. They were were growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Father, make us fruitful. May we be firmly rooted in the house of the Lord. May we be receiving nourishment constantly, for we are engrafted into the vine, into Jesus Christ. I am the vine, ye are the branches. Father, may we bring forth fruit for your glory. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.