Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to the book of Matthew and the 28th chapter. And I'm going to read verses 16 through 20. The passage before us this morning is fundamental to the scriptures. It is a passage which most of us memorize the least portions of in Sunday school or we have learned them at some other time. And yet it's profound in its direction and its impact. Matthew 28, and I'll begin with verse 16. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost Teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious Father, now as we approach thy word, may the word of the Lord have free course and be glorified. May you grant utterance, Lord, that your word may go forth in clarity. And Father, may your word instruct and rebuke our hearts this day. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's amazing here that we find the eleven, not the twelve, because Judas is no longer among them. It's interesting that we don't find Matthias in this number. Uh the addition of Matthias is not condemned in Scripture, but we don't find anything of him after he's mentioned. But the eleven here are gathered, and we find that even among the eleven there's some doubters. Did you pick up on that? They saw him, but some doubted. But Jesus had the answer and the solution to their doubt. All power is given to me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. There was a transfer of that power. There was a removing of the doubts and a sending forth of the people of God. And so, as you know, I just returned from Jamaica Friday night. And Penny and I spent 17 glorious years in Jamaica, a time we look back on with great longing. Our hearts will always be there And a week ago today, I was standing in a different pulpit, a pulpit which I've stood in many times before having first been there in 1982. And it was my great joy and privilege to preach there in a little church up in the mountains. And if you can stay after the fellowship meal today, I've got a few pictures of what took place there and some video from the service to give you a visual prayer reference to pray for this little congregation that we partner with in missions. That we impart fulfill the commands of this scripture by our assistance to these people. And so the matter of evangelism And I like who, what, when, where, and why type outlines, and that's what we're going to consider this morning. First of all, who is commanded to evangelize? It says in verse 19, go ye therefore, and teach all nations. That seems pretty straightforward. It seems like there could be no debate on that question But there are indeed those that say, well, he was talking to the eleven disciples, and so they're the only ones that were actually commanded to go forth. and evangelize. But if you look down to verse 20, he says, Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. And that world there is not referring to end of geography But rather to the end of the age. I'm with you in this command to evangelize to the end of the age. How many of those eleven disciples are still living on earth? How many of them live past the year 100? You see, this command is not a command simply given by Christ. to these eleven disciples to encourage them to evangelize, but rather it is a charge to every believer. It is a charge to their descendants. And the Assurance that Christ gave to them was all power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore. Go as my deputies, go with the power that I have from my Father and carry that forth. And further, sadly, within Reformed circles, there is even the thought that, well, Christ died for the elect. And all that the Father giveth to me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will no wise pat cast out. And so there is indeed the thought among some that since Christ will surely save his elect We as the church don't need to do anything because they're going to be saved without us. God will save them by some means. And yet scripture is very clear. How shall they call on him of whom they've not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? God has ordained that his people be his evangelists. And as was mentioned from our confessional reading this morning, God could have chosen many means for evangelism. I've often thought that God could cause trees in the woods to grow in shapes and make letters and spell the gospel across the forest. God could cause clouds to form words in the sky, but he has not chosen those things. Because faith is not by sight. Salvation is not by sight, but by faith. And faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And so, when Christ says, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature, he is not just talking to these eleven disciples, but he is indeed talking to us. We are God's ordained witnesses. And I'd like you to turn with me to Isaiah chapter 43, the 43rd chapter of Isaiah. And the Old Testament is filled with the New Testament gospel. The Old Testament points forward to Christ. The New Testament points back to Christ But in Isaiah 43, I'd like to begin reading in verse five. And in the fifth verse of Isaiah 43, God obviously speaking to Israel, to the children of Abraham. says, Fear not, for I am with thee. I will bring thy seed from the east and gather thee from the west. I will gather will say unto the north, give up, and to the south, keep not back Bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the ends of the earth. That is clearly referring to the drawing in of Israel scattered. But is that all that's being spoken of here? Or is it referring to a wider evangelism? Well, if we continue to read, that question is answered. Verse 7 Even every one that is called by my name, even so many as the Lord our God shall call. Compare scripture with scripture. For I have created him for my glory. I have formed him. Yea, I have made him. Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. Oh, my friend, that's talking about the Gentiles who have not the law, who are blind to truth, and yet they have eyes But they cannot see. They have ears, but they cannot hear. Now we are told to go and preach the gospel to every creature. And what is it that the preaching of the gospel does? It opens blind eyes. It doesn't put eyes in sockets where no eyewalls were But it opens the eyes that exist, and it opens the ears that exist. Who made the eye? Who made the mouth, God declares? And so this passage is an Old Testament call to evangelism. Verse 9. Let all the nations be gathered together and let the peoples be assembled. Who are the nations referred to there? It's not talking about the US and Canada and Britain To the Jews, the nations, where anybody that was non-Jew, it was to the Gentiles. It's not talking about political entities, it's talking about ethnic groups. Okay? Gather the nations together, let them assemble the people who among them to declare this and show the former things. Let them bring forth their witnesses. Let the heathen bring forth their witnesses that they may be justified or let them hear. You see what God's saying there Gather all the nations with all their idols of wood or stone, let them declare, or let them hear. Either come and show you my show me your false God, or come and hear about my God. Choose ye this day who we will serve. Whether the gods which our fathers served or the other side of the flood, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And so the gospel is very clearly laid out for us here in the Old Testament. Bring forth their witnesses that they may be justified, or let them hear and say, it is truth. It is truth This gospel of Jesus Christ is the truth. And so God has ordained for us to be his witnesses. There in verse 12, ye are my witnesses. whom I have chosen. But also we find that this go ye into all the world and preach the gospel is a necessity, an obligation placed on the people of God. Of God. And we find this in the Apostle Paul, who said, though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of. Don't start giving me accolades because I preach the gospel. Don't say, hey, that's a pretty good person because he passes out traps. For Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9 and verse 16 Though I preach the gospel, I have nothing the glory of, for necessity is laid upon me. Yea, woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. So Paul is pointing out for us that this command to go and preach the gospel is not something that brings praise to us for doing it, but rather it brings retribution on us if we don't Necessity and woe are the key words of that passage. And then further, we find that we are his workmanship in Ephesians 2 and verse 10, created unto good works. which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. God has created us and recreated us. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. So, why has God recreated us? Well, compare that with 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17 through 19, and I'll read those verses for you. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us unto himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation. to the wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their transpressions unto them, and has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Why did God make me a new creature in Christ? It wasn't an idol. Why do you buy chickens? Because you want eggs or meat. Why do you raise a sphere? Because you want meat Why do you plant a garden? Because you anticipate and expect a harvest. God has regenerated my soul that I might be a witness. And so, first of all, when we find who is to evangelize every born-again child of God is to be an evangelist. Evangelists. Now that does not mean that we all stand in pulpits. It doesn't mean that we all grab a microphone and stand on a street corner and preach. Those are admirable things. And if you have the opportunity, don't pass up the opportunity. But your evangelism may just be to your own grandchildren. Your evangelism may be to a co-worker. Your evangelism may be to the person at the Wawa that you see most mornings when you stop and get some coffee and you can give them a track along with Paying for your coffee. You see, in all places, at all times, God has given us the opportunity and responsibility to be evangelists. But that brings up the second great question. I think this is one of the great hindrances to our witness. What do we say? We're to be evangelists, but as Moses said, I'm not eloquent. I can't speak. I I I j I just don't know what to say. I I get into this situation where I know I should tell this person about Christ and my I begin to sweat and I begin to get nervous and my tongue gets clammy and I I just don't know what to say. to say. Well, if we look back to our text there in Matthew chapter 28. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. It's right there. We just teach him whatsoever Christ has commanded us. Look in the be and be He saved all the ends of the earth. For I am God, and there is none other. Memorize that verse. That's the gospel in a nutshell Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Hey, I see you every morning. I talk to you when I come in here. You come by my office. Read this little track. This really was a blessing to my heart. There's truth in here. It won't take you long. Here, read it. But how often we let those opportunities go? How often we come in contact with people and we just don't say anything. What are we to say? Oh, we're to tell them the truth of Jesus Christ. In Mark 16, verse 15, it's presented this way. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. What is the gospel? It's good news. It's good news. Hey friend, I know you're really going through some trouble. I I know you're bearing a heavy load, but I know somebody that can bear For you. I know you you are really afraid of the future, but I know somebody who knows the future. You don't need a future fortune teller. You need somebody who doesn't tell the future, but rather someone who rules the future. And I know who that is, because he controls my future every day. Just hear the gospel, the good news that Jesus Christ is come to seek and to save. I, even I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Savior. Take your yoke at my yoke upon you and learn of me, I already mentioned that. Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. He said, I'm the living bread which came down from heaven I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. I am the door. By me if any man enter in he shall be saved. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd giveth his life. I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet till he live. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. I am the true vine, my father is the husbandman. Fear not, I am the first and the last And I can safely assume that there's not a person here who hasn't heard every one of those before. And so it's very easy for our tongues to get tied and us to get nervous and fearful and give them a track of nothing else. But my friend, the word of God is in your heart if you're a child of God. And just as the prophet of old said, tried to keep it in, but it was a fire in my bosom. And it had to come out. It's so easy for us to use the excuse, I just don't know what to say. But God has given us His Word and given us many means to share it. Send an email, send a text, text the scripture verse to your coworker. But that brings us to the third question. Who's to preach? All of us. What are we to preach? The gospel. Where are we to evangelize? Where are we to do this? Where does this take place? Well, if we look at our text again, it says there in verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. All nations. And I almost already made reference to this. This reference of nations is not talking about political entities. Remember that Christ was speaking to eleven Jewish men. And to the Jews, they were the people, and every one else were the nations. And so when John said, for God so loved the world, his Jewish audience understood that he was referring to those outside of Judaism. those that did not have the blood of Abraham in their veins. And that is the same reference that Christ is making here. Not just to Israel alone. but go into every nation, every people, every ethnic background, every racial makeup, any group of people in the world, they need the gospel. And so where do we preach this message? Everywhere. Everywhere. Where do we not preach it? Is a better question if you want to ask it. And the answer is obvious. There isn't a place where you don't preach it Well not on the moon, but here where there are people this populated place This globe in which we live, this world that is made up of a multitude of peoples, nations, languages, races, etc. , everywhere we preach the God. gospel. And of course Acts gives us the order of evangelism in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. And this again is very familiar, but turn there with me in Acts 1 and verse 8. Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. Remember Christ said, All power is given to me in heaven and earth. And then in Acts 1, but ye shall receive power. And see the connection there. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. Let's break that down. First of all, ye shall be witnesses unto me in Jerusalem. Well, none of us live in Jerusalem over in the Middle East. What is our Jerusalem? Well, it's Durwood Durwood, Maryland is where we are. It is Gaithersburg. It is Baltimore. It is Washington. It is Montgomery County. It is Hartford County. It is Baltimore County. It's the place is where we live. It's right right around us. This is our hometown. These disciples were dwelling in Jerusalem. And these believers on the day of Pentecost were met in Jerusalem right here where we are. This is where it starts. I remember in college when I would meet with different groups of students and with professors that were uh students looking towards the mission field. And one statement that was made repeatedly that really stuck in my mind, you will not begin to be a missionary when you hit a foreign field. If you're not a missionary right here where you are, you won't be a missionary when you get 10,000 miles away. An ocean and an airplane don't make you a missionary. You see, the missionary begins to be a missionary at home. The evangelist begins to be a missionary among the people that he sees every single And so they were told there in Acts 1, chapter 8, that evangelism begins in your Jerusalem, wherever your Jerusalem may be. You see, going across an ocean doesn't make you a missionary, but going across your backyard to a neighbor, hey, I brought some cookies and I'd like to talk to you about Jesus Christ. That makes sense. You a missionary. But then also there was the Judea. And we could say Judea would be Maryland and West Virginia and Pennsylvania, the region of the country in which we live. But the more important one, I believe, is the Samaria. He said, You'll be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in Judea and Samaria. Remember the woman at the well? The Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. Christ is saying you're gonna be witnesses to the people you don't like. To the drug addict with sores and needle marks all up and down his arm that you see lying in the street in a stupor and you you kind of walk around them. To the the beggar that you know is begging money not because he's hungry but because he needs this next fix. You see, the Samaritans were to the Jews as dogs. They were unclean. They were filthy. We have a command to reach the nasty people. To reach the people that no one else loves. To reach the people who need the gospel the most. We are accused as Christians of hating homosexuals. We do not hate them. We despise what they do because their actions are an abomination to the holiness of God. But they are souls that need to and can be saved. And so we don't hate them. Rather, we are to confront them with the gospel of Christ. The convict in the jails, prison ministries are an amazing ministry. And granted, there are many prison conversions. That are people that just want to get out of jail so they get religion, thinking it's going to help them out. And when they get out of jail, they go right back to what they were doing before But there have also been many that have truly been saved in the foxhole and truly been saved in the jail cell, and God has transformed their lives And made the new creatures. They whipped from Saul's to Paul's. And so the Samaria is the people we don't really like. The people that annoy us, the people that are a bother to us, the people that we would rather not have anything to do with. And yet they too need the gospel of Christ. And then of course the fourth there is and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. And it is sadly impossible for all of us to go to the othermost parts of the earth, to to reach the the corners of the globe. corners uh to go all across the world and yet we as a congregation have a part in a little church way way up in the mountains Up the mountain from Montague Bay onto the flatlands of Cambridge, up the hills from Cambridge into a little district called Fern where a group of people meet and earnestly seek to serve the Lord. reach their community with the gospel. And we are a part of that through our prayers and through our thanks offering. And so indeed we can through them go into all the world. And so that's the where the gospel is to be preached everywhere. But when are we supposed to do this? That's our fourth question. Who, what, where, and when? When is the time for evangelism? Well, turn over with me to John chapter 4. And again, these are not new and novel truths, which is John chapter 4, and I'll start reading in verse 34. I'm going to read down through verse 38, and then we're going to back up and make some comments and applications. on these verses. John chapter 4, verse 34. Jesus said unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his works. Say not ye, there are four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto eternal life. Both he that soweth and he that reap, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And herein is that saying true, one soweth, and another reapeth. I sent you to reap, whereupon ye bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and ye have entered into their labors. Okay, go back to verse 34. Jesus said unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish it Christ said his meat, his obligation, his purpose was to do the will of him that sent him. Well, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten He sent his only begotten Son. But whosoever believeth in him should not perish and have everlasting life. Christ said, My meat is to do that work. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Christ said in John 9, I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day, the night cometh. when no man worketh. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. John 9, verse 5. But then in Matthew 5, verse 14, he said, Ye are the light of the world A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. In other words, Jesus said, I came to do the will of my Father. I came to finish that work. I'm the light of the world. But now, as he's getting ready to leave this world, he says, Ye are the light of the world. I'm the light of the world, now you're the light of the world. You're to reflect the light of Christ to others. Others are to see the light of the gospel in your words, in your action, in your life. Ye now are to be those lights. Christ not only said that he came to do the will of him that sent him, but he came to finish it. John 20, verse 22. Then said Jesus to them again. Peace I leave with you, as my Father has sent me, even so send I you. Remember, there's 11 disciples. That came to Christ there in Galilee in the appointed place in our text for this morning. And they saw him, but some doubted. And he ended their doubts by saying, All power is given to me. Now he says, my father sent me, and just as my father sent me, so send I you. And so continuing in the passage There in verse 35, say ye not, there are four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. When is the time we must evangelize? It's now. It's right now. But look there at verse 36: He that reapeth receiveth wages and gathereth fruit unto eternal life Both he that soweth and he that reapeth, both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice. It always amazes me that The Sunday school lesson and the uh confessional reading so often just dovetail into each other. And folks, that's not not planned out. It's not by design. But this morning in Sunday school, Brother Vince was talking about our reward and bringing others with us and others being in heaven and what a joy it'd be to meet someone in heaven. And they say, Yes, you're the one that told me about Jesus Christ. You see, we don't have any guarantee of tomorrow. How many of you are going home today? Maybe going to a house you live in, but you may be going home today. We don't know. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. How many rewards will you earn in heaven What service can you do to the Lord in eternity? None. This time on this mortal earth is the only time that we have to serve the Lord. Yes, in heaven we'll worship at his throne and we'll worship We rejoice before him. But this is the only time we have. And that is why scripture is so clear. Remember thy creator in the days of thy youth. Folks, I'm getting old. I'm slowing down. I'm not an old man yet. I'm 59 years old. But I realize I don't have the strength and the stamina that I once had. And my years are starting to decline. Most men peek somewhere between 35 and 40 and begin from there to go downhill. And this is all I've got. And it's all you have as well. You see, the harvest is white It's ripe. The the buds have burst out and the fruit is ready. And this is the only time. We have to serve the Lord, and so we are to serve the Lord now. That is the win. But then finally, to conclude quickly, why And folks, as as I've shared with some of you before, I believe this why is the most important question of all. And I believe it's the question that most sermons on evangelism get wrong. And I don't mean to be critical of other preachers or anything, or act like I've suddenly come to some novel truth. But I think we get the why wrong. Often Evangelism and the why is presented as men need this. Oh, you've got to go tell them because they're on the way to hell. You've got to go tell them because they're about to die, and if you don't tell them, they might have a car accident this afternoon. You've got to tell them. And folks, that is true. I don't mean to diminish that in any way, but that's not the why. That's not the why. And I'm not trying to be a hyper-Calvinist here. Obviously, we evangelize, yes, we tell them, but our motive and the why of evangelism is not because men need the gospel. Though men need the gospel. That's very true. The other thing he's put forth is, well, Christ told us to, so we better do it. If your kids ever took it, taken out the trash with a grumble We do a lot of things just because we're told to, but our heart's not at it. And so the command of Christ is is not Yes, the love of Christ constrains us, and yes, we should love him so much that we want to tell others, but the command of Christ is not the why of evangelism. So it's not the need of man, it's not the need of Christ, the command of Christ. The why of evangelism is the glory of God. It is the glory of God, the glory of God, the glory of God. John fifteen, verse eight. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall ye be my disciples. We preach the gospel, not because men need it, and not because Christ told us to, but rather we do it for the glory of God. Because God is glorified in the proclamation of Christ and Him crucified. Oh, may that be our motive. May my God receive glory and praise, for there's joy in heaven over one soul that repenteth. May he receive praise. Doesn't matter if you were a missionary out in Timbuktu and you lived in a mud hut. That's not the point. The point is the glory of God. And then again, Matthew five, sixteen Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven, that he might receive glory. Turn over with me quickly. I know our time's getting away. But turn over with me to 5th Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2 and verse 5 through 11. Philippians two and verse five Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be evil with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. That's not an exaltation, that's a humbling. Let this mind be in you. Christ was a servant. You be a servant too. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. And became obedient to death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore? God also hath highly exalted him. Why has God highly exalted Christ? Because of his death Where is Christ more exalted than in his cross work? Oh, he did miracles. Oh, he gave the sight sight to the the blind. He he made water into wine. He walked on water. He still the storms. Are those the things that scripture tells us brings glory to Christ? No, it's simply a council did it But where we're told that glory is brought to Christ is in the work of the cross. And therefore, our aim, our purpose, the why of evangelism is that he might have glory. That he might be worshipped and praised. Wherefore, God also has highly exalted him and given him a name that is above every name, that is the name of Jesus, every knee should bow. Why? Because he was crucified. And every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. I I'm quoting there and lost my line on yes. Verse eleven, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And why? To the glory of God the Father. And so throughout the Old Testament we find Psalm seventy-nine, verse nine: help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name. And deliver us and purge away our sins. Help us and purge away our sins. Why? For the glory of thy name, that He might have glory And then again, Psalm 85, 19, surely his salvation is nigh to them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land, that he might be glorified. in our land. Isaiah forty six verse thirteen Bring near my I bring near my righteousness, it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry, and I will place salvation in Zion Israel, my for Israel my glory. For my glory, I will do this. But then finally, in Isaiah 53 Glorious, Isaiah 53, and verse 11. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. And you know what that word satisfied is? He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. It's the same word that's used of manna when Christ said, so eat to the full. It means full. Have you ever eaten so much that you couldn't eat anymore? And that is the way That the cross works so described. He shall see of the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. It's not talking about every person ever born, it's talking about the elect. There's room for the elect and room for no more. And so, the great purpose in evangelism is not that I might receive a crown. It is not that I might obey the command of Christ. It's not because man needs it, but it's because my God must be glorified. And so we are to go forth and we give someone a track for the glory of God. We send someone a text and for the glory of God. We tell our co-worker about Jesus for the glory of God. We stand on the street corner with a microphone and proclaim Christ crucified. for the glory of God. We give our thank offering to help missions abroad, to help Dr. Elliot with with his teaching the word ministry. All for the glory of God. And so the command is to every one of us, God's given us what we should say. We need to be saying it everywhere we are. We need to be saying it right now, and maybe he be glorified. Gracious Father, we thank you for the truth of thy word. We thank you for the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. We thank you for the blessing and edification we can receive from passages we've heard many times before. May your spirit apply them deeply and sharply to our hearts. May we be convicted to go forth for the glory of God Father, we do pray again for our lost loved ones that we might present them with this glorious Christ and that they might come to salvation in Him. We pray these things in Jesus' name.