Open in your Bibles with me, please. The Gospel is recorded by John and the twelfth chapter, the twelfth chapter of John's record of Christ. John, chapter twelve I believe Easter is an exciting time for all of us. We think of family. We think of Christ. It is good to be together. Easter is particularly important to me because Easter of 1982, I took a trip as a high school senior to Jamaica And it changed my life forever. And I hope that you have had that kind of life-changing experience as well. Where you just knew, you know, God has a purpose, God is true, God is my God, and him I must serve. If you have your place now in John chapter 12, I'm going to read from verse 20 to verse 33 of the chapter. John chapter 12, beginning with verse 20. And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethseda of Galilee, and desired him saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew. And again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. And Jesus answered them, saying The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Verily, verily I say unto you Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life. If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there also my servant shall be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. The people therefore that stood by and heard it said that it thundered. Others said an angel spoke to him Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And if I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should die. Let us bow for prayer, seeking the wisdom and direction of God as we consider his word this morning. Gracious Father, we thank you for the glory of thy word. Father, we thank you that this book, the Bible, is verbally inspired. You spoke your word into the hearts and ears of the prophets who were ordained to record it. We thank you, Father, that this word is preserved in its original context, in its original autographs. You have not allowed a jot or a tittle to perish from the law. Father, we thank you that you have not left this book to our human intellect to try to understand. But there is the promise that Christ would send the Holy Spirit. And when the Spirit was come, he would be our Comforter, but also He would guide us into all truth. And he would testify of Christ. And so, Father, as we approach this holy book, the Bible, this morning, we approach it acknowledging that all the wisdom of the world cannot bring spiritual understanding. So, Father, we pray that we might not see with the eyes of human wisdom, nor may this congregation be afflicted with words after man's wisdom. But Father, we pray that the Holy Spirit indeed would teach us, direct us, guide us in thy word, bring truth to our hearts Bring understanding to our minds and the opening of our eyes. Blessed to these ends we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This chapter 12 begins with Christ coming for to Bethany a week, six days before the Passover. Of course, the Passover was the Old Testament celebration of the deliverance of Israel from Egypt. when the Passover lamb was slain and the blood was put on the two sides of the doorposts and on the top of the doorpost. That was celebrated year after year with a sacrifice. Christ was coming to Bethany six days before that sacrifice. He comes to Lazarus, who he had raised from the dead in The earlier part of this same chapter we find him coming. The resurrection of Lazarus was in the previous chapter, but in verses 9 through 11 we find that people come to see Christ. They come to see Lazarus. But the Jewish leaders want to kill Lazarus. Isn't that ironic? He died. Christ rose him from the dead. Now they want to kill him again. And of course they didn't manage to kill him again, but they didn't want him to have a testimony. They didn't want him him to have a witness how foolish they were. If they had managed to kill Lazarus, I believe Christ would have come along and raised him a second time. But that is the context that's going on here. And then we come to this 20th verse and we find these Greeks, not Jews, but Greeks that are coming to worship. They have heard of the God of Israel. They have heard of Jehovah, and they are coming to worship. Scripture doesn't give us any more context on them. We don't know how much they knew Um some say they were coming to worship pagan gods because they were Greeks. Uh I don't believe that their worshiping of pagan gods would have been recorded in the context, but that's just my own opinion on the subject. But they've come to worship and they want to see Jesus. Possibly they wanted to see it because they had heard of the raising of Lazarus. Possibly they came and wanted to see Jesus just because they had heard he was a miracle worker. Or possibly And I believe most likely, they were being drawn by the Spirit of God to seek the one true God. They were turning from their paganness to serve the true and the living God. Folks, that describes every one of us. It doesn't matter where in the world you were born, it doesn't matter what gods your fathers worshipped, any God but Jehovah is a pagan God. And so the church, the body of Christ, is made up of pagans that have been drawn From all people's tongues, races, cultures, ethnicities, regions And made into one church, though we are scattered abroad throughout the world, Christ has one church. And so that is what is taking place here. That is the background Now, Christ gives us a glorious illustration of death and life. And of course, I I like to step back and look at the broad view. Here we have Lazarus who's been raised from the dead. We have Christ who is about to be crucified. And Christ is talking about life and death. If you look there at that twenty-fourth verse of the chapter, one of the verses which we read. Turn my page there. The 24th verse, verily, verily, that's truly, truly, or surely, surely, verily, verily I say unto you Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. How many of you have started planting your garden this year? Anybody? I see a few hands. Uh I put out some grass seed and I'm got the sprinkler going every day trying to water it and nourish it What happens to that seed? Well the seed perishes. The seed falls into the earth. But then what happens after the perishing of that seed? It produces more seed. That's what was happening with Lazarus, wasn't it? Lazarus had died, and Christ had risen from the dead. Now Lazarus has a testimony of resurrection, and the multitudes are coming to see him. These Greeks have come to see Jesus, but it's interesting to note that there in verse 22 and 23, When Philip and Andrew come and inform Christ that these Greeks are coming to see him, Christ doesn't really address those Greeks, does he? He doesn't say, oh bring him in, come on. No, he begins right away to preach a message not just to these Greeks, but to the disciples themselves. It is Philip and Andrew that are addressed when Jesus says in verse 23, the hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Or six days before the Passover, the crucifixion is at hand. The first thing it have us to note about this passage of scripture is the inexplicable nature inexplicable explicable boy that's a tongue toister this morning, isn't it? The inexplicable nature of life. Explain life to me. My father was a farmer before God called him to be a preacher. And dad often said he thought he farmed rocks because every year he removed all the rocks from the field and the next year there were more rocks in the field But folks, rocks don't reproduce. They don't. Life requires life. Life has never sprung out of a hammer. Life does not spring out of a rock. And so where does life come from? Christ gives us illustration: except a corn of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. But why? Because there was life in that seed to begin with. And so we go all the way back to the book of Genesis. And in Genesis 1. 11, and God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after her kind, whose seed is in itself. Verse 20, and God said, Let the water spring forth abundantly. Verse 25 of Genesis 1, and God made the beast. Verse 26 of Genesis 1, and God said, Let us make man in our image. Folks, the science today tries to tell you that man sprung out of nothing. That suddenly life just came about. But folks, life doesn't just happen. Life comes from life. And so, where did it come from? God created it. God is the author of life. And that brings us to another question, how long should man live? We have some folks here that are aging. I'm among them. Every one of us is older this morning than we were when we went to bed last night. But how long Was man designed to live? Well, in Genesis 2, verse 15, and the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. It doesn't say anything about how long he's supposed to dress and keep it, does it? No. God put him in there and said, dress the garden and keep it. You see, God designed man to live forever. These bodies As God created them, were designed to live forever. God said, let us make man in our image. Does the image of God ever change? No. Does the image of God ever die? No. The animals were not created in God's image, but man alone was created with intellect, with communion with God, and with eternality within him. And the further proof of that is that God gave man one command. Of all the trees of the garden thou mayest eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat, for in the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. There was no way For man to die except for breaking that one command Adam and Eve were created to live forever. So what changed? Man broke God's one law. You know, you you've probably seen the the meme or the cartoon or the real. of somebody that's really messed something up and they'll have the caption you've had one job Yeah there was one job and you messed up the world that's what man did Man had one law, and man broke God's one law. And so In Genesis 3 verse 19, God says, In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread till thou return to the ground. You have broken my law. So that leaves man pretty helpless, doesn't it? But we all know Genesis 3. 16. God declares that he would put enmity between man and the woman. And the seed of the woman would bruise the serpent's head. That's how we got here, folks. That's how we get to John chapter 20. But then Christ gives us this beautiful illustration of death that produces life. We've already talked about that a little bit already but a seed, a corn of wheat, that falls into the ground, brings forth fruit. A seed must be planted. The seed perishes to produce the fruit. Many seeds can lay dormant for many years. But then suddenly they spring to life. Those of you that live in desert climates, I know we have some in our congregation Know that there are seeds that will lie dormant in the desert for a decade or more. But then a rain comes And suddenly the desert will bloom with flowers where it has been dry and barren, because the rain comes. Those seeds were there, and then with the rain they perish That they might produce fruit. Remember the explanation that Jesus gave to men on the road to them to Emmaus when in Luke 25 Christ said to them O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have Spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded them the scriptures concerning himself. And so we come to Easter when we celebrate death. We celebrate that Jesus Christ died on the cross and that he was buried. And folks, if that was the end of our celebration, it would be no celebration at all. But Christ did not stay in that grave. Resurrection was necessary. And so he gives them this glorious illustration that if I, like a seed, perish and implanted, I will spring forth and bring forth much. Fruit. Notice also the multiplying factor that we find in this death There in verse 24 again, verily, verily I say unto you, except the corn of wheat, fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. Realize one ear of our corn, our maize corn, can produce a whole row of corn. One ear. And it produces the other night I dreamed I was harvesting corn for some reason. I think it think it's probably related to this message. Because I've been thinking about the corn the corn But one ear of corn can produce an awful lot of corn. You ever get tomato seeds? Pack of tomatoes. They're just tiny little things. But each one of those seeds produces a plant, and each one of those plants can produce dozens of tomatoes. There's a multiplying factor here. As for one man, sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. But God, for God, so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life This corn of wheat that fell into the ground has brought forth many sons into the kingdom of God, and I am one of them. There's a multiplying Multiplying effect here. In the first chapter of John, John, when he sees Christ coming, declares, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. In Romans 5, verse 12, wherefore as I already quoted that verse, wherefore as by one man sin into the world and death by sin, so that death pass upon all men, within verse 15 of Romans 12, but not as the offense, so also is the free gift. For through the offense of one many be dead, much more by the grace of God and the gift of grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. But notice also the application to the disciples. What was it that Christ was teaching here? Is this a message about Christ's death? Or a message about the death of the disciples. It is both. For Christ is using the illustration of a corn of wheat. Christ was the corn of wheat that would fall into the earth and die. He would give his life a ransom for many, and would spring forth and bear much fruit. But folks, when you harvest your corn You save corn back for the next planting, don't you? And so it is with the Church of God. Look again at the passage there in verse 25 of John chapter 12. He that loveth his life shall lose it. And he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto eternal life If any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my Father glorify, or Father honor. Christ is teaching the disciples that they too are to die. The corn of wheat is not simply an illustration of Christ Himself, but he's telling His disciples, you too! are to be a corn of wheat. Your life is to be a sacrifice that others might believe, that the gospel may go forth, beginning at Jerusalem. You too are a corn of wheat. Turn over with me, if you will, to Matthew chapter 16, the first book of your New Testament. In Matthew chapter 16, a parallel teaching to John chapter 12, the corn of wheat In Matthew 16 and verse 21, from that time forth Jesus began to show his disciples how that they must how that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. You see the comparison here. John 12 is six days before the Passover. Matthew 16, Christ is telling him, I've got to go to Jerusalem. This is what's going to happen. Verse 22 of Matthew 16. Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned unto Peter, uh turned and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savorest not the things of God, but those that be of men Then, this is Matthew 26, uh 24. Yeah, Matthew 16, 24, sorry, then Jesus said unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whosoever shall save his life shall lose it. And whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul, or what shall a man give in exchange? For his soul. See, the teaching in both passages is this. You can hang on to that seed, and it abide forever alone. Or you can plant that seed and it shall live. And folks, Jesus Christ died for our sins. But we in turn die to ourselves. We die to a life of sin. No. I am a servant of Jesus Christ. There are things that I will not and cannot do because they're displeasing to God. We die to the attractions and pleasures of this world. We don't order our lives according to how we're going to get fame. or how we're going to get wealth, or how we're going to be prominent, or how we're going to do these things. But rather the life of the believer is ordered to how can I glorify God? How can I praise him, regardless of what perfection he gives me, regardless of prosperity or or poverty, regardless of a claim of man or the rebuke of man, regardless of whether I'm loved or reviled, I am a servant of Jesus Christ, I'm dead to this world. Christ was a corn of wheat planted for me, raised by the Spirit of God to life again. I was a dead sinner, dead in trespasses and sins. He raised me to life in him. Now I die to the life of this world. As a corn of wheat. Because Christ declares that He is the vine and we are the branches Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away, and every branch that beareth fruit, he pruneth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. See, I am dead to this world, and God prunes my life day by day, year by year. Removing from me those things that hinder that witness. Removing from me those things that hinder that testimony that I might bear fruit for him. And so there's a warning here of the possibility of a wasted life and an application that our lives are to be lived for him. But also there's the assurance here that God will reward those that are dead in him. Verse 26, if any man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there also shall my servant be. Folks, I want to spend all eternity where God is. I want to live with him. I want to live with him day by day, but I look forward to living with him. And folks, think with me. I love to step back from scripture and see the big picture What happened to Adam and Eve when they sinned? They got kicked out of the garden. Where was it that they walked with God in the cool of the day and talked with him? It was in the Garden of Eden. And now what is taking place in the garden? Well, there's two cherubim there guarding the gate. They can no longer enter in. They can no longer approach the tree of life. They are forbidden to put forth their hand and take to that tree of life to live. They are forbidden. They are shut off from God. But here is the promise to those that are dead in Christ and risen with him, that where he is, there they shall be also. You know that that old song, I'm not a big fan of it, but it but I understand what it's saying. I come to the garden alone, he walks with me and he talks with me Folks, God walks and talks with his people here on earth. As we read his word, as we fellowship with him, we talked about this a few weeks ago. Need to be in daily, constant fellowship with Christ and the Word, to study His Word, to read it, to learn of Him, to fellowship There is the promise that where I am, there shall my servant be also. But further, if any man serve me, him will my Father honor. Folks Christians, believers, don't get a lot of honor in this world, do they? If the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you, Christ said. But folks, I don't want the honor of this world. I don't want this world to claim. But there is a promise. To those who, like that corn of wheat, are dead to themselves and alive to God, who are bringing forth fruit, there'll be honor. There'll be crowns to cast at the feet of the Savior. And so again in John Chapter fifteen and verse five, I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can Do nothing. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man Lay down his life for his friends. Christ laid down his life for us. We lay down our lives for one another. Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I commanded you. Henceforth I call you not servants What do we find there in John 12? Where I am, there my servant be also. But now Christ says, henceforth, I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth We have an instruction manual, don't we? Oh, we don't know every detail, but we know what our Lord's doing. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. He's given us his word. Henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth. But I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go forth and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain that whatsoever ye shall ask of my father in my father's name, it may be given unto you. Folks Christ came into this world. He lived in a human body. He lived a sinless life. He died a perfect sacrifice, and he rose again that we might be saved. But folks, we are corn of wheat. We too have a life. There is life in me because Christ has given me life, but my life must die to him. My life must be buried in the will and sovereignty of God, that I might too bring forth fruit. Philip and Andrew, yes there are Greeks coming to see me, but this is the message for you. Except a corn of wheat, fall on the ground and die in abide alone. What will your life be for God? What would you do for our glorious Savior who gave his life a ransom for many? Let us stand for prayer. Father, I thank you for the glorious truth of thy word. I thank you that Christ has given us these illustrations which we can understand From a human aspect, we we've planted seeds, a garden. But Father, help us to see beyond the illustration to the meaning, to the truth that Christ was teaching us. Father, may we be the servants of our God indeed. May we be branches that are not cut off for lack of fruit and cast into the fire, but may our lives show forth the glorious truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.