Open in your Bibles with you, please, to the book of 1 Samuel in your Old Testament. The book of 1 Samuel And we're going to be considering the first, second, and third chapters of this book, but obviously we're not going to endeavor to read the entire passage as we begin. But for our scripture reading, I would like to begin in chapter 1, verse 20 And read through chapter 2, verse 11. I'm sure most of you are familiar with this chapter in the this book. In the first chapter, we find Uh Hannah in the temple praying for a son and Elias the priest, Eli, thinks she's drunk Because she's praying in much bitterness of soul. She's praying that God will give her a child because she is barren. And so we sort of pick it up at that point in verse 20 of chapter 1. Wherefore it came to pass when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son. And called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow. But Hannah went not up, for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned. And then I will bring him that he may appear before the Lord and there abide forever. And Alcanah, her husband, said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good, tarry until thou hast have weaned him Only the Lord establish his word. So the woman abode and gave her son suck until she weaned him And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks and one ephah of flour. and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of the Lord in Shil in Shiloh. And the child was young. And they slew a bullock and brought the child to Eli. And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord. I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto the Lord. For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I ask of him. Therefore also, I have lent him to the Lord as long as he liveth. He shall be lent to the Lord. And he worshipped the Lord there. And Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation. There is none holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee. Neither is there any rock like our God. Talk no more, so exceedingly proud. Let not arrogancy come out of thy mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength They that were full have hired out themselves for bread, and they that were hungry ceased. So that the baron hath borne seven And she that hath many children is waxed feeble. The Lord killeth and maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave and bringeth up. The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich. He bringeth low and lifteth up. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggars from the dung hill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory, for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's And he hath set the world upon them. He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, for by strength shall no man prevail The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken in pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his king. and exalt the horn of his anointed. And Alkanah went to Ramah, to his house And the child did minister unto the Lord before Eli, the priest. Let us bow for prayer. Father, now, as we approach thy word, we acknowledge that thy word is truth. We acknowledge that we are feeble men and that we depend entirely upon thee for thy truth to be applied to our hearts. Father, bless this thy word to us this day. Grant that my lips not stumble. Grant that the frailties of human exposition may not get in the way of the work of thy spirit in the proclamation of thy truth. Bless thy word to this thy people today, and bring great honor and glory to thy son, the King. In Jesus' name. Amen. The birth of Samuel, you know the story. I won't belabor the story But Samuel was born in very perilous times. In the first verse of the third chapter, we find that the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. And in our English, when we hear, oh, the word of the Lord is precious, that sounds pretty good. Oh, yeah, everybody loved it, but that's not what it means at all. When it says the word of the Lord was precious in those days, it means it was very rare. Why are diamonds precious? Well, because you don't find them lying around everywhere They're very valuable. The word of the Lord was rare. There was no open vision. And where there is no vision, the people perish. We find that Eli the priest is old. We, not to get into politics, but we saw in recent history What happens when an old man who is kind of past his prime is our leader? There's a lot left undone. There's a lot of failings. We we need someone who is alert and crisp and on the job to be our leader secularly. And the same is true with the pulpit ministry There comes a time when a man may still exhort from time to time, but he has lost that vigor of youth and that daily load of preaching week after week. should go to a younger man that the Lord is raising up. That comes in the Old Testament. For we find that the Levites were to serve from thirty years till they were fifty years old, and didn't mean that when they got to fifty they were no good anymore, but that daily task was passed to another. And I'd Spoken with many many preachers who have have told me, yeah, I can still preach and I still do occasionally, but I realize that that my preaching is not what it once was. Well folks, that was the case here in Israel. Samuel, sorry, Eli, the priest, is old. He's past his prime. He's not really up to the job anymore. But there was another problem. Eli's sons were wicked. And it was the sons of the priest. Who were to become the priests. This is the Aaronic line, the line of Aaron. This was the high priesthood. And so the Priest, Eli is old. He has two sons, Hopti and Phineas, that are coming along, but they're wicked men. They're not just wicked men, they are exceedingly wicked men. And we find that when The people brought their sacrifice, that the priests were to live by the sacrifice. Philip Benson mentioned this frequently, that the ministers of the gospel live by the gospel And so the ordination of the law was that when the sacrifice was made, the sodden sacrifice, there was a little fort that they would stick into the pot and and the meat that came out that was for the priests so they weren't having to go out and hunt for food or or or farm cattle to have their food but rather it was provided by the sacrifice. But Eli's son said, No, that's not good enough for us. We don't want it that way. And so they would take the sacrifice before it was offered. And if anyone said, Well, make sure you burn the sacrifice. They would say, if you won't give it to us, we'll take it by force. And so there was greed in the pulpit. We've seen that happen uh in churches today where where uh there there's a pilfering of the finances by the man who is supposed to be the leader of the flock That was bad, but that wasn't the worst of it. Because we find that Hophnai and Phineas that they lay with the women who gathered them temple. There was adultery. There was immorality taking place at the door of the temple. Folks, these were terrible times. These were bad times. The nation was in great trial and great turmoil. And if you look over to chapter 2 and verse 17 Wherefore the son of the young men was very great before the Lord, for men abhorred the offering of the Lord. It was bad that the priests had gotten too old for the job. It was worse that his sons were sons of Belial. They were sons of Belial. They were wicked men. But it was worse yet that as a result, the people abhorred the sacrifice. The whole nation is turning away from God. Because of the wickedness that was taking place. We find that in this environment, God is rejecting the line of Aaron. God is rejecting Eli from being priest. Look at verse 17 of chapter 2. I'm sorry, verse 27 of chapter 2. And there came a man of God and the Eli and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, did not I plainly appear unto the house of thy father when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house. This man of God, this is not Samuel. Samuel is is still uh an infant. But this man of God comes to Levi and says, Didn't God appear to your father when your father was yet in Pharaoh's house in Egypt? And God appeared to you and talked to you about your house. This was talking about Aaron Because God had given the priesthood to Aaron. Verse 28: Did not I choose him, that is Aaron, out of the tribes of Israel to be my priest? to offer upon mine altar to burn incense to wear an ephod before me. Keep that in mind, because we're going to see that later in the life of Samuel Verse 29, wherefore kick ye at my sacrifices, at mine offerings, which I have commanded in my habitation? and honorest thy sons above me, Eli. Eli, you honor my sons above me, and make yourselves fat with the cheapest of the offerings of Israel My people, not your people, Eli. But God says, my people. And then down to verse 31. Behold, the days come that I will cut off thine arm. and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house. God tells Eli, I'm going to cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house. Now it's very interesting Because God is not completely done with the line of Aaron. The line of Aaron does return later on. But at this point in time, God says, I can't have a priest of Aaron. I'm going to cut off your arm. I'm going to cut off the arm of the house of Aaron. Verse thirty-one and I will or verse thirty-five and I will raise to me up to me, I will raise me up a faithful faithful priest. that shall do according to that which uh is in mine heart and in my mind. And I will build him a sure house. and he shall walk before mine anointed forever. Keep that all in mind because we're going to come back to that. And so it was bad times. But, point number two, in the midst of bad times, there was a faithful family. who despite all the iniquity and all the sin that was going around, you're talking about uh spiritual rich spiritual wickedness in high places In spite of all that, there was a faithful family. Look at the First verse of the book. 1 Samuel chapter 1 and verse 1. Now there was a certain man in Ramoth aim zephurim of Mount Ephraim. And his name was Elkanah, the son of Jehoram, the son of Eliu, the son of Tiptohu, the son of Zuf, and Ephathite Who was this man? Well, to break it down, I have a chart that I actually made for myself of the lineage of Samuel If you want to look at Samuel's lineage, make a note for 1 Chronicles chapter 6, verses 33 to 38, because that is the genealogy of Samuel. The names will look a little bit different there because in 1 Chronicles they are spelled phonetically. as opposed to grammatically. So you'll find the names a little bit different, but you'll recognize the names because they're spelled in 1 Chronicles the way they would be pronounced in the Hebrew. But that aside, Samuel is the eighteen great grandson of Jacob. Isn't that fascinating? Samuel, great, great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather, is Jacob, which means that Samuel is the 17 great grandson of Levi. Okay, one of the twelve sons of Jacob. Levi's sons were son was Kohath. Kohath would be the 16th great great great grandson, but there's another son, Ezar, and that was the line from which Aaron came. And so Samuel is a Levite. Elkanah is a Levite. They're of the tribe of Levi. And it is likely that El Cana would have in that 20 to 50 year or 30 to 50 year period have been going back and forth to serve as his course came up. Remember John the Baptist's father, it talks about his course when it was his course to serve. He would be doing his service to the Lord. These were of the tribe of Levi, but not of the line of Aaron. They shared a 17-great grandfather, but it's two different sons coming down the line of Levi. Now we saw in the last chapter that God says, I'm going to break off Aaron's arm. I'm going to break off the priesthood from your family and from your father's house. I'm going to break off that arm. God will still have a man But for a time here it's not going to be the line of Aaron, because you have forfeited that right. And so in the midst of that, We find this godly line. We find there in verse 3 of chapter 1, this man, that's Elkanah. went up of his out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto the Lord of hosts in Shiloh, and the two sons of Hopni and two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, The priests of the Lord were there. So what we read earlier was that people abhorred the sacrifice of the Lord. Elkanah is taking his family to worship, and when he gets there, he has to navigate his family past Hotni and Phineas. He has to navigate his family past two thieving adulterous priests. To take his family to worship. Now, how many people in our day have quit going to church because the pastor said something they didn't like? Or quit going to a church because the door greeter didn't recognize them. Or because they didn't like the person that sat over there. Have had all kinds of reasons to forsake the worship of God. But here in this terrible time, Eli, sorry, uh Elkanah took his family to worship, even though when they got to the gate of the temple It was going to be Hofdai and Phineas there with their meat hook. See, this man was faithful, folks. This is the father of Samuel. You don't hear much about Al Cana But this was a man who said, look, nothing is going to keep me from doing what God has instructed me to do with my family. As for me and on my house, we will serve the Lord. Verse 7 of chapter 1. And this he did so year by year, when he went up to the house of the Lord. I just can't put up with them this year. No. No, this he did year by year. Verse 19. And he rose up early in the morning and worshiped before the Lord and returned and came to his house in Raman. Ramah. Verse 21 of chapter 1. And the man Alcanah and all his house went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow. This man has a vow before God that we will worship the Lord and nothing was going to keep him from it. I I knew a man that I considered to be a very godly man, and I don't mean to get well, somebody with with illustrations here, but I knew a man that I considered to be a very godly man. He was a man of God who happened to be a truck driver, not a truck driver who happened to be a man of God. He witnessed at every truck stop he was leaving tracks. It's on fire with God. He attended a church that I knew well, a church that was one of our supporting churches when we when Penny and I were missionaries. And the church had grown and built a new building and they were had put in the parking lot. And he thought the parking lot should be gravel, but the congregation thought it should be paved. This was in Pennsylvania where it snowed a lot. And so because the church put in a page parking lot, which cost more than a gravel parking lot, he left the church. And his testimony and his minute. He was gone. He gave up on his vow before the Lord And he was no longer a man of God who happened to be a truck driver. He was a truck driver who had at one time been a godly man. Folks, El Cannah had an awful lot to keep him from ordering his family aright in the house of God. But he kept his vow before the Lord, verse 21. But it's not just Samuel's father that is a marvelous example to us. Samuel's mother, Hannah, had major adversity. This lady had problems greater than you can imagine. Look at verse 2 of chapter 1. We find first of all that God had ordained the adversity that Hannah had. And he had two wives, that's Al Cannah, had two wives. The name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other was Paniah. And Paniah had children, but Hannah had no children. She didn't have children. Verse 5. This is El Kanah, but unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion. For he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her will. God had prevented Hannah from having children. Her barrenness may have been the reason that her husband had two wives. Now Canna loved Hannah, but having children in that day was paramount above everything else. And it may well be that the reason, the reason that Alcana had two wives was because Hannah was barren. That's what happened with Jacob. We find it in scripture. And so not only is she childless, but now she is sharing her husband's love and loyalty with another woman. Folks, that's the most unnatural existence that any woman could ever have to endure. It was great grief. But not only that, we find that she had an adversary. And the adversary was the other wife. Look at verses six and seven. And her adversary also provoked her sore to make her fret because the Lord had shut up her womb. And as she did year by year when they went up to the house of the Lord, so she, that's Paniah, provoked her. Therefore she, that's Hannah, wept and did not. Here she's going up to the sacrifice of the Lord, and instead of going up with joy, she's going up with weeping and sorrow. Because now above other times, Panaya's poking her in the ribs. Her adversary and her adversity was always present. Hannah had no means to escape from her troubles. She had married one husband, but now there are two wives. Her husband loved her, but the other wife hated her Her husband was rejoicing in the children that he had by his second wife, but Hannah had no children. Hannah could not make her body conceive. She certainly would have if she could have done something to Sure, to heal her womb, but it was God that had shut her womb. And we read in Scripture: Lo, children are inherited to the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. She was a godly woman. But where was her reward? Where was the heritage of the Lord? Hannah could not change her circumstances. Divorce? was neither possible nor div desired. You understand that a woman could not divorce a husband, but a husband could divorce a wife. It wasn't like the wife could choose the divorce. That was the man's prerogative It was neither possible nor was it desired. She didn't want that. Hannah was a godly, devoted, and faithful wife. And Elkanah tried his best to comfort her. But the trial continued. Christ said a man's foes will be that of his own household. And I mentioned that the most the most unnatural situation is multiple wives. God allowed it in the beginning because of the command to be fruitful and multiply, to replenish the earth quickly. But we come to the New Testament, and in the New Testament it is forbidden the bishop is to be the husband of one wife. And um uh uh Brother Bennett, Richard Bennett, who who some of you have read some of his books, was a Roman Catholic priest. He and I became He was an older man, I was a younger man, but we became very close friends because he had been a Roman Catholic priest missionary in Trinidad. And Penny and I were missionaries in Jamaica and it was just there was just that commonality of experience and uh we we began talking about the things that the cultural things of of the island life and And grew a very close friendship and mentorhood. But he mentioned the tragedy of the monasteries Of the nunnery and how unnatural and cruel it was. How you you would have twelve to twenty, however many nuns living in these monasteries and the mother superior was in charge of everything and they worshiped her as if her word was scripture And many of them were very cruel. And my wife was a hall leader in college and she dealt with how girls can get catty and start fighting and don't start throwing tomatoes at me. Well guys fight too, but girls just have a certain way of being catty with one another. Folks, that's what that's what Hannah was putting up with day by day in her own family. It wasn't like a college student that could go home and leave it behind. This poor woman. But folks, I want you to see that Hannah's trials drove her to godliness. I mentioned a friend of mine who was driven away from church and from the service of the Lord because of a parking lot. But folks, Hannah's trials drove her to godliness. Folks, what a lesson that is for us. You see, our trials will drive us closer to God, or we'll allow our trials to drive us away from God. Hannah's trials drove her to godliness Verse 10 of chapter 1. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord. She didn't go complaining to Elkanah. She didn't get on Facebook and start telling everybody what was going on in her family. She prayed to the Lord and wept sore. No one understood her grief. Even Eli the priest misjudged her. Eli thought she was drunk. Verse 14. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Verse 15. And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrowful spirit. I have not drunk neither wine nor string drink strong drink. But I have poured out my soul before the Lord. Folks, we don't find Anaya pouring out her soul to the Lord David said, before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I have kept thy law In my distress I called upon the Lord. I cried unto my God. He heard my voice out of his temple. And my cry. came before him even unto his he ears. Behold, O Lord, for I am in distress, my bowels are troubled, my heart is turned within me Folks, God closed Hannah's womb, not El Hannah. Not Panaya, not Hannah herself. God closed her womb. God allowed Hannah to have these heavy, heavy trials, but it is the trials that drove her to God. She became a godly woman, a godly wife, and a godly mother, not in spite of her trials, but because of her. Trials. And so it was perilous times. El Cano was faithful with his family in perilous times. Hannah had great trials. But folks, this story also records the remarkable vow that was made and was kept. Verse 9 of chapter 1. So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by a post of the temple of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. Verse 11, and she vowed a vow and said, Oh Lord of hosts If thou would indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me and forget not thine and not forget thine handmaid but will give unto thy handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. Folks, this is the covenant God, you give me a son, then, this is my part, I will give him to you all the days of his life, and no razor will come upon his head. Now remember, El Cana's of the tribe of Levi, he would have that service from age 30 to 50. So also is Samuel a Levite. He would have a period of service. But Hannah says, Oh no. Oh no. If you will give me a son, he will be a Nazarite from the womb. No razor will come on his head. And he will serve not just the standard period of service of a Levite. He will serve you all the days of his life. Verse 27. For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I ask of him. Therefore also I have lent him unto the Lord as long as he liveth, he shall be lent to the Lord, and he worshipped the Lord there. Hannah made a vow before the Lord and she kept her vow. But folks, there's more to this story. Because this child, Samuel, had a father. This was Elkanah's son. Does he have no say in this? Well, certainly he does. Look at verse 21 to 23. Still in chapter one. And the man Al Cana and all his house went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow. But Hannah went not up, for she said unto her husband I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then will I bring him that he may appear before the Lord and there abide forever. And Alcanah, her husband, said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good. Tarry until thou hast weaned him Only the Lord establish his word. The his there is God's. Only the Lord establish God's word. El Qaddah says, you made a vow. You better keep it. And we know from Numbers chapter 30 that if a virgin made a vow And her father heard it and he consent to it, the vow would stand. But if the father said no, the vow was null and void. And we read in that same context in Numbers 30 and verse 7 that if a wife make a vow and her husband hear the vow, And he say, no, the vow is no and void. But if the husband consent to the vow, the vow must be kept. And that's exactly what's happening here. It's not just Hannah that is giving up the son, but Elkanah as well is saying to his wife, Okay, until he's weaned, you stay here, but remember you said he was a Nazirite from birth Remember, you said he was given to the Lord all the days of his life. Yes, he is an infant. He cannot eat other food. You must feed him. But watch out, my wife. May God establish His Word. And so Hannah vowed and kept the vow. Elkanah agreed to the vow. Now it must stand with both of them. But folks, there's more here. This is glorious. Look at verse 28 of chapter 1. Therefore also I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he liveth, he shall be lent to the Lord, and he worshipped the Lord there. Folks, who's the he that worshiped the Lord there? Well, some of the modern com modern commentators will try to tell you that it was it was Eli the priest, that Eli the priest was so delighted to have this young child to be his helper that Eli worshiped the Lord. Folks that know what the text says. Others say there was El Cana, and I believe that El Canah worshiped, and I believe that Hannah worshiped, and I believe that Eli did worship. But folks, the plain reading of the text is that Samuel, Samuel, the infant child, the young newly weaned child. understood enough that he accepted the vow that had been made by his mother He accepted the vow that had been made by his father, confirmed by his mother, and he took the vow of his own. You see, a Nazarite could break his vow. There are cases where it happened. But Samuel says, no. I will keep this vow made before I was born, made before I agreed to it, made before I was conscious. now made by my mother and confirmed by my father, I am being brought here. Mommy's going home. This old man is now going to give me all the care I'm going to receive. But I accept the vow. Folks, this was a child who had been prayed for before he was born. And I guarantee you, as Moses was brought up by his mother, so this child had been taught from the day he was born, before he could understand what was being said. You are a Nazarite to the Lord. Your friends may get a haircut, but you will never get a haircut. You're a Nazareth to the Lord. Folks, God rewarded. God rewarded a godly father and a godly mother. who in the worst of times suffered great trials, Elkanah trying to navigate his family through a wicked religious system, Hannah navigating her soul through a very difficult trial. But the result, the result was Samuel. Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings thou hast ordained strength And when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leapt in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. Jeremiah 1, verse 5, before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth, I ordained thee a prophet to the nations. Folks, look over to chapter 2. Look over to chapter 2 and verse number 10. I read this verse earlier, and this is so easy to miss. But the first portion of chapter two, which I read for you, is Hannah's song of praise when she brings her son to leave him. Do you remember the first time you left your children and kids, folks? Remember when you were your kids were one and a half, two years old and you left them with your in-laws for the first time and you thought your in-laws had forgotten how to take care of kids? Yeah, I remember that. I remember that. You know, and you well, here Hannah's leaving this child that she's just wound with an old man, and this is her song of praise. But look at verse ten of chapter two. And it says, the adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them. The Lord shall judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give strength unto his priest. No. He'll give strength unto his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Folks, Samuel anointed the first king of Israel. There were no kings. But here, godly Hannah is making a prophecy. He will give strength unto his king. But folks, there's more than that. There's more than that. Because Hannah is prophesying the Messiah. Look at it again. He shall give strength unto his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. And yes, the priests were anointed. But when God says, touch not mine anointed, ultimately he's referring to Christ. Christ is the anointed of God. And so we find that God was doing a great and miraculous work here. Look with me. This is the last point. God had an eternal purpose in what happened. In verse 16 of chapter 1, Hannah says to Eli, Don't count me as a daughter of Belial. But in chapter 2 and verse 12, we find that the sons of Eli were sons of Belial. A great contrast there. Verse 35 of chapter 2, and I will raise me up a faithful priest. And he shall do according to that which is in mine heart and in my mind. And I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before mine anointed forever. Did the house of Aaron have a shore house? No. Did the house of Samuel have a shore house? No. Does the house of Christ have a shore house? Yes. And so, folks, we find here that Samuel was ordained of God to be a type of the coming Messiah. Samuel was a faithful priest, not of the line of Aaron. Aaron's arm's been broken off. Christ is not in the line of Aaron. Christ was not a Levite. Christ is of the tribe of Judah. And there was the complaint. Nothing is spoken to the tribe of Judah regarding the priesthood. But here we find Samuel, not of Aaron's line, though a Levite. Now he is going to stand as a prophet. We think of Samuel primarily as a prophet, but we find that he is wearing the linen Ephod. Look at chapter 2, verse 18. But Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child Girded with the linen ephod, he was girded with the garment of the priest, even though he is not the high priest, he's not of the tribe of Aaron And so we find Samuel as a prophet, and we find him standing as a priest, but not the high priest, but we think of him most of all as a judge of Israel in the days before kings. And so Samuel is a prophet, priest, and judge, and Christ is the prophet, priest, and king And Christ alone brought the three offices of prophet, priest, and king into one. And Samuel alone brings the three offices of prophet, priest, and judge into one. And Samuel's mother had even prayed for the king before there was a king. How much insight! Did Hannah have and to what God would do with this child for which she had prayed? Folks, God is faithful. He will not leave himself without a witness. Elijah in the cave said they slain the prophets. And I and I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. And God says, no. I have reserved for me those that have not bowed the knee to bed. God will always have his remnant, even when the priesthood is so polluted as it was in the days of Eli. And so we find in verse 1 of chapter 3, verse 1 of chapter 3, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. But it doesn't mean there wasn't a vision, does it? Because Samuel had a vision. God calls Samuel, Samuel And Samuel runs to Eli. And Eli says, Lay down, son. I didn't, I didn't call you And God calls to Samuel again, Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel runs to Eli, you called me. I serve here before you. What can I do for you? And Eli perceives that it is God speaking to Samuel. God calls to Samuel again. Samuel! Samuel! Speak, Lord, for thy three year old, four year old Speak, Lord, for thy servant ears. Folks, we have young children among us, so pray for them every day. By name, pray for them every day. We have unborn children in our midst. Pray for that child every day. We have other children of our congregation that don't meet with us here in Maryland. Pray for them by name every day. We have young families that someday God will bless with children. Pray for them as well. Folks, we live in a day in a terrible day. Our national leadership, you see, Eli was the national leader as well as the spiritual leader. Our national leadership is gone. Our spiritual leadership is a wreck. The only hope is faithful families, faithful fathers, faithful women that pray for their children. And raise them up to know and love the Lord. Because God will always have a remnant. God will always have his people. Regardless of adulterous thieving priests at the door of the temple that are driving everyone else away. Let us stand for prayer. Father, we thank you for the glorious foreshadowings, the glorious pictures of Christ that are portrayed in thy word. And Lord, even even Samuel here is portrayed as a man after God's own heart, as would da as would David, portrayed as one who bore the threefold office which Christ bears, the prophet, the priest, and the king. Father, may you bless your word to our hearts. May you convict us greatly through it. May we be Lord faithful in praying for our families, praying for our children, praying for our grandchildren. Father, we pray that you would bless the next generation with a true revival and with a true outpouring of the Spirit of God. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.