Good morning. Let me just preface uh this morning's message by reminding you where we left off. Last week David and Abishai had Slipped down into the camp of Saul while Saul was asleep. And they got inside a camp of 3,000 men. Nobody woke up. God had put them into a deep, deep sleep, a miracle. And David had grabbed his bolster or pillow. I'm starting to think now was his head on the pillow and lifted his head and pulled the pillow out and dropped his head on the ground. I guess he did. And um no, he didn't take the bowl, so that's right. But he took the water that was next to the bowl And he took his sphere, which was probably a uh a king's sphere, a very decorative sphere that everyone would recognize. And then David went back out of the camp. They still weren't discovered, and he went back up on the hill And now we pick up on top of the hill outside the camp of Saul in 1 Samuel 26. And we'll begin at verse 13 to the end of that. chapter if you'll follow with me. First Samuel twenty six and verse thirteen. Then David went over to the other side and stood on top of the hill afar off, a great space being between them. He wanted a good distance between him and Saul because Saul wanted him dead. And David cried to the people and to Abner. So he was trying to wake him up, and David shouting, O Israel, O Israel, O Abner, O Abner. And David cried to the people and to Abner the son of Nur, saying, Answerest thou not He couldn't wake anybody up yet. Answer thou not Abner? And then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king? So he must have been crying out the king's name as well O people, O people of Israel, O Abner, O Abner, captain of the host, O King Saul, trying to get him to wake up, and they finally did, or at least Abner did Who art thou that cries to the king, verse 14? And David said to Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? And David knew this. He had fought many a battle with Abner. They were personal friends. And who is like to thee in all of Israel? Wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king, or kept him safe? For there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord This thing is not good that thou hast done. As the Lord liveth, you're worthy to die, because you have not kept your master the Lord's anointed or kept him safe. And now see where the king's spear is. And David must have held it up as he spoke. And the crews of water that was at his bolster And Saul knew David's voice, and he said, Is this the voice of my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O King. And he said, Wherefore doth my Lord thus pursue after his servant? David continues, For what have I done? And what evil is in mine hand? Why are you after me, Saul? Now therefore, verse 19: I pray thee, let my Lord the King hear the words of his servant. If the Lord have stirred up thee against me, let him accept an offering. If I've done something wrong and that's why you're after me, let me know. I can give an offering to God, and that'll settle it But if they be the children of men, cursed be they before the Lord, for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord. He said, if God has moved you to do this, that's one thing. But if men have moved you to come after me, cursed be them. Keeping me from the abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go and serve other gods. At least that might as well be what they're saying, because I can't come into Israel and and serve my my God Jehovah anymore Now, verse 20, therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the Lord. For the king of Israel has come out to seek a flea, as one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains. Then said Saul, I've sinned. Return, my son David. Come back with me. For I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day. That is, you didn't kill me while I was asleep. Behold, I have played the fool, and I've erred exceedingly. And David answered and said, Behold the king's spear. Let one of the young men come over and fetch it. And the Lord rendered to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness. For the Lord delivered thee into my hand today, but I would not stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed. And behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes So let my life be much set by or valued in the eyes of the Lord, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation. And then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David. Thou shalt both do great things, and also shall still prevail. And so David went out his way, and Saul returned to his place. Verses 13 through 16, David cries out, trying to wake up the camp. Abner, art thou not a valiant man? And he knew he was. Wherefore then has thou not kept the Lord or the Lord King safe? For there came in one to destroy the king. At least that's what you'd say to me that I'm I'm out here to destroy the king, to kill the king, and you've let me, who's supposed to be out to to kill Saul, you've let me come in You're worthy to die. See the king's fear? See his see what the the- that was at his bolster and the crews of water? Now Abner, it is true, had allowed a declared enemy of the king. The king had declared David an enemy. The king had declared that David wants me dead, and that we gotta you gotta keep me safe. You've got to guard me at night. Uh post a guard. And we know even today that falling asleep in the in combat on the position of guard duty is you can be put to death for that You're endangering the lives of all the other men if the guard falls asleep. And here he not endangered the lives of other men, he endangered the life of the king And he had dedicated himself as the king's main bodyguard, Captain the Host Admiral, said he had laid out his life for the king. Nothing will happen to the king. You will be safe with me. And he broke his promise. He he he lied as it were. He It was just a horrible thing that he had done to fall asleep on the king and all those that were with him as well, declaring to keep the king safe. And so David on top of a mountain publicly rebutes Abner After all, what Abner has done it was totally out in the public. Everyone knew that everyone fallen asleep. Everyone knew the sphere was missing, the cruise of water was missing. It was a public sin and it required public rebuke, and public rebuke by someone who had a relationship with Abner and David did. In fact it is Abner who introduces David to King Saul. He says, I've got a young man here who wants to kill Goliath. What's his name? And he sends Abner out to get him and they they talk and he brings him back Admar and David had a relationship, and then there's other battles throughout Israel where David and Abner are fighting together and they admire one another, and so David's just the guy to rebuke, another combatant, another comrade in arms, so to speak Someone who fought and bled in battle with Abner. That was David. They knew each other very well. And so publicly he rebukes him. He's the captain of the host of Israel, 1 Samuel 26 and 5. And now David says to him, you're worthy to die. You're worthy to die. You've had sinful disregard, sinful disregard for the king's life. And that might sound like a stretch to you, but is it not sinful disregard when someone leaves a baby in a hot car asleep? That's sad. Are the people not arrested? Are they not charged with sinful disregard for the life of a child? And that's what David is here calling for Adam. He said, You had sinful disregard for the life of the king of Israel. You deserve to die. And I think many of us have felt the same when someone has left a a child in the car and they've gone into a bar somewhere drinking for a couple of hours and the child basically boils to death inside the car Sinful disregard for the life of another. And so David denounces this sin. We find Joseph doing the same thing with Potiphar's wife when she tries to seduce him. He said, How can I do this sin before God? He calls it a sin. And the scripture tells us, then that sin, rebuke before all, that others may fear. Maybe nobody else will fear of falling asleep while protecting the king from this point on. Because David said, You fall asleep, protect the king, you're worthy of death. And so we we rebuke people for sinning that others may fear and sin no more. 1 Timothy 5 and verse 20. Christ rebuked Pilate for crucifying him in John 19 and 11. You may not remember rebuking Potter for that, but he says to Pilate, These men that want me crucified, they sin more than you, who are going to crucify me. But he's he's also rebuking Potter for you you set him an innocent man, you washed your hands of this. Christ rebukes Pilate, high authority in government, for sinning. And he calls it sin. If you look at John 19, 11, he calls it sin that Pilate has committed John the Baptist rebuked Harry for his adultery. Matthew 14 and 4. He called it sin. Luther rebuked the Pope. John Knox rebuked the Queen. Proverbs 28:1 says, The righteous are bold as a lion. David was a righteous man here. He knew he was right. You don't fall asleep on guard duty. You don't fall asleep when you're protecting the king. Total disregard for his safety. So when there's sin going on out there, it needs to be addressed. It needs to be addressed. It needs to be rebuked. It needs to be admonished. It needs to be exhorted. We have to be bold as lions. And I I question today, does the church today lack the boldness to confront sin? Hope Christian College this week has buckled. They have told the government that they will allow uh gays to be married and they will put them up in the dorms at Hope Christian College. Kentucky this week has ordered the pastors who do counseling, whether it's drug counseling or runaway counseling or any kind of counseling of these programs throughout the state of Kentucky, they may not, they may not go against the Supreme Court's ruling. and say anything to a young person or counseling about sodomy. They may not mention it as a sin. So the pastors in Kentucky, some of them are say are refusing and some are buckling to it. Churches are buckling. It takes the righteousness of a lion to rebuke sin. And that's always been an easy thing for us to do in America, but it's getting harder harder because now sins are being we're being told by the government that some things aren't sin anymore. Does the church lack the boldness to convince If we as Christians remain silent, if David had remained silent here, if Christ had remained silent, if John the Baptist had remained silent, or Luke and John, if all these people remain silent, where Oh we be today Well, we'd probably be where we are today, only a lot sooner. That's where we'd be today. But if Christians remain silent in the world, the world will dictate to us what is sin and what is not sin. If we remain silent today, the world will dictate to us what we must tolerate. And it'll also dictate to us who will not be tolerated. The pastors in Kentucky are no longer tolerated to talk about sodomy as a sin while counseling young people. in the government programs that they have there, after school programs and so forth. So Saul here Here's David's voice on the hill, and he recognizes the voice. Admirals, like he doesn't recognize. He's probably still woozy from the deep sleep. But Saul does, and he said, Is this my son David? Oh, come on, please. This is a guy that's tried to kill David umpteen times, and now he's calling me this my son, David. He'd also tried to kill his best friend Jonathan a couple of times. He had taken his wife Mikal away from him, stolen his wife. The king had taken David's wife from him. Is this my son, David? And David said, It is, wherefore doth the Lord pursue after his servant? David doesn't call himself a son. He said, is the voice of David, your servant, I'm not your son anymore. What have I done? He says in verse 18. We hear the same thing from the Lord Jesus Christ in John 8 and verse 46 when they're gonna When they're having mind to crucify him and put him to death and persecute him, and Christ says, Which of you convicted me of sin? Isn't it great when somebody charges you with something and you say, name the sin You know, when you got a clean conscience, you can do that. David had a clean conscience. He said, What have I done? What have I done? The Lord Jesus Christ says, which of you? He says, all the Pharisees and Sadducees. Scribes and priests, which have you convicted me of sin? If I've spoken evil, Christ said, Bear witness of the evil. But if well, why smitest thou me? He says in John eighteen and twenty-three The soldiers were smiting him. And he said, Why are you smiting me? What have I done wrong? And every soldier had to say, uh, okay, well, somebody else wanted to hit him, go ahead. I can't think of anything he's done wrong, you know And the one said, well Pilate said that uh well Pilate said he didn't find anything wrong with Christ. Okay, I can't hit him either. But there was always a couple of soldiers that could, weren't there? There's always someone that can step forward who just enjoys being naturally nasty as a sinful spirit. And so Christ rebukes Pilate. John the Baptist debutes Herod and Knox the Queen and Luther the Pope and you know we we look at this and we find that when the rule or of or leaders of nations Encourage the persecution of God's people. Or when the leaders of nations encourage the persecution of the Savior, and David was the Savior of Israel, he had killed Goliath. And the Lord Jesus Christ was the Savior of Israel as well, the Savior of souls, and yet they persecuted Christ. In fact, today they still persecute Christ. You can't use his name in a prayer. You can't bring uh the Bible into school because it has his Talks about Jesus. You can't bring up Jesus in a subject. There's a the child was asked to write an article on his uh something that throughout history that he he really admired, and they were writing on, you know, Robert and Lee, George Washington, Abe Lincoln. And one of the kids wrote on Jesus Christ, and they were told he can't do that. He said, You said write about something I really admire. It's in history. You can't do that. You can't talk about Jesus. Write about somebody else. That went to court, by the way, and and uh the child was allowed to write about Jesus. He is an historical figure. But when a nation comes against The Savior, David in this case, was the Savior of Israel, comes against the Lord Jesus Christ, comes against believers. They are cutting themselves off from the mercy that God extends to that nation. It's a horrible thing. And when they're trying to cut David off, who's the savior of Israel, or cut the Lord Jesus Christ out of society today, this is a terrible thing. You do something like this, you're deleting a nation's opportunities for mercy Because the opportunity for mercy is to hear about a Savior, to hear about the gospel. And when you start cutting out Jesus, cutting out the gospel, cutting out the scriptures, you're cutting out the opportunity for a nation to discover mercy. Now David here he he continues the objection with Saul. You know first he says, Yes, I'm I'm David your servant. And you know, why are you asking me? Why are you doing these things? And they said, Men have driven me out from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord He saw by men have driven me out of uh where the the location of the tabernacle The inheritance of the Lord. They've driven me out of the land of Israel. I'm down there. I'm down there living with the Philistines. I'm down there living with with the Zipp. Well, the Zipites aren't much, but he said, I'm down there living with other people that are pagans You've driven me out from worshiping God, where I can worship God publicly with other people. You've driven me out from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord. And it's as if you're saying, go and serve other gods. You can't worship Jehovah here anymore You look at that carefully, you discover that David didn't complain about being driven from his wife. David didn't complain about being driven from his home. David didn't complain about being driven from a place of honor in the court. David didn't complain about being driven out from his authority to command one of the armies of Israel. David complains only about being driven from the promised land. From Israel, from the presence of the tabernacle, from the inheritance of the Lord. I wonder if our priorities are that way too Do we get on our knees and we complain about, you know, maybe things aren't going good with the wife, things aren't going good with the job, things aren't going with with the community, or things aren't going with the government. But do we ever complain about, oh the weather's bad and I can't make it to church? Do you ever complain about, oh I got this poison ivy rash, I can't go to church? I mean is our company is our complaint ever I can't go to church. I can't worship with God's people. Is that ever our biggest complaint or is that just one we we generally don't think about? Do you see the appetite that the the man of a God's own heart David had? I mean wife is gone. His occupation is gone as a military leader, his position the court is gone. He he's lost all of this and his only complaint is I can't be People are the tabernacle of the Lord. I'd love to be there for Passover. I'd love to be there for bringing the sacrifice. I love to hear the preaching and the praying and the fellowship. That's what bothers me more than anything else Boy, he's got his priorities right. And this is his biggest complaint. In fact, you put it all together, what David's already saying is: I can no longer worship freely in my country. He couldn't. He couldn't go to the tabernacle. They find him there, they'd kill him, capture him, imprison him. He couldn't worship freely anymore in Israel. He felt like he had to flee Israel and go somewhere else. Ben always says, I want to thank the Lord that we can still worship the Lord freely in this country. Amen to that. We still Can. It seemed like kind of a lighthearted prayer suggestion four years ago, I think when we started it. But you know what? I really appreciate it now, that we can still worship the Lord in this country Really. Because I don't know what the next twelve months are gonna bring. David couldn't worship freely, couldn't bring a sacrifice to the tabernacle, couldn't partake in Passover, couldn't worship openly. Would it bother you, pilgrims, to lose your right to practice your faith freely? Would it bother you? You see, there are some that say that the Constitution which guarantees us religious freedom. You know what they're they're taking they've interpreted that. You know what that means? They say that means that they that you have the right to worship your your God Inside the confines of the wall of your church freely. But that's the only place you can worship the Lord, is inside the confines of your church walls freely. The freedom of religion meant we could come to America and worship the Lord free, we can go out and we could talk to the Indian savages and pagans and we could tell them about Jesus We could take our faith and carry it on the streets. We could take our faith and carry it to the to the blacksmith shop. We could take it anywhere we wanted and worship freely. It's not freely when the courts are now saying we're confined inside these four walls to worship the Lord freely. Would it bother you to see us lose a right to practice our faith freely? It bothered David. It should bother us. The things of the Lord ought to be so so precious to us that it should bother us. David, and I think like us too, he expected some harsh treatment from the world. I mean he didn't expect the Philistines to fall over backwards and love him, or the Moabites, or the Amabites, or Jebusites and the Parasites and the Sinites and he didn't expect those people to treat him very nicely. He expected harsh treatment from them. What David didn't expect, you know, that's what the worldlings do To believers, to professors of faith. He expected all that. But he didn't expect the ruler of Israel. He didn't expect the ruler of his country. He didn't expect professing Not necessarily possessing. He didn't expect professing brothers and sisters to also treat him harshly, to treat him poorly. And they had driving him out from his faith and worshiping at the tabernacle. To serve other gods, as it would seem. Boy, how sad it is when the ruler of a country We'll treat you poorly. And David was treated poorly and and he's driven out. And you know, I wonder if anyone here I think most of us here are professing Christians, but Have you ever treated someone so poorly? They said, Man, if that's what Christianity is, forget that. I'm gonna go and follow some other faith or no faith at all. But I've I've had enough of the Christianity. Those people treated me so bad At that church or at that meeting or at at some conversation I had. And that's where David was. You treated me so poorly, so harshly. I expect that of the worldlings, I don't expect of the Christians That doesn't mean you don't rebuke sin. That doesn't mean you don't confront people or their lifestyles. Can you do it with a tear in your eye? Can you do it with a sob in your throat? Can you do it with your heart breaking? It's a poor reasoning, by the way, when someone says the reason I don't go to church anymore is because somebody in that church really treated me nasty. Okay, let me give you a heads up right now. This is really important. Not everybody here is a born-again blood washed Christian. Alright? So when you come to this church or any other church down the street, same story, go up there to open Bible, not everybody in Open Bible is a born Again, bloodwashed Christian. And sometimes when you're in a church on Sunday or Wednesday night or or you run to somebody in the church and they treat you poorly, you might want to consider whether they're really saved, rather than saying, I'm tired of that church I'm going to leave Old Bible. I'm going to lose Lee Pilgrim. I'm going to leave Leave a Reformed Bible Church up, John McKnight's church up there. I gotta tell you, there are people in the church who are not born again. And of course you got treated poorly by them. We've had Judas Iscariots in every church in the country Some of them are in the pulpit. There are some at Hope Christian College. There are some pastors down in Kentucky who will no longer teach, preach Which admonish console that sodomy is a sin. So when you treat it poorly, please remember that. Whoa. Maybe he's not a Christian. Rather than saying, that's it, I'm done with Christianity, I'll find another faith, or maybe forget it, I won't find anything. I think the pagans, I think the the uh the atheists, the agnostics will treat me better. Yes, they will. They'll be so nice to you. to you and your children and your children's children. They'll give them drugs. They'll give them booze. Oh, they'll just tolerate anything that the little heart's desire. You'll be stuck with the lawyers' fees, you'll be stuck with the jail fees, you'll be stuck with the fines, but the world will treat them so nice. Let me die among the Philistines, what David might have said. I'm going to be treated like this among professing Israelites. I might as well die among the Philistines. I might as well die among the pagans. I'll take my chances of the other faiths. And then David adds in verse 20, the king of Israel has come out to what? Seek a flee? We had that responsive reading where uh this morning in Saw or in Job where he talks about we're like a worm. Here David says, Oh, I'm less than a worm, I'm like a flea. He said, what, the king has come out for a flea as one doth hunt down a partridge? You know, a flea is hard to find, and that was he couldn't find David, that was true. A flea is hard to find, but it's also insignificant Surely a king has better things to do than to personally seek out a flea. I mean if I was a king and there was a flea on my dog, I wouldn't go and get him personally. I'd bring in someone to get them The flea. And I wouldn't bring in 3,000 of my elite soldiers. That's what it says. He took 3,000 of the chosen soldiers of Israel to go after the flea. That's just a waste of man labor So why why all the effort for this flea? 3,000 chosen men out of all of Israel to seek David? We read of that in 1 Samuel 24 and 2. He's just a flea, David. You're seeking me like a like a partridge, a harmless partridge. I'm just a flea. What's going on here? Well, let me suggest you there's something bigger going on Then David just being a little insignificant flea. And we know what that is. David's gonna take over the kingship of Israel. David's gonna become the sweet psalmist of Israel. He is gonna write you know, a hundred and fifty Psalms for us. I mean there's got the God's got a lot of work for you and there's something di there's something going on here. Whether Saul knows it or not, Saul is being used to stop the writing of the Psalter, to stop the writing of the Psalms Uh to stop the the to stop the birth of Solomon, the wisdom of Solomon, the song of Solomon, all the proverbs. Can you imagine what we what we will be missing from the scriptures If David dies? That's the bigger picture. I don't think Saul even knew what the bigger picture was, but I'm going to tell you something. What's really going on is something bigger. And when you've got Saul, the ruler of Israel, after the flea, what you've got are principalities, powers, the rulers of darkness of this world, and wickedness, spiritual wickedness in high places. That's what's really going on When you see the people of God being pursued by those who govern and rule over them, that's what you've got going on. You've got this wickedness, the spiritual darkness, and the wickedness and high flight. That's what you've got going on because We are just lambs. The church of God is just a flock. It's a harmless flock. So what is going on? And I submit to you that I believe what is going on is Saul's time was short And I think Satan's time is short. I think we're getting closer and closer to the coming of the Lord. I think we're getting closer and closer. And Satan, Satan must have, you know, he knows more than we know. He he's got he's got fifth sense and maybe he's got sixth sense and he must sense that time is short. And so what's the bigger picture? Why are they after us? Why are they why are they targeted? For instance, why have they targeted the harmless onborn? No bigger than a partridge. And they abort him. Why would they do that? Maybe there's some preacher coming out of the womb of some woman and they and that Satan wants him dead. Why would they do that? Why would the the few Christ-filled souls in this land, and I don't think we're a very you know, I think we're the minority. The gay movement's not the minority. I think if you want to look at the race that is a minority, it's the spiritual Israelite. That's the minority race in this country. And they may be black, they may be uh red-skinned Indians, whatever they are, but I think the minority in this country is being persecuted, and that minority is a born-again Christian. There's something bigger going on here when you're going after a little body of believers. I mean, how many Muslims have attacked military bases? How many Muslims have blowing up buildings in this country? How many Muslims have beheaded people in this country? But we leave the mosque alone. Oh, the answer is 21 military bases have been attacked in the last couple of years, all right? Twenty-one military bases. We had what uh thirteen killed at Fort Hood and thirty-nine or forty wounded down there. I mean it just goes on and on, but we don't close down any mosques But you let that same figure be tossed on Bob Jones University or Cedarville or Liberty University or or you know Clearwater Christian College or Pensacola College. You you you bring all those people out of a Christian college and they'll be shutting down every college in a Heartbeat. There's something going on here when they only go after the unborn children, like a little like a little parjards. They go after the Christ-filled souls in this land, or they go after this little book I mean, what is in this little book that irritates them so much that they don't want it in the classrooms? They don't want it in the colleges They don't want it quoted. They don't want you taking it out in public form and walking to the harbor and reading from it. I mean, what is what is going on here? A book that has blessed mankind for thousands of years Principalities, powers of the rulers of darkness, of this world and spiritual wickedness in high places are moving All across this country and all across the world. I think Satan's time is short. Now you might think that's being a little hard Saying that Saul is involved with principalities and rules of darkness and spiritual witness in high places. Well you go two chapters further and guess what he's doing? He's seeking out the witch of Endor He's trying to raise up some from the dead, like Samuel and talk to him. He is dealing with evil spirits. He is dealing with a witch. And so we didn't know what was going on in this chapter, but in two more chapters we find out There really is something going on with the world of the darkness and the spiritual weakness in the high places. And I just I think we're doing the same thing I think we're seeing the same thing again with the rulers not just in America but all across this country and all around the world. We're seeing such wickedness. And so Saul responds to David, verse 21. I have sinned. Return, my son. For I will no more do thee harm because of my soul, because my soul, you found my soul precious in your sight while I was asleep and you didn't kill me. He says, return to me. I have sinned. Repentance is good. Job talks about repentance in chapter 42 and 6. It's good for the soul. I'm not saying that his this is true repentance here, but you know something? Repentance is something we need to do. Saul had attempted to kill his own son Jonathan He'd broken up the marriage of his daughter to David. He'd sought to kill David umpteen times, as I said before. It is long overdue, this confession. It is long overdue, this repentance from the ruler. And he makes his repentance, he makes his confession before three thousand of his army, his soldiers, his subjects. Wherein he also admits in verse 21, I have played the fool and have erred exceedingly. Do you know someone that's played the fool? Or is he playing the fool right now and is he erring exceedingly? If people continue to shun the Sabbath day of worship, and they continue to snicker at the scriptures, They just not you can't believe everything you say here. They snicker at the scriptures, they shun the the Sabbath day, they uh they just they show that they are exceedingly Foolish. They've erred exceedingly. They played the fool. They comfortably slight the Lord Jesus Christ by taking his name in vain. Vain. You know something like that? Snicker at the scriptures, shun the Sabbath, snicker and slight the Lord Jesus Christ? They played the fool. They are error. Christ made it clear in Mark 1 and verse 15. Repent ye and believe the gospel. Christ preached repentance. First you gotta teach them that they have sinned and David did that, or you you know, you you sinned, you've you've you've you put the king's light uh in in in a unsafe mode. Uh he could have been killed. It's horrible what you've done. Derelation of duty, we used to call it in the military. So you confront the sin, you look for repentance Christ said, repent and believe the gospel, but people today they aren't bothered by neglect to repent. Have you noticed that? Yes, have you ever repented? Ever done what? They asked Donald Trump, have you ever repented of your sins? He said, uh, well, I reckon I don't do things right sometimes and I I try to make it right and you know, if I'd done something to somebody I'd try to make up for it. But if you repented of your sins, he said, Well I I wouldn't put it that way. I don't just sit down and you know you know. I mean I go to communion, I eat the little cracker, he said, and stuff like that. Oh, it's disheartening We need to repent. Really, really repent of our sins. I don't need to know your sins But and the Lord already knows them, so why not just talk to him and repent of them Saul had come from a good family. Saul's family had substance. Remember, we're not looking for the jackass to disappear. They were wealthy. He had health, he had a physique, he had looks, he had courage. He had authority as the king, he had Samuel as a spiritual guide, but he needed to repent. You can have so much going for you, but if you haven't repented, if you don't believe the gospel, what good is all of that? He has all the advantage, but the one shortage he has is his repentance and believing the gospel, which required in his day after repentance a sin offering or sacrifice, and he didn't do that. Did Saul truly repent? Verses 23 to 25. David said, Behold the king's spear! Send someone to get it. You played the fool, but I'm not going to play the fool and bring the spear down to you. Oh no. No, I'm not going to do that. Does David believe he's repented? It doesn't seem that he does. I'm not bringing the spear back to you. He said, you send some young fellow up to fetch the spear. Saul's profession and returning the spear personally was not, they didn't go well together. Yes, he had made the profession, but David was not going to personally return the spear to him. Forgiveness is one thing. Maybe he forgave Saul. But to trust, that's tough. When the trust is broken, it's hard to trust someone's words again. I will not harm you, oh my son David Come back, return with me. It says here instead in verse 25 that David went his way and Saul returned to his place, or Saul went his way. David does not return the sphere personally. David does not return with Saul to the palace as he was invited. And David never, never, never in scripture meets up with Saul again. This is it. They will never make and converse again in the scriptures. And there's someone out there this morning right now that you will never meet again. Maybe it's an elderly grandmother, grandfather, an old uncle Maybe it's your brother or sister, they're young, but there's going to be a traffic accident before you see them again. There's someone out there that you will never, never meet again. And there's someone out there that you must meet. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. As your heart formed a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, that's someone you have to meet. If so, if you've met the Lord Jesus Christ, you are eager to meet Him again and again and again in prayer and in His Word and in the Word. world to come. That's how you know if you're really saved. You're eager to get back in the Bible, back into prayer, back into fellowship, and eager to get to heaven That meeting, if it hasn't taken place with your heart in the Lord Jesus Christ, that meeting has to take place and needs to be done very soon. Soon. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this day for the story of David, the King of Israel, and how it reminds us so much of the Lord Jesus Christ, who's the King of Kings, the King of Israel, the King of the world. And Lord, if if we can just look around us and be reminded by the rising Son of the resurrected Christ, by the setting of the Son, the burial of the Son of God. May we look all around us and see the gospel everywhere And may it not just see it, but may it seep into our hearts, and may it mean something to us. Lord, give us a heart of repentance. And give us a heart that is warming every day to the relationship that we should have in Christ. And we ask this, Maneva, our great Savior. Our God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen