Turn with me if you would to Luke chapter one. We'll just read two verses, continuing what we had in the responsive reading this morning. Luke chapter one Time we we'd read that whole chapter because we're gonna just do verses thirty-eight and thirty-nine of Luke, chapter one, but we will be looking at the Verses that follow after as well. It's called the Meneficot, Mary's song. And um we'll be looking at that as well. But verse 38, and Mary, remember the Gabriel came and said she was gonna have a baby, and she said, I know not a man And Mary said in verse 38 of Luke 1: Behold the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her. And Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste into a city of Judea. She went to see her cousin Elizabeth. When we read this whole story, we find that first off, when Joseph finds out that Mary is with child, he wants to run away from the marriage. Then Mary, we find here, she's running away in haste to see Elizabeth to tell her what has happened. And then later on, Joseph and Mary are both going to run away from Herod into Egypt to keep the Christchild safe. And then Mary, we discover as we read more and more, she really is a chosen vessel of God, and she's no run-of-the-will mother. She's a very special young lady chosen for a very special purpose and no run-of-the-mill mother. But one who possessed The fruit of the spirits. And if we go through the Magnificat, which follows the verses we just read, we're going to find that she possesses all the fruits of the Spirit. That she has goodness and meekness. Peaceable, joy, faith, love, temperance, or good self-control. uh gentleness and long suffering. No wonder the Lord chose her to be the vessel to bring forth the Christ's child In Matthew 1, 20 through 23, it also states that Mary, uh that she was a virgin. Or in other words, she was a woman of virtue, or she was a woman with goodness, one of the fruits of the Spirit. In fact, I'll tell you how good that Mary was. Mary had Christ in her heart before he was in her womb. Wow. She really was filled with goodness even before Christ entered the womb. We read of Esther in the book of Esther. She also is a virgin. And that she was chosen for such a time as this, Mordecai told her. You maybe have to lay down your life for this time, but you've chosen, you're a virgin chosen for such a time as this. And Mary also was a virgin chosen for such a time as this. this for the birth of the Christ child. We read of Deborah that she arose a mother of Israel in Jude chapter five and verse Judges rather chapter five and verse seven. And Mary is certainly a mother of Israel as well that we should take note of. Christ in her heart before he was in her womb. Moms, do you have Christ in your heart? Do you have Christ in your heart? And perhaps if you do, you're a mother that's been raised up for such a time as this. We live in troubled times. We know that. We read the newspapers and turn on the TV. And this is a time in which we need mothers who are raised up for such a time as this. Mothers with Christ in their heart. Mary, we find in Matthew 2, verses 14 and 15, that she was with child, or rather, the child had already been born, and by night her husband Joseph told her, We must flee into Egypt. Until the death of Herod. Now that's not an easy thing for a woman who's just given birth to a child to do. Probably no relatives or friends down there. It's quite a distance to go. It wasn't an easy thing to do having just given birth But Mary was an example of meekness. And she would submit to her husband one of the fruits again of the Spirit In Galatians 5, 22, she submitted to her husband. When the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, she also submitted And they made the long trip up to Jerusalem to the temple. And they brought into Jerusalem and they offered a sacrifice. We read in Luke 2, 22 and 24. Why did Mary submit to that trip up to Jerusalem, and why did Mary bring a sacrifice? We read in Leviticus twelve and verse eight that the sacrifice that a woman gave when her womb was opened, and she brought forth a male baby or son. That she was to bring a burnt offering and a sin offering for herself. Mary walked into Jerusalem into the temple that day with her sin offering. She admits that she says, I rejoice in God, my Savior. She knew that she was a sinner. As meek as she was, as good as she was, chosen vessel of God, she knew she wasn't perfect. Perfect. She knew she needed a Savior, and she brought her sin offering in Luke two and twenty-two. She not only submitted to her husband fleeing to Egypt, but she also submitted in meekness to the Word of God and brought a sin offering. I wonder how many of us struggle with submitting to God ordained authority. Mothers, if you're filled with meekness and goodness like Mary, you are in submission to your husband You're in submission to the father of your children. And the children of you mothers will be observing if you are in submission to your headship or not. And she was going all the way to Jerusalem, bringing her sin offering. This is God ordained authority and she was in submission to it. Now I realize that the difference between husbands and wives and fathers and mothers and that you divvy up the jobs in the household And not all of us give you the responsibilities in the same way, but basically the husband was gonna decide the car you buy He generally knows more about cars than the mother knows. And he's probably going to decide the house you buy, because he probably knows more about construction than the mother knows. And he might also pick the church because hopefully he is a spiritual leader in the household and she will follow him to the church that he feels would be the best for spiritual growth. and for f feeding. And he usually is in charge of the entertainment. Not always. I don't think as many guys ide they really want to go to an opera. But uh Generally he's also in charge of the vacation, where we're going to go on vacation because he's going to pay for it. The mothers, on the other hand, they control a certain segment of the household too I can think of my mother for sure, and maybe many yours as well, and maybe the mother sitting here. Um my daughter's mother determined when she could start wearing makeup and how much. And maybe it was just lipstick at first, and maybe it was rouge later on. She determined the makeup, the age at which makeup would be applied. Mothers do that. They also determine whether their daughters can have their ears pierced and at what age and how many piercings they can have. Mothers do that I remember my daughter wanted her ears pierced a lot younger than I wanted to have her ears pierced. And so I made her a promise. If she didn't get her ears pierced for two years, I would make sure she was the first one in her class to have her driver's license. She liked that. There's ways to deal with our authority over our children, Moms, and I'm sure you've run into that. My mother was appalled at me joining the Marine Corps and she thought I was going to come home with these big bulldog tattoos on my arm. And she says, please, please, please, do not get a tattoo while you're in the Marine Corps. And I didn't. I took up drinking and smoking instead. My dad and my mom, they also were in charge of my haircuts. My dad said I couldn't have a mohawk. My dad said I couldn't have a little rat tail. My dad said I couldn't have the uh mohawk uh dreadlocks. Well my mother actually put her foot down on that one. And my mother also told me, although it wasn't really a big thing back then, but mothers today I'm sure have told their sons And I've I've heard some of the mothers here say this to their their children and their grandchildren. You go with me to the mall, pull up your pants. No one's gonna be looking at your underwear when you're walking beside me in the mall. That's a mom's decision. That's what moms are there for. They they do control the household and they make a difference. And if they're a meek and a good mother, the spirits, uh the fruits of the spirits, it makes all the difference. Mary said in Luke 138 what she read, Behold The handmaid of the Lord be it on you according to thy word. Now she's just been told that she's with child. The Holy Spirit's gonna dwell on her and come upon her. She'd have a child. And she She's engaged to Joseph, but I mean this is really early, and people could be counting the months from the time that they're engaged and married until a baby's born. And this could be very embarrassing for her. In fact, she could be stoned to death in Israel in this day and age for being pregnant prior to the wedding. This is a very difficult situation for her to be in. This is a very difficult thing for God to put her through. I mean someone might try to pull us down and say, well it's a virgin birth and God must have done something. Yeah right. Uh but I'm sure people have thought of saying that. But no one had ever thought to even say this before. And how are they going to are they going to believe her? And Mary's response to the fact that she could be stoned to death in the months ahead She said, Behold, the handmaid or the servant of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy will. She was a mother at peace with what God was about to put her through. Maybe a stoning or ostracizing or a shaming or a shunning. She was at peace with that. Who here has ever can relate to some of the family that was with child and they weren't married yet? Was everybody at peace? No, the father wanted to kill the guy and the mother wanted to ship the daughter off somewhere in the Timbuktu. But Mary is at peace with all this One of the fruits of the Spirit. Are you, I would ask this morning, at peace in the state that you are found? That's tough, isn't it? And I know some of the struggles that we're all going through here. It's hard to be at peace sometimes And yet we might measure what we're going through with Mary on the verge of being stoned or shunned or ridiculed or laughed at for the rest of her life. And she was content in the state she was found. You know, well eventually people believed her. Are you kidding? Take a poll outside these church walls right now. How many people believe that Mary was a virgin who never knew a man? Not many. But she was at peace with this. When Adam was kicked out of paradise, and he deserved to do so, and Eve had a little bit of a hand in it, but I wonder what Eve was like. Kicked out of paradise. It'd be like getting kicked out of heaven. Was she at peace? Was she content in the state she was now found outside the Garden of Eden? Or how about Sarah's reaction? When Abraham came home and said that Lot and I have divided up the Jordan and he's going to get the beautiful lush grass with the rivers and the water flowing and we're going to get what's left over. How happy was Sarah about that Was Sarah a mother content with the state she was found? Was she at peace? It's hard sometimes, isn't it, mom, to be at peace with what's going on in the household It's a gift of the Spirit. If you can be content to state that you are found. Peter And James and John and Andrew. They were fishermen. They had their own fishing business. Read about it in Matthew 4. 21, again Matthew 4. 18. And Matthew, the tax collector. I mean he was raking in the money. If if Caesar said to charge ten percent, he would charge eleven percent. No, he was getting a regular salary, then whatever else he get beyond that And they become disciples. The fishing business, a profitable business. They no longer have that income. Matthew, he no longer has the tax collector income. And it says in 1 Corinthians 9:5 that the apostles had wives. We know Peter's. Peter's is mentioned specifically when Christ heals Peter's mother-in-law, implying that he has a wife. Who would want a mother-in-law and not have the benefits of a wife? I mean you've got to have a if you got a mother-in-law, surely a wife comes along with that. No one would want a mother-in-law without a wife And here in 1 Corinthians 9 5, we hear that the apostles had wives, and yet what were those wives like? You're giving up the fishing business? The problem of fishing business? The James and John Corporation The Andrew and Peter Corporation? You're giving this all up for what? To go out and preach the gospel? What's that pay? What are the dividends? Harassment, crucifixion, stoning, beheading. But those wives had to be content with their apostle husbands, didn't they? She says in Luke 1 47, My spirit hath rejoiced in God, my Savior. We'll say more about that later, but she rejoices. She's a woman with joy, one of the gifts of the Spirit, in Galatians 5. 22 Uh she was also a woman of faith, for we read in Acts 1 and 14, after her son, the Lord Jesus Christ had been crucified, uh resurrected And is now in heaven, she says there, or we read about, they came into the room and they found in prayer and in supplication Mary, the mother of Jesus. This is a woman of faith. Who stood by and watched his son ridiculed and spit upon and beaten and beaten with scourges and crucified and harassed and mocked while he was dying on the cross And she says she can still rejoice. And she can still pray and make supplication on the Lord. Now I'm not saying she was perfect. And we don't expect our mothers here to be perfect. Although sometimes you might brag that their mothers are my mother's better than your mom. Or my mom's tougher than your mom, or my mom can beat up your mom. Maybe we can finish some of that. No one can beat up my mom. I'll tell you what, she taught the TLO all the dirty tricks they know today. I mean I'm telling you, my mom was tough. She was only five foot tall, but boy, wow, she was tough. She raised three teenage boys and we were all petrified of her. One moved to California, one moved to New York, and I joined the Marine Corps and I fled. I thought I had it pretty good in Vietnam. Didn't get beat up near as much, you know. I had a tough mom. But I love that God used her to make me what I am today So maybe you got a tough mom out there this morning. You have no idea what God is grooming you for. You know, come a day when you'll love your mom. No matter how tough she was on And so we have Mary rejoicing in the Lord and forever in prayer and supplication. She was a woman of faith. Remember the story when Jesus tarried back in Jerusalem and Joseph and Mary didn't even know where he was? After three days, you don't know where your kid is after three days and you're you're twelve-year-old and you you've lost you they think he's in the caravan somewhere with the cousins and the other relatives. And they discover he's not, and they go back to Jerusalem, they find him questioning the doctors of the law, befuddling the doctors of the law, they don't have any answers, and they're throwing questions at him that they that no one's been able to ever answer before, and he's just rolling off the answers like this. Problem at all. Boy, I'd like to have been there to hear all that. I wish they'd been recorded in scripture. Oh, the Bible's thick enough, I'm never going to read it. Man, that's a section I'd like to have recorded. I'd love to have every question they asked if and every answer he gave him and the questions he asked him back, oh, I just hope he's got that on DVD somewhere. I want to watch that when I get to heaven. And so they come back, they finally find him after the three-day journey out. They find him back in Jerusalem. And you know the story, and then where have you been? He said, Well, wish I not that I should be about my father's business And I think they must have felt embarrassed that they'd that for three days they didn't even know he was missing. Let me put that in perspective here. Some of you have left church on Sunday morning and left one of the kids behind. And have to turn around and come back, or we brought your child to your house. That can happen when you got several kids. And I know Jenny, you can remember that sometimes, one of you being left behind. Now the the worst time was when Pastor Dave got all the kids together and went home and left your mother and forgot her. And that might have been on Mother's Day, I don't even remember, but I mean, you know, that It happens. We're not perfect, moms. I know that. We we we do things that aren't perfect. We we miss the mark. We fall short sometimes of our parenting Expectations, what the rest of the family expects us to do as parents. We fall short of it sometimes. Our sisters and our mothers, our grandmothers tell us, you fell short, you messed up. And especially when our kids do things that they shouldn't. I remember when my mom found out that my brother and I were trying to set the neighbor's house on fire. I think he was five and I was seven. We got caught because we went in asking for more matches in my mother's house and five year olds are kind of like a freshly born raccoon, not a lot of common sense We sure got the matches from somewhere else, I guess. The number of times the cops brought me home. I won't go into that. Probably the only thing my mother hated worse than set the house on fire was when my brother fell asleep and my youngest brother and I cut his hair. I knew I weren't cut out to be a barber. Although after my mom got through with me, I could have stood around those barber chairs for hours because I wasn't about to sit anymore after that. He's cut most of his hair off. It looked pretty bad. Kinda made me wonder what Samson felt like when he woke up, you know. So my mom sometimes felt she fell short of parenting because she should have been watching us more closely. I don't know if she's out hanging up the clothes out on the clothesline somewhere. I don't know where she was, but a lot of things happened Even when a mom's got eyes in the back of her head, there are things that she misses. She says, uh Mary in Luke 1 and 49, that God hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaiden. She was they weren't rich, they weren't middle class. Joseph and Mary, they were of low estate, they were poor. He's regarded my low estate of his his handmaiden. He that is mighty hath done to me great things and holy is his name. You know, we have what people call poverty in poverty in America They they gave a list of poverty in Baltimore Sun about two years ago. Poverty is any household with only one car. Poverty is any household that only has two colored TV sets Poverty is any household that's refrigerator is only about half full of food. Now, let me tell you what poverty was when I was growing up We didn't have a colored TV. We didn't have a black and white TV, and we didn't have a car. My dad walked to work. We walked everywhere. In the refrigerator? Not much in it. And I didn't know I was for. Everybody I lived with was the same. We just thought that was normal. And we rejoiced in those days that God was good to us. When the rain came, the crops grew out on the farm, and brought in thirty-five bushel an acre. We praise God. We thought God was good to us. And here's Mary in this lowest state. She's grateful and she's full of joy. Another gift of the Spirit of God. So, moms, can you appreciate and rejoice in the great things God has done for you? Let me tell you some good things God has done for you. Most of us have come from what we call a normal, middle class, or mediocre family, and today we're all managing pretty well, aren't we? Most of it got a pretty new car out there. Maybe got two cars in the household, brand new refrigerator, air conditioning. I mean we're not out cutting logs for heat in the wintertime. We've we've gone from a mediocre perhaps to a a well-managed life right now. Maybe we've had some depressing medical reports in the last years, but all of a sudden God's turned it around like Hezekiah, and we've had 15 more years. I mean, aren't there things we should be grateful for today? Maybe you came from a godless home and your bodies can become the temple of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. Some of you can look back and say, my grandmother wasn't saved, my grandparents weren't saved, my aunts and uncles weren't saved. Maybe your mother was, but your father wasn't, and you're so grateful that you are. You've come out of a godless situation and you your bodies become the temple of God, temple of the Holy Spirit. How can we not be grateful today? Moms, you ought to be grateful. You got five or six kids and one's walking in the Lord right now? Be grateful, one is. You look at Jacob's family. The brothers sold out Joseph, they wanted to kill him, they want to they sold him actually into slavery I mean at that point in time, he's got eleven sons that aren't walking, and the only one that is. So you got five or six and the only ones walking in the Lord? Give it time. Be grateful what God has given you, moms, and see what God will do She says in verse 52 of Luke 1, He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. She has love for the God of the scriptures. From this verse alone, he hath put down the mighty from the seats and exalt them of low degree. You go through the magnificent. Chapter 1, verses 46 to about 55. Do you know that Everything in those verses they either come out of the Psalms or Habakkuk or Malachi. I mean she's doing nothing but quoting verses, like ten verses in a row from the Psalms. And she may have been singing them. Magnificat implies She sang them. We don't find magnificat in the new scripture anywhere. But she's quoting all these psalms because she loves the word and because she loves God. She's just filled with scripture And it rolls off of her tongue. You see, her favorite thing to read wasn't the daily newspaper or the sports section Or the sales section at Boscoff's. Wasn't some little devotional ditty or some magazine or some favorite book that she liked or a series of books. She w she knew the scriptures. Really, really, really well. That's a godly mother. The things to look for in a wife, gentlemen. Someone that has a love for God, has peace, content with their life, their meek, submissive to God. If they're not submissive to God, gentlemen, don't expect them to be submissive to you We read in Luke 251 that when they told her what was gonna this child was gonna be and it's gonna pierce her side. and be the rising and falling in many nations. It says she understood not which he spake unto her, but the mother kept all these things and these sayings in her heart. If you read through that, what she's told would be the outcome of having this child, it would be perplexing. It would be disturbing. But she listened, restrained With self-control rather than complaining about the prophecy of her son. Self-control, that's temperance, another gift. of the Spirit of God. Or the fruits rather. The fruits, the Spirit, not not the gifts. There is a difference, by the way. You can fake you can fake the gifts, but the fruits oh you can't Take the fruits. And she had that here, self-control. The mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. And Jesus saith to her, Mother, no, he didn't. They have no wine, or what are we going to do here? She says to Jesus. And Jesus says, Woman, what am I to do with thee? Whoa! Now he's about to go into ministry. He's 30 years old. And in front of all these people, it's like, whoa, is that any way to talk to your mother? And she didn't make a big deal out of it. She didn't get all spazzed out about it because she has self-control. She's has a the that fruit of the Spirit called temperance. And so she turns to the people there and she said, My hour has not yet come. You want me to do something spectacular? And so she turns to the people around her and And after that admonishment, and she responds in gentleness, another fruit of the Spirit, and she says unto the servants, Well, whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. She doesn't know what he's going to do. I don't think she was asking them to turn water into wine. She was saying that they're running out of wine, uh they're running out of the festivities, and and maybe you can get a couple disciples together and run down to the city and get you I don't know what she She whatever she was asking him to do, she wasn't asking for water into wine. Nobody'd ever done that before. She wasn't thinking about that. And she just well wanna run to the town and and you know, fetch some something for nourishment for the rest of the wedding party, you know. Whatever he asked you to do, just do that. His first miracle. Public miracles performed. She was so gentle about it. Whatever he asked you to do, just do it. it. Moms, are you conform comp composed when faced with a detour in your life or a disruption in your life? Are you still composed? Mary was The Lord didn't make everything clear to Mary, and the Lord doesn't make everything clear to us. But do we keep his words in our heart Even when we seem disappointed by the detours that God throws in our life, do we keep God's word in our hearts? Do we stay composed with the distractions in our life, the detours that are tossed up in front of us? And when we're disappointed, do we still hang on to God's word? She says, do whatever he saith Near the end she stood by the cross. It says in John 19, 25, there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother. Mother. Dad had probably passed on. We don't read about his father for a long time in the scriptures before that. But there she is at the cross. It says in Mark 15 and in Luke 23, the other woman stood afar off But the mother was right there. Mary Magdalene was there for a little while with her, and she must have walked away as well, left her there all by herself. The Lord's brothers aren't there, yes. The Bible says Jesus had half brothers and half sisters, even gives their names, but they weren't there at the crucifixion, at the foot of the cross, but Mary was there Mothers hover over their children more than fathers do, more than siblings do. Mothers are just always there hovering over. They hovered over your first cold, your first runny nose, your first stomach cramps, your first toothache, your first earache They hovered over me if you had an appendicitis or a surgery, they this hover like a hummingbird. They're just always there for you To watch their child. And here she was, hovering at the cross, watching her child be ridiculed, scourged, spit upon, hit, mocked, slapped, and crucified, and she doesn't leave. She watches him die. Some of you mothers have watched a child die. I don't know how you do it. I've seen fathers walk out of the room and say, I just I can't watch this anymore. Moms stay there with a wet washcloth on the forehead, hat in the hand. They're a special creature, mothers. Someone said when God made Adam, that was a prototype. Then we brought the rib out of each side, boy he made it right the second oh I think he made it right the first time too, but But they are a special creature. They hover over us. Mary was available, observing the cursing, the crucifying, the casting of lots for his coat. She was long suffering. another fruit of the Spirit, Galatians 5 and 22. Long suffering. And that this was the life of a single parent. We don't see Joseph anywhere, her husband. The family is ridiculed as well all through his life. There have been death threats against her son for as long as she can remember, and she has the patience Do you have any patience left at the end of your days, mom? Boy, I I've heard my mother say more than once, I run out of patience! Mary didn't. And she wasn't perfect. But she had the fruits of the Spirit in abundance. And she got all that from the Word of God. There's a new Bible that came out in the last ten years, and they just reprinted again in 2013. It's uh from the New Century Version text, and it's called the Revolve Bible. That's for girls. The boys have one called Refuel. And on the outside it looks like a flashy uh bizarre or cosmopolitan magazine. That's the cover on it. You'll picture guys and girls, you know, swimming and dancing and whatnot. You know, it and it it it's got a cover like that And the reason they've done that cover on it is they don't want the boys and girls to be embarrassed caught reading the Bible. Oh wow, that'd be terrible. So it's got this flashy cover. And then inside of it as well as it has this uh the uh New Century Version text, which is not a good text. But besides that, they have devotionals planted all the way through it. And I just imagine if Mary had this this particular Bible day, how it might have changed her life and changed history. Because in the book, uh one of the one of the things they teach you is the ten things to look for in the mother of your children. So if you look at Mary, something to look for things you want to look for in a girl that you're dating that's gonna be the mother of your children, they have the ten things listed. First off she shouldn't be someone who kisses and tells Secondly, she should have good posture. Thirdly, she should not eat with food, she should not speak with food in her mouth, and she shouldn't make telephone calls to guys. But you know something? They missed that she should have faith, love, joy, peace, long-suffering. They missed all the fruits of the Spirit In fact, they missed the fact that Matthew 28, 19 says that we're to go into all the world and preach the gospel and discipline these people. That are lost. They they miss the Great Commission that you should look for a mother of your children who has a great commission. Because if she hasn't got a great commission to reach out and save others, is she going to reach out to her own children or your children And then I suggest the things you want to look for, uh the other thing you want to look for in them is uh if you want to make a difference to the in the culture of your world. Yeah, I want to make a difference in the culture I think you've got to turn it upside down. This the culture of this world is bizarre. And you want to know how you make a difference in in this new magazine type Bible? It's it's you know five, six hundred pages long. It's a Bible, but they got all these little devotional in there. If you want to make a difference in your culture, They say plant a tree, recycle cans, pick up litter. Nothing about praying or sharing the gospel or giving someone a track or tithing. They're trying to make the Bible culturally relevant. The Bible's message is counter-culture to the core, and it always has been. We're not going to make a culturally relevant Relevant because it is counterculture. Don't get that Bible called revolve for girls and refuel for boys. They'll be out there planting trees and collecting tin cans instead of giving out tracks and witnessing. The editor says it's an attempt to make the Bible fun. Daniel Lionsden, oh that's fun. Meshach, Shadrach, and Nebenigo in the furnace of fire, oh that's fun. Christ being crucified, that's a real party happening, isn't it? Sodom and Gomorrah want to make the Bible fun. That's what he wants to do. When you make the Bible fun, you take the sting out of the scriptures. You make the Bible fun, you're giving a sinning soul a shockless revelation. This ought to shock us back into our common senses. This ought to shock us out of the culture we're living in right now. This is a this book is to counter the culture we live in. To give them a sinning, to give a stainless scripture And a shockless gospel? Oh, mothers, mothers, mothers today, don't run away from the scriptures that produce a Mary. To produce a godly heart. Exhort you, mothers, to seek out fruits of the Spirit. Love Joy, peace, long-suffering, self-control, temperance. God will bless you, moms, and He'll bless moms. children as well for generation after generation. I'm here today because my grandmother loved the word of God. Let's pray Oh Lord, we thank you today. We can't all be mothers because a lot of us are men. We're not going to be mothers. But all of us here have had a mother or a grandmother that made a difference in our life. And we just want to thank you this morning for the mothers you gave us. They may have been hard, they may have been harsh, but they loved us. And they wanted something better for us than the culture of the society was offering. And so we thank you, Lord, today, for godly mothers. And Lord, we need more of them. May you touch the mothers of this church, the young ladies of this church, and make them godly mothers. Not perfect. But godly. And we ask this all in the name of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.