Looking at Second Samuel the Morning chapter twenty Chapter twenty of Second Samuel Beginning at verse 14. And we won't read the entire chapter. We're just going to go to verse 22. Verses 23, 24, and 25, and 26. We've covered before. They're a repeat of the men in David's cabinet. Donald Trump has a cabinet he's forming. This was the cabinet. It's been mentioned before, and we've we've we've covered it before. So we're going to stop at verse 22. But 2 Samuel chapter 20, verses 14 through 22. Two and just again to rehearse, Absalon had caused a uh insurrection He tried to drive his he did drive his father out of Jerusalem. They went to battle. Absalom was killed. The battle the army of Absalom was defeated and they fled. And what we find here is that there are some that still don't want to give up, some that still want to carry the fight. The fight is over, but they're just not happy with the outcome And so they uh they just want to continue agitating in the kingdom of David. A little bit of what we got going on right now with the elections in America. It's over. But there are those who won't accept that And there's a lot of agitation. And that's what we have here with David in chapter twenty of second Samuel, beginning at verse fourteen, if you'll follow with me. Let's talk here about a man named Bikrai. And in verse 14 he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, that's a city, and to Beth Mahakab, that's kind of like the count. And all the Beerites and they were gathered together, went also after him. So there's a body of men from Baroth called Beerites, and they are also with uh Bikri. We read here in verse 14 And they came and besieged him. This is Joab's men now. David has sent Joab up there to stop this insurrection. And they came and besieged him in Abel of Beth Mahakah. And they cast up a bank against the city. It's a bank of dirt. against the wall of the city. And it stood in the trench, and all the people were with Joab battered the wall to throw it down, or to knock it down. And then cried a wise woman out of the city. This is the city of Abel. And she says, Hear, hear, say, I pray you unto Joab, come near hither that I may speak with thee. And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thy handmaid. And he answered, I I do hear. I'm I'm ready to hear you. And then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in the old time. In the old days, she said, they were surely asked consulate able And so that ended the matter. Abel is a city full of wise people. And if other cities were having problems, they'd go to Abel and ask those people, here's a problem, here's a situation And she said they'd come to us as they were wont to do, and they'd ask Counsel in Abel, and that would end the matter. We'd give them a good solution for whatever their problems were And I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel. That is, I didn't take part in Absalom's insurrection, neither did the city. We were a peaceful city. And thou seekest this destroy a city and a mother in Israel. This is a city with lots of little suburbs. So she was a city called the mother of the daughters of the suburbs of the cities. Alright? She said thou seekest to destroy a city, a mother in Israel, why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the Lord? And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy. Well, he just killed Amas, huh? I mean, he was known to be a bloody man. He he didn't need to have a big reason to kill anybody. But listen to Joab, far be it for me, far be it for me that I should swallow up and destroy anybody. Why why how could you say such a thing to me? The matter is not so. But a man, it goes on, the matter is not so, says Joab. But a man of Mount Ephraim, Sheba, the son of Bikri by name hath lifted up his hand against the king, even against David. Deliver him only. And Joab says, I'll depart from the city. We won't destroy you people. And the woman said unto Johab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall. I was tempted to title the message today, When Matters Come to a Head. I didn't know how that would read it, a bulletin got out somewhere in the community, When Matters Come to a Head, so we've changed it a bit Well then the woman went in unto the people in her wisdom, and they cut off the head of Sheba, the son of Bikri, and they cast it out to Joab. And he must have recognized Bikri. And he blew a trumpet. And they retired in the city, every man to his tent, and Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king. So we have this uh ongoing problem with Sheba. And he's not just satisfied with not being happy, but he must He must disseminate his his anger and his irritation throughout all the tribes of Israel. And it says he went throughout all the tribes of Israel onto Abel. And if you're to look on a map, Abel is way north It's it's up through Nathalia, uh one of the northern tribes. It's right near the the borders of Syria. I mean he has gone all the way from Jerusalem, all the way east and west and north. He has covered a large territory He really wants this to continue to be a problem for David's uh kingship. And so he's just not going to give up And he's up there near Syria. It kind of reminds us of the Lord Jesus Christ, who made an observation of the Pharisees, and we we read about that in Matthew twenty three, where Christ says Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you compass sea and land to make one proselite. And this is what Vikry was or She Boy is trying to do. He's trying to get others to be Be followers of Him, disciples of Him, or proselytes of Him. And and and He was compassing land and sea, over the Mediterranean Sea, over the Galilean Sea, uh west and east, all the way up north. He's doing the same thing. And Christ said that that that there are people like that. They compass So Christ understood what What Sheba was doing in the days of King David, and Christ understood that the Pharisees were doing the same thing in his day as well, and he was king of Israel too. And we find here that Sheba and his followers, they are just devastated. And that's why they're doing this. They're devastated at the outcome that David is now going to rule Israel. They're devastated at this. They you know what you know what their biggest problem is? They have lost their they in other words, uh uh Shiva, he still has his home, he still has his job, he still has his bank account, but he's lost his national influence. They don't like the idea they no longer have any influence on the nation of Israel. You know, they were Benjamites. Saul was a Benjamite, Asheba was a Benjamite, now Saul's dead, and David, he's from the tribe of Judah, and they just don't have any influence on the government that bees, on the kingdom. They've lost this influence, and this is what got them so agitated, and they won't let it go Sounds a little familiar, doesn't it, with what's going on today. I wonder what it would take for you to lose. What would you lose if you had to what would what loss would be devastating to you What loss would be devastating you? Uh that would that would drive you to incite rebellion in this country. What could what loss would cause anyone sitting here? And I thought of a couple of things that have happened over the years that didn't create that great riot or incitement that uh Sheba has done here but came close. When the Bureau of Land Management confiscated the farmers' land and cattle out west That almost became a riot, didn't it? That almost became an uprising, uh, an insurrection as it were, but it didn't. It stopped just short of that. How about when people have lost their business and their bank accounts have been grabbed by the government because they won't bake a rainbow cake or a cake for a gay marriage. That has happened not once, but it's happened to many several bakers in the country And photographers of weddings and it's it's really spread throughout the land, but it hasn't incited a riot yet. It's devastated people's incomes It's devastated our businesses, but that hasn't happened yet. So what loss would so devastate us that would drive us to incite rebellion in our own country? And we go through it. And now we've got the loss of privacy in our showers That's pretty devastating. We send our kids to school and to college and elsewhere and we're being told there's no privacy in the showers anymore. If a boy feels like a girl, he can go in the shower. But girl feels like a girl A boy uh so th but still no uprising yet. We're devastated by this and we're quite upset. So what would it take? What loss would get us so upset? And when I went through some things that have happened already, and now we see across the land that people I go to college for four years. We've got students with straight A's in the sciences, in the science rather, and in psychology, and when it comes to graduation day, they're denying them their diploma because they're born-again Christians Christians. We will not have six-day creations getting a degree in chemistry from the university. We will not have a woman who has sold out the Lord Jesus Christ Who's going to get a degree in psychology, a doctorate degree, and be counseling people from the scriptures? We won't have that. And so they complete their courses, they they complete all the clinics, they complete everything. They're straight-A students in many cases. And And they have a loss of their diploma. And they've gone to court and they've sued for it and they haven't won. So a lot of things can go on in a person's life that can devastate their life, and yet we don't find that any of these things in America to date have caused this great rebellion and uprising. The only rebellion we have is a rebellion like Sheba, those are rebellion who have lost Not their diploma, not their property, not their business, not their bank account. They just lost their national influence. And that's what Sheba is here. And he's he's lost far less than the conservatives and the Christians. in this country have lost. In fact this week they gave a long list of countries where Christians have ha are persecuted and where Christians uh have a a hard time uh existing in their country without any kind of freedoms and for the first time ever America is on that list. For the first time ever, we've hit the list of Christian persecution around the world in America. So here was Sheba, and he is not happy. So Joab is said. David sends him up. Verse 15. And he comes up this army to cast up a bank of dirt. in the trench. Around the walls there was a trench. Made it kind of difficult to attack the the walls if you had to go down inside a trench, then back up the hill and so forth. So they went and they just filled in the trench with dirt and then they packed the dirt up high and they're up there and they're they're climbing up there, protecting themselves, I guess, with shields overhead and her battery against the wall. They're gonna knock this wall down. At least the people inside think the wall is gonna get knocked down because one woman at least is in is she's panicking and we read about her here. The cities in danger of of the loss of their lives. And that's a pretty good reason to get upset. They're in danger of the loss of their lives because of Sheba. In fact, because of Sheba's mouth. Sheba's mouth is what's caused this whole problem. If we go back to verse one of this chapter, if you want to look there, Sheba, his his cry to start this rebellion, this uprising, this insurrection, his cry was, We have no part in David. That was his cry. We have no part in the anointed one. And he was anointed by Samuel. Well, we have no part in the king of Israel. And there are people today, and isn't that their cry? They want no part in the anointed one, the Christos, will have no part in the king, the king of kings. We'll have no it's it's the same It's the same shout that's going on. It creates a problem in America today. And that was Sheba. His mouth had gotten him in trouble, and now his mouth has got the city of Abel in trouble as well. And uh Scripture tells us that the city is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. Proverbs eleven eleven. One mouth Can be the cause of the overthrow of a city. Even one man, which is one mouth, or one sin. It can be seemingly small, but one sin can be a cause of a revolt And if it's not dealt with quickly, it grows like a weed. It can grow through it. He had all the Bureites following him and some others from probably some of the other tribes. He had a following, not a big following, because they were able to get inside this one city for a sanctuary. So that he didn't have a 200,000 men like Joab had, but he had enough people that he's inside the city with his big mouth is causing all of this. And you might say, how can one man stir up so much problem? Well, you go out here in 95, you get one drunk on that highway late at night or early in the morning, and you'll hear a 30 or 40 or 50 car pile Won't you? Just one drunk. But what can one drunk do? They can do a lot of damage. How about one liar? Yelling fire in a movie theater when there is no fire. The people all panic and they're running out of the movie theater and they're trampling each other, and there's broken arms and broken ribs and broken legs and concussions. Just one mouth One drunk, one liar, one mouth, one sinner destroyeth much good, it says Ecclesiastes 9 and 18. And Sheba is a sinner, and he's going to destroy much good if he has his own way. In fact, if you go back the early part of the chapter, he's called the son of Belial, the son of the wicked one. Almost can call him the son of perdition, as it were. Just one sinner can destroy it much good. Examples of that? How about one sinner named Adam in the Garden of Eden. By the offense of one judgment came upon all men to their conduct condemnation of Romans 5 and verse 8. It's just what one can do. One mouth biting into one fruit During World War II they had a slogan. It was the slip of a lip will sink a ship. Or loose lips sink ships. The slip of a lip. Just one mouth. Just one mouth letting it out. You see, we lived along the East Coast during the W World War Two here. And we would we would say, Well they're they're sending out at midnight tonight. We're sending out a munitions ship heading for England to help England. It's going out at midnight and you know the name of the ship and blah blah blah. But you know, don't tell anybody. I'm just telling you, honey. And then your wife would just tell her sister, and her sister would just tell her husband, and her husband would just tell his brother, and before you knew it, the Germans knew. And they blow up the ship. One mouth, a loop one loose lip, can sink a ship. You know what? One loose mouth can sink not only A vessel floating on the water, but it can slip, it can sink a human vessel too. The loose lips or one mouth can slip, can sink human vessels of friendship. It can sink human vessels, uh relationships, it can sink uh the human vessels of fellowships, it can sink the human vessels called your brothers and sisters in Christ. mouth, one lip. What it can do? It can be devastating. And if you don't think it can happen here, well it happened with Paul and Barnabas, didn't it? Anybody here think you're more spiritual than the Apostle Paul? Anybody here think you're more spiritual than Barnabas? Who, by the way, boy, talk about Barnabas tiger. He was giving us all, selling his property, giving it all to the church I mean these are pretty spiritual guys. And and can they can their mouths get into it with each other and create such a problem that that Well, we know they s they split up, but I mean th it was probably a mutual agreement and kind of friendly, you go your way and I'll go my way and and uh wherever the twain may meet again, you know, y that's not what it said Acts fifteen thirty-nine, Paul and Barnabas, the contention was so sharp. It can happen it could happen here. It could happen in any church. Ask John MacArthur. He had problems at his church. You know, we we sometimes will lose a family in this church You know what happens at John MacArthur's church? He says on any given Sunday, 40 families walk out and are gone. Like like 300 people. He says, that's a lot. Well he's got like 10,000. But he said he feels it. How about this one? Have you ever heard this one? Sticks and stones will break my bones, but words will never hurt me. You believe that? Sticks and stones and break your bones, but words will never hurt me? That's not true. You've been hurt by things that people have said about you or behind you. your back or to you? Sticks and stones. How many here have ever been hit by a stick? You know, tree branch, stone, right? Left a bruise, right? Scratch. It's gone today, isn't it? But the things that somebody has said about you, maybe they called you ugly or stupid or lazy or dumb And that was thirty, forty years ago. Still hurts, doesn't it? Words bruise forever and ever And Sheba's mouth here is creating a lot of problems. He's just one mouth initially, but he's spreading like a weed and he's hurting people. And these wounds, the words he said, David, we have no part in David. We have no part in the anointed. If you're sitting this morning, you have no part in the King of Kings, you have no part in the King of Israel, if you have no part in the anointed one, the Christ. Wow, you are really hurting yourself and others who follow you. These professors in colleges that ridicule Christianity Ridicule the scriptures. Well, woe unto them. But they're also encompassing land and sea to make proselytes just like them. Ten times worse, the child of hell, Christ says. How long, it says in Job 19, how long will you vex my soul and break me in pieces with words? Words can break up relationships, words can break up hearts, words can break up people. I mean, words are just Devastating. That's what Sheba is doing up here. Well, no part of David, no part of the anointed one. We have to be careful what we say. Our children may hear us making a a joke about the Lord or a joke about God or a joke about the Bible. It can be devastating Now in this city there was a woman, she was not like Shiva, she was a wise, she had wisdom, not worldly wisdom, she had spiritual wisdom. And we're going to find that she was a godly woman. She knew her Bible. Now in this city was a wise woman whose mouth uh was she spoke words fitly spoken. They came at just the right time when they were good words to Joab Proverbs twenty five eleven says we're to speak words fitly spoken. And she walks out in the wall and says, Hey, I pray, hear me, hear me. It's Joab out there. Send Joab to me. I need to talk to him. It says just a perfect moment. And it made all the difference What she said made all the difference to Joab, who was ready to just destroy the city. Kill everybody in it. And the inhabitants of the city. It made a big difference to the inhabitants of the city because they were gonna die until she said something. Do you know there's people out there who are gonna die? In fact, look around you. I'm not a prophet, but look around you right now. Everybody you see, I'm not a prophet or the son of a prophet. Let me tell you something. Everybody here that you see, they're gonna die. Unless the Lord Jesus comes back. Some of them are gonna die young, some of them are gonna die. They're all gonna die. And if you thought that everyone was gonna die here, wouldn't you want to speak up? If you thought you could say something that would keep them from eternity Eternal damnation, eternal destruction, eternal death. This woman, she has something to say that she thinks will protect the people that are surrounding her from dying From a horrible destruction of the at the hands of Joab and we have people around us every day and they're gonna die and we want to protect them We can't protect them from dying, but we can protect them from the horrible destruction, the damnation that follows after death, if we would just speak up And she's a wise woman here. She knows the scripture, and she speaks up, and it's going to make all the difference She cries out of the city, Hear I pray, Joab, come near in verse 16 and 17, that I may speak with thee. And when he was come, she said, Hear the words of thy handmaid. The first thing I noticed in this is that none of the men got involved None of the men got out on the wall and said, Hey, where's Joab? We've got to talk to Joab. Can Joab come in here? I'm the mayor. I'm on the city council. You know, I'm a delegate for the city. I I need to speak. Where are the men? Sometimes the headship okay guys hang on it just don't panic here guys but sometimes the headship lacks the spiritual wisdom of their helpmate Sometimes the most spiritual one in the household is the wife. You might not like to hear that, but actually you ought to just appreciate the fact that God has given you an Abigail. Abigail had a lot of spiritual wisdom. She was married to a fool named Nabel. We read about that in 1 Samuel 25. How about Esther in chapter 8? Uh she was married to the king of the Medes and the Persians, but she was the spiritual one. She was the one that was the the that king had been really blessed to have a wife like Esther. Pilgrim, ask yourself, do you appreciate the Christ like wisdom found in your sister? Or the Christ like Christ-like wisdom that you found in your mother or the Christ-like wisdom that you found in your wife. Do you appreciate that? That God has given you a helpmate that is really wise Not be jealous of her, not be mad because she knows more Bible than you. Praise God that God's given Can you a helpmate like that? What do you want to do you want a helpmate that knows less of the Bible than you? Nobody wants that, do they? Are gold, rubies, and wisdom of any less value because they're found in a weaker vessel? They're not, are they? I mean somebody say, oh I found gold and rubies and and silver and and uh and I found this all in this copper box Or I found it a cardboard box. Or I found in a broken coffee pot. Who cares if it's gold and rubies? I don't care what vessel it's found in. Dig it up in an old tin can in the backyard. You don't care. And we should be pleased at the wisdom that is in our wife. Even though she's the weaker vessel according to 1 Peter 3 and 7. And so here is this weaker vessel. She's speaking out when the men of the city are not. And she spake in verse eighteen, and they were uh she says, We they were one to speak in old times. They were, meaning the sister. towns of abel is the mother town and then were sister town surrounding. And the sister towns who want to speak an old time saying Uh we got a problem with this sister town we wasn't getting along with that sister town or it'd be like Baltimore uh like like uh Tausom not getting along with Timonium or something or something Big hassle were there. And so the Timonium and uh Towson, maybe they go and they come over and they talk to somebody um in Falston, because Falston was noted for having such wisdom. And so she said here, they were wont in old times saying, Ask counsel of the city of Abel. And so people would come into us and And they say, look, we got a problem between our city and this little city, and you're the mother of all the cities, and we want your council. What will we do? And it says and that would end the matter. And everybody would go home happy You know, nobody went home mad and this one went home. I got cheated and sh you treat this one better. Their counsel was so wise that when it was over with That was the end of the matter. They never heard about it again. Nobody went home and said, Well, we didn't get the good part of that deal. That didn't turn out so well. That's the last time we go to the city of Abel. They were so wise they would settle the matter in such a way that that was the end end of it. And this is what this wise woman is telling Joab. Do you really want to destroy a city that is such a blessing to Israel? This is a city where there's problems. People can come from the tribe of Judah, from the tribe of Benjamin, from the tribe of Nathia, from Dan, uh From Asher, they can come here. And we have we are full of wise people, wise counsel. Do you really want to do you're not just going to destroy the city, you're going to hurt the nation of Israel They're about to destroy a city known for its wisdom, or a city known to be able to end all disputes. Boy, I could use about a half a dozen people from Abel right now. I called up the President Trump and said, Hey, I got six guys for you. The destruction of our city, this lady says, this wise lady, it will be a real loss to Israel. In fact, not only will it be a real loss to Israel, it is contrary to Scripture, Joab. Don't you know the scriptures, Jehovah? It goes back to Deuteronomy 20, verses 10 and 11. She doesn't quote the location of it, but that's what she is basically she's saying to them that she says, When thou comest nigh onto a city to fight against it, this is what it says. in the scriptures in Deuteronomy. When thou comest nigh unto a city that fights against it, proclaim peace unto it. That is, tell it, This is what you must do for this to end peacefully. If you do not, we're going to destroy you She said, Joab, Deuteronomy 2010, verse 11, you're supposed to give terms for peace, she says. He haven't told us what we could do. In fact, as you read through this, we know what's going on. But the fact of the matter is the city of Abel, they didn't know why Joab was there. They didn't know why he wanted to kill everybody. They knew who Joab was. They knew he was one bloodthirsty commander. They knew if he set his mind to do something. He probably had the blessing of David, sometimes he didn't. But if he's coming in and he's battering on our walls to kill us, there's nothing we can say to stop him It's probably why the men didn't say anything. There's nothing to do to stop Joab. He's a mighty commander. He he listen to what he does. He breaks things and kills people And she says, fine, but you know what Deuteronomy chapter 20 says, Joab, you're supposed to give us a reason for peace. And if we don't settle with you and make peace with you, then you can kill us. But you're going contrary. Not only is Israel going to lose a great city, what a loss that will be, but what a loss if you don't abide by the scriptures. King David won't be happy. What a major loss to society that's not guided by the Word of God. Where we are today, that's where the whole world today is. Many a government, nation, city, county, village, they're no longer guided By the Word of God. And this wise woman was saying here, Joab, Joab, you're not allowing the Word of God to instruct you and to guide you. Just tell us. You know what it is that we can settle with for peace. The Lord Jesus Christ had said the same thing and taught, ye do err, not knowing the scriptures. Nice to admit you that Joab didn't know them But she said, You haven't come to us with peace. Where's the peace offering? And it was probably more said. She knew this verse. And Joab didn't. And Christ said, they do err, not knowing the Scriptures, Matthew 22 and 29. A lot of young people out there are creating a lot of errors in their life. They don't know the scriptures. They did Barna just did a survey. Of evangelical young Christian professing people. The majority of them think that gay marriage is okay. They don't know the scripture. The majority of them think that abortion is alright. They don't know the scriptures You do error not knowing the scriptures. Joab, you're creating a great error here. This is a major loss to society if you destroy us. It's a major loss if you don't abide by the word of God. It's going to come down on you. It's going to come down on Israel. King David is not going to be happy Much sorrow can be avoided, Joab. And much sorrow can be avoided in our lives also. If we would just communicate with one another Sit down and talk about what is the problem. Let's see if we can fix it. What do I need to do to have peace in this household, to have peace in this relationship? Now there are people that will say nothing. But you've tried. And Job might say that. But he doesn't. The city of Abel believed Joab was there to kill them, and nothing they could say could stop them. And Joab believed the city would never give Sheba up to him. They were both wrong. Joab wasn't just there to kill him. He had a reason for being there. You've got Sheba, you've made it a sanctuary city. Whoa, that's a word we got going right around it. And we want this guy. And you're protecting him. And you're protecting him against the king, against the authority of the government of Israel. And so what do I gotta do? I gotta just gotta come in and I gotta kill everybody. That's what Joab thought. And they thought, why is he here? We don't even know why he's here and why he wants to kill all of us. And Job knew why he was there And Joe thought, they'll never give him up. It's a sanctuary city. If I come in and say, You're a sanctuary city, you're protecting this guy, and they're not going to say, Well, and that's the way it is. That's what he thought. But they were willing to give him up They hadn't talked. They both were wrong in their thinking. If they would just talk to one another another. And the wise woman she spoke to Joab, and Joab spoke to her, and she said, Surely We can settle this matter if we both talk. You know, where can one go for advice today? I mean the inhabitants of Abel, they've they've been gone for twenty 2,500, 3,000 years. I mean, I wish they were still there. They're not. I mean, where do we go for wisdom today when we've got problems to settle? Well, Paul gave a suggestion, the Apostle Paul, the disciple of Christ. Paul says in Acts 17, too, that when he had problems, when he ran into problems out there as he was working as an evangelist, he reasoned with them. out of the scriptures. What? A unique thought. If you have a problem with somebody and you're going to sit down with them Don't just sit down with them and say, Well, let's talk. What's your story? What's my story? Well I think my story is best. Well I think my story is best. Well my story, this one. And no, no. Reason to them out of the scriptures. You sit down with some and say what's the problem? And then you say, What do you think the solution is? And then you say, Well, that might be the solution, but you know I look at scripture, this should be the solution. What do you think of the scriptural? solution. If you both claim to be a Christian, what would be a scriptural solution to our problem? Paul says he reasoned to them out of the scriptures. And Paul said that yeah, it didn't always work. That's what Paul says. Paul says that in uh he's writing it second uh rather I'm sorry, uh Peter says it, second Peter three sixteen Reasoning with people out of the scriptures doesn't always work. Peter said, because you're going to run into some people who are unstable. And he said they're going to wrestle and they're going to twist the scriptures unto their own destruction. Well, that may happen. But at least give it a shot. Sit down with them and reason about the scriptures. And more times than not, especially if they're a professing Christian, he'll tell you Take the fight out of them. And even if they are unstable, and even if they do wrestle and twist the scriptures on their own destruction, nevertheless the scripture should be our resource. for all the matters that arise in our household, all the matters that arise in our community, all the matters that arise between governments. Scripture ought to be the resource and the direction that we seek for what we decide to do. And so in verses 20, 21, Joab says to her, far be it for me, far be it from me. Where did you get the idea that all I want to do is kill and destroy everybody? Amasah for a start, Absalom for another I mean you can go through jail Joab had quite a history. He said, look, it's this guy named Sheba with the big mouth. He's lifted up his hand, then his big mouth against David. Deliver him only, and I will depart the city. And the wise woman probably thought, Sheba. Find out who Sheba is When did he come in here? Where is he looking? Where is he the Hey, we got a problem with somebody that's that will not accept the anointed one, the King of Israel? He's totally in rebellion against the anointed one of God. He said, if that's all it takes to remove one person, he said, Well, cut his head off and throw it over the wall. And Joab said, sounds like a good solution to me. She says, I'll talk to the people in the city. And they said, Wow, one man dies and we all live. Good solution for us, too. She brought the news to the inhabitants of the city that it wouldn't be destroyed if Sheba died, who was leading others in rebellion, sinfully, as it were, against God. God's anointed. You know, that was pretty good news to the people of Ahab wasn't or uh the city of Abel, wasn't it? I got even better news for you Called the good news. It's called the gospel. Where in Christ, who was sinless, not like Sheba, he was sinless. He would willingly die, not like Sheba. Sheba's not going to willingly let him take his head off. But we have Christ who is sinless and willing to die to save all believers from eternal destruction. Now that is good news. Better than even if the city of Abel heard. I just had this question. You're living in Abel and you get the message. Sheba dies, we're okay. At least temporary. There's always gonna be another war, another army, but but but how about this news if Christ dies for our sins we're okay forever. Isn't that an even better news? Isn't that isn't Isn't that great news? Isn't that good news? We should be more excited about that message and sharing with everyone we know than this woman was in sharing her message to the city of Abel. Because what we've got is not news, what we've got is not, you know, okay news or even the good news, it's great news, isn't it? So do we share it? Do we share a news that's better than what she had for the city of A Abel. And in verse twenty two, then the woman went in unto all the people in her wisdom. She's kind of like a Deborah in Judges four, and verses four and five. She goes in and she says and they cut the head she must have been persuasive One dies, and we all live. And they cut the head off a sheep and they cast it out to Joab. And Joab says he retired from the city back to Jerusalem. Wow. Rebellion against the King of Israel, rebellion against the anointed one of God, was addressed in a radical manner. No question about it. Cutting someone's head off, that is addressing things in a radical manner, right? So shouldn't rebellion against a thrice holy God, the King of Kings, be addressed in radical fashion as well I mean, when you think about it, Sheba, he's just sitting against the king of Israel named David. But when we're sitting, we're sitting against a thrice holy God. We're sinning against the king of kings, the king of glory. Somebody ought to die, right? I mean, and what do you find we're all this is just Sheba sinning against the king, but we're all sinning from day to day we have sin in our life. We're all singing against the King of Kings. We're all seeing against the anointed, the Christos, the Christ of God. Somebody ought to die. Everybody ought to die. That's the real situation we live in. But God is merciful, isn't he? He sent one so holy and so pure, his only begotten Son. Christ Jesus, that his death would satisfy every sin of every repentant sinner. They didn't cut his head off. The Lord Jesus Christ was not beheaded. That would have been a gentle demise. Christ was crucified. Crucified. He was crucified. Crucified was an agonizing, horrible, and a shameful way to die. To save souls. Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree, Galatians 3. 13. This is a horrible way to die. Why the cross? Why the cross? Why such a horrible, painful, shameful? They strip all his clothes off. He's nailed to the tree without a stitch of clothing on him. It's a shameful, horrible agony. Why this cross? Why this crucifixion? That all the world might understand. Eternal damnation of a soul is not Just a loss. The eternal damnation of a soul is not a real loss. The eternal damnation of a soul is not just a major loss. The eternal damnation of a soul is a great loss. And a very, very great loss required a very very great price to be paid. That's why the crucifixion. Any idea how horrible your sins are? And why the cost was so great? Because without the cross Your loss would have been so, so very, very great. Let's pray. Father, we love to you this morning. We're going to the book of Samuel, and there are lessons to be learned. We're looking 3,000 years later, and this is over speaking today of the things going on in our own society. Same sins, same type of sinners, same problems. Lord, nothing changes. Even your advice need not change. It's been good from the day it was put down on the Manuscripts. Oh Lord, may we trust it. May we lean on it. May we know it. May we use it. May we share it with souls that are lost. That they might be saved. We ask this in the name of our great God, our King of Kings, the King of Glory, our anointed one, Jesus. Jesus Christ, in his name we pray. Amen.