For those of you who have been wondering when we're going to get out of the book of Samuel, we're out of 1 Samuel. Today we start a new book in the Bible. Second Samuel and being uh familiar with Second Samuel I've got to tell you this book just gets Let's begin with the reading. Second Samuel chapter one and uh verses one through sixteen Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites. So David was fighting the Amalekites, Saul was fighting the Philistines, and neither knew what had happened to the other. Although we read here that Saul was dead. And David abode two days in Ziklag. And it came to pass on the third day that behold a man came out of the camp from Saul. With his clothes rent and earth upon his head, and so it was when he came to David that he fell to the earth and did obedience, or he worshipped David. He would be the first man to worship David as king. David didn't even know he was king yet, but this man uh comes with the message and bows down to him as the king. And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said, Out unto him, out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead And Saul and Jonathan, his son, are dead also. And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan, his son, are dead? The young man that told him said, as I happened by chance upon Mount Gilboah, behold Saul leaned upon his spear. Saul had been running, had been fleeing, and he was exhausted and leaned on his fearful support. And lo, the chariots and the horsemen that is of the Philistines followed hard after him. And when he looked behind him, he saw me. And he called on me, and I answered him, Here am I. And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. And he said unto me again, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me, for anguish has come upon me, because my life is yet whole in me. He didn't want to be captured by the Philistines and tortured to death So I stood upon him and I slew him because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen. And I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was upon his arm, and I brought them hither unto my Lord. Or the new king. And David took hold on the clothes of himself, and he rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him. And they mourned, and they wept and they fasted until evening for Saul. And for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword. And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? He said, I am the son of a stranger, an Amalachite. And David said to him, Why wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? And David called one of the young men and said, Go near and fall on him. And he smote him that he died. And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head, for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I have slain the Lord's anointed. So we read here that both battles have been completed. David is ignorant of what's happened in Saul's battle with the Philistines until a man comes out of the camp of Saul, verses one to And two, and he says that his clothes were rent and the earth was upon his head and and he did disobedience. He falls down bowing to David. And what a sight it must have been, because the battle that he had come from was eighty miles away Took him at least two to three days to tread to to travel that area through the the the woods and the mountainous ranges, but finally this Amalekite comes and he's come from the battle. And his clothes are torn from running to the bushes and and uh you know running up and down the hills and trying to escape from the Philistines as well. And he's carrying the crown of Saul with him, and perhaps the Philistines wanted that crown And he's fleeing and running and stumbling and falling and he's throwing dirt upon his head and begging for uh you know that that that he might not be caught and And he's ripping his clothes in anguish of being caught and out of fear. His ripping and renting of his clothes is not something religious. Uh the throwing of dust on his head is not because he's uh an Israelite, he's just just that exasperated and that fearful as he travels the eighty miles to David. And he comes to David and David says, Here's a man who's got a message for me and my what a message it must be I mean for him to come eighty miles, he's he's he's ripped, torn, and and dirty and filthy, and he needs to speak to me and whatever's going on, and it must be a pretty important message It must be a rather serious message to travel this far and the condition he is in. And so David said, How went the matter? And he answered, the army of Israel is scattered. There are many dead. And Saul and Jonathan are dead also. And David, you're now the king. Here's your crown. Here's a bracelet that was on Saul's arm. I brought them to you. David was the king. Well, that was good news. But it was bracketed by bad news. You ever have ups and downs in life? You have some good news, and then you have some bad news, or you had bad news. The army of Israel has fled. King Saul is dead. You won't be hiding and running from him anymore. And you're the king Ah, but your friend Jonathan is dead. Good news bracketed by lots of bad news So David was now the king, but with the bad news there was no rejoicing. Jonathan is dead, Israel's armies are scattered. Wow. Have you ever had someone tell you, Christian, that when you're saved, life is going to be just full of joy and victory after victory after victory. What a wonderful time you're going to have as a Christian. You ever had people say that? Talk about the prosperity gospel and the uh the blab it and grab it gospel and and uh You know, how things are going to be just wonderful. Just turn your life over to Jesus and all your problems will go away and you're going to have a great time. That just isn't true. It wasn't certainly true in the life of David as we go through 2 Samuel and And we already know in 1 Samuel. We're going to find that David, he was a man of a God's own heart, 1 Samuel 13 and 14, but his life was filled with sorrows. You can be a man after God's own heart. You can sell up your soul to the Lord Jesus Christ, and you can start walking that straight and narrow, and you can start praying and reading your Bible and quoting and memorizing scripture But do not be fooled into thinking that Satan's going to now leave you alone and that your life's going to be one happy trip all the way to heaven. The fact is that David was a man after God's own heart. And I hope there's people here today that uh would would strive for that as well. But you can be a man after God's own heart and your life be filled with sorrows It wasn't even Christ. It was prophesied. The description of Christ was what? Isaiah 53 and 3. That he would be a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. You know when we ask someone to uh give their heart to the Lord or to pray where they're in their chair right now at their seat if you never ext Trusted Christ as your personal Savior to turn your life over to God. I'm here to tell you, we want you to do that, but don't expect your life to be nothing but uh uh bliss A Christian life is hard. Life of an army ranger is hard. There's glory, but it's hard. Life of a Marine or a Navy SEAL, there's glory, but it's a hard life. And if you're going to become a Christian, well, you've taken on soldiering like you never thought you would. Hard life. A life filled with grief and sorrow. Did Christ not warn us? In the world you shall have tribulation? He was talking to his his disciples, his apostles. If you're going to turn your life over to the Lord Jesus Christ, let me be up front with you and honest There are battles to be fought, some lost and some won. And you can't go a-wall. The Lord won't let you. And there's no discharge or retirement from the service of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's permanent, it's eternal, and it's hard. I talked to a pastor uh this week while I was away. He had retired at the age of 50 from his church. And I said, um, what gave you the clue? He said it was hard. I did go into another ministry later on, chaplaincy and at hospice and so forth, but Life as a Christian is hard. In your s world, in this world you should have tribulation. And sometimes the news we get as Christians, a phone rings or someone drops by or a letter in the mail or an email or Facebook and iPod and i don't I don't all that stuff. I know what it is. iPad, iPod, iR only the old old days know what an iron is, right? But you get news sometimes, and the news is sometimes it's so bad, it's so incredibly bad that we just can't believe it's true. 1941, Pearl Harbor is being bombed by the Japanese. And the Navy Admiral, he calls Washington, D. C. in a hotline. He says, We're being bombed, we're being bombed. And the people in Washington, D. C. said, all right, who's the joker? This is no joke, sir. This is the Admiral of the Navy. I'm telling we're being b well You know, it's kind of early in the morning to make a practical joke like that. I'm telling you the truth. He said, That's incredible. That's not believable. We don't believe you. He said, Well, listen to this. He stuck the phone out the window as we're bombing and strafing the building that he was in He couldn't convince them. It was so incredibly bad the news, he just couldn't convince them. Bring that forward a little bit to 9-11, 2001 Remember when the first tower was hit? How many remember the first tower being hit by the airplane? And we're all talking about it and they're reshowing and they're reshowing it. And then sometimes they would show it burning and nothing going on. And we saw the second plane come in and hit it. And our first thought was, Oh, they're they're reshowing it again That couldn't have been a second plane hitting the other building. They're just reshowing the first one. It was so incredibly bad the news that we just we just We just couldn't comprehend it, that it was for real. And so David says here in verses five through ten, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan are dead? He couldn't believe that That was just incredibly bad news. He could not believe that kind of news. And we we get the same thing sometimes that news from a doctor. The doctor will give us a biopsy report or a pathological report, and it's such bad news. Our jaws drop, and we just can't believe that this can be happening to a man or a woman of God. It does. It does How do you know that Saul and Jonathan be dead? Saul said to me, Who art thou? And I answered, I'm an Amalachite. And he said, Slay me. Saul was so afraid that the Philistines caught him that they might torture him. And so the Samalekites says, he said, slay me, for my life is yet whole in me. They hate me Cut my toe. We talked about this a couple weeks ago how they would capture the kings, they'd cut their thumbs off, and they'd cut their toes off, and they'd they'd pluck their eyes off. There's terrible things they did to capture kings. And he didn't want to be tormented like this. And so he says to the Malachite, Slay me! Or at least that's the story the Malachite gives. So I slew him. And I took the crown upon his head and I brushed it on his arm and I brought them unto you, my lord. And he bows before David. You know, initially the Amalachite appears. his clothes are rent and his dust on his head. Like maybe he's been mourning over the death. Uh the news he has that Jonathan and and King Saul are dead and he he has the appearance of a mourner. He's not a mourner. He's the murderer, he says, of King Saul. Appearances can be uh rather deceiving, can't they? There seems to be some would say a contradiction in the scriptures here. In the early chapter, we found that Saul was afraid to be captured. He was afraid to be tortured, and he asked his armor bearer to kill him, and his armor-bearer refused to That's a that's a command that's immoral. That's a that's a command that that that is is ungodly. I will not kill the king. I will not kill the anointing of the Lord. I will not kill a man for no reason at all. I will not kill my king. The armor bearer wouldn't do it, and the scripture tells that Saul then took his own life. So what what do we have here? Do we have a contradiction? You know what is going on? Peter and the apostles they said that we ought to obey God rather than man So if a man tells us to kill him, Dr. Gavorkin, the doctor of death, someone tells us, I want you to kill me, I want you to uh euthanasia or put me to death, it's wrong to do it We ought to obey God rather than man. Acts 5 and 29. Thou shalt not kill or thou shalt not do murder. Exodus 20 and verse 13. And Paul the Apostle of Christ, he even wrote, We be scanderously reported that we say, let us do evil that good may come of it. Romans 3 and verse 8. So, yes, I'm asking you to kill me, Saul says. He says to his armor bearer. I know that's an evil thing, but good will come of it. They won't be able to torture me. They won't be able to dehumanize. They won't cut my thumbs and my toes off and torture me and make me say things and maybe curse God and die. And so something good will come by. So even though it's an evil thing to do murder, and even though it's an evil thing to kill the Lord's anointed I want you to do it. It is an immoral command that Saul was asking the armor bearer to do. And let me just put this really succinctly to you and carefully to you. No one No one, whoever they be, senator, congressman, president, supreme court, no one has the right to order you or command you to do something that is immoral No one has a right to tell you to do something or command you to do something that is immoral. An immoral law, no matter how it's established, no matter who establishes the immoral law, an immoral law has no legal authority. You have that? An immoral law has no legal authority. And there's case precedence for that in the United States, the Dred Scott decision, the slave that escaped, And his owner wanted a slave. He escaped to a state where there were no slaves. And the owner went to court, went before the Supreme Court. The slave's name was Dred Scott. He said, I want Dred Scott, return to me. And the Supreme Court says These states that don't have slaves, they must return the slaves back down to the slave states. And that was called the Dred Scott decision. The Supreme Court said that slaves did not have the rights of citizens They were not free and they did not have the rights of citizens. They were just property. But the slaves, like Dred Scott, they had fled to the state of Wisconsin And state of Wisconsin, the governor and the Supreme Court of Wisconsin was told, take those slaves and return them. And you know what the state of Wisconsin did? They said, no. It's an immoral law, and we do not have to obey immoral laws. Laws are immoral, are not legal, and they told the Supreme Court to shove it up their nose, basically. They weren't going to obey it. That was in eighteen fifty-eight. And the Supreme Court got well, they got upset And they came out and they gave another opinion. They gave another decree. In other words, the Supreme Court gives opinions. They cannot make laws, they just give opinions And they gave the opinion that Wisconsin was in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and they mandated that Wisconsin return the slaves. And Wisconsin said No, because your mandate is immoral and consequently illegal as well. And you know what the long and the short of it was? Wisconsin never returned one slave in the face of the United States Supreme Court. They said an immoral law does not have to be obeyed. 1858 I'm sure you've heard of all the news media talking about Wisconsin facing down the United States Supreme Court, haven't you? They don't talk about that. The immoral law, no matter who established, it has no legal authority, and it will not and it should not be obeyed by anyone with a healthy fear of God. A healthy fear of God, you'll stand against any immoral law, even if they call it a legal one. There's a lot of it going on right now by people who have a healthy fear of God. There's a judge in Ohio. Well let me start with a there's a florist in Washington. She will not give put together flowers for a gay marriage. And they're destroying her financially and everything else of courts, prosecuting her. We got a photographer down in New Mexico, same thing's being done to her. We got a baker up in the state of Oregon, named Aaron. I like the name Aaron, biblical name. His name is Aaron Klein. He said, I am not I I'm not going to bake this cake. He has a place called Sweets Bakery. I'm not going to bake the cake. They've destroyed infinite. They prosecuted him. You got Kim Davis down in Kentucky You've got the judge in Ohio, a judge who is refusing to issue, refusing to marry gaze in the state of Ohio, and they're prosecuting him, they're going to take him to court, a judge, and then you got another judge in Texas Who's also refusing to marry a couple. The one in Texas is kind of strange. They're not going to prosecute her. She's refusing to marry a couple in Texas. Because they're straight. She says, I will not marry any straight couples until the Supreme Court thing gets straight on everybody's marrying the gay couples. So she's refusing to marry straight couples in the state of Texas. No persecution, no prosecution, no investigation, no fine. She's being left alone. She's a lesbian judge in Texas. But the judge in Ohio is a Christian. He is being prosecuted. But if you have a healthy fear of God, you will not obey an immoral law. And we find that that's what many are already doing across the land today. Planned Parenthood recently admitted, if you've seen some of those videos and I couldn't watch them all I'm so disgusting, but at one point one of the high-up mucky mucks admits that these are babies. They're dissecting this ab aborted babies, oh it's a boy, it's a girl, oh it's a little baby. And they'll be I mean they're mocking. They're they're just mocking as they're doing these things Killing babies is an immoral thing to do. And then they even admit that they're selling, which is illegal by the way, it's illegal to sell the parts of an aborted baby But they admit on these videotapes that they are selling illegally, and it's immorally, the aborted baby parts for research and cures. Well it's been going on now for what 30 years? 50 plus million babies are dead, and how many cures have we got so far? Can you think of one? Now, getting back to the Amalekite story, he says he's done something immoral. He's actually done something illegal as well, but he's done something immoral. He says he has killed Saul, the anointed of the Lord. Is it a contradiction in the Bible? What's going on here? Well, three points that I think that we ought to look at that would realize that there's no contradiction. There are not any contradictions in the Bible. Bible. The liberals love to point to this one and oodles of oodles of oh we've got a contradiction in the Bible. Let me tell you what we have here. First off, it is not likely that Saul would allow an Amalachite to kill him. The Amalekites, according to Deuteronomy 25, 17 through 19, were an accursed race. They were all supposed to be wiped out. Men, women, children, their goats, their camels Everything. You the Amalekites, when they came out to the Red Sea, it was Amalekites who hung behind. They'd come out of the mountains or out of the out of the desert and they'd attack those who were straggling in the back as they came out of the Red Sea, the women, the children, the indigen, the the the uh the the lame, the elderly. And they would they would just pluck off and kill all the elderly and the young and and the sickly in the back. That's what the Amalekites did. And God said you take those Amalekites And you kill them all, men, women, children, even their animals, nothing. Saul hadn't quite done that. And now an Amalekite comes to him and he asks the Amalekites to kill him. The Amalekites hate the Jews. They hate Israel, and Israel hates the Amalekites Would Saul have really trusted this Amalekite to dispatch him in a gentle manner? The likelihood Saul would have been just as petrified of an Amalekite capturing him As a Philistine. He thought, if if this Amalekite catches me, he'll cut my eyes out, he'll cut my thumbs off, he'll cut. He's gonna do the same thing. It just isn't likely that Saul would trust an Amalekite to be gentler on him. Than the Philistines were going to be. The second point, and many Bible scholars uh note of this too, is that what we have in 1 Samuel 31, 4, Saul taking his own life, that is a description Of Saul's suicide. That is the Holy Spirit giving us a description of the suicide. And what we have here at the Amalachite is his fabrication. Alright, so we have a description of what really happened and the Amalekite, they're liars, and here is his fabrication. He thought it would endear himself to the new king. Here's the crown, here's the bracelet, you're the new king, and you know why you're the new king? Because I got rid of the old king. You've got to be happy with me. I I this should endear me to you. I'm sure that I will reap some kind of reward for it. And so he would lie, hoping to re reap the reward For what he claimed, what he fabricated. The description is what happened. The fabrication is what a liar would do in hopes of gaining something from it And the third point I point out to you is that in verse 16, David tells a man to kill the Amalekite, and it says that he was slain for saying. I have slain the Lord's anointed. Not for killing the Lord's anointed. He is put to death for saying he killed the Lord's anointed. In other words, he would have if he could have. And that was damning enough. But he's put to death for saying he killed the Lord's anointed When there's something to be gained by a person you got two people with two different versions of a story, and the one has something to gain by it and the other has nothing to gain by it, you best suspect the one that has something to gain by it There's nothing to gain by Samuel in the book of Samuel writing that Saul committed suicide. You wish he didn't have to write that. You wish that would would not have been put in down there. There was nothing to gain by that But the Amalachite might he could be endeared to the king. He could he might get a nice position. He might get a nice reward for bringing the crown that was probably very valuable. And so we see here that when you have someone who's got something to gain by it They'll probably be the liar and the other one's probably telling the truth. Those who you suspect of lying generally do not have a healthy fear of God, and the Amalekite did not have a healthy fear of God. Satan lied to Eve, did he not? You shall not surely die, Genesis 3. 4, that he might capture her soul. Something to gain by lying was what Satan was doing. Jezebel lied when she wrote that Nabah did blaspheme God and the king. First Kings twenty-one and ten. Why? Because Jezebel wanted the Naboth's vineyard for her husband Ahab, something to gain. So when you look at who's got something to gain? And someone who doesn't have anything to gain, generally the one that has something to gain is the liar in it. How about the worst lie that was Probably one of the worst lies ever told and ever recorded in scripture. With something to gain, like the Amalekite had something to gain. The chief priests gave large money onto the soldiers. Well the soldiers had something to gain, didn't they? The chief priest gave large money on the soldiers guarding the tomb of Christ to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. What do they have to gain? A large amount of money. What do the chief priests have to gain? They would maintain their spiritual authority in Israel. So we look at these two, it's not a contradiction. The one Saul takes his life is the description of what happened. The Amalekite is a fabrication that he might gain something. No contradiction here at all Now that being said, David, upon hearing of Saul's death, David rent his clothes. He was in such agony. His heart was ripped, and so he rips the clothing over his heart. It's a form of positive public display of sorrow. And all the men with him did the same. And they mourned. He mourned and the men with him mourned. And he wept and the men with him wept. And he fasted And the men with him fasted for Saul and for Jonathan and for the people of the Lord, and the house of Israel fallen by the sword. This is verses eleven and twelve. So if you can imagine David rips his clothing and begins weeping, and the men standing around David They rip their he doesn't instruct them to, he doesn't command them to. They just follow suit. If if our commander, our new king is weeping, we weep with him. Scripture tells us we're to uh to what sorrow with those whose sorrow. And laugh with those who are filled with joy. And they just they just did. They did as he did. They wept, they uh fasted, they mourned, and they rent their clothing as well. Now the Amalekite probably didn't expect that. You know, he's come in here and he's telling him that I got rid of your nemesis, you no longer have to hide, no longer you have to run, and not only does that and I'll make you king as it was prophesied I've even got Saul's crown. See if it fits. What do you think of it? You know, the right size. And here's a bracelet of power he wore in his arm across his biceps. I mean he's gotta be expecting some kind of a reward right there on the spot. That's the Amalekite's heart. I mean don't people do things to get ahead in life? I mean, isn't David pleased to have done something to to move him up uh the the chain of command uh quicker and and and maybe in a safer manner. He's gotta be happy. He's gotta want to reward me. Everybody everybody's out for number one I heard this yesterday. Have you heard that? Everybody, I'm just out for number one. I like what this preacher said. Good, because Christ is number one All right, that's who number one is if we want to be in it for number one. But this Amalekite was in it for himself. And he must have been shocked that David didn't just immediately throw his arms around him and and uh break out the sword and knight him or something or g or give him a bag of gold. The reaction from David is he begins to weep, rents his clothes and mourns and fasts on all those around him. The death of David's antagonist brought sobering thoughts to him. The Bible tells us not to rejoice over the death of our enemies. I won't go into how we are allowed to in the scripture rejoice over the death of God's enemies. God laughs and God rejoices over it. But our own personal enemies enemies, our own personal antagonists. And Saul tried to kill David several times. He was his own personal antagonist. He was so jealous of David he wanted him dead. He didn't want him to replace him. And It was a very sobering thing for David to see an antagonist of his in eternity, lost in eternity problem. Probably. How do we relate to that today? How many here know who Madeline Murray O'Hara is? Was she an antagonist of us Christians? Removed Bible reading and prayer from the schools? I mean, she was antagonist, if there ever was one that we all knew. But how sobering to hear how she died. She was kidnapped with, I believe, uh, one of her sons and a son-in-law. Tortured, tormented, burned, hacked in pieces, burying the 55-gallon drum out in the deserts. Nobody should be treated that way? Not even madly murder a hair. And it is a sobering thing to see that a woman who blaspheme God, blaspheme those that followed God. God. And in her pain and in her torment and what she saw where things were going, whether she was the first one killed or the last one killed, and how much torture she took, we don't know But she had nobody to call on. There was no one to offer prayers. Oh God, get me through this. Oh God, I'm sorry. Oh God. She didn't believe in God. She had nowhere to go and nothing to lean on. And she died a horrible death. The death of even our antagonists. Should be sobering to us. We might ask sometimes, was he saved, Saul? Or was she saved, Madame Marihera? No evidence at all. Does she ever repent? We've we've seen people in our own lives. That were maybe our antagonists that made our life miserable. And they died, and then they wondered, did they ever get saved? Did I pray for them enough? Did I ever go the extra mile to reach them with the gospel of Christ? We are sober by the death of some of our own enemies. That maybe we didn't do enough, pray enough. Were you kind enough to them? You know, heaping coals upon their heads, and now they're in eternity. And should we have done more? It was sobering for David. Could he have done more that King Saul not end like this? Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, Proverbs 24 and 17. This was just beyond the pale for Amalachite that David's Arch enemy, his arch antagonist is dead, and David's not rejoicing, he's weeping. But rejoice not when thine enemy falleth. Proverbs 24 and 17. We're to love our enemies, Christ taught Boy, don't tell me that all religions are the same. The biggest growing and uh most aggressive religion out there right now is Islam Ask a Muslim when you meet him, do you love your enemy? And yet we'd be told from From the White House to the Senate to the Congress to the radio and the newscast, to all religions are equal. They're all about the same. Really? Christ said, love your enemy There's no Muslim that will love his enemy. In fact, you have a hard time finding a Muslim that will love a Muslim. If you're a Sunni, you hate the Shiite. If you're a Shiite, you hate the ISIS. If you're Isis, you hate the Hezpalah. If you're Hezpalah, you know, you hate the Hamas. If you' I mean you can't even get them to love their own faith All religions aren't the same. The Lord Jesus Christ is the only one, the only way, the only truth. He said so. Was he lying or telling the truth? So maybe we ought to pray more for our antagonists, go the extra mile for our antagonists to try to reach them with the gospel. David did not have a malice bone in his body for Saul. He knew it was jealousy that drove him where he did where it took him. And so it was that David rent his clothes and all the men with him, and they mourned and they wept and they fasted until evening. See that scene. The Amalekite's jaw drops. Where's the gold? Where's the knighting? Where's the praising? Where's my reward? They're all weeping and crying and mourning. They're all around David and these men weeping and mourning and crying. And I want you to take this with you today. They're all weeping and crying. David's men are all weeping and crying around him. David has surrounded himself with men who have a healthy fear of God. And when David weeps, they weep. And when he mourns, they mourn. When he fasts, they fast. These are men with a healthy fear of God. Pilgrim, are your closest friends, serious about the eternal destiny of others Because David was serious about the eternal destiny of Saul. And all the men around him, they had a healthy fear of God, and they took serious the health the destiny of King Saul. Surround yourselves with people. Who are serious about the destiny of other people's souls. Or you surround yourself with the wrong kind of people. They're not dependable. Only people with a healthy fear of God are dependable that they will do right And they will not do wrong. They will not follow what may be legal but immoral, but they will always do what is moral. Surround yourself with people And David had. And without without a cue, without saying so, as he wept, they wept. As he rent his clothes, they rent their clothes. They were in sync. They all had a healthy fear of the Lord and took seriously the kind of th consequences of eternity and the destiny of others And having fasted, verses thirteen and fourteen, David said, How wast thou not afraid to destroy the Lord's anointed? You weren't afraid to kill the Lord's anointed? Remember. King Saul is the Lord's anointed. Samuel, at the direction of God, anointed Saul king. He was the Lord's anointed. He may not have been perfect. He may not have been saved. But God had put his hand a blessing upon him for a time? How was it you weren't afraid to destroy the Lord's anointed? You ever think about the sins that people commit? To just get ahead in the world? That's what the Amalekite had done. He had done something to get ahead in the world. We're the kind of sins that people will commit to get ahead in the world. Especially if they think they're going to be rewarded for what they did. Especially and maybe no one's going to know that they did it. You read about all the time. There are gangs out there They rob gambling casinos. And they say, what's wrong with that? The casinos are robbing everybody else anyway. It's kinda like a Robin Hood deal here So they rob gambling casinos and they get all this money so they can get ahead in life. Or how about the young girl who snuggles up to the Hollywood director so she might get that special part I said snuggle up. Isn't it kind of a nice way to say that from the pulpit, right? She snuggles up to him to get that special part so she can be the next uh Top star in Hollywood or in the movies. They'll do anything. They'll any kind of sin. They'll rob, they'll snuggle up the director in Hollywood, they'll take bribes as a judge to get ahead You know, you want to elect the next uh what a governor or somebody wants to appoint some judge up to a higher place, make him a state Supreme Court judge. He likes one that he can reach, one he can touch, one he can bribe, one he can move along and back his opinions. And so there are judges that take bribes. And how about those who lie to get elected to a public office? Are there any people out there like that? I'm starting to wonder, are there any people out there who aren't like that? But that's what people do. The sins that people commit to advance themselves in this world. And that's what the Amalekite had done. And David thought, the fear of God isn't with this guy. And when David says, How is it you you were not afraid to kill the Lord's anointed? David is really saying, I thought even some Amalekites Had a conscience. I thought even some Amalekites were constrained by a fear of God. In fact, no doubt there were some Amalekites who were restrained by the fear of God, and there were some things they wouldn't do So, pilgrim, are you Christian? Then you should have a healthy fear of God that constrains you as a follower of Christ even more And what David expected the Amalekites. If David expected there are some Amalekites who had a healthy enough fear of God that they wouldn't kill the Lord's anointed, then certainly pilgrims, certainly Christian, we ought to have a healthy fear of God as we follow Christ that we would be constrained. From sinning. More so than any Amalekite And so David calls in verse 15 with a young man. He said, Fall on him! And he smote him and he died. For saying, I have slayed the Lord's anointed. We look at Psalm 105, verses 14 and 15. God talks about his anointed. God said that Israel, the nation of Israel, is his anointed. He says, Touch not my anointed. He's talking about the nation of Israel. Touch not my anointed. The world has been warned to leave God's anointed alone. Touch them not. Leave the seed, the seed of Abraham alone. And we know that not all Israel is saved, yet God has promised, I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee. Genesis 12, 3 And Genesis 27, 29, and on and on we go. We are warned and warned and warned again. Every nation, every generation has been warned and warned, leave the seed of Abraham alone. Leave his anointed Israel alone. Interestingly, Galatians 3. 29, if ye be Christ, then ye are able to Abraham's seed. We are God's anointed. That's why Christ was called the anointed one. That's why when we get saved, we get baptized, we get anointed, right? We are God's anointed. And the world needs to know that you're to leave the seed of Abraham alone, God's anointed. And Christians are God's anointed. And then so how is it then today people they've been warned and warned and warned and yet politicians are out there and they'll protect, promote, and provide planned parenthood, hands that shed innocent blood, Proverbs six and seventeen, with money enough to carry on as they as they do. And yet they'll also give money enough to prosecute Christians like Hobby Lobby and others for not covering abortion in their insurance plans. I'm telling you, friends They are not leaving the seed of Abraham alone. They are not leaving God's anointed alone. Even Gamalia said, and he was a Pharisee of the consul that had Christ Even Gameah got to a point where he said in Acts 5, 34 and 35, again to the disciples of Christ, the anointed of Christ, he said Against them. He he spoke against touching them. Don't touch them. Don't hit them. Don't hurt them. They you know leave them alone and see what God does Where there's not a healthy fear of God and we're lacking a healthy fear of God in this country. Where there's not a healthy fear of God We are going to find as the days go longer and colder and harder, we're going to find more hearts, as hard as Herod, as callous as Caiaphas, and as doomed as demons. And woe unto them. Woe unto them in Washington, D. C. Woe unto these courts. Woe on these Lord. Woe unto them who are not afraid to destroy the Lord's anointed, because that's what they're trying to do. Let's pray. Father, we thank thee this day that David would not countenance a man who said he had destroyed the Lord's anointed. Let alone a man who may have destroyed the Lord's anointed. Lord, may we live in a day when we do not countenance the things that they're doing against your anointed And that still includes the nation of Israel, Lord. We know they're not saved. Some of them are, but we know most of them are not. And yet, Lord, if we cannot bless them, may this nation learn to stop cursing them. And may we also learn, Father, that if they hated Christ, they will hate us in this world too. They will be our tribulation. And Lord, make us willing, make us able, make us with a healthy fear of you, Lord, that we will not do that which we're commanded And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.