Before we look at this text, shall we open with a brief word of prayer? Shall we pray? O Father God, fill in the potholes of my understanding, and blot out that which is not right. Grant ears to hear and a rich blessing upon those who do. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our text today will be taken from the eighth chapter of the book of John, so please turn with me if you will And follow along as I read John, beginning actually at the very last verse of the seventh chapter, John 7. 53, and reading through the eighth chapter in verse 11. John 7. 53-811. Hear now the word of the Lord. And every man went unto his own house. Jesus went unto the Mount of Olives. And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him, and he sat down and taught them. And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery. And when they had set her in the midst, they say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery in the very act. Now, Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned. But what sayest thou This they said, tempting him that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down. And with his finger wrote on the ground as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one. beginning at the eldest, even unto the last. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst When Jesus had lifted up himself and saw no one but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Did no man condemn thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go, and sin no more. May God add a blessing to this portion of his word. This is a legal miracle. A legal miracle. You know, it's interesting because I've learned something between the book of John as opposed to Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Matthew covers one Passover event, the final Passover, where Jesus is crucified. So does Mark. Luke covers the very first Passover where Jesus went to be When he was left at the temple, you remember and his parents were looking for him. And of course, the last Passover. John, on the other hand, extensively covers Jesus' actions, words, sayings, and doings At very large public events such as the feasts. For instance, John chapter 2, verse 9, the governor of the feast. That was a marriage that occurred, a large event. John 2. 13, the Passover, where he drove out the money changers. In John 6. 4, it talked about the feast of the Passover, where he declared himself to be the bread from heaven. John 7. 2, our account, was the Feast of Tabernacles. John 10, 22, another event at the Feast of Dedication. John 11, they asked, will he not come to the feast? And John 12, six days before the Passover, John 13, the Passover. The Apostle John extensively covers what our Lord did in these large, religious, well-attended Jewish festivals. This was a large feast event, the Feast of Tabernacles, one of three that was a big event in Jerusalem. My point is that John is covering Jesus' highly public event. The festivals in Jerusalem could easily swell to a million Jews. That's a lot of people. Our text, however, here, now narrows down the focus from this behavior and the language that was spoken in the seventh chapter, some of which you can read in your bulletin insert, down to individual behaviors. Jesus goes to the Mount of Olives, presumably to pray. He was known to go there, to retreat, to pray. He would go alone into a mountain to pray It's been a feast. He goes to pray. Pray that their eyes would be opened. Pray that his ministry would be successful. Praying for the apostles that their faith would fail not. He was a man of prayer. The last chapter also reads, after the feast, it says, every man went to his own house. They had houses in those days. They had places to live in. They weren't in caves. And they would go home, perhaps recounting the events of the festival, thinking about the spiritual significance of what they had heard and seen But some went home to secret sin. Very different reaction. We then find in verse 2 that Jesus returns. He's teaching in the temple. Early in the morning he came to the temple, and the people came unto him. He sat down and taught them. You know, Jesus had an impossible task of ministry, didn't he? He was laser-focused on his mission on earth He had an impossible task. He came to be the gospel, to live the gospel, to demonstrate the gospel. Foxes have holes, birds of the ears have nests, but the Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. He was working so hard they said he's beside himself. He he would be physically wearied and exhausted. It's after a festival. There's a lot of activity going and coming. He's been teaching there. He goes into a mountain to pray, and we read the next morning, he's back at it again. Back in the temple teaching. I understand why pastors take Monday off. Ministry is an exhausting work. It's an exhausting task. And it's well that they should. But understand the Son of Man Was busy. He was always about his father's tasks, always about his father's deed. And he goes into the temple. And what does the text say? All the people came unto him. You see. Jesus' fame had spread. In fact, the seventh chapter is all about surely this is the Christ. Others would say, Shall the Christ come out of Galilee? Go and search. No prophet comes from Galilee. There was a division among them. because of him. But some heard, they believed this is the Christ. Hey hun, we're not going to leave the feast of tabernacles. I hear Jesus is here and he may come back. And everybody did, and they met him in the temple, and they gladly sat down and heard his word. Oh, wouldn't you love to hear that after a feast? He goes back. He has a public ministry. It's not a private. What he's doing is not in the corner. He said every what he taught was open in the world. Why didn't you arrest me here? He was very popular. Well, some people came to hear and to learn. Other people came to tear him down. Not everybody who shows up, future minister, future labor in the Lord, not everybody who shows up in ministry is actually there interested in what you have to say or learn. There's always those there who are just looking for something wrong. They're just going to find something wrong. And they're desperate to do it. In verse 3, here they come. Scribes and Pharisees show up on the scene, and they bring to him a woman taken in adultery. This one Jewish woman came to the feast of Passover, excuse me, Feast of Tabernacles, and then she left her home. She had other plans. Her husband was gone. Another man arrives. The fires of hell flame their desires. Curtains bring a false security of darkness. Though it's not identical, scripture uses this kind of language instead. The eye of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me, and disguiseth his face. Proverbs 7, again not identical, but this is the similar language of these kinds of sins. She caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, I have peace offerings with me. This day have I paid my vows Therefore came I forth to meet thee diligently to seek thy face, and I found thee. I've decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved work. works with fine linen of Egypt. I perfume my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with love, for the goodman is not at home. He has gone a long journey He's taken a bag of money with him and will come home at the day appointed. But passion becomes panic A knock at the door. Somebody pounds in. They're caught in a most uncompromising position. Who is that? It's not my husband. The scribes and Pharisees. How did they know? Christian, if you think your secret sin is hid from everybody else, don't kid yourself. Others know. At a minimum, God knows. How did the scribes and Pharisees know at that moment? At that moment, to show up If we can't hide our secret sins from men, how can we hide them from the all-seeing God? The bottom line is this, however. This lady is simply being used to attack Christ. They're not interested in the justice of the law of God. They want to tear down the Savior. She's just exhibit A. These hypocritical religious rulers, because they committed adultery through divorce and remarriage, that's what Jesus blasted them for in the 23rd chapter of Matthew, they care nothing for her. She's just a tool to attack Jesus Christ. You know, Saints, let me make an application there. There are certain grievous sins that saints can commit that if they were to be made known publicly, Can be used in the most horrific way to bring down you or someone else because they really don't care for you. It's even worse if you have any kind of Christian testimony You know for a fact the devil's apples have worms in them, and they're a whole lot worse than you might think they'll be. It'll come back to bite you in ways you never imagined, that you never imagined. Well, back to our account. This woman is now being publicly shamed. She's being used as an exhibit in a hasty trial of public opinion against the Savior. Huh! What a miserable way to start the day. What a horrible way to have an introduction to Christ. Look at verses four and five, and look at their sneering question. Let me read it with a little spin to it, just so you can understand what I'm pointing at. Moses in the law commanded us That such, that word such means such of this sort. People like this should be stoned. But what sayest thou? You see the division? You see the sneer? We're on the side of Moses. We're on the side of the law of God. We know what God commanded. We know that God spoke with him. But You must have some idea as to what should be done. Pray tell, what is your opinion? By the way, this is very public. All the people are there. And they plant her right in the middle of everybody and take a few steps back and with sweeping, gesturing arms, such as this. Should be stoned. We're on the side of Moses. We're on the side of the law of God. Seems pretty clear cut. They have a very clear line of distinction. And like all of the devil's accusation, you know, there's elements of truth to what they're saying. Indeed, it says in the Ten Commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery Thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour, part of which which is she is doing, she's hiding what she's doing from her husband. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, wife, and so forth. She had obviously broken that She's clearly guilty. This is a pretty obvious statement in the Ten Commandments. Leviticus says, the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbor's wife the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. Of course, people point out where is the man in this, but again they don't care They just want her. They want to put her out there. They want to shame her. She's likely not to fight back too hard. Her emotions are jumbled and totally trashed. Her her day is totally wrecked. What could she possibly say to defend herself? It'll take her too long to even think about what to say. They're not going to chance it with the man, in my opinion. Maybe they knew who the man was, which is why they knew where she was. I don't know. All we know is they're standing her up. And clearly, Leviticus said, such should be stoned. And that the scribes and Pharisees were people of reputation, Jesus, in the opening part of Matthew 23, spake to the multitude and to his disciples, saying. The scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat. All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe and do, that observe and do. He acknowledges that they are in a rightful position We seem to be stuck. You know, these very same people accuse Jesus of being a friend of sinners and publicans. That's what makes this sting a little bit more. Luke says, the Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. In that very same chapter the Pharisee, which had bidden Jesus, saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner. They're gonna stick it to him. This guy's a friend of adulterers. He's a friend of harlots. We're just going to put it to him. If this is your company, if this is the kind of people you seem to like to do nice things for, let's stand this one up here in public and see you wiggle your way off of this one. They think they have Jesus on the horns of a dilemma. It certainly looks pretty prickly. How is he going to get both himself and her out of this one? How is he going to honor his word? For after all, Moses gave what Jesus gave him. It's his word that has to be honored. How is he going to rescue the guilty? For indeed she was guilty. John then continues in verse 6 to disclose their real purpose. This they said, tempting him that they might have to They dare raise their head to test, to tempt, to try, and aside. They think they've got him. It's clever. I'll grant that to them. They're playing checkers and Jesus is playing 3D chess and they don't have a clue how to move on the board. I love the scriptures here because it tells things exactly the way it is. Brethren, ministers, future ministers, there is the question, and then there's the real question behind the question. Jesus knows their thoughts. He knows exactly why they're there. He knows they're not interested in upholding any form of justice whatsoever. This is a charade, and they are simply attempting To rob Jesus of some public fame, to convert it into public shame. It's going to fail and backfire miserably. So the real question is a loaded question. You know, frankly, this is not the only time that they would try to snare Jesus. Later in Matthew 22, the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. And they asked the question, is it lawful? To give tribute unto Caesar or not? They asked him a monetary question about paying taxes. Jesus got out of that quite easily as well In John's account here, we see that their act, coupled with their motive, is a very wrong way to handle the law of God. It's an abuse of office. They're abusing their office. Joseph found a more just way. It says in Matthew 1. 19, then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privately. You see, Joseph loved her. He was concerned about her. And he wanted to deal with this very quietly. Nowhere in the law does it say and publicly shame her first before you stone her There has to be a trial. You try to keep this matter quiet and deal with it in a loving fashion. Especially the those in that position of rulership. You know, consider Solomon's two harlots. They argued over a baby. Neither one of them were commanded to be stoned. Frankly, the entire tribe of Judah was born out of fornication. If you look at the story of Judah and Tamar in Genesis 37, what tremendously righteous ground do they have to stand on? The entire seed of David came from a foreigner harlot named Rahab. Why are we getting so uppity on harlots all of a sudden? The lineage of the nation. hinged in some way upon these women. And I'm not justifying this. Don't mistake. Don't mistake what I'm saying. But what I am saying is, and my point is this, are there certain sins committed by others which are simply too horrific for you to stomach? What do you consider to be the unpardonable sin? What is your litmus test? Is it biblical? Sometimes the litmus test that the scriptures puts out, we gloss over, such as being unloving to the brethren and falsely accusing them. We kind of gloss over that. Well, that's okay, just unilaterally forgive. But the other things that the world thinks are big things or may not think are big things, we get all huffy about. What's your litmus test and is it biblical? Well, back in verse 6, Jesus has a very interesting response. I don't think they anticipated this, because it doesn't speak. Instead it says Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground as though he heard them not. Now that last phrase is all in italics. There's actually one word there. And it can be rendered heard not or not heard. And so it is in the text, as if though he heard them not. It's like, okay. He just stoops down and with his finger. By the way, this is the only account in scriptures of Jesus ever writing anything. And I find it to be a most interesting account. We might wonder, what did he write? Why, what's he writing? But let's pay attention to all the clues here, shall we? Stooped down. Posture is not insignificant. Stooped down. God stooped down. That's a big deal. Number two, wrote with his finger He didn't get a stick. He didn't call for a chalk and chalkboard. And he wrote on the ground. Folks, I'm telling you what, this sounds an awful lot like how the Ten Commandments came to us. You remember that account? Mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke because the Lord descended upon it. God came down. And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon Mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God. It appears that Jesus was likely making a pointed application using the Ten Commandments. and of all of Moses' law, to put a strong mirror and spotlight onto their hearts He just so happened to just write out, can you imagine, here's the script, the scribes and Pharisees They have perhaps some sense of their sins in their mind. And the first thing Jesus writes down speaks directly to what's in their conscience. One guy goes, Oh, how do you know that? And he writes down what the next guy has in his conscience. Oh, how do you know that? And he keeps writing. You see how he's fighting them This is how the God man responds. No spoken words. Written words. Written words. He combats the devil with the Word of God, for whatever Jesus wrote would be the Word of God, and what a powerful tool it is. We read in Revelation that out of his mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations. God smites nations with his word. The Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even through the dividing asunder of soul and spirit of the joints and marrow is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart Jesus has so outmaneuvered them they don't even know what's about to hit them. He's not going to play a game of polemics. This isn't about winning or losing an argument. This is about saving a soul. This is about driving away accusers. This is about teaching the public in a clear and simple manner, all the while doing justice to the law of God which cannot be broken. I have some challenge questions. I have a challenge question to the self-righteous. Why do you come to Jesus? Why do you come to church? To hear? To be taught? Or to accuse and find fault. More pointedly, do you go home and eat roast pasture? That's a favorite dish on a lot of tables after a service. To the sinner, what sin do you harbor in secret? Careful. You may get used. You may get exploited in a horrible way. For even if men can see, what about God? In verse 7, we have Jesus' brilliant answer. It's absolutely brilliant. When they continued asking him, they keep urging him. You know, one of the rules parents have, they're supposed to have, when you teach little children, is don't repeat yourself. Repeating yourself, your words are just bouncing right off the foreign. You say it once, if they don't listen, what I used to do, all my children will bear record, and you can see it, there's a mark in their ear, because I'd walk over with that nice big one thumbnail I never cut. And go find that ear and dig right into it and says, You seem to have a hearing problem. I don't understand. I said, repeat it, and we'll drag them to the direction of whatever the required activity activity was. He has a brilliant answer. It's brilliant for several reasons, because he says, he that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. Number one, he honors Moses' law. He doesn't debate the wrongness of adultery, he accepts it and he recognizes it. He doesn't debate the death penalty for adultery, he accepts it and recognizes it. Number two, he qualifies who can stone her. They are now on the hook to prove their innocence beyond a shadow of a doubt. They are in front of their peers who likewise may know something about them. Even Pontius Pilate knew that they had delivered Jesus to him because of envy. Even Pilate could see through them. They are in front of the public who may know something about them as well. They are in front of the living God who definitely knows something about them. And undoubtedly is writing it out for them to see. As their boss, as one greater than the temple, he addresses their poor job performance of these hirelings. The point of the priesthood was to have compassion on the people. Keep your finger here and turn to Hebrews chapter 5. Hebrews chapter 5. And the first three verses of Hebrews chapter 5. For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins, who can have compassion. Compassion. It literally means gently bear on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way. For, why can he have compassion? Why can he gently bear with him? For that he himself also is compassed with infirmity. And, by reason hereof, meaning because he's a sinner too, he ought as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins. The point for the priesthood is to have compassion. But just like some rock-headed people, I still don't get it. Not going in here. Verse 8, back to John. Again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. Dare I say this is a second witness? The word written once. Now the second witness. The word written again. Maybe he's being very pointed at this point. Maybe he really is driving home certain points I don't think I'm far off. I'm reminded of another passage that God speaks of God coming down to have mercy on his people. In Acts it says, I have seen I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. This woman is caught. Caught in the consequences of sinful action. Caught in a life-threatening consequence of sinful action. Again, notice the role of Jesus' written word. It's the offensive sword of the Spirit against evil-intentioned rulers. It's the defensive tool to drive them away, to protect one of his own, one of his elect. And the writing of God became the tool of her deliverance. Did you catch that? The writing of God became the tool of her deliverance. 2 Corinthians tells us this, all things are of God. who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit, God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself. not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. I have another challenge question for you. One of my favorite preachers is a fellow named Pastor Henry Mayhan, and he used an illustration of a man Who would condemn drunk drivers, just hate drunk drivers. And indeed it's a horrible thing, because the one who tends to survive the wreck is the drunk. He's relaxed. He doesn't know what he's doing. He said, words to this effect, how would you treat a man guilty of drunk driving? Exact the full penalty of the law, throw him behind bars, have him be there for a long time, put him away, get that guy off the road. I don't want to have him out there ever again. Now what if that man was your son? Would you say the same thing? Would you want to put him away forever? No, you try to find a way to rescue this boy. You try to find, is there some way? Yes, he's done something wrong, but is there something we can do? You'd want to rescue, you'd want to labor to do it. My point is condemnation shall come, folks. People aren't getting away with anything But this is the hour for God's people to be ministers of reconciliation. That's what we are. The priests were to have compassion on people. We are to have compassion on people. We are to be ministers of reconciliation. We get back to John chapter 8 in the ninth verse it says, and they which heard it. That's interesting. What they heard was what Jesus wrote on the ground. Isn't that interesting? The written word speaks to us. He didn't say anything. They which heard it, he's writing on the ground. They which heard it. They were convicted by their conscience. They weren't before. There was no conviction. They had no thoughts of wrongdoing. What I'm doing is perfectly fine. There's no guilt. There's no shame. There's no sense of hypocrisy. They didn't have any of that. You know the Apostle Paul picks up on this? He was a studied one. A Hebrew of the Hebrews, the strictest order of the law, Pharisees. Turn with me to Romans 2. Look what he writes. Because he was just like this batch of people before. Romans 2 and verse 17, follow now. I'm just going to read through verse 22. It says, Behold, thou art called a Jew. And restest in the law. And makest thy boast of God, and knowest his will, and approve the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law. And art confident that thou thyself art a guide to the blind, a light of them which are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law. Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest not thyself? Thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? Wonder why he put that in there. Thou that abhorest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? They were convicted, it says. James tells us, for he that said, Do not commit adultery also said, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, but yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. They were writing all kinds of edicts to go haul out Christians and have them killed. He shall have judgment without mercy that he showed no mercy, for mercy rejoices against judgment. We'll look at their exit back in John 8 and verse 9. It says, They went out one by one, beginning at the eldest even unto the last. Isn't that interesting? First of all, they left one at a time. They just peeled off one by one. They didn't leave en masse. It's just the oldest Puts his hand behind the back, walks away. And then, we don't know how much longer later, the oldest remaining. Turns, walks away. One at a time. I have an application saying if your deliverance may not come quickly. It may be that one accuser at a time is taken away. Just one at a time Then it says, beginning at the eldest. Now presumably he had the longest exposure to the Word of God. Presumably his time around it would at least put enough sensitivity in him so that when he heard and perceived what Jesus was writing, He began to connect the dots a little quicker than the one who was still a novice in the Word. Third point, sometimes people get deep into sin because the rulers are also complicit. Isaiah says the leaders of this people cause them to err, and they that are led of them are destroyed. You see, if she was caught in adultery, Maybe it was a land full of adulterers and adulteresses. Why? Because the leaders were cheap in this matter. Because if they preach against it, they'll be preaching against themselves. Can't do that Don't want to condemn me, so we're not going to preach about it. We'll just turn a blind eye. We'll look the other way. We're not going to cover that topic. Let's stay away from that one Yeah, oftentimes the sins of the people are a reflection of the sins of the leaders because they're not interested in convicting them. Fourth point, eventually the word sunk deep and penetrated those stony hearts. It bothered them, it convicted them. The apostle says, I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived and I died. I don't know how deep that sword penetrated their hearts, but it poked into it deep enough that caused them to walk away. And I find interesting that the last one to leave was the youngest. There's one guy there still huffy. One guy there still got starch in his jammies. He's just really ready to get it to them. And I have an application. The youngest rulers tend to have the hardest, harshest hearts You remember King Reoboam who consulted with his advisors in 1 Kings 12? The old men said, Speak good words to these people, they'll serve you forever. The young man said, No, make the people's yoke even heavier than before, and they'll chastise them with scorpions. You know, an elder is not to be a novice for good reason. I confess as a young engineering supervisor, the first time they made me a supervisor, there were two people, two, one, two, big supervisor But um I thought I caught one of my software developers making a s there was a bug in the code and I thought I found the code and it was her piece of code and I just ran to her and I was just railing on her. I've been a horrible boss. I remember telling uh one of my superiors that uh yeah, fear works wonders. No. I learned many years later that people have to want to work for you You have to be a good boss. You have to be a nice boss. You have to sweeten the kitty some. Take them out to lunch. Feed them. Be nice to them. They'll serve you forever. The youngest rulers tend to be the harshest, and so it's no surprise to me that he was the last to leave. And lo and behold, in verse 9. And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. Wow! That wasn't too hard. For the Son of Man, this is a rather easy victory. Put yourself in the woman's shoes. What a terrifying morning she has had. Who knows how she's dressed at this point? She certainly hasn't had time to do makeup and hair. She's been drugged out there. She they don't care what she looks like. In fact, the worse she looks the better. It just makes you all the more an example Caught by the scribes and Pharisees, set in front of the one whom the multitudes think is in fact the Messiah. And her heart, she must be nigh into a heart attack, and all of a sudden, he has just driven away Publicly, no less, all of her accusers. Can you imagine such a victory if you were brought up on capital punishment charges? You were found guilty of something that was being deserving of the death penalty. You were being stood in front of a court and you had the state itself testifying against you Can you imagine the judge coming off the bench, writing on the ground, and sending them away? You talk about blown away. This is a legal miracle. All of the self-righteous left, leaving Jesus only with the guilty, soon to be his child. Verse 10, Jesus now speaks to her publicly. Jesus lifted himself up and saw none but the woman. He said unto her, I love this, two questions. Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? Both questions bring her to the magnanimous reality of this new state What a beautiful simple question. He doesn't ask her, is it true that you were caught in adultery? He doesn't ask her that. He just says. Where's your accusers? That's a excellent legal question. Where are your accusers? Has nobody condemned you? He's speaking as a judge. And that's an excellent question, as you'll see in a moment Jesus gives the condemned a chance to speak. They didn't He does. He wrote the law. He reiterated the law. He asked a simple question. It's an inviting question. It's easily entreated. It's kind. It's a very different question from the scribes and Pharisees question. Woman, where are thine accusers? Her answer in verse 11, no man, Lord, what a glorious declaration. Look at both parts of her answer. Number one, no man. She's free from the condemnation of men. There's no condemnation from men. Number two, she's free from the guilt of sin. She's free from being blackmailed. She's free from public shame. No man, there's no one here. And then she calls him, Lord What a great answer. Is Jesus your Lord and King? Do you call him Lord? Are his words the ultimate compass of your life? Are his words the things that you find, your deliverance? If you cannot own him as Lord now, you won't have such a gracious outcome If we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastened to the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. You don't have to wait for some big public event. You can bring that touchstone of the light of the Word of God to your own heart and ask, Do I need to bring this to Christ? Do I need his aid? You know, on that great day, Christian, neither will you find any accusations. against you. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. There is therefore now, right now, no condemnation to them which are in Christ Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation. Look at her release. John 8, verse 11. Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. You know, this is the part that most people have a problem with. But take note of Jesus' words. Neither do I condemn thee. Frankly, I've been looking at this passage for three months. Just in the quiet time of the morning, got a good breakfast in me, good fresh cup of coffee, able to think, got the clarity of mind, that's the best time of day. And I just said, I'm going to look at this one more time, and it hit me. I think I've seen something that a great many people have not seen in this passage before, and I'm not boasting myself a great teacher. I thank God for it Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee. But why not? Didn't Jesus say, He that is without sin, let him cast the first stone? Surely Jesus is without sin. Surely he could cast the first stone. I see two reasons why he didn't. And this is the thing I discovered. He could not because the law of God, Moses' law, required at least two witnesses to execute. Right now, how many witnesses are there to execute her? Zero. Zero. Deuteronomy 17. 6. Turn in your Bible to Deuteronomy 17. 6. This will be the last passage I'll have you look at. I want you to see it for yourself. Deuteronomy 17. 6 In Moses' law, of which these people were great heroes and masters of, he writes, at the mouth of two witnesses or three witnesses. Shall he that is worthy of death be put to death, but at the mouth of one witness Shall he not be put to death? Well, if you can't kill him for one witness, you certainly can't kill him for zero. Woman, where are thine accusers? Jesus the judge asking the condemned, where are your witnesses against you? Oh, you don't have any? There's no case to discuss here. You see why this is a legal miracle? He drove away the witnesses. There are no witnesses. You can't kill anybody without witnesses. He just drove them away. It's brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. What does it take to do that? You've got to know the heart. And he knew their hearts. And he fingered them exactly at the point of their guilt. The second reason is because Jesus came down from heaven to save such. You see, when they said of this such should be stoned. They just cast a big blanket that they themselves got wrapped up in because they were of such also. And so if they were to hang around, then they would have to likewise bear testimony. And probably somebody could come and bear witness against them, and they would fall into the same trap. They couldn't stick around because it would swallow them up as well. Jesus came down to save sinners. The scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do you eat and drink with publicans and sinners? And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole Have no need of a physician but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Meaning, Jesus came from heaven for people like her, not for people like the scribes and Pharisees The Son of Man didn't come for that type. Jesus, the Lamb of God, slain before the foundation of the world, had taken upon himself the punishment due to this guilty, vile sinner. He would die in her stead as the ultimate Passover lamb to make an atonement for her soul. She would be atoned at one with God. And in the eyes of God Almighty, he'd already paid for her sins. Though she knew it not. I have an application. Has the word of God exposed you today? Do you feel the sense of guilt and shame, thinly dressed in your rags? The word of God to you this hour is look unto me and be ye saved. Trust the Savior while it's yeah called today. Isaiah 65, 5, 66, verse 5 says this, hear the word of the Lord, ye that tremble at his word. Your brethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name's sake, said, Let the Lord be glorified. But he shall appear to your joy, and they shall be ashamed. He's not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities, for as the heaven is as high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them. that fear him. Question Do you think she's gonna do this again? After this horrific public humiliation, I mean at the end of the day, there's a whole audience behind her that still knows. I say nonsense, no way. She's not going to go back. You know, God allows the sins of his elected to surface and to ruin their reputation, not to condemn them before God, but perhaps to shame them into repentance and obedience. Be sure your sin will find you out, it found out David. But God made a sure covenant, an everlasting one, with David, and David was convinced of that. But he says to thee, Neither do I condemn thee. And his parting command, verse 11, go and sin. No more. Our Savior now speaks a loving command to his new child, twofold, go, meaning go from your old paths. Go from your old ways. Go and be my witness to your husband. To those around you. Go. Go. And sin no more. Repent of this lifestyle. Don't repeat such grievous acts What fruit had ye in those things whereof you are now ashamed? The end of those things is death. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto you. And now Jesus drove her away and she's alive again And I close with the call to worship that I spoke this morning. I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints, but let them not turn again. Thus ends this passage today. Please rise with me in prayer and our closing hymn. Father God in heaven, we thank you for this marvelous account, the brilliance of our Savior. The tremendous efforts and lengths he went through to save such vile people. Lord, we are guilty on so many accounts and so many fronts. We have such an unjust balance. We call good evil and evil good. Lord, you know, you know the law and you know it well. You came and paid the debt to set men free. Thank you for that glorious release, Father, and let us sin no more. We ask all these in Jesus' name. Amen.