Turn with me in your Bibles this morning, please, to the second book of the Bible, the book of Exodus, and the 12th chapter. Exodus Chapter 12 in the Word of God. This chapter is the chapter that records for us the first Passover. And the departure of Israel from the land of Egypt. The land of Egypt in Scripture is typical, is a picture of the world. And Pharaoh in the Old Testament is a picture for us of Satan. God delivered his people from Pharaoh, from Satan. And he did so by the shedding of a lamb, Jesus Christ, the precious lamb of God. And so this first Passover that is recorded in chapter 12 of Exodus. is the form and pattern. Today we will partake of the Lord's table. And we know that that first Lord's Supper, done in remembrance of Christ before his crucifixion. Happened on the eve of the Passover. And Christ took the Old Testament picture and you know sometimes you have slide pictures and you can kind of look at it and see a little bit, but when you shine a light through it Then you see it in its full glory and beauty. And so it was with the Old Testament Passover. It was a sign, it was a symbol, and a a bit shadowy. In fact, in they there's the instruction that when your children ask, you're to explain. what these things mean. But Christ, who is the light of the world, shone through that Passover in the first Lord's Supper, and the glories of Christ were displayed before the disciples. And so read along with me quietly as I read the first 20 verses of Exodus chapter 12. May we hear the Word of God. And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Speaking to all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house. And if the household be too small, too little for the Lamb, let him and his neighbor next unto his house Take it according to the number of the souls. Every man according to his eating shall make your account for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish. A male of the first year, ye shall take it out of the sheep or from the goats. And ye shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month. And the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening, and they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side posts, and on the upper post of the house wherein they eat it. And they shall eat the flesh in the night, roast with fire and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs they shall eat it. He did not roll, nor sodden at all with water, but rose with fire, his head with his legs, and with the pursuance thereof. And ye shall let nothing of it remain unto the morning. And that which remaineth of it unto the morning, ye shall burn with fire. And thus shall ye eat it, with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, your staff in your hand, and ye shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the gods of Egypt will I execute judgment? I am the Lord And the blood shall be to you upon before a token upon the house wherein ye are. And when I see the blood I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. And this day shall be unto you for a memorial. And ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout all your generations. Ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance. Forever. Seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. Even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day unto the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel. And in the first day, there shall be a holy convocation, and in the seventh day, there shall be a holy convocation to you. No manner of work shall ye be done in them, save that which every man must eat, that only may be done And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for in the selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt. Therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an ordinance forever. In the first day of the month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, ye shall eat unleavened bread Until the one and twentieth day of the month at even. Seven days ye shall be, there shall be no leaven found in your house For whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger or born in the land. Ye shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitation, ye shall eat unleavened bread. Let us vow for prayer. Father, now as we attempt to look at this sign and symbol of the Old Testament and to delve into it And to try to understand its meaning. May your spirit indeed be the preacher in the room. May your spirit teach us and guide us into all truth. May you make the message of Christ clear and plain before our eyes this day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Our theme today is on the unleavened bread. At the conclusion of our service, we will partake of the Lord's table. of that which Christ gave as a memorial to himself. He said, This do in remembrance of me. And the bread that we will partake of today is not nice fluffy biscuit. or a doughy bread, but it is a flat, unleavened bread. We read here, if you notice in the reading, how many times the phrase unleavened is used. And so I wanted this morning to consider the leaven. In the Lord's table, in the Old Testament passage, which I mentioned in our introduction. We have signs and symbols. We have things that look a bit hazy at first, but we begin to examine them and they become clear and understandable. So why did God tell the children of Israel that they were to eat bread that was not leavened? And even told them that there was not to be leaven in the house. Get it out of the cabinet. Take the leaven package out of your refrigerator, so to speak, throw it away. There was to be no leaven in their bread and no leaven at all. in the house. Doesn't the sign and symbol here at first look seem kind of arbitrary? Why didn't God say, have no salt? Why do you not say stay off the sugar? But no, it it is it is leavened here The same argument could be made about all the dictates of God. Why did God not give Israel anything to eat in the wilderness except quail and manna? And remember the children of Israel complained because they remember the leaks and garlics of Egypt. Naaman didn't want to dip seven times in the River Jordan. He had leprosy. And he expected the prophet to come and say some magical incantation and and Some great flowery prayer. But God said, No, no layman, go dip in the river seven times. And he said, This is nonsense. Why why do that And we we think of Peter, when Peter had the vision of the great sheep coming down, and God said, Peter, rise, kill and eat. Peter said, No, no, no, I can't do that. Not that What what is what is the point here? Why why did God say leaven and not sugar? The point is this. You obey. You obey. What is the question that our children first learn? The first question every child learns is why? And the answer they don't want to hear is because I said so. And yes, that's the only logical answer to the question. Why did God single out Levin to teach them obedience? To teach them submission to his will. Now we're going to talk in a minute a little about leaven and the applications of it. But the bottom line is God said, have no leaven in your house, because they had to obey. And there's multiple things here. They were to eat the feast at even. Well, you know, I if I eat at night, I don't sleep well. No, God said even You know, it might be more comfortable to eat with my shoes off than my shoes on. And uh when we have our meal this afternoon, I'll probably take my jacket off. But they were to to eat With the girded, they were to have all their clothes on and their their staff in their hand. And you see, the unfaithful, the unbeliever would try to take shortcuts. Well, you know, I don't want to mess up my pretty doorpost by putting blood on it. You see, all the commands of God are simply to be obeyed. Just as the child does not understand why he can't play in the street, but the wise and loving parent fully understands the danger. So God says to his children, obey. And we even find in Scripture that to obey is better than to sacrifice. And so though this command may seem arbitrary, it is to be obeyed. And we find in Isaiah chapter 55 and verse 8. God says, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Seek the Lord while he may be found. And then we find in the New Testament the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, neither can he know them because they're foolishness unto him. You know, there's a lot of people today that think that we're the most foolish people in the world. These guys waste every Sunday. But then we look at it in Sunday as the delight of God's people. You know, why are they always talking about God? Why can't they talk about football? Well, because God has changed us. He's transformed us. We are in the world, but we're not of the world. We live in this world, but we've got our coat on and we're ready for the next world, folks. We've got our staff and our hand and we're ready to walk. You know, we don't walk on water, but we're going to cross the Jordan someday. And we're ready. We're ready to go. The sign is not arbitrary. It is not without meaning. But God ordained it that the children of Israel might learn to obey. Don't eat leaven. And you see, when we teach a child to obey what the child does not understand, we are preparing the child for great things that they will understand. Because these people were about to have their backs up against the Red Sea, and the children of the Egyptians coming at them And they would want to panic. They would want to run. But rather, God said, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. But you see, facing those great trials and having faith in the big things begins with obedience in the little. And so have no leaven in your dwelling. There is the negative single symbol of leaven, and scripture leaven is a picture of sin. It's a picture of iniquity. In verse 15, seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. Even the first day you shall put away leaven out of your houses. Whosoever eateth leaven bread from the first day unto the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off. From Israel. And that phrase cut off is a very interesting phrase. It actually has three connotations in Scripture that this commentators point out for us. First of all, it means to die an early death. And we find this in in 1 Corinthians 11, where uh the apostle was warning that Those that violate the Lord's table, they're sickly, and some of them sleep, but he didn't mean they were having a good nap. He meant they were dead. They died an early and an unnatural death. And this is not just confined to the Lord's table, for we find throughout Scripture People that um remember when when the uh false priests stood up against Moses and the the the declaration was this, if they die a natural death, I'm not a prophet of God. But if the earth opened up and swallowed them, then you'll know that I'm a prophet of God. And the earth opened up and swallowed them. And so the first connotation that cut off is to die to a natural death. The second is to be excluded from the congregation, to be excommunicated. And uh our brother talked about excommunication in in Sunday school just a few weeks ago, uh, about what it means and what it's for, where there are times when people, even a believer, may need to be excluded that they might learn the obedience to truth. And again, it takes right back to that same theme that the leaven was chosen to teach them obedience. But then the third connotation of being cut off is that of eternal punishment, of eternal separation in hell. A condemnation from which there is no return. And so leaven is a picture for us of sin. It is a picture. of of evil. And uh in 1 Corinthians 5, verse 6 and following, uh the apostle tells us this, your glory is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out there for the old leaven, that ye might be a new lump. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You can't be an old creature and a new creature at the same time. Persia, uh, that ye may be a new lump, as ye have uh as ye are unleavened, for even Christ our Passover is sanctified for us. Therefore, let us teach the feast not with the old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity But also we find not only in Scripture does Levin give us a picture of sin, but Levin gives us a picture and a teaching of false doctrine. The false doctrine of the world, the false doctrine of false prophets is referred to in Scripture as Levin. In Matthew 16, verse 6 and verse 12, Jesus said to them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees. And verse 12 of Matthew 16. They underst then understood they how That he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees We have a lot of false leaven today. We have a lot of false prophets in our world, false teachers. The internet is full of them. And the the airwaves and the TV is full of false teachers. But then also in scripture we find that uh under the negative that Levin is a picture of hypocrisy and this is in Luke chapter twelve, verse one, the first uh the last part of the verse, and he began to say unto his disciples, first of all, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. It's called hypocrisy. And so in Scripture, leaven is a symbol for us of sin. It's a symbol for us of false teaching and a symbol of hypocrisy. But interestingly enough, we also find that Levin has a positive picture in Scripture. We're going to see why in a little bit. But It's used positively of the kingdom of heaven. Consider this in Matthew 13 and verse 33 and also in Luke chapter 13. Another parable spake he unto them, The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole were leavened. And so We find that Leban was to be excluded from the Passover because Levin was a picture of sin And what a glorious picture it shows of Christ. There was no, in him was no sin. He that knew no sin was made to be sin for us. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so first of all, the uh leaven is most often a symbol of sin, a representation of sin. But the second thing we consider is the perverse the pervasive nature of the symbol of leaven. And we just read there in the instance of the church where a little leaven with the gospel, the whole lump is leaven. When you're baking bread, you use a lot of flour, and you use some sugar and some salt, maybe not much sugar, but some salt, but just a little bit of lemon. Not much. Because if you use too much lemon, what happens to your bread? Do you remember the story of mulligan stew? Remember that children's story? I remember my grandmother used to read me the book and you saw the stew running down the streets and it was just there was just so much of it and and there was a guy in a boat and another guy in a bucket out there and they're they they're they're rowing their way down the street in the stew that just kept going everywhere. Well leavens leaven will do that. If you have too much leaven it will just and what's the point? Folks, a little bit of sin Just just one speck of sip. It's not lunch. It's just my little pet. But it's a pet viper. It will grow and it will grow and it will grow. The old saying you can't be a little bit pregnant. You either are or you're not. And folks, a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. And so the children of Israel were told, get it out of your house. Remove it from your dwelling. In 1 Corinthians 5 and verse 6, your glory is not good Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. James chapter one, verse fourteen and following. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then consider watch the growth here. Then when lust hath conceived It bringeth forth sin. And when sin is finished, it bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved. Brethren, if you want to outline that verse, A, B, and C, lust, sin, and death, one follows another, follows another. Hebrews chapter 3, verse 12 and following, take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing. from the living God. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Just that little speck of sin, that little bit of leaven that is allowed in your heart And it grows and grows until you are utterly deceived by your sin. And folks, many of us can testify the people that we have known. That we've seen in church, that we've seen in Bible study, and they seem to be doing well, and they seem to be uh Memorizing scripture, and then something happened, some little thing in their life, and it began to grow and grow and grow. Where are they today? They're gone They're gone. They've been destroyed. And it all started with a little bit The pervasive nature of the symbol. You know I like old cars. I've been tinkering with old cars since I was eight or nine years old. But a little bit of rust. We'll start. Ladies, did you ever find one ant on your counter and say that's okay? It's alright. Oh, what's one cockroach gonna hurt? What about a termite? You find one termite in your house. Well it's okay. It's not a problem. But the inside of your walls are eaten away. Why? Well, because just that little bit you're seeing is masking what's behind it. And so the pervasive nature of this symbol, get the leaven out of your house, because just a little bit of leaven. will take over, will leaven the entire lump The apostle said in Romans 7 verse 11, For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me. But listen to this verse from Ezekiel 18, verse 30. Just a marvelous verse. Therefore, I will judge you, O house of Israel. Every one of according to his ways, saith the Lord, repent and turn yourselves from your tra your from all your transgressions So iniquity shall not be your ruin. Well, that I I found that verse when I was a teenager and that phrase Arrested by mine, so iniquity shall not be your ruin. How many lives have been ruined? Because just a little bit of sin, a little bit of leaven was not thrown out of the house. The symbol seems arbitrary, but it's about obedience. The symbol teaches us the pervasive nature of sin. It will take over. You cannot control it. But then thirdly, may we learn from this passage the total exclusion that is expressed in the symbol of Lebanon. I know there's a lot of crossover between these points. We've already talked about this sum. But look look there at Exodus chapter twelve I'm going to highlight a few verses. In verse 8, they were to eat unleavened bread. In verse 15, seven days ye shall eat leavened bread. Ye shall put away leaven out of your houses Verse 17, and ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread. Verse 18, ye shall eat unleavened bread until the 1 and 20th day. of the month at even. Verse 19, seven days there shall be no leaven found in your your houses. Verse 20, ye shall eat nothing leavened. In all your habitations shall ye eat unleavened bread. In just those few verses, it's over and over again. It's hammered and hammered and hammered. No leaven, no leaven, no leaven And yet we tend to try to keep a little leaven, don't we? We tend to try to keep that little sin that we we face. This was so bad. But the picture is a total, total elimination of sin in the life of a believer. Here are the scriptures Psalm 119, verse 133. This verse is a prayer and an appeal to God. Order my steps in thy word. And let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Order my steps in thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Folks, iniquity will have dominion. Iniquity will rule you if your iniquity is not ruled by God. And then again in Psalm 19, verse 13 and 14. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright. And I shall be innocent of the great transgression. But the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart. Wow! Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart. Folks, we all hear the words of each other's mouths. But no one knows the meditation of the heart. But here, kept back from presumptuous sins God not letting them that have dominion over me, then shall I be upright and shall be innocent of the great transgression that the words of my mouth And the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. And then going to the New Testament in Romans 6, verse 12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies that ye should obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield ye your members as instruments, as tools, as trumpets, instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God For sin shall not have dominion over you. And it goes right back to that same idea of dominion, of rulership. And so we see the total exclusion that is expressed in the symbol of Lebanon. The fourth thing Note the urgency and expediency portrayed in the symbol of Levin. Look back to our text again in Exodus chapter 12 and verses 11 and 12. And thus shall ye eat it. with your loins girded, your shoes upon your feet, and your staff in your hand, and ye shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. Don't delay, folks. Don't say, well, when I get older, I'll take care of that. Don't say when I have more time I'll deal with that. Don't say, well, you know, I'm too busy today to I've got too many other things on my plate to deal with the matters of the soul. It is so easy. It is so easy in the morning, and I say this out of personal experience and confession, it is so easy to Start reading something on Facebook or some news article or some current events or some very fascinating thing on some scientific journal And realize that an hour has gone by, and your time for prayer and meditation and study of God's Word has been consumed. And now you've got this other list of things that must be done today, and suddenly you're in a rush, and if you have time at all, you'll read through something quickly and Thank you, Lord, for this amen. And move on. See, folks, there is an urgency And the expediency in this matter of Levin, this picture. They were to have their shoes on, and their staff in their hand, and fully dressed. Because this wasn't something to fool around with. This wasn't something to put off till tomorrow. Because look at verse 12. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night. Blood on the doorpost tomorrow isn't gonna help you. Your shoes on tomorrow when the Lord's passing through tonight. No. Tonight's the night to leave. We're leaving tonight. We have some young children, and those of us that are parents know the trials. especially when they get to eight, ten years old and they're starting to dress themselves more and take a little bit more independence with their grooming and things and the family's ready to go, but there's always one. There's always one. You just gotta, come on, it's time to go. We're in the car, the whore's honking. Yeah, and where is he? There's an expediency here, folks. This symbol of 11 tells us that this is not something to lay. And we find this throughout scripture Seek the Lord while he may be found Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return to the Lord. For he will have mercy upon him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. As we saw last week, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day shall bring forth. There's an expediency here. Ezekiel thirty three, verse eleven. Say unto the children of Israel, As I live, saith the Lord, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked But that the wicked should turn from his way and live. Turn ye from your evil ways, for why will ye die, O house of Israel? But this doesn't make sense. I've got this really good lamb and I'm supposed to kill it And I suppose the to roast it with fire, I would rather have stew. You mean I'm supposed to to to to eat my bread without leaven? This doesn't know I don't want to do this. At those the death angel was coming. The people of Egypt perished Without a witness. And though Scripture does not tell us, I fear that some of the Israelites perish as well. Because we find even of those that left Egypt there was a mixed multitude that just kind of went along with the crowd. Folks, there's an urgency and expediency expressed. So we see the typology and significance of 11 The perversive nature of the symbol of Levin, the total exclusion expressed by the symbol of 11, the urgency and expediency portrayed in the symbol of 11. But then finally, folks, the glorious fulfillment. The symbol of 11. Again, look at verse 3 and verse 5 of Exodus 12. Speaking of the children of Israel. In the tenth day of this month, ye shall take unto you every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. Verse 5, your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year, and ye shall take it out of the sheep or of the goats. John chapter 1 verse 29. The next day John seeth Jesus coming and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away. the sin of the world. A beautiful picture is being painted for us here. 1 Peter 1, verse 18. For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold for your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot So I turn to 1 Corinthians 11 and read there Paul's accounting of the Lord's table, which we will partake of in a few moments. In 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23 and following, Paul says, For I have received of the Lord that which also I deliver unto you. But the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat, this is my body, which is broken for you. do this in remembrance of me. And after the same manner also he took the cup, and when he had stopped saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. As oft as ye do dr Out of the same manner, he took the cup and when he had supposed to say, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as oft as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Whosoever Shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself. And so let him eat the bread and drink the cup. Folks, we have this glorious picture before us. Today we just focused on the leaven, unleavened bread, with the blood of the sacrifice. The juice that we will take today is the removal memorial of the shed blood of Christ whereby we're saved. The unleavened bread that we will partake of is the memorial of the body of Christ. We have a stern warning here. Let a man examine himself. Folks, this morning, if you know that your faith is in Jesus Christ, That you are trusting him for full and free salvation. And also if you know that there's no favorite leaven in your cabinet. There's not some sin that you are clinging on to, but rather your sins are confessed and are under the blood of Jesus Christ. We invite you and urge you to partake of the Lord's table with us. This morning, if you do not know, if you're not sure that your faith is in Jesus Christ, or if you know that there is unrepentant sin in your life, We urge you and warn you, don't partake of the Lord's table. And I assure you folks that no one will our a uh our heads bowed anyway, but But no one will think ill of you if you do not partake of the Lord's table. In fact, rather, as a pastor, I have great respect. For those that say, no, not today, not this time, not until I'm sure I'm ready. And so we will proceed now into our observance of the Lord's Table.