I'm going to have you turn to two passages this morning as we open in God's Word. First of all to Leviticus 22. But also while you're turning, put a finger in Romans chapter 12. And we're going to read two brief passages, one from the Old Testament and one from the New Testament this morning. So if you find your place, we'll begin in Leviticus chapter 22. And there I'll be reading verses 17 to 25, and then reading the first two verses of Romans chapter 12. If you have your place now, Leviticus chapter twenty-two, starting with verse seventeen. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them Whatsoever he be of the house of Israel or of the strangers in Israel that will offer his oblation for all his vows and for all his free will offerings, which they will offer unto the Lord for a burnt offering Ye shall offer it at your own will, a male without blemish, of the bees, of the sheep, or of the goats But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer, for it shall not be acceptable for you. And whosoever author of the sacrifice of peace offerings unto the Lord to accomplish his vow or a free will offering in bees or sheep It shall be perfect to be accepted. There shall be no blemish therein. Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a win, or scurvy, or scab Ye shall not offer unto the Lord, nor make any offering by fire of them upon the altar unto the Lord, either a bullock or a lamb that hath anything superflicious superficious, or lacking in its parts, that may thou offer for a free will offering, but for a vow, it shall not be accepted. Ye shall not offer unto the Lord that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut, neither shall ye make any offering thereof in your hand. Neither from a stranger's hand shall ye offer the bread of your God for any of these, because their corruption is in them And the blemishes the blemish it be in them, they shall not be acceptable for you Keep your finger there in Leviticus, because we will refer back to it multiple times this morning. But now turn over with me to the book of Romans in the New Testament. And the first two verses of Romans chapter twelve I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Let us bow again for prayer as we approach the Word of God. Heavenly Father, we thank you that the book before us is the very Word of God. We thank you that it's very clear there in that 17th verse of Leviticus 22. The Lord spake unto Moses. And the Lord told Moses what to speak to the children of Israel. Father, you have given us your word. And Lord, you speak to your people this day. You speak through your word. We seek not a vision or a dream or some supernatural demonstration of the truth of God. For Lord, we have in our hands the very inspired, preserved, inerrant Word of God. And Lord, it is indeed profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction and instruction. And so, Father, today, we pray that your Holy Spirit would open this precious book to our hearts, that we might see thy truth therein. And open our hearts and our minds to receive this truth, Father. For the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. He cannot know them. But Lord, we come before you today, not in the natural man, but as your own redeemed blood-bought children. And we come seeking to learn of thee. Bless us, your people, today, with thy truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. God Demands God requires a sacrifice And throughout scripture we find that the sacrifice is very specific. I am sure that when Cain brought of the fruit in the ground, he brought the very best fruit he had. If he brought an apple, it was not bruised. It was not misshapen. If he brought the corn that he had grown, it was not the blasted ears like the ears that represented the seven years of famine. in Joseph's dream the Pharaoh's dream, but rather, I'm sure he brought the very best he had. But it was not accepted acceptable. It was not the sacrifice God required. In Leviticus 22, we find very specific requirements for the sacrifice It could not be one with a crooked ear or ill-favored wool or one leg shorter or that had the scurvy or a win or any defect. They had to bring for the vowel the very, very best. It had to be without blemish. It had to be without spot. That's right. Now the sacrifice that God required of Cain and Abel was a blood sacrifice. And that sacrifice looked ahead to the blood sacrifice, the sacrifice of the very Lamb of God, as a lamb without spot and without blemish. That sacrifice has been shed for my soul. I am redeemed by that very sacrifice. The spotless, sinless lamb died for me. For the chief of sinners. And because that spotless Lamb, Jesus Christ my Savior, has shed his own blood for my Salvation for the remission of my sins for my forgiveness, I can come before God. And so that Old Testament passage lays for us the foundation of this requirement that the sacrifice had to be perfect. It had to be sinless. We come to our text this morning. And I would like to take Romans 12, 1 and 2, and just begin to dissect it. I love to take a carburetor apart and see all of its pieces and parts and how everything fits together and then try to put it back together improved and and functional yen. That kind of Mechanical exercise has always intrigued me and fascinated me. But I hope, my friends, you're intrigued and fascinated with doing that with the Word of God. Taking a verse word by word, element by element, because every jot and every title is inspired. That's right. And every little nuance has for us edification and blessing. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and all scripture is problem. And so Paul, under inspiration, says to us, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. Now I would not say to my son, and he doesn't like me using him for semi illustrations, but I do it anyway. I would not say to my son, I beseech you to take out the garbage. No, I would I would command him. Take out the garbage. I would not say I beseech you for five cents. I might say, hey, could you lend me a nickel? You see, we do not beseech over the trivial. We do not beseech over things that are of little consequence But when we beseech someone, this is a very emotional word, when we beseech someone It's an indication that that for which we are requesting that which is desired is of momentous importance. And I believe this is best illustrated by considering how this word is used in the New Testament. For repeatedly, when we find people coming to Christ for healing The word used is the same word, besieged. In Mark 5, 22 and 23, we read, And behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jarius by name, and when he saw him, he fell at his feet, and he besought Taught him greatly saying, My daughter lieth at the point of death. And here Mark records for us that Jarius used this same word beseech, and the cause that Jarius was coming to Christ was that his daughter was about to die. And he's pleading with Christ, please have mercy, my daughter is about to die. It's a very important issue over which we beseech. But here the Apostle Paul, writing by inspiration, says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. This is important. This is not something to be taken casually. This is not something that is really just an option. If you feel like it, do it. But no, I beseech you. I implore you. I beg you. Therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. And it's interesting to note who it is that is beseeching here. It is the Apostle Paul. It is the one who was once known as Saul. The persecutor of the church. The one who is beseeching us to present our bodies a living sacrifice is one who practices what he preaches. What things were gained to me, those I count as loss. I do count them as dumb. that I may win Christ and be found in him not having my own righteousness but the righteousness which is the faith by Christ and we we don't mean here to elevate Paul in any way and Focus on him, but we do want to focus on the fact that when Paul said, I beseech you, I implore you, I beg you, he wasn't speaking of his own heart He was not speaking of his own mind, but rather by the divine inspiration of the Spirit of God, God is saying through Saul, through Paul, I implore you. Just as Jarius comes to Christ and he beseeches Christ to heal his body, so the Spirit of God comes to the believer and beseeches us. To present our bodies as living sacrifices unto God. When we began there in Leviticus 22 and verse 17, it was very clear that God spoke to Moses. God said to Moses, this is what you tell Aaron, this is what you tell the children of Israel, this is what you instruct the strangers that are in Israel. And I love the fact that the strangers are included in that. Because Though I am very privileged to have some blood of Abraham in my veins, I don't have enough to call myself a Jew. I'm a stranger. But I've been brought into the household of God by faith. And I'm included in this verse. And here the Spirit of God implores me. Present your body. A living sacrifice. Because this is not a trivial matter This is very important. This is of overwhelming importance. And he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, and I love that word therefore, and I've shared with you the little Diddy phrase. When we find the word wherefore or the word therefore, we look before to say why for, it says therefore. It's a word that points us backwards. I beseech you, therefore Brethren, there's something that is foundational to this plea coming from the Spirit of God through the Apostle Paul. This is the twelfth chapter of the book by our count. Of course, Paul didn't write chapter 1, verse 1, and then write chapter 1, verse 2. He wrote the verses, but he didn't give them those delineations. The chapters and numbers have been added so that when we open our Bibles together, we can all end up in the same place very easily and very quickly. And when we memorize, we can know where they came from. But why is the word therefore in this verse? Is that just coincidental? Is it an accident? No, it's not at all. Therefore, because of Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Therefore, because of Romans 5. 8, that God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Therefore, because of Romans 5. 20, moreover, the law entered as the offense might abound, but whereas sin abounded, grace did more abound. Therefore, 623, because the wages of sin is death But the gift of God is eternal life. Therefore, because of eight one and two, there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. Therefore, because of eight thirty-three, who shall lay anything to the charge of those elect? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors. Therefore, I beg you, present your bodies the living sacrament. You see, as we consider the context and what has been said thus far in this book of Romans, it all makes sense. It all funnels down. Therefore, folks, this is important Christ has redeemed us from our sins. Christ has delivered us from judgment. There is no condemnation. When we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. Therefore, I beseech you. Present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God. I beseech you therefore, brethren. I've already made mention the fact that there in Leviticus 22, this was given to the sons of Aaron to the children of Israel and the strangers that were in Israel. Not the strangers outside of Israel, but the strangers that were in. Those that truly were a part of the body. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. You see The verses that I read there very quickly that are foundational, chapter 12, are verses that we use in evangelistic endeavors. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. While we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. My friend, dear one, you cannot present your body a living sacrifice if you're not one of the brethren. He must be born again. And there in Leviticus 22, it was the sons of Aaron, those that were the priest of the congregation. It was the congregation of Israel, those who were of the blood of Abraham and being the blood of Abraham alone did not make them part of the redeemed, but they were in that fellowship and in that family. And the children of Israel referred to there were not those that had fled The worship of God and the sacrifice, but rather those that had bound their souls to that worship, looking ahead to the Messiah. And the strangers in Israel were the Rahabs, who were not of the blood of Abraham. And yet by the marvelous grace of God, they had been brought into that fellowship. They had been brought to worship. Worship and adore Jehovah God. Paul says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God. You see, the unbeliever cannot present his body a living sacrifice because he's not living. He's dead. He's dead in trespasses and sins. And oh dear one, from our children to our adults, you must be born again. Being in this congregation is not enough. Being in a Christian family is not enough. Do you know Jesus Christ? Have you been born again? The unbeliever can never be a living sacrifice. The unbeliever can never be in a sacrifice that is acceptable unto God. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins, but my blood could not pay for my sins. Just as Judah's blood could not pay for his sins. Because it is polluted. The blood of Jesus Christ. The Old Testament sacrifice had to be holy. It had to be perfect. And so the sacrifice of the New Testament must be holy as well. I beseech you, therefore, brethren By the mercies of God. Isn't that wonderful If it weren't for the mercies of God, I could never be an acceptable sacrifice to Him. If it weren't for the mercies of God, I would be under condemnation. But as we've seen, therefore I beseech you, brethren, because Chapter 5. 8, there is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. My condemnation is gone. My condemnation is poured upon my Messiah, upon my Christ It's all by the mercies of God. It's all on account of the mercies of God. It is all through the mercies of God. And dear friends, it's all because of the mercies of God. I beseech you therefore, brethren Through this mercy, by this mercy, on account of this mercy, and because of this mercy, present your bodies A living sacrifice. Holy and accept unto God. Ephesians 2, verse 4 and 5, but God who is rich in mercy. For his great love wherein he hath loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses and sins, hath quickened us together with him by grace you're saved. You see, the Spirit of God, by the blood of Christ, has made me alive. I was a Lazarus, and I was as dead as Lazarus. That's right. Christ said, come forth. Come forth. And because of that truth alone, can I present my body? A living sacrifice. You see, the day that Adam sinned in the garden, his heart continued to beat And his lungs continued to fill with air, and that air was expelled as the diaphragm drew the air in and out of his body. And yet that day he surely died. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice. They ye present your bodies a living sacrifice The man in the Old Testament may have had a perfect lamb that he had been grooming for the sacrifice. But it had to come out of the full. It couldn't just stay there in the full and be a sacrifice. That lamb would be brought to the tabernacle. And it would be presented to the priest. And the priest would sacrifice that lamb, and it would be presented to God. We are in Christ, a royal priesthood. But now the sacrifice must be brought forth. It must be presented. Here it is. And the presenting of this sacrifice reminds us that it must be a willing sacrifice. We do not give ourselves to Christ by constraint or of obligation. If you look back there to chapter 22 of Leviticus and verse 19. Ye shall offer at your own will a male without blemish. It's a willing sacrifice. It's a joyful sacrifice. It's not that, oh no, I've got to present my body. No, not at all. Oh Lord, my Redeemer! What joy and what privilege that I can give it all to you! What do I have that did not come of your mercies? Through the mercy, by the mercy Presented by the mercy of God. It's all of his mercies. It's not out of obligation, but it's out of joyful and willing submission to the will of God. I read for our call to worship this morning from Psalm 51. Let me read it to you again. Psalm 51, 16 and 17. For thou desirest not sacrifice else of it, give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifice The devices of God are these, a broken spirit and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Oh, Lord, you've redeemed me. Here is all of it. I present it to you. And we find this pattern of truth all through Scripture. Do you remember Abraham on the mountain? With Isaac laid upon the wood, and Abraham with the knife in his hand drawn back to smite through his only begotten son. And the angel takes a hold of Abraham's hand and says, do the child no harm. And what is it that God says there? Well, in Genesis 22, verse 12. And the Lord said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do anything unto him, for now I know that thou fearest God. God said, I know you're willing. I know you'll sacrifice your son, even Isaac. Now I know you're willing. Abraham presented his son. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God. Here I am, Lord. It's presented to you. It is not held back. It is not a grudging offering. It is not a sacrifice with reservations or with conditions attached. What is this present to you? It's all yours. You bought it, you paid for it I present my body. A living sacrifice. Before we move on, I just want to read one other passage that that ties into this so well. In Micah chapter 6, verses 6 through 8, wherewith shall I come before the Lord and bow myself before the high God Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams or with ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my life? He has showed thee, old man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. Here it is, Lord. I want to live in justice before you. I want to love mercy. Oh Lord, I want to walk humbly before you. I present my body. But then Paul says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. It's interesting the references that the scripture uses and the way in which these truths are taught to us What's he mean present your body? Does that mean that I am on the altar just as Isaac was and the knife, you know, we need to shed my blood? Well, no, not at all. Just as God says, give me your heart. What part of you is not part of your body? This is me. It's all right here. My will, it's here. My emotions, my love, it's here. My hands, my feet, my mouth, my eyes There is no part of me that is not encapsulated in this body. My reputation. Oh, it's it's right here My personality. When Paul, under the inspiration of God, says, I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. There's nothing left out. There's nothing held back. Well, the Lord, all but my hand. All but my big toe. All but the things I really love. Oh, but the sin which does so easily beset me. Well Lord, I present everything except my children. I present everything except my reputation. Everything except No I beseech you, I plead with you, I beg with you, brethren, those who are the true redeemed, on the basis of the mercy of God, because of all, therefore, because of all. the grace that we've seen that you present everything. That you present your bodies. Every molecule Every stray hair and the ones that fell out in the comb this morning. That you present your bodies. There's nothing There's nothing that is to be held back. And it becomes even more glorious when we consider And in the book of Hebrews, we read, sacrifice and offerings thou wouldest not, but a body that was prepared for me. You see, the King of heaven, the creator of all things, he was clothed in a body as well. And why was Christ clothed in a body that he might present it all? What was he holding back? So he gave his back to the smiters. He hid not his face from their spitting, from their hand, and they plucked out his beard. How dare I count myself as being among the brethren, but then try to hold something back. Then try to say, no God, this is mine. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present everything. a living sacrifice. But then notice that it is a living sacrifice. And we've already talked about that living sacrifice. But it has to be holy. It has to be acceptable. And brethren, I believe every one of us are given great pause here. Paul called himself the chief of sinners. And if we are honest with ourselves, Lord, I'm not a holy sacrifice. Well, but I'm not acceptable under God. So Lord I must cleave to the therefore. I must cleave to the mercies of God. Because the mercies of God have made me acceptable. Because the mercies of God have made me holy. Paul, who said he was the chief of sinners, could also say, present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God. And we go back there to Leviticus, and we find those lists of qualifications for the sacrifice that Couldn't have the crooked ear, couldn't have one leg shorter, couldn't be ill-favored or blemished in any way. It had to be perfect. Oh Lord, I am so sinful of myself But I am so righteous in Christ. Through the redemption of Christ Paul the chiefest of sinners, Paul who was less than the least of the saints, because he persecuted the church, he could be an acceptable sacrifice to God. Oh what beauty that is. And I don't want to get way, way off track here, but I want to consider briefly that word. without blemish. And I've given you a handout there. It it should be on the seats. There are over a hundred times in scripture that we find this this phrase or this term without blemish I'm giving you this for your own study to take with you. So I'm just going to highlight a few verses that use this same word. The first one there on your sheet, Genesis 6, verse 9. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was It's that same word without blemish. He was perfect in his generation. In Genesis 17, 1, be thou perfect, be thou without blemish. In Exodus 12, 5, the sacrifice had to be without blemish. Drop down about halfway down your page to Deuteronomy 32, verse 4. Speaking of God, He is a rock. His work is perfect. It's that same word, without blemish. There's nothing wrong in it. There's nothing and error in it as for God. His work is without blemish. It's perfect. It's complete in all its parts Joshua chapter 24 verse 14. Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity. It's that same word without blemish. Your service to God must be unblemished. And that's what we're talking about here in Romans 12 verse 1. Present your bodies without blemish in sincerity, in perfection. and the righteousness of Christ. Drop down to the bottom of the page there in 2 Samuel 22, verse 26, with the mercies that would merciful that wilt show thyself mercy, and with the upright Thou wilt show thyself upright, it's the word without blemish. But then one of my favorite verses in all scripture, it's such a great verse God gave it to us twice, uh second Samuel twenty two, verse thirty one, and again it's in Psalm eighteen thirty As for God, his way is perfect. There's no blemish There is no error. There is no mistake in God's way. And then 2 Samuel 22, verse 33, God is my strength and my power, and he maketh my way. Perfect without blemish. How is it that I can present my wicked body as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God? Because He makes me without blemish. Because he makes my way perfect. Because he has made the chiefest of sinners righteous. Righteous. All the sacrifices of the Old Testament could not take away sin. They were the best. They were the best that man could bring. But not one could redeem. Only Christ, the spotless lamb. Now Christ requires of me a perfect sacrifice. And he has made me perfect in him. He has made me complete in him. And I I would love to take the time to go through more of those verses, but but time does not permit. But take that sheet and study that out Further on your own. And that sheet does not exhaust. That's about a third of the Old Testament references to this word without blemish and purpose. God commands me The Holy Spirit beseeches me to present my body a living sacrifice without blemish. And Christ makes it so. He has made me accepted in the beloved And therefore, Paul said in Galatians 2. 20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live a living sacrifice. Now if we be dead with Christ, we shall also live with him. Romans 6, verse 8. Romans 6. 11, likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. But alive and a God, a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. Which is your reasonable service? Our reasonable service. This is not something odd, This is not something extraordinary. This is not something over the top. It's our reasonable service. Therefore I beseech you, therefore, because of all that has been done for us, it's reasonable. But my friend, that word reasonable Means so much more than just logical or just expected The word reasonable that we find here in Romans 12 is only used in this one place in the New Testament. And the root word from which this word comes is the word lagos. Word. They tested the sacrifices of the Old Testament were not reasonable. They could not reason. The Lamb did not say, should I be sacrificed or should I not? The bullock had no reason. It was a dumb beast. It did not know why it was being sacrificed. It was just being sacrificed. There was no cognitive ability within it. There was no reason. There was only one sacrifice up to that time, up to this time that had reason. And that was Christ. No man taketh my life from me. I have the power. to lay it down. Jesus Christ was the first reasonable sacrifice. He was the first sacrifice that knew what he was doing. He was the first sacrifice that had cognitive ability and reason. And he laid down his life. The fact that he had reason is so clear in Scripture. Because we find in the garden saying, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, yet not as I will. But thy will be done. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. A willing sacrifice. A thoughtful sacrifice. A sacrifice that is reason through. Yes, God deserves perfection. Yes, God deserves my life to be lived in discipline and in holiness and in righteousness before Him. Though I can never be perfectly holy and righteous in my flesh, because I know that in me that is in my flesh dwell no good thing. Yet in Christ I am made acceptable to God and I present it all. My head, my heart, my hands. It's all his. Yielded to his control, disciplined by his spirit, ordered by his word. It's his. And it is reasonable. It is reasonable in that it is what is expected, and it is reasonable in that it is a willing submission to the will of God. Just as we saw back with Abraham, that God said, Now I know that you fear God. Lord, I present my body as a living sacrifice, raising with you, that, oh God, you may know I fear you. That you may know that it's all yielded to thee. It was a reasonable sacrifice. Therefore does my father love me, because I lay down my life. that I might take it up again. It's a reasonable service, and be not conform to this world. This just buttresses this fact that we are mentally acknowledging God's ownership and rulership over me. And therefore, because it is a reasonable service, I cannot conform myself to the wickedness around me. My dad my dad used to say if the world's around a round hole, a Christian should be a square peg. It doesn't fit. It's not conformed to this world. And the only way that I will not be conformed to the filth around me is that I am transformed. And notice how Paul expresses this transformation, that you may be transformed by the renewing of your mind. You see with a reasonable Element the reasoned element. How is it that I do not love the bars On Friday night. Because God's taken those things so far from my mind. I don't want them. Why is it that I desire to live in righteousness and holiness before God because I'm a new creature? My mind is renewed. My mind is transformed because this is my reasoned service unto God. He has changed my mind. And when I am not conformed to this world, but rather if I am transformed in God renewing my mind, then I can prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. And what is that good and perfect and acceptable will of God? Good, acceptable, perfect will of God? Sacrifice. You see, my presenting of my body as a living sacrifice to God is not a good work. But rather, it is the good working of God within me. Who makes me whole. And so, brethren, the sacrifice had to be holy. It had to be perfect. Christ made himself a sacrifice that I could be holy, that I could be perfect. Therefore, by the Spirit of God we are beseeched, we are drawn upon. to present our entire beings as living sacrifices, wholly and acceptable to God, not conform to this world. But daily transformed by the renewing power of Christ. May God capture our hearts with this truth. Let us stand for prayer.